     Slave Voyages has transformed at all levels the evidential base       for studying the Atlantic slave trade and in ways that improve access to       and representation of data in multiple formats to diverse audiences.
Historian Bernard Bailyn (Harvard) sees analogies between the project's       impact on understanding slavery historically and the Hubble Space       telescope's impact on astronomy.
For fellow Harvard professor, Henry Louis       Gates Jr, the Atlas is `the Rosetta Stone of slave       historiography', while Professor Trevor Burnard (Melbourne), leading       historian of the West Indies, sees it as a `monument to multi-author and       multi-disciplinary research' and `one of the great historical achievements       of our time'.
The mechanisms through which Slave Voyages and the associated Atlas       have impacted public understanding of slavery include public lectures,       conferences, educational outreach, exhibits and memorials, artistic       performance and academic publications.
Beneficiaries range from scholars       to teachers and students and informed members of the public with an       interest in the history of slavery and the slave trade.
This activity can       be summarised as follows:     To date, over 2.2 million people have visited the Slave Voyages       website, with a mean pages per view of 7-8.
It is also listed in major       research guides on the slave trade, including those produced by both the       National Archives and the New York Public Library &#8212; and has been cited in       teaching resources produced in the United States (see, for example, www.usd116.org/profdev/ahtc/resources/MiddlePassagesites.htm).
The Atlas, in particular, has generated worldwide interest.
It was       a featured news story on CNN in January 2011 and generated over 3,000       comments on CNN's notice board.
The American Public Broadcasting System       (PBS) ran a feature on the Atlas, while it was covered in       newspapers and journals, among them the Trinidad Express (16       January 2011) and Humanities, the official magazine of the US       National Endowment for the Humanities.
Richardson and Eltis supported the       Atlas through public lectures &#8212; e.g.
Case Western Reserve       University, September 2011 &#8212; and TV and radio interviews.
The Slave         Voyages database and the Atlas have had a broader cultural       impact, not just in schools but also in the arts community.
For instance,       they provided the inspiration behind the Hull sponsored `Cargo' project,       which involved collaboration with acclaimed musician and songwriter Paul       Field in producing and performing an original music and dance score       relating to slavery past and present.
Employing local young people,       `Cargo' has been performed professionally to over 70,000 people at more       than 100 venues worldwide.
The database and Atlas have also       informed the creation and presentation of public memorials commemorating       the slave trade, notably the permanent Memorial to the Abolition of       Slavery in Nantes, which includes 1,710 commemorative transparent plaques       of Nantes slaving expeditions (with names and dates taken from the       database) located in walkways, as well as maps modelled on the       transatlantic flows of slaves charted in the Atlas.
The research findings of Richardson and Eltis have informed exhibitions       on the transatlantic slave trade, most notably the joint Hull-Connecticut       Venture Smith exhibit presented at Black History month events in       Washington, DC (February 2011), Hull's History Centre (October 2011) and       the Marcus Garvey Library, London (October 2012).
Richardson's involvement       in the Venture Smith project has broadened in 2013 to include the       preparation of materials distributed to all state schools and libraries in       Connecticut to guide the teaching of slavery.
Backed by the state's       senators and congressmen, 800 educational packages have so far been       distributed.
Slave Voyages and the Atlas have been used by       WISE to inform educational engagement with 35 Hull and East Riding schools       on the citizenship/history curriculum.
Engagement included attendance in       November 2009 by two teachers and four pupils from St. Mary's College,       Hull, at `Bridging Two Oceans', an international conference organised by       WISE in Cape Town, South Africa.
