     A dissemination strategy with significant reach across "the football       family" has been developed by RISES via the FEx.
Within the current REF       period this has included organising the first world-wide football       (soccer)-specific conference in 2008.
Progression from research, through       dissemination to translation has resulted in impact and change in multiple       facets of industry practice.
FEx research (Sec.3, Ref.1-2) has directly impacted upon the       development and application of modern day computerised data analysis       systems.
These tools have revolutionised performance analysis capability       within the football industry.
For example, research (Sec.3, Ref.1)       was crucial in allowing Prozone to demonstrate the accuracy and       reliability of its computerised system in 2010.
Consequently these data       were instrumental in allowing Prozone to gain acceptance within the       football industry as the leading provider of automated tracking solutions,       enabling them to realise their aim of becoming the world's leading       provider with a turnover now approaching &#163;10 million per annum (Sec 5,         Source.1).
To date the Prozone client base includes 64 % of the 92       English professional football clubs, 100 % of the English Premier League       clubs, the English senior men's national team, as well as a substantial       international client base (e.g.
Qatar, China).
An on-going relationship       between the FEx and Prozone includes a Knowledge Transfer Partnership       started in 2012 (jointly funded by ESRC and the Technology Strategy Board;       &#163;144K) and joint delivery of training courses for football industry staff       (25 courses with 637 participants since 2011; Sec.5, Source.2).
The data collected using computerized systems (Sec.3, Ref.2) has       transformed the interpretation of game-related statistics by coaching and       scientific staff in football clubs.
This change in interpretation and new       data has proved beneficial for practitioners who use such data in the       development of intervention strategies for the performance plan(s) of       players, teams and organisations.
This is exemplified by the use of these       data and processes by the lead analyst for the England senior men's       national team at the Football Association (FA; Sec.5, Source.3).
Other impact derived from FEx research includes changes to the training       and recovery strategies employed with players in elite clubs in order to       promote recovery and subsequent performance, as well as reducing the       incidence of injury.
For example, research on small-sided games (Sec.3,         Ref.3) provided coaches with data to help guide, control and       optimise the training stimulus, thereby reducing the likelihood of       inappropriate loading patterns for individual players.
As a consequence of       adopting these evidence-based procedures for the planning and monitoring       of training load there has been an increase in player availability via a       reduction in overall (14%) and "potentially preventable" injuries (16%)       within the Liverpool FC first team squad from 2012-2013 (Sec 5,         Source.4).
Research into recovery strategies (Sec.3, Ref.4)       has been fundamental to the development of a specialist muscle recovery       and regeneration program at Manchester United FC that has also contributed       to increases in player match availability (14%; Sec.5, Source.5)       through a reduction in injury across the last three domestic seasons.
A significant component of impact derived from FEx research (Sec.3,         Ref.1-5) is the development and delivery of; 1) formal       academic training for key staff in the football workforce (e.g.
Head of       Performance, The Premier League; The FA's Head of Exercise Science       [Female]; The FA's Head of Exercise Science [Male]; Head of Sports       Science, Manchester United FC); 2) club or association-specific       scientific support and continuing professional development; 3)       structured mentoring programs; 4) the production of independent       audit documentation for sport science and medicine provision within the       FA, and; 5) the development of coach education materials for the       FA.
For example, FEx research and support were crucial to the       accreditation, by the British Association of Sport and Exercise Sciences,       of the High Performance Laboratory located at Manchester United FC's       training complex (Sec.5, Source.6).
The FA has been one of the       major beneficiaries of the knowledge created from FEx research activity       for the development of evidence-based practice (Sec.5, Source.7).
The FA is responsible for the delivery of all technical, medical and       science curricula related to football and coaching in England.
Through       important physiological insights (Sec.3, Ref.1-4) the FEx have       delivered core components, and revised the entire syllabus of the Applied       Football Science and Conditioning Award (between 2010 and 2012) that       directly shapes the activity of the science and medicine community within       the sport (to date in excess of 60 practitioners) (Sec.5, Source.8).
Specific research (Sec.3, Ref.
5) has also been important in       creating the strategies and approaches to player learning detailed in       coach education curricula within the new FA Youth Awards (Sec.5,         Source.9).
Overall the research activity of the FEx has demonstrable impact across       key areas of activity within the football industry.
As a consequence the       FEx has been at the forefront of the implementation of evidence-based       practice within the football industry both nationally and internationally       over the current REF cycle.
