     This interdisciplinary project developed a new tamponade agent to enhance       the clinical outcome       after treatment of retinal detachments.
The medical team involved were       faced with the problem that       standard tamponade agents are based on silicone oils which can emulsify in       the eye and cause       adverse side effects.
They discussed this with Garvey (Physics       Department), who investigated the       reasons for the emulsification.
His underpinning research also suggested       the solution to the       problem and provided the required proof of principle that a silicone oil       with an increased       extensional viscosity had much higher resistance to emulsification.
The       increase in extensional       viscosity was achieved by the addition of a low percentage of a very high       molecular weight polymer       of the same chemistry to the silicone oil.
Following on from this, the UoL       established that the       extensional viscosity property of the blend also made the material easier       to inject in comparison       with an equivalent silicone oil with the same shear viscosity but without       the high molecular weight       additive.
An additional benefit of this approach is that since no chemically       different material has been added       to the clinical grade silicone oil, the regulatory requirements were       easily met.
In 2007, a       collaboration was established with Fluoron GmbH, a silicone oil tamponade       manufacturer, to       develop the proof of principle prototype into a clinical grade product.
Fluoron GmbH licensed the       technology from the University and have since contributed a minimum       payment of &#163;10k per year       and paid all patent costs.
Fluoron GmbH launched the product, named Siluron&#174; 2000, in 2008 (EC       certification: CE 575554)       [5-7].
It accounted for 32% of Fluoron's sales by units in the period       2008-13 with 34,208 sales by       30th September 2013 [8].
A second product, named Siluron&#174; Xtra,       based on this technology, was       launched for sale in July 2013 (EC certification: CE 575554).
This product       has 10% of the high       molecular weight additive, further increasing the resistance to       emulsification while maintaining the       ease of injection within the range of current clinical products.
Fluoron       GmbH have brought this       second product to market in response to requests from vitreoretinal       surgeons [5] and have sold       1,145 units part way through its first year of introduction [8].
These       products have enabled Fluoron       to gain new customers and reduce complaint rates by 40% [8].
The ultimate beneficiaries of this development are patients.
Current       tamponade agents are either       made from 1000mPas silicone oil that is known to emulsify in the eye and       cause adverse effects       for the patient, or 5000mPas silicone oil that is very viscous and       difficult to inject, making surgery       more difficult.
All silicone oils are currently removed after 3-6 months       because of the risk of       complications resulting from their emulsification.
The new Siluron&#174; 2000       has a shear viscosity of       2000mPas, making it easier to inject than 5000mPas oil, but because of the       increased       emulsification resistance, it is less likely to cause adverse effects to       the patient [9-11].
Another       major advantage of Siluron&#174; 2000 is that its extensional viscosity makes       it easier to inject than an       equivalent oil, meaning that smaller gauge instruments can be used to       inject and remove it causing       a significant reduction in trauma to the patient's eye due to the surgery.
This also fits very well with       the general move within vitreoretinal surgery to the use of smaller gauge       instruments.
Siluron&#174;       Xtra has a shear viscosity of 5000mPas and can therefore be injected and       removed using existing       surgical equipment but has been requested by clinicians owing to its       enhanced resistance to       emulsification and thus improved clinical outcome for patients.
This development is important because the patients requiring this       treatment would go blind if not       treated.
The incidence of retinal detachment is reported as 1 per 10,000       of population per year and       of these 15-20% are treated with silicone oil tamponades.
Some       vitreoretinal surgeons have so far       not used oil-based tamponades because of the related complications and       therefore the availability       of an oil with increased emulsification resistance is expected to increase       the availability of this       treatment option.
This is the first product specifically designed to       address the problem of       emulsification.
Fluoron GmbH has sold over 25,000 units of Siluron&#174; 2000.
In 2012 the units were       sold in 37 different countries, with the largest numbers going to Germany       and Egypt and       substantial numbers going to Singapore, Italy, Belgium and Switzerland.
They have recently       (August 2013) received a licence to sell Siluron&#174; 2000 and Xtra in China       and believe this to be a       substantial market, expecting to sell over 1000 units in the first year.
An audit of the use of       Siluron&#174; 2000 in St Paul's Eye Unit at the Royal Liverpool University       Hospital on 20 patients       reported: "Clinically it proved easy to inject and remove in a small-gauge       setup.
Anatomical       success rates were comparable to our experience with standard 5000cst       silicone oil, so was its       safety profile."
[12].
