     The research was commissioned by CPS, specifically in order to develop       and implement evidence-based criminal justice policy, and to provide       operational guidance in its refinement.
It represented the cementing of a       pioneering research partnership, affording exceptional research access&#8212;and       influence&#8212;of a kind that CPS has rarely granted to external researchers.
Although the primary research partner/stakeholder was CPS itself,       improvements in the quality of criminal prosecutions benefit all       concerned.
Complainants should be treated more sensitively.
Cases are       strengthened, improving outcomes; or discontinued more efficiently, saving       resources and sparing suspects from unnecessarily prolonged official       scrutiny or detention[i, ii, viii].
The ultimate beneficiary is society at       large, in terms of criminal proceedings better able to secure justice.
In       the words of the Director of Public Prosecutions:     "Pre-trial witness interviews represent a fundamental change to our legal       system as prosecutors were not allowed to interview witnesses in any cases       in England and Wales before these CPS pilots began.
I consider witness       interviews to be an essential tool to help prosecutors to make better       informed decisions about criminal cases so that the right person is       brought before the right court for the right offence"[iii].
Independent external research was regarded by CPS as a precondition of       national roll-out, and was therefore instrumental in promoting each of       these positive outcomes.
As the CPS Policy Team Leader with responsibility       (at that time) for PTWI confirms: "[T]he evaluation process, incorporating       your socio-legal study, was of considerable assistance to the prosecutors       in the pilot areas and assisted me in informing the content of guidance       and training that we provided and continue to provide.
I think it also       fair to say that the contents and conclusions of your summary report       contributed to the decision to roll it out in the first place.... [Y]our       research was useful to CPS in developing this significant initiative in       prosecutorial practice"[vi].
The published research findings and analysis, in conjunction with       informal advice to CPS, have continued to contribute to the further       refinement and implementation of PTWI on a rolling basis:     (1) Following completion of the PTWI Pilot and its evaluation         (centrally featuring Roberts and Saunders' socio-legal research), the         decision to implement PTWI nationally was announced in 2007       (Statement of Baroness Scotland, Attorney-General, HL Deb 27 Nov 2007, vol       696 cols 142-143WS; Statement of Vera Baird MP, Solicitor-General, HC Deb       27 Nov 2007, vol 468 col 24WS).
PTWI was successfully rolled-out to all 42       CPS Areas in England and Wales in April 2008.
A CPS press release stated:       "The initiative was trialled in four CPS areas from January to December       2006, on the basis of which a decision was made to roll out the initiative       throughout England and Wales"[iii].
The CPS Annual Report for       2007-2008 elucidated:     "Between January 2006 and January 2007, the pre-trial witness interview       (PTWI) scheme was successfully piloted in four CPS Areas....
Following the       pilot, the four CPS Areas have continued to undertake PTWIs &#8212; by January       2008 over 90 interviews had been conducted, predominantly in serious       cases.
An external evaluation concluded that the scheme improved         prosecutorial decision-making by strengthening cases which went to trial         and rejecting potentially weak cases at an early stage.
National       implementation was achieved on time in April 2008 and around 180       prosecutors have been trained to undertake PTWIs".
[iv, emphasis supplied]     Many informed observers were initially sceptical or hostile to the       introduction of PTWI[v].
Crucially, the Pilot Evaluation research drew       attention to risks and potential shortcoming which would require on-going       monitoring and effective management to ensure the success of national       roll-out.
Building on the influence of the research in helping to pave the way for       PTWI's national roll-out, the principal on-going impacts of the research       post roll-out (April 2008 onwards) are attributable to:     (2) The experience gained by Pilot prosecutors who participated in the         "training days", and subsequently became PTWI "champions", extolling       the benefits of PTWI and passing on tips to their front-line colleagues.
The "training days", devised and run by Roberts, were organised around       presentations, by Roberts, of provisional results of the socio-legal       study, which were debated at length by prosecutors (and the research       findings augmented accordingly).
Pilot prosecutors said that these       sessions were invaluable opportunities to pool experiences, and that there       was no substitute for face-to-face instruction and discussion, e.g.
one       prosecutor emphasised the indispensability of "[a]wareness training...       informing lawyers in a lecture or seminar scenario.
Whilst lawyers have       memos and written guidance, they are less likely to read and digest       information, as they have other pressing concerns.
A course, however,       ensures they are made aware".
The study's "training days"/focus groups are       regarded by CPS as having made an on-going, long term contribution to the       development, practical implementation and refinement of PTWI: "[A] useful,       possibly overlooked, aspect of your evaluation report was that you brought       together a lot of scenarios and views in one document, which made it       easier to pick through and discuss potential pitfalls in the pilot       evaluation meetings and later in the training sessions" [vi].
(3) On-going influence on CPS operational policy guidance.
CPS       internal documentation and operational guidance on conducting pre-trial       interviews was systematically revised in the light of the Pilot: see http://www.cps.gov.uk/legal/p_to_r/pre_-trial_witness_interviews/.
In particular, the summary research report written by Roberts and Saunders       [i] was hosted on the CPS website from January 2008 to mid-2013, and       during this time formed part of the operational resources provided to       front-line Crown Prosecutors in considering and conducting pre-trial       interviews.
PTWI continues to figure in developments of CPS operational policy, e.g.
in revised guidance for prosecutors in relation to rape and sexual       offences, which now states: "The use of pre-trial witness interviews       (PTWI) is considered an effective tool in rape cases.
This will       particularly apply in cases where the decision to prosecute is       'borderline'.
In June 2009... the DPP instructed that prosecutors should,       as part of their decision-making in every rape case, consider whether or       not a PTWI is appropriate and provide reasons for their decision...
This       instruction remains in force and should be followed in every case"[vii].
This echoes our research finding of "several striking illustrations in the       Pilot cases in which convictions were achieved that probably could not       have been secured without the benefit of a pre-trial witness interview"       (viii, p.7).
(4) International policy transfer: Dissemination of research       findings is still on-going, especially in terms of international       impact[ix].
There has been interest from senior prosecutors and       policy-makers overseas, e.g.
Hong Kong[x], in examining English       experiences of PTWI.
