     The primary impact of O'Flaherty's research has been in shaping and       influencing the content of a major round of reform debate at the United       Nations (UN).
Specifically, his research contributed to strengthening the       UN's institutional architecture for human rights monitoring and       protection.
Its success in this regard can be measured in terms of its       pivotal influence in initiating, informing and guiding the most ambitious       set of reform initiatives ever seen in the life of the treaty body system.
The beneficiaries of the institutional reforms promoted and facilitated by       O'Flaherty's research are the human rights treaty bodies themselves,       states that engage with the human rights bodies (e.g.
through submission       of state party reports), civil society, and the individuals whose human       rights are better protected.
In 2009, the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights (the principal UN       official with responsibility for support to the treaty body system)       indicated the need for systematic reconsideration of measures to       strengthen the treaty body system.
In response to that appeal, in       September 2009, O'Flaherty initiated a reflection process on reform of the       treaty body system, with the participation of treaty body members acting       in their personal capacity.
As part of this reflection process, O'Flaherty       drafted a programme for a reform process, drawing extensively on his       academic work.
In particular, the draft programme reflected the       institutional history of reform processes as laid out in [4] and employed       many of the concepts elucidated in [4], [5] and [6].
The programme was       examined by a committee of experts at a meeting in Dublin in November 2009       attended by the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights.
At that meeting,       the Dublin Statement on the Strengthening of the UN Human Rights Treaty       Body System was adopted, which was a refined version of O'Flaherty's own       original draft.
The University of Nottingham has been explicitly credited for       facilitating the Dublin process and producing the Dublin Statement.
For       example, the UN Secretary-General has noted that:     "A number of consultations organized by stakeholders as a direct response       to the High Commissioner's call have taken place and resulted in the       adoption of statements which include various proposals to strengthen and       streamline the treaty body system.
These meetings were organized in Dublin       in November 2009, for treaty body members, at the initiative of the       University of Nottingham, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern       Ireland."
[i] 	The Dublin Statement was subsequently debated and built upon       by all of the key global stakeholder groups (including states, civil       society, national human rights institutions, and UN officials) at a series       of meetings held in 2010 and 2011 in Switzerland, South Korea, South       Africa, Morocco, Poland and elsewhere.
O'Flaherty was a participant at the       key meetings, which adopted statements on treaty body reform at their       conclusion [ii].
These statements also follow O'Flaherty's reform       proposals.
For example, O'Flaherty's recommendation that state party       reports must involve broad consultation with all relevant stakeholders and       the need to encourage better participation of non-governmental       organizations and national human rights institutions [1] was adopted by       the Pretoria statement (2.10 and 3.3); the Sion statement (page 10); the       Poznan statement (paras 13-15) and the Seoul statement (sections 3(a) and       (b) and 4) [ii].
His advocacy for consolidation and integration of treaty       body recommendations into the broader human rights work of the UN [5] is       reflected in the Pretoria statement (10(2)(a)), which recommended that       "[t]here should be better integration of the outputs of treaty bodies into       the work of OHCHR, especially through its regional offices", and the       Poznan statement (para 4) [ii].
O'Flaherty's suggestion that certain       concluding observations be prioritised is reflected in the Pretoria       statement, which recommended that `[t]reaty bodies should consider       classifying Concluding Observations into short, medium and long-term       categories to aid in their implementation" (9.3) [ii].
More generally,       according to the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights, "[t]he Dublin       Statement, adopted in November 2009, which was endorsed by many treaty       body experts, paved the way for the current treaty body strengthening       process" [iii].
Subsequent to this series of meetings, in 2011 O'Flaherty was requested       by the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights to convene a culminating       meeting, also held in Dublin, to draw together the findings of the       reflection process.
O'Flaherty drafted an outcome document for the Dublin       meeting, once again drawing heavily on his own research and publications.
Those adopted proposals contained in the original Dublin Statement were       carried over into the final Outcome Document.
Additional examples of the       Dublin Process drawing directly on O'Flaherty's distinctive contributions       to the scholarly and practitioner literature include calls for further       reflection on the relationship between the treaty bodies and the Human       Rights Council [4], composition of treaty body membership [3] and better       integration of follow up procedures and enforcement measures [5].
A group of experts, including the chairs of almost all of the UN human       rights treaty bodies and senior UN officials, met in Dublin in November       2011, under O'Flaherty's chairmanship, where they adopted the "Dublin       Outcome Document' of what had by then become known as the "Dublin Process"       [iv].
The Dublin Outcome Document &#8212; dubbed "Dublin II" &#8212; has been endorsed by       UN human rights treaty bodies including the UN Committee on Enforced       Disappearances [v] and the UN Human Rights Committee.
The latter has       stated publicly that "it is important to engage in this [reform] process       and adopt a view on the main issues/proposals that have arisen to date, in       particular as set out in the Dublin II Outcome document" [vi].
The UN High       Commissioner for Human Rights published her report on treaty body reform       in June 2012 and drew heavily from the Dublin II outcome document and       explicitly credited the Dublin Process and the work of the University of       Nottingham [vii].
