     In January 2008, Munro was invited to join an `expert panel' created by       the Solicitor-General.
It was tasked with reviewing the Office for       Criminal Justice Reform proposals and creating a template from which       educational guidance designed for dissemination to jurors in rape trials       could be developed.
Whilst this work was ongoing, the Court of Appeal       approved an expansive judicial direction that sought to dispel juror myths       in relation to &#8212; amongst other things &#8212; the relevance of delayed rape       reporting.
In light of this, and in a context in which the Office for       Criminal Justice Reform's proposals to make greater use of expert evidence       had been met with reluctance by some legal professionals, the       Solicitor-General raised the question of whether judicial instructions       would provide a more appropriate medium.
The emerging (and subsequently       published) findings of our ESRC study confirmed that judicial instruction       could have a positive impact, and were influential in the       Solicitor-General's decision to support their development by judges.
As       the Solicitor-General notes:     "The panel and I benefitted from the findings of this research as it       unfolded, which not only highlighted the existence of misconceptions about       rape amongst the public, but also, crucially, confirmed the positive       corrective influence of educational guidance on juror decision-making.
This in turn played a key role in framing the recommendations of the panel       to introduce a form of educational guidance to counter juror       stereotypes..... [T]he research by Professors Munro and Ellison, in       indicating that well-crafted extended guidance provided by the judge could       have a productive effect on juror decision-making, directly influenced my       decision in 2009 to support the introduction of judicial instructions in       rape cases" (Source A).
On the completion of the research, we produced a briefing report       outlining key findings (see (f) above), which was distributed widely to       criminal justice policy-makers and practitioners in the UK and overseas.
In 2009, we were invited to present these findings at a series of Judicial       Studies Board (JSB) Annual Training Seminars for judges who preside over       serious sexual assault cases.
It is extremely rare for academics to be       invited to present on their own research in this forum.
In 2010, the JSB       issued revised guidance to judges, which now includes a series of extended       directions designed to counter dubious myths and expectations on the part       of jurors in rape cases.
Our research is directly cited in support of the       appropriateness of this approach in the Crown Court Benchbook (Source C).
Moreover, the influence and value of our research in this regard has been       confirmed by the Solicitor-General ["The research has subsequently also       influenced the development of dedicated judicial directions that judges       are encouraged (and frequently do now) use in rape cases, which were       issued by the Judicial Studies Board" &#8212; Source A] and Judge Peter Rook,       QC, Senior Circuit Judge at the Old Bailey who, from 2006-2011, was       responsible for organising compulsory Judicial Studies Board Training on       Serious Sexual Offences, and played a key role in developing the judicial       directions ["I started to provide judges with draft directions.
It was       important for those of us developing such directions to know their likely       impact.
In this task, we were greatly assisted by the research carried out       by Louise Ellison and Vanessa Munro" &#8212; Source B].
The directions contained in the Crown Court Benchbook provide a model for       use by trial judges when directing juries in sexual offence cases.
Their       use remains optional, but the recognition that they afford to the need       for, and value of, `myth-busting' guidance is of considerable importance,       and members of the senior judiciary have confirmed that they are       frequently utilised.
These directions may change the overall tenor of the       rape trial, alter the ways in which jurors go about their deliberative       task, and ultimately ensure greater justice.
As such, they have       significant consequences for criminal justice practitioners, individual       complainants and the general public.
The Contempt of Court Act 1981       currently prevents us from knowing about the substantive content and       processes of `real' jury deliberations, but the experience of those most       closely involved in the administration of justice in rape cases suggests a       marked and positive impact:     "[T]his important research...played a significant part in bringing about       jury trials that are fairer to sex case complainants.
In particular, there       has been a revolution in judicial directions in the trial of       non-consensual sexual offences...Judges are trained to give [the       directions in the Crown Court Benchbook].
They have changed sex case       trials...They have led to a reduction, if not the complete elimination, of       fallacious reasoning" (Source B).
Internationally, the research has been used by those advocating for       similar reform in other jurisdictions, such as New Zealand (Source E), and       has been cited with approval in the United States by the Minnesota Supreme       Court (Source D).
