     The general principles of prison law and policy developed in the research       of DvZS and RM have       shaped the legal framework for modern prison regimes and changed their       practices in various       ways.
This has occurred both at the international and the national level       in relation to imprisonment       generally, but also more specifically in relation to life imprisonment,       sanctions for young offenders       and the systems used to detain and transfer international and foreign       prisoners.
(1) Prisons: General and Comparative: DvZS's research on       imprisonment (Output 1a) led to his       appointment as a scientific expert by the Council for Penological       Cooperation (PCCP) of the       Council of Europe.
Along with other experts, Prof. Andrew Coyle (King's       College London) and Prof.       Gerard de Jonge (University of Maastricht), DvZS had a key part in       developing and drafting the       2006 EPR and writing the accompanying official commentary.
These Rules       have had an enormous       impact in the period under review.
Between 2008 and August 2012, the CPT       (the main body       responsible for inspecting places of detention in Europe) cited these       Rules 88 times, in 37 of its       reports.
These references are significant as the CPT used the Rules in its       reports to states to       indicate how they should improve their prison practices (See         http://cpt.coe.int/en/).
During the same period, the EPR were also cited with approval by the       ECtHR in 110 of its       judgments.
In these cases reference was made to 751 different rules, as in       several cases more       than one Rule was cited.
In some instances the impact on practice was       particularly direct.
In the       case of G&#252;lmez v. Turkey (Application no.
16330/02, 20 May 2008),       for example, the Court held       that the existing prison disciplinary system did not protect prisoners'       human rights adequately and       then ordered the Turkish government specifically "to bring its legislation       in line with the principles       set out in Articles 57 &#167; 2 (b) and 59 (c) of the European Prison Rules",       i.e., the specific provisions       in the EPR dealing with the requirements for proper prison disciplinary       practices.
Moreover, on 17 October 2011, the Council of Europe published its own       survey of the       "implementation of the most recent Council of Europe Standards related to       the Treatment of       Offenders while in custody" (Source 1a).
This survey provided evidence of       the widespread       influence of the EPR in individual countries.
In particular, 24 of the 31       respondent states reviewed       their national legislation in the light of the EPR.
Training courses were       implemented in 29 countries       based on the EPR.
Some countries made specific changes to bring national       practice into line with       the rules.
For example, the Russian Federation reported that, as a result       of the EPR, it was       allowing the children of female prisoners to remain with their mothers and       granting extended visits       to prisoners by their family members.
The European Union is also beginning to take an interest in prison       policy.
DvZS was invited as       an independent expert to a number of meetings where the government members       debated policy in       this area.
The 2011 Green Paper on the application of EU criminal         justice legislation in the field of         detention (Source 1b) refers to the book by Van Zyl Smit and Snacken       (Output 1b) - the only "non-       official" source on which it relies.
The Green Paper is expected to have       an important impact on EU       policy.
The influence of the general principles of prison law established by DvZS       and Snacken in their       book (Output 1b) can also be seen in the Model Detention Code that DvZS       developed together       with a barrister, Adam Stapleton, for the US Institute for Peace (USIP) in       2009-2011.
The       Detention Code follows the structure of prison law propounded in the book.
The Detention Code       forms part of a series of related Model Codes covering the whole area of       criminal justice, which are       designed to be used in post-conflict or failed states where a new legal       framework is required to be       introduced quickly.
USIP has reported that the Model Detention Code has       been used by       lawmakers in Haiti, Liberia and South Sudan, and that it was also       requested by the International       Committee of the Red Cross to give to a number of further countries, the       names of which are       confidential.
USIP also plans to distribute it to colleagues in Libya and       Syria.
(Testimonial 1).
The same general principles of prison law were fully deployed in a new       Prison Act that DvZS       and Adam Stapleton developed in 2010-2011 for the GIZ (the German       government development       agency) to present to the government of Bangladesh.
There has been       intensive interaction with the       government of Bangladesh about the new law, in which DvZS has been closely       involved.
This work       has, at the very least, shaped debate about prison policy in that country.
(Testimonial 2).
(2) Life Imprisonment: Since 2008 DvZS's work on life       imprisonment has had considerable       international impact.
The ECtHR has referred to his article on outlawing       irreducible life sentences       (Output 2b) as an authoritative portrayal of the use of such sentences in       Europe on three separate       occasions in 2012 (Source 2).
In 2013, he advised the successful applicant       to the Grand Chamber       in the case which finally declared irreducible life sentences to infringe       the European Convention on       Human Rights (Source 2).
More generally, there has been a renewed interest       in life imprisonment       as an alternative to the death penalty.
On 25 and 26 April 2011, DvZS       spoke in Astana to senior       representatives of the governments of Kazakhstan, Uzbekistan and       Tajikistan about what they       should do with the increasing numbers of lifers in their prisons (Output       2b was made available to       the government representatives at the meeting in Russian by the NGO Penal       Reform International       (Testimonial 3)), since their adoption of a moratorium on the death       penalty and contributed to the       drafting of a resolution supported by all participants (Sources 3a and       3b).
In December 2011 DvZS       advised members of the Tunisian Constitutional Assembly in Tunis about       life imprisonment as a       viable alternative to the death penalty (Output 2a).
(3) Sanctions for Young Offenders: As a result of their research       on youth imprisonment (Output       3a) both DvZS and Prof. Frieder Dunkel (along with Prof. Andrea Baechtold,       University of Berne)       were appointed as scientific experts by the PCCP to draft a recommendation       and accompanying       commentary on the treatment of juvenile offenders (Output 3b).
The       resulting 2008       Recommendation of the Committee of Ministers on the European Rules for       Juvenile Offenders       subject to Sanctions or Measures has had measurable impact in a wide range       of states.
A Council       of Europe report (Source 1a) revealed that a majority of member states       used this Recommendation       to train their juvenile justice staff.
Several states have also introduced       specific reforms based on       these Rules, ranging from additional access to correspondence and cultural       and sports events for       detained juveniles in Bulgaria, the creation of a new social integration       unit for such juveniles in       Lithuania.
The impact of the Juvenile Offender Rules has been enhanced by       the CPT, which       referred to them in nine of its reports to states on their detention       systems, between 2008 and       August 2012.
See http://cpt.coe.int/en/     (4) Transfer and Treatment of International and Foreign Prisoners:       The research that DvZS       and RM conducted on the international transfer of prisoners (Output 4b)       enabled DvZS to advise       the government of Malaysia in 2009 on both the substantive law, and key       requirements for drafting       legislation in this field.
The impact of this research was significant as       it enabled Malaysia to       develop both a new policy and draft legislation in an area where it had no       clear prior policies       (Testimonial 4).
The legislation was adopted by the Malaysian Parliament       in November 2012.
RM and DVZS were also invited in 2010 by the United Nations Office on       Drugs and Crime in       Vienna to develop a handbook for policy makers around the world on the       transfer of sentenced       prisoners.
The UN Handbook on the International Transfer of Sentenced       Persons (Source 4) is       freely available to states to use as a guide for legislative and policy       development in this field.
These outputs also helped to inform the development of regional penal       policy in relation to the       treatment of non-national prisoners.
From 2010-2012, DvZS and RM (and       Prof. Herzog-Evans of       the University of Rheims) worked with the Council of Europe's PCCP and       member states to       develop a new and updated recommendation on the treatment of foreign       prisoners       (CM/Rec(2012)12) and its accompanying commentary.
As with the other       Council of Europe       Recommendations, its application in 47 member states will ensure that it       will have significant       impact.
In particular, this Recommendation will be of considerable value       and use to national prison       authorities struggling to cope with overcrowded prisons with an       over-represented foreign prisoner       population and striving to ensure the equal and individual treatment of       all prisoners (Testimonial 5).
In recognition of RM's research into the systems for detaining and       imprisoning those indicted and       convicted by international criminal courts (Outputs 4a and 4b), the       International Criminal Court       invited her to participate in seminars focused on developing international       detention law and policy.
In particular, at a seminar on 9-10 2008 discussed amendments to the ICC's       Regulations of the       Registry RM's views were requested in relation to changes to international       detention law.
See       Report of the Court on family visits to indigent detained persons'       ICC-ASP/7/24, 5 November 2008.
