     Kennard has made numerous works in the period covered by this impact       statement but the focus here is on those identified in Section 2.
His work       has also featured in many exhibitions (19 solo and in 41 group shows in       Europe, the Middle East, North and Latin America between 2004-13).
Kennard       is the author of five major books combining his images and writing.
The       most recent, @Earth (Tate Publishing, 2011) was the first artist's book       commissioned by Tate (3,688 copies sold by summer 2013).
The Tate       Publishing Director `commissioned this title...in the belief that art has       an impact on everyone's lives and that Peter Kennard's art has a       particular message that is important to communicate in contemporary       contexts' [s5.1].
Kennard's artworks are not solely produced for the art market.
They seek       out the widest social and political impact, often drawing attention from       and through the news media and those engaged in conflict resolution.
In       2007-8, a former political affairs officer for the UN in Kabul, Robert       Kluijver, was invited to curate the inaugural exhibition for Gemak, The       Hague, a public gallery focusing on the political and social potential of       art.
Entitled `Red Zone/Green Zone', the exhibition featured diverse       exhibits including the remains of a car destroyed in a suicide bombing in       Kabul.
Kennard (with Picton Phillipps) was commissioned to create a 6 x       18m installation entitled Control Room, exploring the convergence of       interests between politicians and the media during the war in Iraq [s5.2].
In the curator's opinion, Kennard's work `drew the most attention from       both visitors and the media' [s5.3].
In his critical analysis of the       impact of Kennard's work in the exhibition, Dr Alan Ingram, a specialist       in geopolitics and security, confirms this impact, outlining how Kennard's       work `involve(s) the viewer' by forging connections between the setting       (the Hague) and violence in the Middle East [s5.4].
Kennard was       subsequently commissioned to remake `Control Room' for the exhibition       `Embedded Art' at the Akademie der K&#252;nste, Berlin (2009).
Its curator       describes this artwork as being `vital' to the conception of this landmark       and experimental exhibition exploring the threats to public life since       9/11: Kennard's `artistic language...has an immediate, accessible and       intelligible impact on the general public.
His ability to work with       complex politically controversial topics and incorporate findings from       contemporary news and factual reports, in order to make them       understandable to audiences both within and beyond the artworld, was       essential' [s5.3].
Impact 1: Public Opinion     The impact of Kennard's research on public opinion is recognised by the       political groups, charities and NGOs that regularly commission images for       campaigns.
They include Amnesty International (2008), the Greater London       Authority for City Hall (2004), Greenpeace (2009), Interface (a cultural       regeneration project in Northern Ireland) and Nakba 60 (2008).
The       Campaigns Manager for Amnesty International confirms the work's wide       impact and international reach [s5.5].
Kennard's research in the Middle       East has led to further commissions by agencies and charities that seek to       promote public understanding of the role of the media in transmitting the       effects of conflict.
The A.M. Qattan Foundation, a charity promoting       education in Palestine and the Arab world, commissioned Kennard (with       Picton Phillipps) to make work &#8212; in situ &#8212; for an exhibition entitled       `Iraq-How, Where, For Whom?'
at its gallery, The Mosaic Rooms, London       (2012).
This was reviewed in the UK and the Middle East [s5.6].
Exhibitions are used by Kennard as opportunities for direct forms of       social impact.
Since 2005, when Kennard (with Picton Phillipps) was artist       in residence at the `EastInternational' exhibition (Norwich), he has       created `War on War' rooms giving the public access to different resources       to create their own responses to the media representation of war.
In 2013,       the Arts Council funded one such residency at the Herbert Art Gallery and       Museum (Coventry), which coincided with the group exhibition `Caught in       the Crossfire: Artistic Responses to Conflict, Peace and Reconciliation'.
Here, the `War on War Room' operated as a photomontage workshop over a       two-week period, achieving direct impact by working with different groups       in workshops, including disenfranchised people such as young people       excluded from school and refugee communities.
The resulting mass of       digital and manual assemblage, signage and placards was exhibited in the       museum's transitory spaces and entrance to the exhibition `Caught in the       Crossfire'.
The Herbert Art Gallery Exhibitions and Events Officer wrote:       `In our view, these were highly successful events which impacted directly       on local communities' understanding of the ways in which the media reports       conflict.
The feedback which was taken after these events demonstrated to       us the importance of artists working directly with groups of young people       and adults utilising our temporary exhibitions and permanent collections.
We are actively pursuing other residency opportunities as a result of       this' [s5.7].
Kennard's works have been acquired by many galleries and museums of       international standing, including the Scottish National Gallery (2007),       V&amp;A Museum (2004/11) and Tate (2007).
In 2010 and 2011, the Art Fund       (AF) and the Heritage Lottery Fund (HLF) supported acquisitions of       Kennard's work for the Imperial War Museum, London and the Herbert Art       Gallery and Museum, Coventry.
In making the case for acquiring a set of       montage works dating back to the beginning of his care for the Herbert,       with public money, the Director of the AF stated: `It's important these       works go on public display to help provoke thought, debate and dialogue.
The Herbert's Peace and Reconciliation collection is an ideal home for       them' [s5.8].
Impact 2: Operations of Media     The reproduction of Kennard's work in the press and other media contexts       is evidence of its sustained and long-lasting impact on the operations of       the media.
To take one example of many, Photo-Op (2005) has been described       by The Guardian as `the definitive work of art about the war that started       with the invasion of Iraq in 2003' [s5.9].
It has taken the form of an       `original' artwork in galleries and museums including Tate Britain (`Rude       Britannia', 2010; 59,821 visitors) and Imperial War Museum (`Catalyst:       Contemporary Art and War', 2013-14); a much-reproduced image in diverse       branches of the press (British Medical Journal, 2006; British Journal of       Photography, 2008 and many others); the cover of a book (Art &amp; Agenda       - Political Art and Activism by R. Klanten et al., Gestalten 2011); an       animated public projection close to the site of the Iraq Enquiry (Chilcot       Enquiry) in London, organised by Stop the War Coalition (January 2011) and       widely reported in the press.
Esteemed campaigning journalist John Pilger       employed Photo-op in his documentary, `The War You Don't See' (cinema       release/ITV broadcast, 2010), writing `This piece occupies a vital place       in the film, shortly before its end, and has been remarked upon       enthusiastically across the world' [s5.10].
The image was adapted by the       National Theatre, London to promote a 2009 production of Brecht's `Mother       Courage'.
Guardian art critic, Jonathan Jones's assessment of this       multifaceted process of remediation is that this image has had a       remarkable `influence on the way how that war is remembered' [s5.9].
