     Impact 1: Cultural Life: A ceramic artist of international       standing, Aylieff bridges fine and applied art by showing monumental work       in public settings and museums, contributing to cultural life and       education.
Since 1994, Aylieff's research, as cited in Sections 2 and 3,       has resulted in 26 solo exhibitions and work has been selected for 98       group shows.
There have been 31 publications (catalogue essays, profiles,       reviews) about the work.
Funding for projects has come from a variety of       sources, including the Arts Council [s5.1].
At least an estimated 140,944+       visitors have seen the work in the exhibitions listed in this case study.
The impact of Aylieff's research as cited in Section 2 is best represented       by three exhibitions with high visitor figures, `Sense and Perception'       (46,369+ visitors), `Out of China: Monumental Porcelain' (46,590+       visitors) and `White Gold &#8212; Contemporary Porcelain from Jingdezhen'       (37,469+ visitors) [s5.2].
In 2002, Manchester City Art Gallery commissioned Aylieff to launch its       exhibition programme in new galleries with `Sense and Perception' [see       s3.2]; this exhibition drew an estimated visitor figure of over 30,000.
It       resulted in six purchases from public institutions, including the Crafts       Council and Birmingham Museum and Art Gallery [s5.3].
`Out of China:       Monumental Porcelain' [see s3.4] (2007-9) was an Arts Council       England-funded touring show that comprised site-specific work on an       extreme scale (three metres high), a size not normally associated with       porcelain.
This project was significant for its cross-fertilisation       between Eastern and Western traditions, techniques, processes, and       contemporary idioms.
It reached a wide audience and was shown at One       Canada Square, Canary Wharf (2007) as well as numerous public galleries       (2008-9).
The exhibition resulted in six acquisitions by public       institutions, including the Victoria and Albert Museum [s5.3] and received       major funding from Arts Council England [s5.1].
Exhibitions frequently lead to acquisitions by major museums, providing       an enduring legacy; 29 sculptural ceramic works have been obtained for       public collections [see s5.3].
`Her works were chosen for their daring yet       delicate reinterpretations of three types or styles for which Jingdezhen       was historically well-known' (Keeper of Applied Arts/Exhibition Curator,       The Fitzwilliam Museum [s5.2]).
In the case of the recent acquisition of a       large-scale ceramic sculpture for the National Museum Wales, it was       suggested that the work `will offer our visitors a completely different       experience of contemporary ceramics' and that `the public impact of the       work was an important consideration from the outset of the acquisition       process' (Senior Curator of Applied Art, National Museum Wales [s5.4]).
Aylieff's research contributes to bridging cultural traditions in the       ceramics of Europe, the Middle and Far East.
Her residency at Royal Delft       focused on the application of established techniques and contemporary       aesthetics of Delft blue and white ware, re-connecting the rich historical       and cultural traditions of the twinned cities of Delft and Jingdezhen       [s5.5].
Aylieff's collaboration with skilled ceramic workers at the       manufactory in Jingdezhen has shown how ceramic artists can successfully       produce works according to new aesthetic ideas [s5.6].
Her artist's       residency provided a model for other recognised figures from the world of       ceramics to take up similar positions [s5.6].
`Her activities have drawn       attention to our factory within Jingdezhen, as a factory that facilitates       artists and encourages experiment and as a consequence we have been host       to a number of international artists' (Owner of Zhen Shang San Bao       Factory, Jingdezhen [s5.6]).
Aylieff's research and practice involves meaningful exchanges between       artist-practitioner and manufacturer, as well as between countries with       different traditions.
Aylieff has been described as `bridging the gap       between studio ceramics and industry'.
The factory provided technical       expertise and support with production, and Aylieff provided contemporary       thinking in surface design and identified new potential for areas of       development to existing ranges' (Director, Terra Delft Gallery [s5.5]).
In       Delft, Aylieff's residency and exhibition formed a significant event       within the citywide ceramic festival, `Bundapunt Terra'.
The project also       had further longer term cultural impact on the city: `As a legacy of her       residency, Royal Delft has since invited a number of Chinese artists to       work in the factory, opening up an international dialogue' (Director,       Terra Delft Gallery [s5.5]).
Impact 2: Education: Through the dissemination of her research, as       cited in this case study, Aylieff has had a significant influence in the       field of ceramic education.
Exhibiting widely, and showing her monumental       work in public and corporate settings, has meant that large numbers of       people have had access to it, often in the context of informal learning.
`I have introduced colleagues from the Museum's Education Department to       [Aylieff's piece] Still Life and they are extremely excited about its       potential for inspiring creativity, as well as generating interest back       into the historic porcelain collections' (Senior Curator of Applied Art,       National Museum Wales [s5.4]).
Her work was `a clear point of interest and       conversation for the numerous visitors who viewed the exhibition, and was       used often by our docent and Gallery Instructor programs in their       educational endeavors' (Curator of Contemporary Decorative Arts/'New Blue       and White' exhibition, Museum of Fine Arts Boston [s5.7]).
On the basis of her research, Aylieff has devised educational programmes       at every exhibition for a range of levels, from the general public to       specialists as an integral part of her research projects [s5.8].
These       outreach activities take the form of public presentations, demonstrations,       and lectures, as well as contributions to conferences and symposia.
She       has managed the Discovery Programme of Ceramic Art London since its       inception in 2004.
This is the leading international showcase for studio       ceramics, a free daily programme of talks, discussions, demonstrations and       films attended by up to 4,000 collectors, enthusiasts and new audiences       (Ceramic Art London Organiser [s5.8]).
