     This research has ensured Buckley is recognised nationally and       internationally in the area of health-based and rehabilitative exercise.
Since 1997 he has given numerous conference presentations in the UK and       abroad and has been involved in professional development education courses       for doctors, nurses, physiotherapists, exercise scientists and exercise       practitioners.
It was these international contacts, and respect for his       practice-based research, which led to him taking on leading roles to       produce guidelines, education and training materials for the British       Association of Sport and Exercise Sciences (BASES) and the British       Association for Cardiovascular Prevention and Rehabilitation (BACPR).
Buckley's work with BASES led to the dissemination of health-based       guidance on exercise intensity through the BMJ's ABC of Sport and Exercise       Medicine, which is a popular resource for hundreds of general       practitioners and non-exercise specialist physicians who are involved in       health promotion and rehabilitation (reference 1).
As he joined the University of Chester in 2006, Buckley contributed       specifically to the BACPR cardiac rehabilitation Exercise Instructor       course training materials and manuals.
Since then, this material has been       part of educating and qualifying more than 1,500 specialist instructors       who work mainly in community health settings throughout the UK.
He       continues as a tutor on these courses and an advisor to other tutors.
More       recently, increasingly advanced education materials, manuals, and practice       standards on monitoring exercise intensity have been created for clinical       practitioners involved in cardiac rehabilitation, including nurses,       physiotherapists and clinical physiologists (reference 2).
Similarly, Buckley has provided the BASES guidelines for using ratings of       perceived exertion in both sport and clinical populations.
These       guidelines form the basis of all laboratory and clinical teaching/training       for the 20,000+ undergraduate and postgraduate sport and exercise science       students enrolled in higher education in any given year (reference 3).
In having made a significant contribution to writing these guidelines and       teaching resources of BASES and BACPR, Buckley has also been invited to       lead the writing of the National Occupation Standards, at Skills Active,       for the Advanced Exercise Instructor working in Cardiac Populations and       for Sport and Exercise Scientists.
This work has led to the development of       the new BASES Certified Exercise Practitioner qualification which is being       rolled out across the UK as a means of quality assuring practice in newly       qualified sport and exercise science graduates.
Some of the work applied       to this new qualification has also been part of the recent recognition of       BASES as a licensed body of the Science Council.
In integrating Buckley's       work with BASES, BACPR and the Association of Chartered Physiotherapists       in Cardiac Rehabilitation (ACPICR), since 2011 he has played a leading       role in an inter-professional forum of these three groups known as the       BACPR &#8212; Exercise Professionals Group.
This inter-professional forum's       terms of reference is underpinned by a Memorandum of Collaboration between       BASES, BACPR and ACPICR, the writing of which Buckley led.
Following this       Buckley led in the development of a joint position statement on the       standards for qualifications, professional development and experience       required for working in the exercise component of cardiac rehabilitation       (2010, 2012).
(references 2 and 3)     The group then went on to write a set of detailed national core       competences for the exercise component of cardiac rehabilitation and,       though Buckley was not part of this group, the above work he had       previously done with BASES, BACPR and ACPICR was a key catalyst to this       document.
Overall, for the past decade Buckley has contributed to national       education resources and professional standards of practice in the       professional development and national qualifications of thousands of       practitioners in health-based exercise and cardiac rehabilitation to best       serve clients and patients throughout the UK.
For these achievements, he       was appointed President of the BACPR from 2009 to 2011, and led the       drafting of the organisation's new integrated Standards and Core       Components, which were published in the highly acclaimed medical journal,       Heart.
Linked to this development work, Buckley was an adviser to       the NHS England &amp; Wales Department of Health Commissioning Pack for       Cardiac Rehabilitation (2010) (reference 4).
Buckley dovetails this work with 14 other similar associations from       around the world and has played a lead role in establishing an       International Council of Cardiovascular Prevention and Rehabilitation, for       which he is the current Chair.
He has been a lead author of the recently       published (March, 2013) International Charter on Cardiovascular Prevention       and Rehabilitation.
(reference 5)     The above impacts in cardiovascular health and rehabilitation have come       about by Buckley being initially recognised, and continuing in this light,       for his practice-based research.
In relation to the research on the neuromuscular disorder of McArdle       Disease, Buckley has played a lead role in the development and       establishment of the National McArdle Disease clinic, which is located at       the MRC Neuromuscular Institute of the University College London National       Hospital of Neurology and Neurosurgery.
His research focus on patients       learning to manage their daily activity through pain perception forms a       core component of the patient education programme of this national service       (reference 6).
