     The communications industries regulated by Ofcom cover all broadcast       media, telephony, including broadband, wireless and mobile, and postal       services in the UK.
Ofcom was established by statute in 2003 to address       transforming relations between broadcasting, telecommunications and radio       communications.
While devolved governments were established in Scotland       and Wales in 1999, powers over broadcasting and overall communications       regulation remain `reserved' to the UK Parliament.
Since the election of       the Scottish National Party in 2007, and the setting of a date for a       referendum on Scottish independence in 2014, the future of communications       in Scotland has become increasingly politically contentious.
Key policy       choices &#8212; such as control over media regulation and public service       broadcasting &#8212; divide unionists and nationalists.
Against this background,       research by Philip Schlesinger at Glasgow has shaped advice to the       regulator and contributed to the wider public debate.
Provided expert advice on the implications of regulation     As an established and well-respected academic in Scotland, Philip's views       on communications issues and `the politics' are sought, valued and       respected by Ofcom at many levels, including the Ofcom Board, the Nations       Committee and teams within Ofcom's executive structure involved in       developing regulatory policy across the communications sector....       &#8212;Director, Scotland, Ofcom     Schlesinger is a founding member of Ofcom's Advisory Committee for       Scotland (ACS, 2004-present) and became chairman in 2009.
As chair,       Schlesinger leads an expert group which advises on UK policy developments       in public service broadcasting, telecommunications, radio communications       and post, which are all assessed for their potential impact on Scotland.
Schlesinger develops the ACS's agendas with Ofcom's Director Scotland and       shapes its written policy responses to Ofcom.
He approves all final       submissions to Ofcom and other bodies, of which there have been 27 since       2009: of the 14 external submissions 7 went to the DCMS, 3 to the Scottish       Government and the remainder (4) to bodies such as the BBC Trust and the       Royal Society of Edinburgh.
Thirteen internal submissions were sent to       Ofcom, accompanied by meetings with London-based officers, influencing the       Ofcom executive agenda across the entire regulatory field by identifying       Scotland's specific communications needs within the UK.
Issues addressed       included the Digital Britain and Digital Scotland initiatives, media       ownership and plurality, mobile quality, spectrum (broader bandwidth       transmission), postal services, TV and radio licensing.
These interventions have generated clear outcomes.
In February 2010       Schlesinger wrote a submission, dissenting from Ofcom's own views, which       transformed the way that Scottish broadcaster STV operated.
Schlesinger       argued the proposal to reclassify STV as an independent producer would       have dominated the Scottish market, being the incumbent commercial TV       broadcaster as well as the largest producer apart from the BBC.
Schlesinger criticised the DCMS impact assessment because it focused       solely on the UK &#8212; where STV is relatively small &#8212; and ignored the local       effects of reclassification on the Scottish independent TV sector.
Taking       this evidence into account, the DCMS decided not to reclassify STV.
Also in January 2013 Schlesinger's authority and reputation prompted       Ofcom to reference `discussions about the communications sector and its       regulation' occurring in Scotland prior to the 2014 referendum in their Annual         Plan 2013/14 (p49:6.5) for the first time ever.
This occurred as a       result of Schlesinger's ACS submission requesting that Ofcom explicitly       factor the Scottish policy debate into its strategic calculations.
In 2009 Schlesinger led a lobby of the committee chairs of the four       nations for more effective advisory input to Ofcom's Board.
This pressure       supported the Ofcom Chairman's key initiative to create the Nations       Committee (2009-present), a major shift in internal governance as       territorial representation was regarded as of marginal importance when       Ofcom was founded.
The Nations Committee, on which Schlesinger sits ex       officio, advises Ofcom's Board on how national questions affect UK-wide       regulation, thus influencing overall strategy.
Directly influenced UK policy and planning     Philip has been able to give measured advice to Ofcom and has ensured       through the ACS that Ofcom continues to gain a nuanced perspective on the       issues, a real sense of the political dimensions, and a greater awareness       for all Ofcom staff and Board members of the way in which the debate and       public opinion is developing [...].
His ability to ensure that Ofcom can       engage with appropriate Scottish stakeholders, including Ministerial and       Parliamentary representatives, is invaluable.
&#8212;Non Executive Ofcom Board Member and Chair of Ofcom Nations Committee     As a Nations Committee member, Schlesinger advises the Ofcom Board on       Scottish developments and privately briefs the Chairman and Nations       Committee Chair on Scottish matters.
To demonstrate the attention now       focused on the possible challenge of independence, Schlesinger was invited       (in March 2013) to a special Board meeting with the Permanent Secretary to       the Scottish Government, which centred on the Scottish Government       communications agenda and relations with Ofcom.
Following this meeting in       April 2013 Schlesinger was invited by the Permanent Secretary to discuss       the Scottish Government's proposed new regulatory model for       communications, which challenges Ofcom's monopoly.
Schlesinger then       invited Scottish Government officials to discuss its regulatory plans with       the Advisory Committee, to inform further advice to Ofcom in July 2013.
Schlesinger was also invited privately to discuss policy options with the       First Minister's broadcasting adviser, with follow-up contact (August       2013).
The key outcome of this activity has been to establish a new,       arms-length, focus for dialogue between Ofcom and the Scottish Government       in a highly delicate field.
Ofcom has developed guidelines for dealing       with government during the run-up to the referendum.
The ACS, which has an       independent advisory status, has been given leeway to engage in following       the debate &#8212; for instance by attending meetings &#8212; in ways that Ofcom       itself shies away from.
Schlesinger drew up the guidelines for this       process (July 2013).
Schlesinger has been asked by Ofcom to continue as ACS chair until August       2015, well beyond the referendum.
The Chairman of Ofcom (UK) states:       [Schlesinger's] rigour, his commitment to evidence-based policy making and       his networks in the social policy fields relevant to communications have       all combined to add great depth to Ofcom's work in this area.
His public role, however, extends beyond Ofcom.
In autumn 2011       Schlesinger was appointed expert adviser on broadcasting to the Scottish       Parliament's Scotland Bill Committee (preparatory to passage of the       Scotland Act 2012).
He advised the clerks on key issues, liaised with the       parliamentary research team, and drafted the Committee's Private Paper,       which set the agenda for MSPs' questioning of witnesses.
He also advised       on communication with the DCMS regarding regional TV production quotas.
The Committee's Report on the Scotland Bill (15 December 2011) cited him       as an `eminent adviser'.
Contributed to public engagement and the wider debate     Schlesinger has helped make the issue of Scottish communications       accessible to a general audience through his contributions to the advicetoofcom.org       website and the London School of Economics' Media         Policy Project website.
He also engages in a wide range of public       engagement activities and is regularly invited to speak at public events &#8212;       such as a panel on UK press futures, 450 capacity audience in Glasgow       (March 2013), one on trust and the media at the Edinburgh International       Book Festival, 500 capacity audience (August 2013), and a lecture on       cultural policy to 196 artists in Glasgow (October 2010).
His commentary       on media issues has appeared in The           Herald (19 August 2011), on the BBC's Good Morning         Scotland (13 September 2012) and the BBC's Newsnight Scotland       (14 August 2012).
In 2011-12 he co-organised The Glasgow Lectures on       Culture for a general public (average attendance, 120; videos available on         iTunesU) and in 2013, he co-organised public policy workshops       with,international, government and industry attendees on digitisation, new       business models, and diversity of voice in the Scottish press (4 June 2013       and 14 October 2013).
