     Collaboration between Sussex historians and the broadcast media provides       a platform for the delivery of public-facing social history.
The Mass       Observation Archive [see Section 5, C1] acts as a key archival resource       for a range of broadcasts and has moulded the development of programme       ideas.
Enhanced public participation in historical study is achieved       through the dissemination of existing archival material and public       involvement in the creation of new archival material.
In 2012, Langhamer negotiated a year-long partnership between the       Archive, Sussex historians and BBC Radio Four's flagship news programme Today       [C2].
In the first broadcast, Langhamer explained the importance of using       `ordinary voices' to understand societal changes during the twentieth       century (19 April 2012).
In the second, Robinson argued that the responses       of ordinary people provide an important alternative perspective on public       events and, in particular, on the changing role and status of British       royalty (30 May 2012).
A third package considered what the public can       learn about by studying the objects people keep on their mantelpieces at       home (04 July 2012).
Mass Observation also served as Today's guest       editor on 26 December 2012 [C3].
Langhamer researched and delivered       packages on Christmas in wartime and New Year resolutions, while Robinson       participated in a live panel discussion.
User response via Radio Four was       positive: `We had such terrific feedback for the Boxing Day programme,       many people touched by what they heard'.
A 500 per cent increase in       traffic on the Mass Observation website followed, providing real evidence       of sustainability.
Of these visitors, 85.44 per cent were new to the       Archive.
Mass Observation gained an additional 300 Twitter followers       immediately after the broadcast.
The Radio Four profile was reinforced       when Robinson appeared on Making History [C4] to explain how MOP       responses can illuminate the more-distant past (15 January 2012) and when       Langhamer was interviewed for The World Tonight [C5] about The         English in Love (20 August 2013).
Other media activity further engages the public.
Langhamer has appeared       in A History of Britain: Brighton, the First Resort (BBC 2, 2010);       Is Marriage in Peril (BBC Radio 3, 2010); History of the         Microphone (BBC Radio 4, 2011); The Rules of Drinking (BBC4,       2012); Who Do You Think You Are?
(BBC1, 2012) and World Update       (World Service, 2013).
Her research film on changing attitudes towards       love and marriage has received 1,850 YouTube hits.
Robinson's research has       featured in reports by the BBC News, BBC Sussex, BBC Somerset, Juice FM, The         Guardian, Global Post, The Argus, Third Sector, Times Higher         Education Supplement, MusicFilmWeb, and BBC History         Magazine.
She has spoken at the Battle of Ideas (2011), the Lesbian       and Gay News Archive (2012) and the National Memorial Arboretum (2013).
A       Mass Observation public lecture series organised by Langhamer and the       Archive in 2011-12 further facilitated public engagement.
Sussex research using Mass Observation has also informed the       commissioning of broadcasting packages.
The Today partnership is       one example, but Langhamer also worked closely with the BBC on The         People's Coronation with David Dimbleby (BBC 1, 2013), which       attracted 3.8 million viewers and was widely reviewed in the press [C6].
The director, John Haynes Fisher, commended Langhamer's impact on the       film's overall development in providing a framework within which       `apparently meaningless' colour footage of ordinary people's lives made       sense.
The MOP provides a structured framework within which the public write for       posterity.
Langhamer, an Archive Trustee, hosted a cross-sector symposium       at the Charity Centre in 2013 to encourage cross-sector commissioning of       the directives to which the public respond.
The transfer of older material       to digital formats has enhanced public access to existing MOP materials.
`Observing the 80s' has produced a digital Open Educational Resource, with       material available for the first time, under a Creative Commons BY-NC-SA       3.0 licence allowing for its repurpose [C7].
Engagement and dissemination       strategies include a blog through which project materials can be accessed       (6,781 unique visits to 31 July 2013); a Facebook page built by a `Youth       Ambassador' and YouTube channel.
An introduction to the project has nearly       1,000 hits.
The resource was profiled in The Guardian in February       2013 [C8].
In 2013, a group of international summer-school students       enthusiastically tested the Augmented Reality application designed around       `Observing the 80s'.
Further community outreach includes a workshop run in       collaboration with the disability charity Oyster and a series of workshops       at Lewes Prison.
Inspired by the Project, several prisoners subsequently       submitted day diaries to the MOP.
Davison High School has redesigned its       BTech Textiles course around the resource: they design clothes inspired by       a directive on `Social Divisions'.
User feedback is enthusiastic: `I now       know what an archive is and why people write', observed one student.
