     The Newton Project enhances public understanding of the role of Newton's       work via a huge international audience reached through its own website,       through a play, television and radio programmes inspired and informed by       the project, and through secondary schools.
Over the last five years the number of unique visits to the Project has       increased dramatically, and now stands at almost 2 million page requests       per year.
Weblog statistics show 9.9 million page requests between       February 2007 and February 2013 [see Section 5, C1].
In addition, the       Cambridge/Sussex Windows on Genius Project hosted by Cambridge University       Digital Library had 495,316 unique and return visitors between November       2011 and June 2012.
The total number, including unique and return       visitors, was 576,339.
The Project's YouTube channel [C2], plus its       collaborations with international partners including Indiana University       and the National Library of Israel [C3], have further enlarged and       diversified the reach of the Project.
The Project has contributed to cultural life by inspiring new forms           of artistic expression     In 2011, the playwright Craig Baxter wrote an acclaimed play about Newton       entitled Let Newton Be!
[C1].
Commissioned by the Faraday       Institute at Cambridge, the play is based entirely on biographical       materials and other sources from the Newton Project.
It has been performed       across the United Kingdom and North America to a total audience of around       4,000, including, on opening night, Professor Stephen Hawking and the       President of the Royal Society, Martin Rees.
More than entertaining       audiences, the play has enhanced public understanding of the development       of scientific knowledge.
The journal Science, for instance,       applauded the play for representing Newton in a way that `will awe and       move modern audiences'.
A laudatory review in Times Higher Education       also explicitly acknowledged the play's indebtedness to the Newton       Project, praising the `rich historical sources' that informed the       `entertaining script' [C4].
Let Newton Be!
has also contributed to       public knowledge by inspiring publication of The Isaac Newton         Guidebook, a book aimed at popular audiences edited by Denis       Alexander, with a preface by Stephen Hawking.
The book is accompanied by a       DVD featuring a filmed version of the play and includes a contribution       from Iliffe among the eight newly commissioned essays.
A further impact on cultural life is the commissioning and           broadcast of radio and television programmes that utilise the content           of the Newton Project and feature Iliffe as an academic authority.
Iliffe's status as a leading authority on Newton has led to him acting as       an advisor to, as well as appearing on, numerous broadcasts.
This includes       his appearance on BBC Radio 4's In Our Time to discuss Newton's       Laws of Motion on 3 April 2008.
The programme has a weekly audience of       around 2 million [C5].
The collaborative project with William Newman of       Indiana University on Newton's alchemical works inspired Newton's Dark         Secrets, a television documentary produced by WGBH in Boston.
The       documentary was aired as part of PBS's science series Nova on 15       November 2005 and is also available on DVD [C6].
Iliffe additionally       featured in the episode on Newton's Prism that formed part of the BBC 4       series The Beauty of Diagrams [C7], broadcast on 2 December 2010       and repeated on 2 December 2011; in a documentary about Newton's role as       Master of the Mint shown on Central China TV-1 to an audience of 9.1       million on 10 December 2012; and in Isaac Newton: The Last Magician,       broadcast as part of BBC 2's The Genius of Invention season on 12       April 2013 to 1.52 million viewers [C8].
These programmes' exploration of       how Newton simultaneously made his scientific breakthroughs while       obsessively pursuing the arcane practices of mysticism and alchemy draws       directly from materials available through the websites of the Newton       Project and The Chymistry of Isaac Newton.
The Newton Project also promotes the teaching of mathematics in           secondary schools     Project team members have worked closely with the British Society for the       History of Mathematics and Dr Snezana Lawrence (Director of Mathematical       Education at Bath Spa University) to engage with pupils at both state- and       independent-sector schools in Sussex and the South West.
Lawrence and the       Newton Project co-organised a training day at the Royal Society in       September 2009.
The event, attended by 31 teachers and 35 pupils, assessed       how the historical materials available on the Project website can be used       to enhance the interest of experienced mathematicians in the history of       mathematics, as well as to stimulate interest in mathematics in       schoolchildren.
