     Memory of Fire engaged a number of discrete and interlinked       publics: visitor surveys show that the exhibitions were seen by those with       a pre-existing interest in art and photography (many of whom travelled       specifically to see the biennial), alongside a more general and local       audience.
Many of the visitors were schoolchildren drawn in by the       education projects, along with students from the University of Brighton       and the University of Sussex.
There is evidence (detailed in the       supporting document) to show that these various audiences were led to       revise their understanding of the historical events depicted, and the       significance and power of particular forms of representation.
This had a       social impact in having viewers reassess modes of media representation in       contemporary conflicts.
The historical and media-specific aspects of the       biennial enabled citizens to move towards an understanding of how global       conflict is conveyed to them, and how they may use visual and       technological resources to gain an understanding of conflict, face up to       trauma or mount a critique of events.
The biennial worked to counter       passivity in the face of media presentations, in part by presenting the       differentiated field of war imagery including historical work from the       beginning of the twentieth century onwards, installation work, large-scale       museum photography, current photojournalism, amateur photography and       artists' video.
In this way the particularities of the present become       clear.
The causal links, contrasts and similarities between photographic       depictions of the Vietnam and Iraq wars were explored in detail in the       exhibition, Iraq Through the Lens of Vietnam so that the different       technologies, techniques and aesthetics of the photography of each war       stood out in sharp relief.
The changing character of amateur production       could be understood through Julian Germain's commissioned work, War         Memorial, which gathered photographic work from British armed       forces' personnel spanning a century; through Geert Van Kesteren's use of       Iraqi camera-phone images; and through Thomas Hirschhorn's re-use of       trophy photographs in his installation, The Incommensurable Banner.
The use of images as agents was made clear through the display and       contextualisation of photographs showing the `Shock and Awe' assault on       Baghdad, the Abu Ghraib pictures and photographs made and appropriated by       Iraqi resistance activists, among many others.
At each of the venues for which we have comparative figures, the Biennial       showed a marked increase above normal attendance.
The character of       viewers' engagement can be tracked through the lengthy and thoughtful       comments left online and in the galleries' comment books, and in the BPB         2008 Audience &amp; Visitor Evaluation Report.
A brochure       mini-catalogue was provided gratis at the exhibitions, and 5,000 copies       were distributed: it contained key images as well as critical texts by       Julian Stallabrass and Sarah James.
Photoworks magazine for autumn       2008 was devoted to war themes, and carried many important textual and       photographic contributions, extending the scope of the discussion that the       Biennial had opened up.
Photoworks sells around 3,500 copies per       issue, and is widely distributed; it is available in WH Smiths.
On the       evidence of the independent evaluation of the Biennial and the audience       evaluation report by Fiona Burgess, viewers were highly engaged by the       exhibitions, forming strong and informed opinions about what they had       seen, and spending much time in discussion with the gallery invigilators.
Burgess concluded that the exhibitions had elicited a highly positive       viewer response, with many viewers describing the experience as       revelatory, particularly with relation to the mainstream mass media       coverage of the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq.
In particular, the emphasis       on amateur and do-it-yourself imagery, along with the Biennial's       educational and portfolio review events, made for a practical impact on       the way people thought about making as well as seeing photography and       video.
This was directly evidenced through many of the education events       detailed in the support document.
In addition, the website homepage, which       had the form of a blog, carried debate about the Memory of Fire       themes, which extended beyond the Biennial teams.
The Biennial received significant media coverage related to its different       audiences.
Articles appeared in the Daily Telegraph and the Independent         on Sunday, and there was also coverage in the art press, including Flash         Art and The Art Book.
The local Brighton newspaper, The         Argus, ran four features with extensive and well-illustrated       coverage of the biennial.
In addition, the Biennial was part of an ongoing research project, which       has had many public manifestations, and has involved many collaborations,       as listed in the support document.
An indicative event would be the public       conversation between Oliver Chanarin and Julian Stallabrass that launched       the book, Memory of Fire in June 2013.
It was held at Amnesty       International's London building before an audience of 400, and was       arranged in collaboration with the agency, Culture and Conflict.
