     Prior to the impacts described in this section the UK's e-infrastructure       suffered from a fragmented funding regime, with resources being funded by       a variety of bodies representing diverse user groups.
There was also a       distinct lack of a coordinated policy and strategy for UK       e-infrastructure, and no single coordinating body that represented all       relevant stakeholders.
This fragmented organisation of the national       infrastructure, together with no guarantee of future provision,       discouraged business from becoming involved, inhibited collaboration       between organisations and resulted in the UK losing its ability to compete       internationally in the field.
In 2011, as a result of the strength of UCL research in the field,       Coveney was asked by the UK e-Science Institute to lead on the publication       of a report into the UK's e-infrastructure, with the objective to develop       a strategy to overcome the problems of fragmented funding and       coordination.
The Strategy for the UK Research Computing Ecosystem       report [A], published in October 2011, was the result of a number of       meetings (with the involvement of UK Science and Universities Minister Rt       Hon David Willetts MP in July 2011).
It set out a holistic approach for       the UK's e-infrastructure involving the different Research Councils,       funding bodies and user communities in a coherent collaboration.
Non-university users of the e-infrastructure include automotive,       pharmaceutical, software and hardware industry sectors; charity-funded       research laboratories (for example, the London Research Institute); and       many publicly funded research institutes, including the Met Office, Culham       and AWE (Atomic Weapons Establishment).
Specific recommendations made in       the Strategy report were to (i) set up an independent coordinating       body to govern the e-infrastructure that reports directly to the       Government, (ii) drive the development of software, hardware and       networking for all stakeholders (including national supercomputing service       providers and Research Councils) in the e-infrastructure, and (iii) offer       e-science training to develop the next generation of computationally aware       researchers who are able to use the improved e-infrastructure.
Coveney's       role in directing and shaping these recommendations was directly       consequent on the UCL team's research in computational science, including       computational chemistry.
This document in turn fed into and informed a key policy document       entitled A Strategic Vision for UK e-Infrastructure, commissioned       by Willetts and published by the Department for Business, Innovation and       Skills (BIS) in January 2012 [B].
This document addressed the advanced       computational capacity of the UK as a system (i.e.
as an       e-infrastructure), and proposed a series of recommendations on software,       hardware, networks, data storage and skills to help develop this       e-infrastructure.
In particular, the Vision report took forward       the specific recommendations made in the Strategy report,       demonstrating that the Strategy report informed Government       understanding of the issues.
As a direct result of the first of these       recommendations the Government created the UK E-Infrastructure Leadership       Council (ELC) in March 2012 [C].
The ELC has the responsibility to advise       the Government on e-infrastructure development and to develop a wider plan       for stakeholder engagement.
It is currently working on mechanisms for       engaging industry and healthcare with the newly funded e-infrastructure,       including an "On Ramp" programme that seeks to identify and remove       barriers to the uptake of e-infrastructure by UK PLCs.
The strong       influence of the Strategy report on the Vision report is       clearly evidenced in the Chairman's foreword and the references of the       latter report [B].
For example, the Chairman wrote: "I was commissioned by       the Minister to write a report on how we might create an e-infrastructure       that would support a strong public-private partnership.
[...] We have been       able to move quickly by building on some excellent analysis.
I think       particularly of the work of the academic community summarised in the       report by Peter Coveney Strategy for the UK Research Computing         Ecosystem" [B].
As a result of these two policy documents (mainly the Strategy       report, which was already published at the time), in October 2011 the       Government earmarked &#163;145 million (increased to &#163;165 million in early       2012) to improve the UK's HPC capabilities and wider e-infrastructure [D,       E].
This investment has resulted in improvements to existing       e-infrastructure such as the UK academic network JANET and high-capacity       data storage across the Research Councils, and has funded a number of HPC       activities in the UK including Emerald, one of the largest Graphics       Processing Unit systems in Europe, now located in the Rutherford Appleton       Laboratory in Daresbury, and IRIDIS, a conventional 100-teraFLOPS       supercomputer, located at the University of Southampton.
These activities       have vastly increased the computing capacity and capability in the UK.
This has wide-ranging industrial and economic impact, including allowing       the NHS and UK PLCs to use these resources, and attracting hi-tech       industry from overseas.
For example, companies including IBM, Intel and       Cisco have already made investments into the UK following this Government       investment in e-infrastructure [F].
The Vision report (and therefore the Strategy report) has       further influenced Government spending, with the Government's on-going       commitment to improving UK e-infrastructure demonstrated by the allocation       of an additional &#163;189 million in capital funding to this area in December       2012.
This investment was part of the &#163;600 million capital funding for       science announced in the Chancellor's 2012 Autumn Statement, and the       amount allocated to e-infrastructure was communicated by Willetts at       Policy Exchange in January 2013, where he described e-infrastructure &#8212; or       "Big Data" &#8212; as one of the "eight great technologies" which will propel       the UK to future growth [F].
The &#163;189 million, to be invested over the       next two years, has been allocated to areas including "e-Infrastructure       for Biosciences" and "Administrative Data Research Centres" [G]; it was       announced in February 2013 that &#163;30 million has already been awarded to       the Hartree Centre in Daresbury and its academic and industrial partners,       in part to develop new technology to make supercomputers more efficient       [H].
The work of the UCL team has also informed policy debate.
In June 2013,       Coveney was invited to speak at a House of Lords meeting about scientific       infrastructure [I], as part of an inquiry into that topic launched by the       Science and Technology Committee in May 2013.
He reminded the audience of       the recommendations for UK e-infrastructure made in the Strategy       report, and explained that whilst the initial Government investments and       formation of the ELC are excellent outcomes of this report, there are a       number of critical recommendations that have yet to be implemented.
These       include holistic management of investments in e-infrastructure, a focus on       software development in addition to investments in hardware, and the       provision of appropriate training across a wide range of disciplines.
His       presentation sparked considerable discussion and debate amongst meeting       attendees about these and other issues relating to UK e-infrastructure.
