     RS is used extensively and is valued as one of the analysis techniques of       choice by heritage scientists.
It is a highly specific, non-destructive       analytical technique that can be applied in situ, and is highly       sensitive both to the structure and composition of the sample.
Clark's       fundamental studies, collaboration activities and continuing work in this       field provided a vital contribution to the adoption and widespread use of       RS in heritage science and museums.
His significant contribution has been       recognised by The Royal Society, who awarded him the 2008 Bakerian Lecture       for "his pioneering work using the technique of RS as applied to artwork       and artefacts".
The society added:     "The research is having a profound effect on the art, archaeology and       museum worlds; he [Clark] has shown that numerous profound and critical       issues which could not previously be addressed can now not only be       addressed but resolved.
This has influenced major institutions such as the       Louvre, the Getty, the Metropolitan of New York and the British Museum       (among others) to install Raman microscope systems in recognition of their       striking effectiveness as analytical tools."
[A] Additionally, his work       has been further recognised by a number of eminent scientific and       scholarly organisations (American Philosophical Society, the Royal Society       of Chemistry, the Fondation de la Maison de la Chimie and the Chemical       Heritage Foundation) in the last five years, each of which has       acknowledged Clark's contribution to bridging the science world with the       humanities and arts, and demonstrating chemistry's role in shaping society       [B].
The Indianapolis Museum of Art (IMA) and the Victoria &amp; Albert Museum       (V&amp;A) in London have both employed former members of the Clark group.
Their expertise in RS, developed whilst at UCL, benefits analysis of art       and historic artefacts at the institutions.
The IMA established a       Conservation Science Laboratory in 2011 and one of the first instruments       purchased for the new facility was a Raman spectrometer [C], an instrument       that vastly expanded the museum's conservation and analytical       capabilities.
Prior to this, only optical and polarised light spectroscopy       were available, techniques that are not only time consuming to use but are       of limited value in pigment identification.
Around 50 objects are analysed       in the facility per year, and RS analysis is applied to all of them at       some point during their study [C].
In 2012, in partnership with Cincinnati       Art Museum, a combination of RS and X-ray fluorescence spectroscopy were       used to map the location of specific pigments and, following a computer       reconstruction, revealed the original appearance of the white flowers in       Vincent van Gogh's painting of 1890 Undergrowth with Two Figures;       this reconstruction is now displayed to the public [C].
In 2009, in collaboration with Clark, five miniatures at the V&amp;A were       unambiguously confirmed to be modern forgeries (five `Spanish Forger'       paintings), and the detection of metallic bismuth on an illuminated       Bourdichon miniature added to the knowledge of trade routes and pigment       availability in medieval Europe [D].
Subsequently, in 2010, having       benefited from access to the Raman facilities and collaborating with the       team at UCL, the V&amp;A purchased its own Raman spectrometer, a resource       that is used on a weekly basis [E].
Having a Raman spectrometer available       at the V&amp;A has made it possible to analyse non-destructively and in         situ museum objects that were, until recently, off-limits due to       restrictions to their sampling.
Furthermore, where inorganic pigments,       minerals and gemstones are concerned, analyses now take a few seconds or       minutes to complete, bringing about considerable savings in terms of staff       time and increasing productivity.
In all, around 150 objects are now       studied each year using the technique at the V&amp;A, with analysis       results not only enabling dating and authentication of collections, but       also informing curators as to whether objects are appropriate for proposed       exhibitions and impacting upon their conservation [E].
Utilising their own       system in 2012, V&amp;A staff were able to investigate distinct       "fingerprints" of pigments for different artists, which led to changes in       the attributions of three portrait miniatures: the original Tudor       portraits of "Mr and Mrs Croker", which have suffered from troubled       attribution histories, were attributed to Nicholas Hilliard or his       workshop; and a third portrait miniature (miniature 630-1882) was       reattributed from Isaac Oliver to Hilliard or his workshop [F].
UK libraries (Bodleian Library and BL) have also benefited from       collaborating with the UCL group and implementing RS analysis.
By using RS       to ascertain and understand the chemical behaviour of specific pigments,       conservators are now able to control the display and storage schedule to       reduce degradation of objects, understand and update conservation records,       add support to conservation strategies, and also provide instructions to       readers about certain items for which there may be a health and safety       impact; for example, the requirement to wear gloves where poisonous       arsenic-containing pigments are identified (especially in the case of       Indian manuscripts).
Furthermore, the collaboration between UCL and the BL       (1996 to 2008) was highlighted in the House of Lords Science and       Technology Committee Science and Heritage report as an example of how       academics and curators can work together to develop academic agendas       whilst answering both curatorial and conservation questions.
This same       report concluded that collaboration between university and museum-based       scientists is crucial to heritage science.
Subsequently, the Science and       Heritage Programme (established to take forward the recommendations from       these reports) has promoted further collaboration of this nature through       research clusters and networking funding, with examples reported in the       most recent review (2012) [G].
The pigment database developed by UCL is also valued by researchers and       is considered significant to the conservation science field because it was       one of the first online reference spectra collections for art materials.
The Museum of Fine Arts in Boston (MFA) printed out the set of UCL Raman       spectra as a reference when they purchased their Raman spectrometer in       2008, and still regularly consult the printouts today [H].
The images of       67 of the Raman reference spectra generated by UCL, along with links to       the UCL Raman Spectroscopic Library website, are included in the       Conservation &amp; Art Materials Encyclopedia Online (CAMEO) database that       was developed by the MFA &#8212; a database that is regularly accessed       worldwide.
The Schorr Family Associate Research Scientist at the MFA said       in May 2013: "in the last year, 80,000 unique visitors provided over       250,000 page views.
The hits came from 165 countries.
A random check of       several pigment pages that include UCL reference spectra gave the       following hit results over the past year: berberine (14), lazurite (31),       malachite (298), orpiment (93), vermilion (219)."
[H]     The UCL research has also had an impact on the sale of Raman       spectrometers by Renishaw, a world leader in the manufacture and supply of       these instruments.
The company's International Sales Manager and       Applications Specialist said: "From a commercial aspect the importance of       this field of interest [the use of RS in heritage work] has led to a       significant number of sales that one could argue would not have been       possible without Professor Clark's fundamental studies".
Renishaw was the       first supplier of a high-end bench Raman microscope and today enjoys a       dominant position in the marketplace.
It sells instruments worldwide [text       removed for publication] [I].
