     The findings and recommendations of the Cardiff research team have       provided the basis for new educational materials, training programmes and       other decision management tools used by clinicians in the UK and abroad.
The Cardiff research has also informed new clinical guidelines in the UK       and elsewhere on the management of RTI.
The widespread dissemination of       Cardiff's research is helping to improve antibiotic stewardship across       Europe.
Our four trials (see Section 3) all demonstrated the effectiveness       of different tools to reduce antibiotic prescribing.
The reductions ranged       from 32% to 67% in trial participants and a 4.2% reduction in overall       antibiotic prescribing (and a 5.5% reduction in antibiotic dispensing       costs) over a one-year period at the whole general practice level.
This       equates to a saving of &#163;830 per annum for an average sized UK general       practice.
Given the widespread adoption of Cardiff's tools and training in       NHS initiatives to reduce GP antibiotic prescribing (see below), if 50% of       all UK GP practices achieved just half of the average savings observed in       the trials, the direct costs savings across the country since publication       of the NICE guidelines would total &#163;9 million.
Guidelines     The NICE guidelines on managing acute RTI were published in 2009 and were       distributed to all GPs in the UK.
They highlighted the importance of       eliciting patient expectations; GPs are encouraged to achieve a shared       understanding regarding the management and treatment of the infection.
This recommendation stems directly from the Cardiff research, which is       cited in the NICE publication [5.1].
Aspects of Cardiff's research have       also informed a revision of the Dutch national guidelines on RTIs [5.4].
Patient educational materials     In 2009 the Cardiff team published the results of a trial revealing that       use of the interactive booklet for children about RTIs, which was       developed by the Cardiff team, resulted in a two-thirds reduction in       antibiotic use [3.5, see `What this study adds' summary, p7].
The results       were picked up by the UK medical media, including Pulse, Healthcare Today       and Onmedica; the publicity stimulated widespread uptake of the booklet       around the UK.
The booklet has been available for purchase at the Royal       College of GPs bookshop since 2010.
Over 90,000 copies have been purchased       by or sent to general practices since 2009.
In September 2009, for       example, NHS Forth Valley highlighted the `When Should I Worry?'
booklet       as a potential aid to management of self- limiting upper respiratory       infections through the Whole System Working initiative in 2009-10.
27,000       copies of the booklet have been distributed to practices to date [5.2].
In       2012, Welsh Government sent 30,000 copies to all general practices in       Wales as part of European Antibiotic Awareness Day activities [5.3].
Training clinicians     The evaluation of Cardiff's training package showed that communication       skills training (to improve interactions with patients and enhance their       experience) and the promotion of a point-of-care blood test, used alone or       in combination, led to significant reductions in antibiotic prescribing.
The results of this study led directly to a change in the Dutch national       guidelines on lower respiratory tract infections; a training package on       the updated guidelines was sent to 11,000 GPs [5.6] and made freely       available online [5.4, 5.5].
The study also helped convince the Dutch       health insurance system to pay for C-reactive protein (CRP) point of care       testing [5.6].
Cardiff developed a blended learning package (e-learning,       practice based outreach, experiential learning, and reflections) about       antibiotic prescribing for RTIs.
Research demonstrated this approach       reduced practice-level antibiotic prescribing, not just in those patients       included in the trial.
The Cardiff team's research, including the learning       package, formed the basis of the Royal College of General Practitioners       Managing Acute Respiratory Tract Infections (MARTI) course, which by       December 2012 had been completed by over 4,300 clinical users and results       in an average 24% increase in test scores between pre and post course       evaluation [5.7].
A contract has just been signed where Cardiff's SME       partners involved in the trial of the blended learning are investing       &#163;50,000 in further development and its commercialisation.
Cardiff's       research has influenced national and international antimicrobial       stewardship programmes and campaigns.
For example, Cardiff's interactive       booklet for children and training in its use, and the MARTI module form       part of the TARGET antibiotic toolkit [5.8], which was developed in 2012       by the Antimicrobial Stewardship in Primary Care collaboration (ASPIC) and       has been accessed by more than 5,400 unique users since November 2012.
Public awareness and policy     The Cardiff team's development and trial of the blended learning package       were picked up by local and national media.
Articles in The Telegraph       [5.9] and Professor Chris Butler's contributions to discussions on Radio       4's Women's Hour [5.10], Radio 4's Inside Health, and BBC Wales's Jason       Mohammed Show all helped to disseminate the message about reducing       antibiotic prescribing for RTIs to the general public.
Butler, Francis and       Stanton also advise the Health Protection Agency, the Department of       Health, the Advisory Committee on Antimicrobial Resistance and Healthcare       Associated Infection, and the Welsh Antimicrobial Resistance Programme.
