     Q-Technologies Ltd is an award-winning company spun out from the       University of Liverpool (UoL).
The underpinning research described in       section 2 led directly to the company formation.
The company mission is to       bring to market the novel, patented technology developed through research       in the Department undertaken by Taylor and colleagues.
The company holds       exclusive licences from the UoL for the original patented technology [3.1]       and other technology [3.5].
Starting up, the company was awarded a DTI       SMART award to formulate a business plan to take forward its initial       R&amp;D [3.10].
This led to the commercialisation of the underpinning       research and to the development of miniature quadrupole mass spectrometer       (QMS) instrumentation.
Other patents in the area of portable MS followed       ([3.5] above) with licenses and /or assignments to other companies [e.g       5,2(iii)].
In each case, Q-Technologies has retained a back licence for       its own use in developing further products and applications.
Economic impact: Significant impact has occurred from 2008 to       date.
Q-Technologies is now an established spin out employing 7 people.
The know-how gained and technology transferred from the research at the       University, has enabled Q-Technologies to provide three further MS       products and solutions in the application areas of process control and       monitoring.
These include: (i) a portable QMS for online fission gas       monitoring; (ii) a membrane inlet MS (MIMS) for real time oil in water       monitoring; and (iii) the novel MS software simulation tool developed in       the Department [3.4] has also been marketed and sold through       Q-Technologies.
In 2009 the company patented a unique method of hyperbolic electrode       fabrication for miniature MS based on research undertaken in the       Department and described above [5.1].
In 2010 the company assigned this IP       (retaining a back licence) and know how to Advanced Sensors Ltd, who are a       leading technology based provider of sensors to the oil and gas sector.
Miniature MS technology developed in Liverpool: "...has now been           incorporated alongside Advanced Sensors' successful ultra violet (UV)           based Oil-in-Water (OiW) analyser to create a combined MS-OiW analyser           with unparalleled monitoring capabilities.
The product TM-1000 is           currently marketed on the website...Success of the initial deployments           will generate revenue for the company of &#163;1.2m in 2013 growing to           &#163;2.5m in 2015" [5.2(ii) and 5.4].
In 2012 Advanced Sensors won       the HSBC National Business Thinking Award for its products and innovation.
In April 2013 the Q-Technologies won a Merseyside Innovation Award (MIA)       [5.5].
Environmental impact: "Produced water" is a term used in the oil       industry to describe water that is produced along with the oil and gas.
This type of water is recycled, but regulatory environmental statutes       currently limit the levels of oil to less than 30ppm.
The combined       instrument developed by Q-Technologies and Advanced Sensors (TM-1000)       represents a stepwise change in OiW analysis, since it is the first sensor       of its kind to offer in situ MS for field deployment as well as       ultra violet fluoresence sensing in the same instrument.
"The           unique combination of two orthogonal sensing technologies... offers           produced water measurement capabilities to sub-ppm levels as well as           being able to distinguish between oil from different fields and other           environmental hazards (e.g, H2S)           via the MS measurement.
This latter feature is likely to be           significant in future environmental legislation with respect to shale           gas extraction" [5.2(ii)]     Beneficiaries:     During the period from 2008 to date (i) Advanced Sensors Ltd has       benefitted commercially by bringing a novel sensor to market (ii)       Q-Technologies and UoL have benefitted via licence income that has accrued       to the company [5.2(i) and (ii)].
(iii) Oil companies deploying the novel       sensor have benefitted by being able to meet stricter environmental       regulatory standards.
Impact summary:     Economic: Q-Technologies is a successful and profitable       SME, founded as a spin out company from UoL to commercialise research in       MS.
The company currently employs 7 people.
The income stream secured from       its currently assigned IP has guaranteed minimum royalties (from the       license agreement with Advanced Sensors) for Q-Technologies going forward       from 2010 which exceed &#163;800k.
[5.2 (i), 5.3].
Advanced Sensors Ltd has       generated revenues of &#163;1.2M in 2013 from initial deployment of a novel oil       in water analyser incorporating the QMS.
Environmental: The TM-1000 product sold through Advanced       Sensors, monitors oil in water produced through oil and gas drilling       operations to ppb sensitivity [5.2 (ii)].
This unique sensor not only       allows levels of oil to be determined, but also the oil fractions and       other environmental contaminants.
The product is a UK world-first with       unparalleled performance.
It allows enhanced carbon abatement via superior       water quality monitoring and thereby provides reduced environmental       contamination [5.4]
