     The Gothic Ivories Project was devised following a widely publicised       display at the Courtauld Gallery (Ivories from the Thomson Collection)       and a resulting catalogue by John Lowden (2008).
It was decided to       establish collaborative relationships with all institutions and       individuals known to possess Gothic ivories; to provide information and at       least one image per object, and, most important, to make all this material       available to a wide public as well as a scholarly audience via a website,       free to the user.
This site, www.gothicivories.courtauld.ac.uk,       went online in December 2010 with 749 ivories and approximately 4,000       images.
Since then there have been regular uploads from the database to       the website, so that currently there are more than 3,100 objects with       nearly 10,000 photographs online.
Initially impacting primarily upon       institutions and curators, the Project is now attracting attention from       anyone seeking to research Gothic ivories.
This pattern of impact will       change again once the main body of database material is fully accessible       online (October 2014).
Impacts 1 - 3: Research collaboration with institutions, their         curators and their collections     The earliest impact of the Project saw the creation of a new       international network linking key contributors: museums, galleries and       private collections.
Of particular importance were curators from the       Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York, the Louvre and the Mus&#233;e du Cluny       in Paris, and the V&amp;A, British Museum and Wallace Collection in       London, together representing the largest holdings of Gothic ivories.
In       turn, their support reassured smaller institutions as to the bona fides of       the Project.
Further crucial collaborations were with the R&#233;union des         Mus&#233;es Nationaux and the M&#233;diath&#232;que de l'Architecture et du         Patrimoine in France, both of which provided the Project with high       resolution images of ivories from numerous French public collections       without charge for their reproduction.
This represented a crucial       financial saving.
The second impact saw participating museums gain a deeper knowledge of       their own objects.
Previously unknown details of provenance, and citations       in the scholarly literature, were brought to light.
The Project has       already revealed numerous previously unpublished ivories allowing a much       more complete picture of the production of this category of objects.
Many       collaborating institutions have also agreed to new digital photography,       made to standards set by the Project.
Where no alternative was feasible,       the Project has shared the cost of new photography.
Museums, recognising       the value of the site, have begun to undertake the production of fresh       catalogues of their ivories: the Courtauld Gallery (John Lowden), 2013,       and the Victoria &amp; Albert Museum (2 vols., Paul Williamson, Glyn       Davies), forthcoming July 2014, are the first two.
Third, the research has had an unprecedented impact by bringing to light       numerous hitherto unknown or overlooked ivories, some of them of the       highest quality.
Impact 4: Individual scholarly research:     Visitors are encouraged to register as users of the Gothic Ivories       website.
Currently there are more than 330 registered users &#8212; a       surprisingly large number for such a specialised research field.
We know from web-based data that these users are spread all over the       world.
The functionality of the website encourages users to become part of       a Gothic ivories dialogue, be it through the online forum or through their       ability to create and share sets of images.
Impact 5: Art and commerce: the art market, dealers, and collectors     Many Gothic ivories are still in private collections.
Exceptionally       important ivories &#8212; previously entirely unknown &#8212; still come to light on a       regular basis in the sale rooms of London, Paris and New York.
The most       important of these private collectors are linked in various ways to the       Gothic Ivories Project as advisors, and especially as financial       supporters.
Sotheby's and Christie's too are formal collaborators and have       made their archives accessible to the Project.
Impact 6: Public interest in Gothic ivories     Since the site was launched, the number of users and the extent of their       use have both grown enormously.
The most recent month (July 2013) saw       80,977 pages consulted.
In addition, the number of users has grown       steadily to an average of 2,300 unique visitors per month.
This       demonstrates that the site has already greatly increased the number of       researchers in the field.
