     Clearly, the work of the CWDC encouraged the enhancement of supervisory       practice in       accordance with principles of good practice.
This had been done by means       of training events and       the SFLM project itself.
Given the timing and political context of the       evaluation, it was not possible       to focus on the `effectiveness' of the initiative, but it was possible to       evaluate the process of the       project and show probity.
Most significantly, however, it was the       theorization of the project within       its wider context that enabled new insights to be generated.
The CWDC's       endeavour represented       a retrieval of earlier approaches to social work management and practice       that had been       overshadowed by more recent techno-rational methods.
These approaches were       in-keeping with       the reports of Professor Munro and concerned the relational and reflective       approach to       management, supervision and social work practice.
Most particularly, the       research insights linked       explicitly the theory and practice of management coaching with the theory       and practice of social       work and its supervision.
Management coaching is becoming established as a       new profession and       is evident in the private sector.
Papers resulting from this project have       been amongst the first, if       not the first the first, in drawing attention to the linkages between       coaching, social work supervision       and practice.
The social work profession's dissatisfaction with the dominance of       techno-rational methods of       management has meant that the proposal of relational and reflective       alternatives has been       welcome.
The exposition of theoretical foundations of welcome practical       possibilities means that       the ideas have been taken up by a range of practitioners.
For example,       organizational consultants       and coaches have appreciated the ideas of how they might support managers,       but also practice       educators have used the insights to inform work with students and       practitioners undertaking their       `Assessed and Supported Year in Employment'.
It is being argued that       outputs that have       circulated the insights have given rise to changes in the activities,       attitudes, awareness,       behaviours, understanding, performance and practice relating to the       management, supervision and       practice of social work.
The insights generated have been circulated regionally, nationally and       internationally and have       reached a wide range of research users.
