     Impact is through the textbook An Introduction to Literature,         Criticism and Theory (ILCT), which       has been available throughout the REF period (editions in 1999, 2004,       2009).
The 2009 ILCT       edition is over half as long again as the original edition (378 to 238       pages) as a result of new       chapters, revisions and updating.
The reach and influence on teaching,       achieved by Bennett and       Royle's textbook [see Section 5, C1], is demonstrated by its extensive use       in HEIs and through       reviews and comments by those who use it in teaching and learning.
The       development of the       Quick Fictions (QF) public readings and web-based app builds on the       approach to creativity       espoused in ILCT, to extend impacts through events and       interactivity.
In linking theory and creativity, ILCT has changed the form and       content of literary-theory teaching       in Higher Education worldwide, demonstrated by its presence on reading       lists at over 100 HEIs,       including Oxford, where it is compulsory for 350 English students       annually.
ILCT is used as a       textbook in a range of disciplines - e.g.
Classics, Modern Languages and       Cultural Studies - as       well as English.
External reviews [C2] attest to ILCT's impact on       teaching.
J. Hillis Miller describes       the 2009 edition thus:     This unmatched book is for everyone: from those beginning literary study,       through       advanced students, and up to teachers.
Derek Attridge comments:     Bennett and Royle directly involves the reader in the problems and       pleasures of       thinking about literature.
Teachers have commented on its success in the classroom.
Peggy Kamuf       writes:     [ILCT] enables students to understand both the critical aspects of       fiction or poetry and       the creative, poetic aspects of critical discourse.
While Julian Patrick states:     [ILCT] alone among all the North American books in this field       successfully introduces       students to the truly creative reinvigoration of literary studies that the       `theory revolution'       has inspired.
ILCT makes theory accessible by avoiding the familiar schools-based     focus (structuralism,     poststructuralism, feminism, etc.
), presenting critical concepts through     readings and creative     exploration of individual literary texts.
Comments from students demonstrate     the effect the book     had on their studies - e.g.
The authors make a conscious effort to refrain from "giving potted       summaries of isms",       instead offering a number of concise essays that explore the key       theoretical       methodologies in a manner both accessible and stimulating [C3].
Another writes:     Bennett and Royle's book ... [helped me to] understand complex theories       ... the       breadth of the content allowed me to open up my own ideas and arguments       ... you       become a critic yourself, creating an individual and original response'       [C4].
The reach of ILCT's 2009 edition is evidenced by its sales       figures, selling over 25,000 copies in 41       countries.
Worldwide sales of all editions totalled 78,555 as of July 2013       [C5] and the book has       been translated into Chinese (2007), Farsi (2008) and Arabic (2012).
The       Chinese translation has       sold 4,067 copies [C6].
A separately licensed Indian edition was published       in 2008.
A Polish       translation will appear in 2015.
A 2008 THE article by Penny Hancock on teaching creative writing       in higher education singles out       Royle's innovative pedagogic practices in combining creative and critical       writing [C7].
QF extends       the work of ILCT in the field of creative writing.
This started as       a bi-annual public event at Sussex,       where students and writers could develop crafted, theoretically informed       but short (up to 300       words) pieces of fiction.
Committed from the beginning to involving the       wider community, Royle       collaborated with local publisher Myriad Editions to expand the reach of       this project.
From 2010,       the finest quick fictions were showcased on the Myriad website.
In       September 2012, QF was       launched at the Brighton Digital Festival as an app.
In this joint venture       with Sussex, Myriad and       Aimer Media, QF has used new technology to transform how theory       and creative writing interact       beyond the academy.
Prefiguring the 2013 Man Booker judges' espousal of       the art of `crafting       spare, philosophical and original works, however short' [C8], QF       is a meticulously curated app with       a significant number of quality writers from the UK and beyond (including       H&#233;l&#232;ne Cixous, Alison       Moore, Adam Roberts, Peter Manson, Scarlett Thomas, George Szirtes and       Rebecca Giggs).
It is       leading the way as an innovative, high-quality forum for this new kind of       writing with global       ambition.
In Version 1.4, it was celebrated as `a nifty idea' in the Guardian       (5 July 2012), welcomed       in The Literary Platform and Educreator, voted one of the       top ten in the Sunday Times best 500       apps (2013) and ranked No.
5 in the UK's best-paid-app chart [C9].
Sales       to 31 July 2013 totalled       4,327.
Royle's synthesis of creative and critical work has improved the teaching       and learning of literary       theory and brought this to a new audience through novel aspects of       creative output.
