     C4di delivered experiential workshops, and undertook innovation audits       for SMEs, and pioneered new visual methods for engaging with companies and       their stakeholders.
Collaborating with Scottish Enterprise (SE), c4di       contributed to innovation support policy development, [I1], which       led to a significant shift in SE's business support strategy leading       directly to funding for programmes of innovation workshops across Scotland       [I6].
The underpinning research resulted in a symbiotic       relationship between SMEs and researchers.
This impacted on SME attitudes       and behaviours leading to the securing of existing jobs, creation of new       jobs, and increasing company turnover.
Over 300 companies across all of the Scottish Government's priority       sectors were assisted.
Examples included MacPhie Of Glenbervie, and The       Store (Food &amp; Drink); Nova Biotics (Biotechnology); Tritech [I2],       Red Spider, Grampian Fasteners and AGR Subsea (Energy); Freelance World,       (Finance) and Tinto Architecture (Creative Industries).
The project provided a model for knowledge exchange demonstrating how to       avoid conflicts of interest between HEIs and commercial design       professionals [I3].
An example is provided by workshops undertaken       with Freelance World, a financial services company, which planned       to re-position itself as a total business support service extending its       standard accounting service to include business advice and support.
C4di       facilitated scoping workshops using a visual framework to describe the       existing Freelance World business model and explored how incremental and       radical innovations could be created.
Four student interns sourced from       the Robert Gordon University used various prototypes of the business model       to create hypotheses for subsequent project development including       developing the company's social media strategy.
Feedback from the company       Managing Director illustrates the approach taken:     "No linear lists or left brain tasks.
This was a very visual         experience.
Engage right brain!
It made our heads hurt, but we got some         real breakthroughs and an outcome that none of us could have foreseen".
The company MotoGF evidences the type of impact brought about by the       project.
This company which provides specialist tools to the oil &amp; gas       industry, aimed to set up a dedicated service for motorsport enthusiasts.
The company, with 26 staff, had identified a number of challenges in       developing the market for its products.
C4di facilitated a `problem       solving by design' workshop involving student members of TAU motor racing       team from the University of Aberdeen.
Visual methods were used to       determine the core values of the company.
Additionally, a short       ethnographic study involving mechanics was undertaken to support c4di's       design audit which recommended that MotoGF review the company's existing       products, services, branding and communications against its core values;       adopt a communications strategy which is part promotional and part       informational; restructure the company website hierarchy making social       media feed the most important part of the homepage; develop a mobile-based       ordering and information system; and offer student mechanics discounted       tool sets on an HP basis.
Since working with c4di the company have       increased innovation investment by &#163;30,000; have 13 new or improved       products/services or processes; and have created 3 new jobs.
They have       also undergone a complete re-branding, and have transformed internal       innovation and staff training procedures.
A further example is provided by Easterbrook Hall, which has developed a       significant reputation as a wedding/conference/leisure service provider,       employing 80 staff.
The company aspired to develop the conference facility       revenue stream and exploit the potential for business tourism in the       region (Dumfries &amp; Galloway).
C4di undertook an evaluation of their       brand to identify key unique selling points for the venue.
Evaluation       tools developed by c4di were employed to establish the core values of the       venue in order to define the brand.
Subsequently, 1 new fulltime and 6       additional seasonal staff were employed.
The company turnover increased by       &#163;70,000 as a result of new/improved products, services and processes       including new business packages, new wedding packages, a conference bureau       partnership, partnering with a local radio station to run joint themed       events, and a charity product offering.
[I7]     The project achieved knowledge exchange through its workshop programmes       and direct contact with SMEs, through articles written for the press       including business journals; a series of business lectures and networking       events funded by a grant awarded by the Design Council; papers given at       conferences and journal articles; and case study information provided to       other projects [I4].
C4di has been quoted as a       significant example of Knowledge Exchange for innovation [I5].
The project exceeded the targets set by the funders, for example the       target for `increased turnover achieved' was &#163;1.5 million over 3 years,       but following evaluation if was calculated to have achieved &#163;2.36 million.
(742)
