     The impact developed by this research, includes            generating new ways of thinking that influence the practice of the         arts in society giving form to collaboration       through collaboration, helping professionals and organisations to         adapt to changing cultural values          In an independent report on the Working in Public research [E1]       focusing on the impact of collaboration some 18 months after the research,       12 interviewees consistently mention, `without prompting' and in `nearly       full agreement', the positive value of the research and its continued       influence on individuals' practices including questioning assumptions that       public art is beneficial, rethinking the intersection of ethics and public       art practice, exposing artistic practice to wider critiques of community       development.
They comment on the value of the particular dynamic of a       level playing field developed through the event structure of 4 seminars       across the 4 Scottish cities that gathered together ~400 participants,       including artists, academics, organisations with, importantly, funders.
This, it was felt, led to the generation and dissemination of knowledge in       ways that do not entirely belong to any one sector.
The 12 core       participants, who constituted most of the interviewees, represented       leading Scottish arts organisations, including the Collective, Public Art       Scotland, Glasgow International and Grampian Hospital Arts Trust.
They       comment on the value of the exceptionally high level international       contributors (Lacy, Kester, Sheikh, Trevor).
This research is viewed as       directly instrumental in `incorporating the ethos of high quality,       challenging art in the public realm and the institutional structures that       support it' [E1 p2 and E2].
Two Clore Fellows, Sofaer [E3] and Matarasso [E4] and       Fokert, a writer in media theory [E5], also cite the impact of the       research in terms of new influential ways of thinking about practice of       the arts, in relation to The Artist as Leader (2006-9).
Sofaer,       the first dedicated `Artist Fellow' within Clore, acknowledges this       research in 2012 as an important precursor to his own perceptions of       leadership, in particular the need to publically recognize where and how       artists are leading within the wider social, cultural spheres.
Sofaer uses       this need to underpin in depth interviews with high level practitioners:       Cornelia Parker, Field Theory, First Draft, Masato Nakamura, Richard       Layzell, Richard Hicks, Kate Love and David Wilson [E3].
He       publishes on the same platform as the early output of Artist as Leader       (2007): an with a 18k professional readership and 32 year archive       of artistic practice.
Matarasso (2010), an independent writer and Clore Fellow, was       commissioned by NESTA and Clore Leadership programme to explore the role       of the arts in our current age of economic and environmental uncertainty.
He notes that the Artist as Leader `s definition of leadership is       far removed from stereotypes of the romantic genius, emphasizing the       `collaborative and social' and the `relational'.
The research positions       the artist in relationship with others as a way of opening up problems to       better ways forward to adapting to cultural change.
This is viewed as a       counterpoint to quantifying the value of culture and the arts [E4 p       6-7].
Both Working in Public and Artist as Leader represent a       scaling up and development of methodologies of collaborative art practice       pioneered in OTE Phase 1 (2001-4), research involving a NE       Scotland regional network of 5 key arts and heritage organisations linked       to national bodies (Historic Scotland, National Museums of Scotland,       Sculpture Workshops) that commissioned 10+ artists in the development of       new experimental work yielded through collaboration, establishing artistic       methodologies with international reach [E6,E7].
Hope evaluates the recent research through the two recent Connected         Communities awards to OTE with Woodend Arts (2011-14, 2012-13) (2) [E8].
As a founder trustee of Woodend Arts and a leader in the Energy sector (E8,       p 2), Hope traces his connection with the research to 2000 as an       `introduction to research as a living practice' (E8, p1) and `as an       important part of his evolution as a manager and leader in industry and       the arts' (E8, p 3).
In particular in response to one of the two       research projects, a practice-led Collaborative Doctoral Award       (CDA)(2011-14), he emphasizes the impact of the collaboration to generate       new ways of thinking that are helpful to organizational change.
The       particular participatory approaches to art at work in the CDA, enable       familiar work-place problems to be framed more creatively to arrive at       better solutions through more inclusive processes.
"This project has       involved many staff, volunteers and members of the community who now feel       directly involved in the evolving conversation.
This will directly       influence the future strategy and development of Woodend Arts" (E8,       p4).
749 words
