     Impacts on public policy and services       Smith and Stainforth's research has stimulated and informed policy debate       on climate change       since 2007.
The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) Fourth       Assessment Report       cites Smith (Section 3, reference 2) as the sole article in noting the       significant impact of structural       model error on its "probability" distributions [A: pg.
797].
Their direct engagement in the policy development process is evidenced by       their involvement with       the pre-release criticism of UK Climate Projections 2007 (UKCP07).
In       response to a request from       Defra for more information, Smith and Stainforth expressed concerns       regarding the fidelity of       UKCP07 [B].
Their subsequent involvement in post-study pre-release       interactions with the Defra       Chief Scientist and Sir Brian Hoskins contributed to the formation of an       international review of       UKCP07.
There are two notable outcomes, firstly, the details of the review       of UKCP07 have never       been released, and secondly, UKCP07 became UKCP09.
Smith's research and       views were quoted       extensively in post-release criticism in both scientific and mainstream       press [C].
The UK government leads the world in the search for climate forecasts at       scales relevant for       adaptation decisions.
UK Climate Projections 2009 (UKCP09) initially       claimed to provide detailed       predictions ("post code" in space, daily in time) for this century.
UKCP09       probabilities, described as       best-available and dubbed "Bayesian", provided core information which       underlies the 2012 Climate       Change Risk Assessment (CCRA).
The Royal Commission on Environmental Pollution, led by Sir John Lawton,       invited both Smith and       Stainforth to give evidence for their report [D].
Smith and Stainforth       also contributed to the       Treasury's underpinning research on the economics of climate change,       altering the framing of the       Stern Review [E].
Impacts on the environment (policy debate on the environment have           been stimulated or         informed by research and research evidence)       Smith and Stainforth's improved interpretation of climate-model       simulations has contributed to       changes in how the UKCP09 is presented and government policy on climate       change, allowing for       better deployment of government funding.
For example, the Climate Change       Act 2008 committed       the government to significant reductions in greenhouse gas emissions.
Their work also affected the       2012 Climate Change Risk Assessment (CCRA) which represents a key part of       the Government's       response to the Climate Change Act 2008, itself the first of a series of       regular assessments       required by law.
Having been severe critics of UKCP09, Smith and Stainforth were, at       Defra's request, both       members of the initial framing meeting before beginning the CCRA, as well       as reviewers of the       draft report.
They objected to the violation of methodological       restrictions on the use of UKCP09       probabilities in the CCRA that had been agreed at the initial meeting,       illustrating the intense       pressure to over-interpret the output of climate models.
CATS's distinct attention to the shift in the rational interpretation of       climate predictions away from       an optimization approach to a risk based approach founded on broad       scientific insights and known       vulnerabilities can be seen in the disclaimers of several significant       publications (IPCC, UKCP09       program, the UKCP09 user guidance and other government reports), the focus       on the Dutch       alternative approaches to climate risk management, and the Treasury's       approach to the Stern       Review [E].
Consequently, national meteorological services wishing to avoid       UKCP09-like approaches within       their own borders have been more effective at pressing alternative       approaches.
For example,       Smith and Stainforth provided information to the Dutch meteorological       office and Dutch       government scientists [F] in support of their successful attempt to avoid       a similar process to       UKCP09.
More recently, members of CATS were invited by the Dutch       Government to a closed       door meeting on the presentation of uncertainty in the 2013 IPCC Report       [G].
Smith and Stainforth continue to engage with Defra, DECC, and a now       independent UKCIP to       improve how the level and coherence of UK climate information is evidenced       and acknowledged.
Economic impacts (where performance of an existing business has           been improved)       The procurement of climate change research by industry provides further       evidence of reach       beyond public sector.
CATS' research has been used to clarify the limits       on climate simulation for       decision making and to improve the performance of EDF, EON, and NG.
Smith       provided a review       of a UK Met Office commercial project purporting to provide high       resolution meteorological       information for "climate proofing" new long-lived energy infrastructure.
In addition to written advice,       Smith also represented industry in discussions with the Met Office to       clarify the assumptions       underlying the proposed study.
Smith's continued engagement with industry       partners, Munich Re       and Lloyd's in particular, have allowed them to better interpret climate       information [H, I].
International Reach       Smith's involvement in the Baker Committee [J] for the US Central       Intelligence Agency (CIA),       focused on the extent to which the risks of climate change can be       quantified.
As a key participant       in a series of meetings and reviews that led to the preparation of the       Harvard Report, Professor       Smith contributed his expertise, provided short turn-around calculations       on the impact of station       distribution, provided an in-depth review of the report and is named as       one of the major reviewers.
Dr James Baker states, "Professor Smith understands better than most       climate scientists what the       limitations of the science are and how to use statistical and physical       analysis to draw robust       conclusions for policy makers" [K].
Smith has represented the American Statistical Association at all three       annual American       Association for the Advancement of Science's "Climate Day on Capitol       Hill"; engaged with       individual Senators' and Congressmen's offices (eight/year), and was       invited to assist in       developing both the American Statistical Association position on climate       change and redrafting the       American Geophysical Union's position statement.
Wider Implications.
Quantifying the financial value of this       case study is nontrivial given the long       forward shadow that today's decisions on climate mitigation and adaptation       will cast.
Industrial       sectors with large-scale infrastructure decisions (energy and ports in       particular), and national       security agencies familiar with unquantified risk (the US Central       Intelligence Agency) have       reconsidered their view of the fidelity and robustness of model-based       projections, significantly       reducing the likelihood of maladaptation through overconfidence of       quantitative predictions.
Direct       costs/spend of particular studies reflect far too low a value (hundreds of       thousands to millions of       pounds).
While the value at risk in the longer term is truly immense,       attribution of any fraction of it       to our actions is arbitrary.
It is estimated that close to &#163;11m was spent       on UKCP09, which Smith       and Stainforth show to be fundamentally flawed, furthermore, the       ill-advised use of products from       UKCP09 could cost orders of magnitude more.
Climate change is perhaps the greatest risk that humans will face in this       century and the next, and       alongside intervention, Smith contributes to public discourse [L].
Smith       has publicly argued that       effective adaptation to climate change costs a fraction of GDP with long       term savings significantly       greater.
He and colleagues have established that the "probabilities" of       UKCP09 are not a reliable       foundation, either for adaptation planning or for risk assessment.
The       value at risk dwarfs the       &#163;10m spent on the studies themselves and the inopportune exposure of the       weakness in the       science base of UK adaptation plans risks a loss of public credibility in       science based policy.
UKCP09 and the CCRA are stronger than they would have been without the       LSE's impact.
Other       countries including the Netherlands and the USA are more clearly aware of       the mathematical       shortcomings.
The Netherlands have rejected the UK methodology and adopted       an entirely       different approach.
