     Weather has an impact on people, businesses and economies every single       day.
Even fairly common weather, with no extreme meteorological elements       whatsoever, can produce costly and stressful disruptions &#8212; to power and       water supplies, food production and distribution networks, travel systems,       communication networks (e.g.
GPS) and other infrastructure necessary to       the smooth functioning of families, communities and societies.
And changes       in forecasts themselves, not the weather at all, can have huge impacts on       prices and the provision of (cancellation of) services.
There is therefore       an imperative for tools which enhance the use of modern (probabilistic)       weather forecast in addition to the need for weather predictions that are       timely, accurate and enable users with varying needs and levels of       understanding to plan for and manage their responses to weather conditions       and events.
There are three ways in which Professor Smith and his       colleagues at CATS have responded to this need: 1) advancing the state of       the art in probabilistic forecasting in the weather industry; 2) advancing       the state of practice in weather forecasting; and 3) advancing       understanding and application amongst various types of users in business       and industry.
Advancing the state of the art in the weather industry     Professor Smith and CATS have significant and often longstanding       relationships focused on transferring knowledge and advancing the state of       the art with a number of key institutions involved in weather forecasting.
The relationship with the European Centre for Medium Range Weather       Forecasts (ECMWF), "considered the worldwide leader in global,       medium-range, monthly and seasonal predictions", dates back to the 1994       Royal Society of Meteorologists meeting on predictability [A].
Longstanding partners also include: the UK Met Office [B]; the US Naval       Research Laboratory (NRL), where one of Professor Smith's former students       now leads a group forecasting hurricanes in the Pacific; and the US       National Centre for Atmospheric Research (NCAR), where Dr. Du is sharing       methods and providing a test bed for data assimilations.
More recent       partnerships include: the International Research Institute for Climate and       Society (IRI) [C], which focuses on climate service development, primarily       within developing countries; the Risk Prediction Initiative (RPI) of the       Bermuda Institute of Ocean Sciences (BIOS) [D]; and the Industrial       Mathematics Knowledge Transfer Network of the Smith Institute.
These       relationships focus on two critical areas of weather forecasting:       predictability and verification.
According to the head of ECMWF's Predictability Division, Roberto Buizza,       "During the past 15 years, Prof. Lenny Smith has contributed to a range of       key subjects in the area of predictability, which had an impact on the       design of the operational systems of ECMWF, and in the use of       ensemble-based, probabilistic forecasts...The work we did on the       estimation of the impact of non-linearity ...provided estimates on the       time when non-linearity impacted on forecast accuracy, thus helping us       refining our techniques and methodologies.
Prof. Smith and his group's       contribution in this area continued throughout the years, and the systems       operational today are still benefitting from his research done years       ago...and supported their gradual extension of the forecast range to the       monthly, seasonal and decadal time scale" [A].
IRI's Chief Climate       Scientist, Dr. Simon Mason, likewise has been using Professor Smith's work       on second-order uncertainty and intractability in "communicating forecast       uncertainty honestly at all times scales" and relying on Smith's advice in       contributing to the World Climate Research Programme Working Group on       Regional Climate, "where issues of estimating forecast uncertainty are       paramount" [C].
ECMWF, IRI and BIOS have all been influenced by the work of Professor       Smith and CATS on verification, i.e.
metrics to evaluate the accuracy of       weather forecasts.
For ECMWF, "his work on the assessment of probabilistic       forecasts using information theory provided a new and extremely valuable       measure of the quality of a probabilistic forecasting scheme.
Based on the       amount of a data compression it allows, called ignorance (Roulston &amp;       Smith 2002), this measure has been used routinely to assess the quality of       ECMWF operational products" [A].
IRI's Dr. Mason was also influenced by       the underpinning research [e.g.
6] and by extensive discussions with       Professor Smith on the properties of verification scores, which is       reflected in guidance and training that Dr. Mason has produced and       delivered for the World Meteorology Organisation (WMO) [C] (see next       section).
Professor Smith has worked with BIOS on evaluating the skill of       seasonal forecasts of sea surface temperatures in the tropical Atlantic       and the equatorial Pacific Ocean where such temperatures play a role in       the formation of hurricanes.
This knowledge has been transferred through       papers and through two workshops with members of BIOS' Risk Prediction       Initiative [D].
Advancing practice in probabilistic weather forecasting     The advance of practice is where the reach of the impact has perhaps been       greatest, through tools, guidance, training, software and products based       on the underpinning research that have influenced weather forecasters       around the world.
What has proved to be highly influential is a conceptual       framework called Weather Roulette [6] that allows weather predictors to       more easily communicate the skill and value of forecasts to customers and       users by translating the probabilities into effective daily interest       rates, which is particularly useful in situations where small       probabilities can lead to large costs or benefits.
Weather Roulette has       been incorporated into ECMWF's Ensemble Verification Training Course since       at least 2010 [E].
It is also an essential component of a verification       training course run by the WMO's Commission on Climatology over the past       five years to train trainers from regional climate centres, who then       assist in training seasonal forecasters in their regions.
To date       trainings have been held in China (2x), Trinidad, South Africa, Colombia,       Argentina, Kenya (2x) and the US, involving over 150 trainers [C].
Weather Roulette has also been incorporated into the Climate       Predictability Tool, a software package being used by all meteorological       services in South America and extensively in Central America, the       Caribbean, Africa, South and East Asia, and elsewhere for the production       of seasonal forecasts [C].
Equally significant, effective interest rates       (i.e.
weather roulette) [6] and ignorance scores [1] have been included as       two of the seven recommended verification scores and procedures in the Guidance         on Verification of Seasonal Climate Forecasts being officially       disseminated to the 191 member countries and territories of the WMO to       guide seasonal forecasting by their National Climate Centres and regional       and local forecasters [C,F].
This guidance document is also expected to       influence the approaches utilised by both governmental and commercial       seasonal forecasters around the globe.
In addition, the UK Met Office has used the concepts of kernel dressing       and blending climatology from the underpinning research to redesign its       3-month Outlook product, which is constantly available on behalf of the       Cabinet Office to assist contingency planners across the public and       private sectors to prepare for extreme weather events and potential       emergencies [B,G].
Advancing the application of probabilistic weather forecasting         (industry)     Professor Smith and CATS have a long history of partnership with industry       in embedding the research findings in contexts where real-time forecasting       is helpful in managing uncertainty and risk.
Particular attention has been       given to the challenges of constructing actionable information from raw       ensemble weather forecasts and framing this information in a format useful       for specific users.
The wide range of applications has included: road       gritting, food sales, horse race-track conditions, crop forecasting,       insurance brokerage, energy trading, wind power production, hydrocarbon       exploration and production (oil reservoirs and flows), and electricity       generation.
About one-third of Professor Smith's students and postdocs now       continue this applied work in organisations such as the Bank of England,       Royal Dutch Shell, the Met Office and Risk Management Solutions.
Current       CATS partnerships are under way with the UK Department of Energy and       Climate Change (DECC) and the Royal National Lifeboat Institute.
The application impact has been most obvious in the energy sector.
Altalo       and Smith (2002) "promoted the use of probabilistic weather forecasts in       business, thus increasing the return on investments in weather forecasting       and reducing energy production costs.
The benefit of this work is still       felt today, which sees the energy sector (producers and energy traders) as       one of the main users of weather forecasts" [A].
More specifically, work       was done with EDF Energy to develop and implement improved methods for       electricity demand forecasting, which helped to reduce risk, avoid u-turn       trades, manage supply and improve performance.
Metra, the global       commercial arm of the New Zealand meteorological service, also partnered       with CATS on the design and marketing of a product called Vantage to help       energy managers and traders in managing weather-related opportunity and       risk and in making operational decisions [H], which has led to a new       generation of Metra products and services in use worldwide [I].
