     Research into properties of paint undertaken by Burnstock prior to MATB       informed the mode of       study within MATB.
MATB gathered evidence about paintings' condition and       structure in order to       gain knowledge about various factors.
As CI, Burnstock was a crucial       participant, focusing on       technical aspects, seeing the implications of data generated in the       project and leading on       interpretation in relation to historical questions.
The Courtauld project       student contributed re       technical aspects and archives.
The Courtauld contribution took its place       alongside the primarily       historical and art-historical contribution from the University of Sussex       via Howard (plus project       student), and the technical and curatorial expertise at the NPG in PI       Cooper, supported by contract       researchers and NPG conservation team.
Researchers in these three sites       were in dialogue with       curators and conservators in other collections in UK, continental Europe       and USA.
MATB was designed to generate fresh insights into a category of work       available for the public to       view and learn from, notably at the NPG but also in eg Knole House, Bolton       Museum, Knebworth       House, Penshurst Place, Scottish National Portrait Gallery and overseas       collections eg Cultural       Heritage of the Netherlands (RCE), Palazo Pitti, Florence, Prado, Madrid       and Yale Center for       British Art, New Haven.
In 2011/12 the NPG Tudor Galleries had 901,194 visitors and in 2012/13       903,904.
The NPG       Learning Department (employing freelance teaching staff briefed on the       MATP project findings)       taught eight sessions per week on portraiture (centrally Tudor, since       important to National       Curriculum).
MATB led to a series of special displays(and a trail) at the       NPG Tudor Galleries, to       showcase the new research and bring it to the attention of the NPG's       visitors:            `Painting the Boy King: New research on portraits of Edward VI',         May-Dec 2008       `Concealed and Revealed: The changing faces of Elizabeth I', March-Sep         2010       2010-11 `New Discoveries' Tudor Galleries trail       `Picturing History: A portrait set of early kings and queens', July         -Dec 2011       `Double Take: Versions and copies of Tudor portraits', June-Sep 2012          MATB pages on the NPG website, www.npg.org.uk/research/programmes/making-art-in-tudor-britain.php:            14 online case studies       Abstracts from four academic workshops held in 2007 and 2008       Extended abstracts and videos from the 3 day international conference,         Tudor and           Jacobean Painting: Production, Influences and Patronage, December         2010       Project database highlights over 50 paintings with reports and images         from the         technical analysis.
MATB page visits: 2011/12 -- 50,404; 2012/13 -- 74,044;       2013-part-year --32,521.
The project pages are designed to serve the general public at all levels       from school students doing       homework or general interest browsing to museum professionals wishing to       access the data and       conclusions generated by the project.
Project outputs reach a wide variety of audiences.
Conference       contributions or public lectures       have been made in London (The Courtauld/ NPG 2010, 120 people registered,       Tate, British       Museum, Institute of Historical Research, all 2012), Montacute House,       Somerset (2011),       Edinburgh (2012) and Copenhagen (2012).
Impact has been felt by the       diverse audiences       attending these events.
Project articles appeared in technically-oriented       journals (The Picture         Restorer, Spring 2010) and art-historical publications (The         British Art Journal, January, 2009,       Burlington Magazine, July 2012).
For the professional conservation       constituency (museum and       heritage sector, and beyond) MATB's scholarly outputs are of special       interest.
Art historical       publications such as the Burlington Magazine read by collectors,       art world professionals, non-       further-education-based art lovers and museum goers.
Public lectures on       Tudor or Renaissance       art at London national museums attract socially diverse general-interest       audiences.
The widest public has been reached through the media coverage of the       project findings.
On       `Hidden: Unseen paintings beneath Tudor portraits', early Jan/Feb 2013             Evening Standard (double page); Guardian (front page);         The Daily Telegraph; 2013 West           End Extra        online reports: Daily Mail, gramilano, Stock Index           Online           On Catherine of Aragon portrait discovery, late Jan 2013             Guardian; Daily Telegraph; Shropshire Star; The Sun;           Western Daily Press        Online reports: Daily Mail, Culture24           MATB project listed as part of Guardian online roundup `Research       in brief' 10 January 2012     Impact also occurs through the utilisation of project findings by       conservators in museum contexts.
The Hamilton Kerr Institute, Cambridge uses MATB in study of painted rood       screens C15th /16th       (forthcoming publication) http://www.npg.org.uk/research/programmes/making-art-in-tudor-britain/tudor-and-jacobean-painting-production-influences-and-patronage-december-2010/extended-abstracts-and-videos/east-anglian-rood-screens-in-the-tudor-period.php       `The Impact of Oil' (based at University of Amsterdam) uses MATB       analytical methods re C16th       paintings in major Dutch collections.
An exhibition informed by MATB was       mounted at Museum       Princenhof, Delft, 2012, see http://atelierzisiadou.files.wordpress.com/2011/10/m-van-mierevelt.jpg     Broader technical implications were conveyed to a television audience       (4million viewers UK,       subsequently franchised for worldwide viewing) through Burnstock's       participation in Fake or         Fortune (BBC1) June 2011 re Haan van Megeren forgery.
Analytical       methods that had been       tested in MATB were demonstrated in relation to this example.
