     The study contributed to an evidence-base concerning the persistence of       gender inequality in respect of educational, training and employment       opportunities available to young people.
The EOC drew together findings       and recommendations from a series of research studies in a key publication       `Free to Choose: tackling gender barriers to better jobs'; through       on-line resources (www.works4me.org.uk         website); and via a high profile and sustained media campaign.
All       of which directly contributed to the direction and development of policies       by Government and other key stakeholders.
The research informed the DfES (2005) Youth Matters Green Paper;       which in turn has resulted in various strategic and practical       developments.
The Green Paper focused on improving information, advice and       guidance to young people, and demonstrated a policy commitment to       delivering comprehensive, impartial advice that challenges rather than       perpetuates stereotypes.
Quality standards for careers advice were       developed to challenge gender stereotyping.
Proposals for giving young       people work experience placements to help them understand the world of       work `and which can challenge gender stereotypes' were included in the       policy document.
A recent publication from the EHRC (Hutchinson et al,       2011) makes direct reference to the research and its stated       recommendations.
The Department for Local Communities: Government Action Plan 2006 was       enacted in April 2007, with a new duty to promote gender equality placed       on the public sector including all education institutions and       organisations.
The cross-Government strategy and action plan draws upon       the evidence base provided by the EOC research to provide a framework and       delivery arrangements for challenging gender stereotyping/segregation       through better provision of education/training services and better public       sector employment opportunities to young people.
A further example of the impact of the research is available from       SummitSkills (the national Sector Skills Council for the building services       and engineering sector) which incorporated recommendations from the EOC       research into its Diversity Action Plan and its 5 year strategic plan.
It       carried out consultation with regional training groups of employers and       reported in March 2006 on action to be taken to widen recruitment over the       coming years.
Employers now offer taster days and non-traditional work       experience placements to girls.
In 2011 the Equality &amp; Human Rights       Commission (EHRC) made teaching materials available on its website: e.g.
`There's         no Such Thing as a Boys'/Girl's Job' which is informed by the EOC       research and its recommendations to challenge gender stereotypes in       careers education at school level.
Further to policy/strategic impacts, the research has contributed to       demonstrable changes in practice.
At a local level, for example in 2006       JIVE Yorkshire &amp; Humber piloted a Science Engineering Construction       Technology (SECT) /Built Environment work experience programme called       `Wider Horizons' for girls in Years 10 and 11.
The programme was run in       conjunction with the local Business Education Partnerships and employers       in the area.
In West Yorkshire, girls were encouraged by taster activities       in SECT in Year 9 to find out more about careers in the sector.
In South       Yorkshire, the programme was offered to girls who selected gender       stereotypical placements in business administration to encourage widening       future career choices.
Related activities were developed to encourage       placements with architects, in electronics companies, housing       associations, public and private sector placements.
During block placement       the girls met and shadowed female role models and investigated gender       issues such as pay differentials across sectors.
Finally, the impact of the research is evidenced in the Women &amp; Work       Commission's recommendations in respect of The 2012 London Olympics.
The       WWC recommended that the Skills Alliance Delivery Group, which had an       overview of skills activity including that related to the London 2012       Olympic Games, should act upon the recommendations of the EOC research to       ensure that reducing the gender segregation of jobs was part of plans for       tackling skills shortages in the relevant sectors, such as construction.
Government departments and specifically the DTI, the DfES and the       Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) who led on specific aspects of       Olympic delivery, including development of procurement principles, built       strategies and programmes to address under-representation of women into       their Olympic work plans.
Within The London 2012 Olympic Games bid detailed plans for site       construction pledged the availability of non-traditional work placements,       which was precisely what the EOC funded research recommended.
The Olympic       Development Authority, the body responsible for overseeing the       construction of the Olympic site launched an Equality Delivery Scheme       (2007-2010) and an Integrated Equality Scheme (2009-2012).
Within       these schemes the ODA stated a legal duty to ensure gender equality       through the construction of the Olympic Site; a series of measurable       equality targets were integrated into ODA business processes and       systematic monitoring and evaluation occurred.
The London Development       Agency in its Olympic Legacy (2011) stated that greater gender       equality through the construction of the Olympic Site had been achieved,       in respect of the recommendations made through the research: work       experience placements were made available including non-traditional       placements for women under `The Women's Project'.
The LDA stated that "the       approach taken to equality and diversity will be taken through to future       projects".
The impact of IPSE's study has been felt at various levels of policy,       strategic planning and practice over a prolonged period and it is       important to note the continued and current impact.
The means by which the       London Development Agency (during this assessment period) took up and       responded to the evidence base, to which this study contributed a       significant part, has had a demonstrable impact on the equality work       placement practices taken during the planning and construction of the       Olympic Site.
Furthermore, the lasting impact, or `legacy' of the       recommendations of the research study has been pledged by the LDA for       future projects.
