     Pantomime has a long history in Scottish communities, with nearly a third       of all people in Scotland       in 2008-9 either attending a pantomime or taking part in an amateur or       professional production.
Pantomime is notable for its family and community spirit, with local       in-jokes and scripts, inclusive       spirit, and enduring popularity throughout the rise of digital and global       entertainments.
Scullion and       Maloney's research project Pantomime in Scotland formed the basis       of a nationally touring       exhibition which ran over the winters of 2008-9 and 2009-10.
Curated by       Scullion, the exhibition       was accompanied by a series of community events for schoolchildren,       families, elderly people and       the general public.
This reflected the project's central aim of promoting       a wider public appreciation       of pantomime's contribution to Scottish culture.
In addition to the       interactive multimedia touring       exhibition, materials collected over the course of the research, including       the newly discovered       archive of pantomime musical scores from the 1920s-40s, were produced on       DVD with a       companion booklet.
The cultural archive was extended and developed with       the recollections of       members of the public gathered from those attending the exhibition or       related events.
The       exhibition and related work attracted Scotland-wide media interest and       tapped into the community       spirit at the heart of pantomime, creating and interpreting cultural       capital and enriching the lives of       individuals and groups.
National touring exhibition     The Pantomime in Scotland exhibition covered pantomime's Victorian       origins up to the present       day, with memorabilia, audio recordings from the research survey of folk       memories of particular       shows, and archive film footage from the National Library of Scotland and       Scottish Screen of       shows from the 1930s-50s.
The exhibition toured major theatres across       Scotland in pantomime       seasons 2008-9 and 2009-10, and was attended by over 63,000 members of the       public at venues       in the east and north of Scotland in 2008-9 (the King's Theatre Edinburgh,       Perth Theatre, Byre       Theatre St Andrews, His Majesty's Theatre Aberdeen and Eden Court Theatre       Inverness) and at       venues in the west of Scotland in 2009-10 (Motherwell Theatre, King's       Theatre Glasgow and the       MacRobert Centre Stirling).
It generated significant national media       coverage, reaching an       estimated print circulation of 467,330 and well over 1 million       listeners/viewers on radio and       television.
The exhibition was flagged as a cultural `Highlight of the       week' by The Herald (17       November 2009) and it also featured in The Scotsman (3 December       2008), The Press and Journal       (15 January 2009), The Sunday Post, The Perthshire Advertiser       (3 December 2009) and in The         Big Issue and Scottish Memories magazine, in addition to       radio shows on BBC Radio Scotland &#8212; the       news programme Good Morning Scotland and magazine programme MacAulay         and Co &#8212; and       BBC Radio Five Live and Real Radio.
It featured on the BBC Scotland's news       bulletins, including       its main programme Reporting Scotland (26 November 2008) and on       STV News (4 December       2009 and on 24 June 2010) and on the STV magazine programme The Hour       (11 December 2010).
The exhibition &#8212; at       King's Theatre,       Glasgow, right &#8212; provided an       opportunity for the       public to learn about       the history and roots       of contemporary       pantomime, thereby       adding value to their       experience and understanding.
Outreach events for schools and community groups     A programme of free education and outreach events accompanied the       exhibition tour, including:       talks for the general public &#8212; eg, `Parliamo Panto', a roundtable       discussion with pantomime       performers at the King's Theatre, Glasgow; drama and art workshops for       schools and for families &#8212; eg,       `Pantomime puppets' at the MacRobert Arts Centre in Stirling and the Eden       Court Theatre in       Inverness; and, film screenings at the National Library of Scotland and       the Byre Theatre in St       Andrews for the general public and community groups.
Reminiscence events &#8212;       eg, at the King's       Theatre Edinburgh and His Majesty's Theatre, Aberdeen &#8212; encouraged       visitors to share their       memories and experiences of participating in or attending pantomime,       enabling the creation of the       memories archive.
These events attracted total audiences of around 800.
Pantomime puppets workshops Eden Court Theatre Inverness          Creating an archive of Scottish pantomime on film     In 2009, the research team (in collaboration with Scottish Opera and       Glasgow Life) produced a       DVD and booklet of archived silent films from the 1930s, 1940s and 1950s       with a soundtrack       featuring the newly discovered contemporary pantomime music.
Pantomime           in Scotland: a           celebration of Scottish pantomime on film was produced by       UoG/National Library of Scotland-Scottish       Screen Archive, and was narrated by pantomime star Stanley Baxter.
The DVD       also       includes a rare sound film featuring Scottish variety performer Tommy       Lorne and an equally rare       film advertisement for a winter variety show in Glasgow, promoted as a       seasonal alternative to       pantomime.
The DVD has sold 500 copies since its release in 2009.
Further events and talks focused on the archive film and were delivered       at: the Glasgow Film       Theatre (GFT) &#8212; two events including one as part of its `Silver Screen'       programme targeting older       audiences, the MacRobert Arts Centre in Stirling, Perth Concert Hall, His       Majesty's Theatre       Aberdeen and Motherwell Civic Theatre attracted audiences of 450 people.
These events were all       devised by the UoG researchers and delivered in partnership with the       venues as part of their winter       schedules.
These public events were generally introduced by Scullion, with       presentations by       Maloney and the then Education Officer for the Scottish Screen Archive) on       the history of Scottish       pantomime and technical aspects of the films.
At the GFT an events       musician Karen MacIver       played live improvised piano scores.
In 2010 Glasgow Life, Glasgow UNESCO City of Music and the National       Library of Scotland       responded positively to approaches from the UoG researchers to present two       concert screenings       of music created for the DVD with the Orchestra of Scottish Opera.
Hosted       by pantomime star       Elaine C Smith, 700 people attended the events, the audience demographic       significantly older than       the families and schools targeted by the exhibition's main impact       activities, thus extending the       public benefit of the project.
Pantomime on film Woodside Hall Glasgow
