     Projects led by Hallsworth and Young (2008), Hales, Lewis and Silverstone       (2006) and Hallsworth and Silverstone (2009) have prompted       practitioners and policy makers to reconsider their definition of the gang       and to revaluate how they access firearms.
Hallsworth and Young's       definition of gangs was accepted and utilised by the Association of Chief       Police Officers (ACPO) and has influenced the definition adopted by the       Centre for Social Justice.
It is also being used by the government task       force on gangs (convened in the wake of the urban disorder of 2011) to map       gang activity across the UK, and to allocate funds in relation to the       scale of the problem identified.
Their framework for defining and       distinguishing between gangs and other street based groups (e.g.
peer and       organised crime groups) continues to be the framework most widely used by       practitioners across the UK, according to a recent report by the Chief       Inspector of Prisons.
The impact of Hallsworth and Young's       typology is wider reaching and users include; OFSTED, Home Office, the       Welsh Parliament, Five borough Anti-Gang Alliance in London, Association       of London Government, Birmingham Safer Partnership and the Metropolitan       Police.
Hales, Lewis and Silverstone's research on gun crime has       also been influential within the NPIA (2006), The Centre for Crime and       Justice Studies (2008), Policy Exchange (2008) and the Australian       Institute of Criminology (2012).
"One of the key recommendations from their report was the creation of         a Parent Engagement Panel where parents work in the community to support         other parents.
Part of the training that they have been given is on gang         awareness which assists parents in recognising signs and symptoms and         how to access help regarding gangs in Enfield."
(Scrutiny       Improvement Officer, London Borough of Enfield &#8212; referring to Hallsworth       and Young's study in Enfield)     The work has also influenced policy and practice at a local level (see       above and testimonial 4).
Hallsworth and Young became academic       advisers to Enfield council on their Public enquiry into life       opportunities for young people.
This project was initiated in the wake of       gang violence that claimed the lives of six young men in the borough.
This       project won the Centre for Public Scrutiny national award for community       engagement in 2009.
More recently, Hallsworth and Young were       invited in 2011 to sit as advisors on the Board of Catch 22's gang       intervention program and Young has been invited to present her work at       Scottish Serious Violence Prevention Conference.
This In 2013 Young       was invited by colleagues at Cambridge University to sit on the steering       group committee for an ESRC funded project.
Young also sits on the       Advisory board of the Nia Project; a small charitable organisation that       works with gang-involved young women.
Silverstone's work on Vietnamese organised crime involved a series       of presentations to National police conferences including the ACPO drug       conference (2008) and has informed how cannabis `factories' are       effectively policed.
This work has been used and commented favourably on       by NPIA, ACPO, and the Financial Services Authority (FSA) and his work on       Chinese organised crime has provided a basis for intercultural dialogue       between Chinese and British academics sponsored by the Foreign Office.
It       has also improved the Serious Organised Crime Agency's understanding of       the organisation of Chinese organised crime and people smuggling.
Lambert's research has had a significant, positive impact in       Muslim communities in the UK and in London in particular (see testimonials       from the Muslim Safety Forum (MSF), the Muslim Association of Britain       (MAB) and Islamophobia Watch (IW).
This positive impact is       threefold: in respect of anti-Muslim hate crime; on the terrorist threat       post 9/11 and 7/7; and on a partnership model of counter-terrorism       policing.
The editor of Islamophobia Watch notes that his influential and       respected website "features many references to [Lambert's] work, which has       proved of great assistance to us in raising public awareness of       Islamophobia".
He goes on to observe that "the recent spike in anti-Muslim       hate crimes following the murder of Lee Rigby in Woolwich highlights       [Lambert's] research findings concerning the extent to which widespread       Islamophobia creates a false impression of Islam and Muslims in general       being to blame for terrorist and violent extremist incidents and gives       rise to this kind of backlash".
Moreover, Pitt points out that "the       post-Woolwich backlash has also vindicated the emphasis [Lambert's]       research has placed on the threat posed by the far right, an aspect of       violent extremism that has unfortunately been underestimated both by state       agencies and by the media".
The President of the Muslim Association of Britain says that [Lambert's]       research "has helped to inform the debate about violent extremism; inform       the debate about the war on terror and inform the debate about       Islamophobia and anti-Muslim hate crimes" which "offers a model for a       multi-agency partnership approach to tackling violent extremism; a model       for tackling Islamophobia and anti-Muslim hate crime; and a model for more       effective and legitimate counter-terrorism policing".
This positive       community impact is also endorsed by a trustee of the Muslim Safety Forum       (MSF), who explains how Lambert's research has enabled the MSF to       put forward a strong case to ACPO for greater resources be devoted to the       monitoring of anti-Muslim hate crimes.
Ridley's work on terrorist financing has been reproduced in       several trade journals (Janes Intelligence Review 2009; Australian       Financial Markets Association 2008/2009) and he is a frequent speaker at       the NATO Centre of Excellence: Defence Against Terrorism since 2008.
His       expertise has also been sought by other practitioners and has delivered       seminars and training to the Rwandan National Police (2011/2012), Abu       Dhabi Police Service (2010; 2013) and NATO (2012).
The current (fourth)       Airey Neave Trust project led by Ridley, has generated interest in       that permanent staff of the European Parliament in Brussels and also the       UK's All Parliamentary Committee investigating Cybercrime, have       requested to be fully informed of the results to assist their       investigations.
