     THE NATURE OF THE IMPACT IN PAKISTAN: The impact was a major income tax       reform that was passed by Pakistan's parliament in June 2012 and took       effect from the fiscal year starting in July 2012.
The reform followed the       key policy implications of the 2013 paper by Kleven and Waseem.
A first       draft of this paper had had been available since 2011, and its policy       implications had been described in an International Growth Centre (IGC)       Policy Brief (2012) circulated immediately prior to the debate about tax       reform in Pakistan.
There were two central elements of the tax reform.
First, the notched tax       schedule (featuring discrete jumps in tax liability) was abolished in       favour of a kinked tax schedule (featuring discrete jumps in marginal tax       rates): the research had shown that the notched schedule was hugely       distortionary, while an alternative kinked schedule would be efficient.
Second, there was a significant reduction in the degree to which       self-employed individuals and wage earners would be taxed differently: the       research had shown that the differential tax treatment was responsible for       inefficient income shifting between the two groups.
Following the successful impact of the work on personal income taxation,       a more formal framework has been developed between LSE/IGC researchers       (led by Henrik Kleven) and Pakistan's Federal Board of Revenue (FBR),       which is intended to provide research-based foundations for transforming       the country's tax system.
This framework supports research projects of       direct interest to Pakistani policy-makers (who provide unprecedented       access to administrative data and institutional know-how), and includes       conference calls between LSE researchers and the FBR leadership (including       the Chairman) to discuss tax design and reforms that can increase revenue,       efficiency and growth in Pakistan.
The agreement between LSE researchers and the FBR that underlies this       framework is described by Best (2013) (Source A).
Such close collaboration       between independent researchers and policy-makers is probably unique.
It       has huge potential for Pakistan and possibly for other developing       countries.
LINKS BETWEEN RESEARCH AND IMPACT IN PAKISTAN: The link between research       and policy impact was unique and direct.
First, this was the only existing       study of the distortionary effects of the Pakistan's tax system, so there       was no other source of research-based information to which policy-makers       could turn when considering reform.
Second, the FBR policy-makers who were given the task of proposing a new       income tax structure were well aware of the study.
They had provided the       unique dataset on which the study is based, and one of the authors &#8212;       Mazhar Waseem, a senior official at FBR on leave to pursue his PhD at LSE       &#8212; had travelled to Pakistan on several occasions to discuss the research       findings with his colleagues, including the Tax Policy Secretary.
Furthermore, at a pivotal meeting of the Economic Advisory Council to the       Prime Minister of Pakistan, where it was decided that the FBR should look       into a reform of the income tax structure, Kleven and Waseem's paper was       explicitly discussed and formed part of the decision to pursue reform.
Testimony by Ijaz Nabi (2013), a member of the Economic Advisory Council,       describes these events in detail (B).
Third, the reform that was passed and implemented by the parliament       follows Kleven and Waseem's policy recommendations very closely.
This       process is described in the IGC Policy Brief (2012), the IGC Annual Report       (2011-12) and the IGC Newsletter (2012), which provide greater detail on       the policy recommendations, how those recommendations affected tax reform       deliberations within the FBR, and the ultimate policy impact (C-E)).
THE NATURE OF THE IMPACT IN DENMARK: As in Pakistan, the Danish impacts       consist of changes to tax policy.
The two studies led to two different       policy changes, both introduced as part of a major income tax reform in       Denmark passed in parliament in 2009 and implemented in 2010.
The first       change was the abolition of a particular income tax (the so-called `middle       tax') that was based on family income rather than individual income.
This       implied that the income tax system became fully individual-based, while       means-tested transfers remained fully family-based, creating a       redistributive system featuring negative jointness.
This reform       corresponds exactly to the policy conclusion in the 2009 paper by Kleven       et al.
The second change was an improvement of tax enforcement by expanding       third-party information reporting.
This included the introduction of       third-party reporting on capital gains by requiring financial institutions       to report the sales prices of financial assets to tax authorities.
It also       included an expansion of third-party reporting on perquisites.
These       changes were precisely in line with the recommendations in the 2011 paper       by Kleven et al., which was based on an experiment conducted with the       Danish tax authorities in 2007 and 2008.
A first draft of this paper had       been available since late 2008, prior to political decisions about tax       reform.
LINKS BETWEEN RESEARCH AND IMPACT IN DENMARK: The links between research       and policy reform are again very direct.
The design of the 2010 tax reform       was based on the recommendations of a government-appointed Tax Commission       (Skattekommissionen), which consisted of 10 local tax experts and included       one of the researchers (Claus Kreiner) on the Danish projects.
Both policy       changes originate directly from the official reform proposals of the Tax       Commission (Skattekommissionen, 2009) (F).
In particular, the Skattekommissionen recommended the change in the tax       treatment of married couples that was ultimately passed in parliament,       citing the findings of Kleven et al.
(2009) as the key economic       justification.
This was the only academic paper cited in the context of       the policy change and one of the only academic studies cited in the entire       report.
The Skattekommissionen also recommended the expansions of third-party       reporting that were ultimately implemented.
These recommendations followed       the policy conclusions of Kleven et al.
(2011, first draft 2008) extremely       closely.
Since this is the only existing study that provides direct       evidence on the desirability of third-party reporting for tax compliance,       it represented the only research-based source of knowledge that could       inform those policy changes.
WHY DOES THE IMPACT MATTER?
All of the policy impacts of this research       encourage desirable economic behaviour (including increased hours worked,       increased labour force participation and improved tax compliance), all of       which are beneficial for both government revenue and economic efficiency.
The impact is perhaps most impressive in the case of Pakistan, a country       rife with inefficiencies and with severe difficulties in collecting tax       revenue for the provision of public goods &#8212; such as education, health and       infrastructure &#8212; that are vital to economic growth.
The income tax reform       that has been implemented and future policy changes that may be       implemented as a result of the unique collaboration between LSE       researchers and Pakistani policy-makers have the potential to make a       significant positive impact on economic growth in the country.
