     The impact of CEP's Wellbeing Programme has been not only on UK public       policy (items A-E below), but also international (items F-H) and cultural       (item I).
A. Wellbeing as a goal of UK public policy (including       measurement): Since the beginning of CEP's Wellbeing Programme in 2003,       there have been regular interactions with the Treasury and Cabinet Office       on how wellbeing can become a central goal of public policy.
Through the       efforts of Gus O'Donnell (Cabinet Secretary between 2005 and 2011 and a       member of the CEP Policy Committee) and both Labour and Coalition       governments, the UK has led the world on this issue.
In 2008, the ONS sought CEP's help on what questions could be asked in a       regular national survey of wellbeing and in 2011, adopted the proposals       (6).
Layard and his colleague Paul Dolan sit on the relevant ONS       committees: the Measuring National Well-being Advisory Forum and the       Measuring National Well-being Technical Advisory Group.
B.
The Improving Access to Psychological Therapies (IAPT)       programme: The greatest specific result of CEP's work has been the IAPT       programme announced by Alan Johnson in October 2007.
In 2005, CEP       researchers gave a seminar on this issue in the Cabinet Office and secured       a pledge in Labour's election manifesto.
In 2006, the CEP Mental Health       Policy Group was formed to work out how this pledge should be implemented.
The group's Depression Report (which has been downloaded 315,000 times       since 2006) proposed a specific six-year programme and this has been       implemented in the way proposed and is increasingly becoming part of the       mainstream NHS.
The programme is now treating 400,000 people a year, with       45% recovery rates.
It has been acclaimed by Nature as `world-beating'.
Layard is an official adviser to the programme and has been a central       figure in securing and implementing the programme.
The original IAPT       programme applied only to adults.
In 2008, Layard proposed a somewhat       similar programme for children (Child Mental Health: key to a healthier       society).
In 2010, this proposal was broadly accepted and is being       implemented through extension of the programme to children and young       people.
C. The UK Resiliency Programme: In 2006, CEP joined the Young       Foundation and IdeA to develop a Wellbeing Programme with three local       authorities: Hertfordshire, Manchester and South Tyneside.
The biggest       element in this was the UK version of the Penn Resiliency Programme.
The       researchers organised trials in 22 schools and, with a large Department       for Education grant, evaluated the outcome.
The programme is now being       taught routinely in 60 schools in 10 local authorities.
The researchers       have a large grant from the Education Endowment Foundation to conduct a       trial programme for the whole Personal, Social and Health Education       curriculum for the 11-15 age group.
D. The Apprenticeship Act 2009: Since the early 1990s, CEP       researchers have been pressing the government to offer apprenticeships as       the main alternative to university as a route to skill.
Since 2000, they       have advocated the guarantee of an apprenticeship to every young person       who wants one (with a few specific exemptions).
In 2007, at Layard's       suggestion, the House of Lords Economic Affairs Committee produced a       report on apprenticeship that endorsed this suggestion.
The report was       drafted by the Committee's adviser, Hilary Steedman, and led to a       government green paper and then the Apprenticeship Act of 2009, which       introduced the guarantee from 2015.
Since 2008, apprenticeships for       under-25s have increased by 50%.
E. The Good Childhood Report (2009): Layard drafted the report       from this enquiry, which was commissioned by the Children's Society.
Recommendations that have been implemented include the introduction of       Improved Access to Psychological Therapies for children and young people       (2010), pilots of parenting classes in Camden, Middlesbrough and High       Peak, Derbyshire (http://www.canparent.org.uk, 2012)       and expanded apprenticeships (2009).
F. OECD wellbeing measures: CEP has a longstanding interaction       with the OECD, which has now held three large conferences on `What is       Progress?
', each of which has featured presentations by CEP researchers.
The OECD, which master-minded the international measures of GDP, has now       recommended international measures of wellbeing that are heavily       influenced by the CEP proposals adopted by the ONS.
The OECD Guidelines on       Measuring Subjective Wellbeing (2013) begin with the questions that CEP       persuaded the ONS to use in the UK.
G. The UN and sustainable development goals: At the world level,       the UN General Assembly passed a resolution on 13 July 2011, encouraging       member states to pay more attention to the goal of happiness, and mandated       a conference at the UN on the issue in April 2012.
Layard was invited to       co-edit the World Happiness Report, which was published at that conference       and is contributing to the choice of objectives that will replace the       Millennium Development Goals from 2015.
H. World Economic Forum: In 2011, the World Economic Forum asked       Layard to chair their Global Agenda Council on Health and Wellbeing.
He       master-minded their report, Wellbeing and Global Success, and presented it       at Davos in January 2012.
There is now growing business interest in       workers' wellbeing as one feature of a good business.
For example, in       March 2012, Layard was asked to give a one-hour lunchtime talk to more       than 800 people at Goldman Sachs on the theme Can we be happier?
I Action for Happiness and media culture: Reaching a wider public       requires a movement.
To promote a happier society, Layard collaborated       with Geoff Mulgan and Anthony Seldon to launch Action for Happiness in       March 2011.
It now has 22,000 members in 124 countries pledged to try to       create more happiness in the world and less misery.
More generally, CEP's       Wellbeing Programme has played a significant role in stimulating the       extraordinary recent explosion in media focus on wellbeing.
Since 2003,       the research has received over 1,130 references in the press; CEP       researchers have made more than 120 radio and TV appearances and given       over 100 public talks.
