     NATURE OF THE IMPACT: Centre for Economic Performance (CEP) research on       minimum wages has: (a) had a direct impact on the initial design of the       UK's National Minimum Wage (NMW), a design that has persisted to the       present; (b) had some initial impact on the introduction of the minimum       wage in Hong Kong; and (c) continues to influence debates around the world       about the introduction or modification of minimum wages.
a.
The UK's National Minimum Wage:     LSE research on the effect of minimum wages on employment had a large       impact on the initial deliberations of the Low Pay Commission (LPC) as it       provided the only credible UK evidence at that time.
A 2009 report for the       ESRC by Frontier Economics found that `the consensus view from LPC       commissioners and CEP's research peers is that CEP research was the most       influential in terms of setting the minimum wage level' (see Source A).
Further: `in the case of the National Minimum Wage (NMW) we have been able       to provide some indication of the value generated by CEP research.
Of       course, it is impossible to attribute with any precision the value       generated, but if we start with a gross benefit of &#163;1.2 billion attributed       to the policy, then even if only 2% of that gross benefit is attributable       to CEP that equates to &#163;24 million in 2008 prices.'
Since the initial       structure of the minimum wage has been maintained over time, CEP work       continues to have impact, not least on living standards, as well as on the       thinking of the LPC (Source B).
In April 2012, Manning published a report for the Resolution Foundation's       Commission on Living Standards (Source C) which drew on CEP research to       make suggestions about how the NMW could be modified to have stronger       effects in a recession (Source C).
This report attracted considerable       newspaper coverage and led to several radio interviews (28 media mentions       recorded).
Its call for a modification of the mandate of the LPC to       recommend higher minimum wages in some sectors (eg banking) was adopted by       the Commission on Living Standards in its final report (Source D).
Manning       is currently serving on the Resolution Foundation's expert panel on the       `Future of the National Minimum Wage and the Low Pay Commission', chaired       by George Bain, the founding chair of the LPC.
The impact of the research can also be seen in articles about minimum       wages in the media (Source E).
For example, the `Free Exchange' column in       The Economist on 24 November 2012 was devoted to minimum wages.
Two       of the seven articles referred to were by Alan Manning and The         Economist column referred to `monopsony' as the main reason why       minimum wages might not reduce jobs.
Increasing acceptance among       mainstream economic commentators of the view that labour markets might       have monopsonistic aspects is an important secondary impact of the       underpinning research.
b.
Beyond the UK: CEP's expertise on NMWs is in demand from other           countries.
Direct: 1.
Hong Kong introduced a minimum wage for the first time       in 2011.
The process by which that decision was made involved looking at       research done in other countries, including the research cited here on the       UK.
The legislation that was introduced cites references (1), (2), (4) and       (5) from section 3, as well as other research on the topic by LSE-based       researchers (Source F).
Indirect 2i.
United States: in his 2013 State of the Union Address,     President Obama proposed raising the federal minimum wage from $7.25 to     $9.00 per hour.
Manning's research on monopsony has been cited as one reason     the minimum wage may not destroy jobs &#8212; for example, in a document produced     by the DC-based Center for Economic and Policy Research.
Manning has also     written about the Obama proposal for the Milken Institute Review (Source G).
2ii.
Germany: there has been an active debate in Germany over several       years about the introduction of a minimum wage &#8212; as opposed to minimum pay       rates set in local collective agreements &#8212; culminating in an announcement       by Angela Merkel on 25 April 2012 of plans to introduce a national minimum       wage.The UK experience has been regarded as of particular relevance for       informing that debate.
For example, The Economist of 5 November       2011 wrote that: `the CDU seems to be heeding newer British and American       ideas'.
Manning's expertise has been called on by a variety of people in       Germany, as evidenced by his meetings with German civil servants, radio       interviews, quotations in the press and a commission to write an article       on the UK experience for Focus magazine, which has a weekly       circulation of 500,000, the third largest in Germany (Source H).
2iii.
Wider international debates: there is interest in many European       countries about what can and cannot be achieved by minimum wages and       Manning contributes significantly to the public debate.
For example, in       December 2011, Manning was invited to speak to a meeting of academics and       trade unionists at the European Trade Union Institute in Brussels about       the UK experience.
Globally, organisations like the OECD and the       International Monetary Fund (IMF) have changed their recommendations to be       more supportive of the use of minimum wages.
A joint report by the OECD,       the IMF, the World Bank and the International Labour Organization (ILO)       for the G20 labour ministers' meeting in June 2012 wrote that `a statutory       minimum wage set at an appropriate level may raise labour force       participation at the margin, without adversely affecting demand, thus       having a net positive impact especially for workers weakly attached to the       labour market', a markedly more positive view than expressed in the past       (Source I).
In March 2012, Manning was invited by Singapore's Ministry of       Trade and Industry and Civil Service College to advise on how Singapore       might combat rising wage inequality, which, combined with a slowing       overall rate of growth, has led to stagnant or even falling living       standards for low-wage workers (Source J).
WHY THE IMPACT MATTERS: Well-organised National Minimum Wage       schemes reduce poverty and wage inequality.
LSE research has contributed       to this goal in several countries.
In 2010, the Institute of         Government voted the minimum wage the most successful UK policy of       the last 30 years &#8212; a view reiterated in the Financial Times in       July 2013.
