     The impact of research produced by this research group can be evidenced       in three key ways:     a) Reach: Raising public awareness       The strategy to gain wide scale impact has been focused on work designed       to raise public awareness.
The reach of the research's social impact has       been aided by worldwide exposure via the BBC Lab UK, the London Marathon       Website, international magazines such as Runner's World, and commentary in       national and international newspapers.
This coverage has led to further       exposure via Reuters and other worldwide media agencies.
A high-profile       example being promotion to recruit participants to the BBC Lab UK project       featuring on the prime time television show the `One-Show' where Michael       Johnson narrated the video clips in the research.
More recently, a film       commissioned by Copa 90, an independent television channel, on dealing       with stress during soccer penalty shooting has been viewed over 55,000       times.
b) Usage of self-help materials       In an experiment that was conducted in conjunction with Runner's World       Magazine and Audiofuel, RCSEP compared the effects of training       interventions assigned to 1050 runners.
We provided individualised       feedback regarding intervention outcomes, and summarised results on YouTube.
Resources developed from the group's research, designed to support runners       have been openly available on the London Marathon website since 2010.
Tips       are also posted via email to all entrants (&gt; 50,000 per year) as part       of the build-up to the event and runners can sign up for monthly         training tips.
Building on this work, the research group hosted a       weekend workshop for runners (Knowing Sport Pilot scheme; January, 2011)       that introduced a series of self-help interventions focussed on       performance enhancement.
We have also delivered self-help interventions on       mass.
In an online experiment run in collaboration with BBC Lab UK       (2012-2013), 75,000 people worldwide used brief interventions (imagery,       self-talk, and planning) to facilitate performance during a competitive       online game.
Olympian Michael Johnson delivered the training and narrated       the computer-generated individualised feedback.
The feedback highlighted       the relationship between emotions and performance, and how to change       emotions.
Comments posted by users were very positive, including accounts       of how participation had helped individuals perform better in a range of       roles (e.g., musician, exam student, driving instructor, chef, etc).
As a       result of such initiatives, Professor Lane featured as an expert on the       popular weekly podcast "Marathon         Talk", speaking about psychological control for marathon runners.
The group have been involved in three externally funded (RCUK; ESRC)       events to disseminate findings to the general public.
Research Councils UK       funded a workshop on emotion regulation for runners intended to       disseminate sports sciences to the general public (January, 2011).
Participant feedback following this event was positive with a number of       runners reporting completing personal best performances in the weeks       following the workshop.
Second, the group also presented a workshop on       emotion and emotion regulation in sport at the Festival of Science       (November, 2011).
Third, Professor Lane presented at the "Cutting Edge"       series on emotional control in diving, June 2012, a presentation that       included both Tom Daley and his coach Andy Banks.
All three events were       popular, attracting over 500 delegates and receiving media coverage, which       ensured a wider reach.
The cutting edge series is available to view via       the Research         Councils video page.
c) Direct benefit of being involved in the research       Participants have been the immediate beneficiaries of the groups research.
For example, participants in the BBC Lab UK project were not only taught       how to use an intervention, but also received immediate feedback on their       responses to questionnaires and performance in the test.
Previously, in       the project developed in conjunction with Runner's         World, each participant (N= 1050, Lane et al., 2010) received       personalised feedback and advice on how to improve their mental approach       to running.
A further example of benefits to participants can be       illustrated by RCSEP's research partnership with NHS West Midlands.
A       project aimed at improving health and well-being among NHS staff resulted       in the development of e-resources         on health, well-being and their measurement.
These were provided to       all NHS employees via open access on the internet.
RCSEP also provided       self-help material for the NHS         live well project on how to use music when running on the couch to       5km programme.
A strategy to maximise awareness of our underpinning research has been to       work with high-profile athletes who engage in extreme sports.
For example,       we worked with Sport Relief in preparation for TV presenter       Christine Bleakley's water-ski crossing of the English Channel (March,       2010).
