     Each day, a total of 7.1 million trips are made on London's transport       system by people with a barrier to mobility; that is, with a disability,       aged over 74, or accompanied by a child under five (and therefore likely       to have a buggy and/or to be carrying heavy luggage) [a].
By catalysing       and informing improvements in several areas of that system, the research       outlined above has not only allowed transport providers to deliver better       &#8212; and often more cost effective &#8212; services, but has also improved users'       access to and experience of public transport.
As such, it has enhanced       visitor and tourist experiences of London, encouraged wider take-up of       London's transport service, and helped improve the welfare and quality of       life of the millions of people who use those services every day,       particularly among those with mobility barriers.
London Underground &#8212; platform humps: The research on platform       humps formed the basis of recommendations London Underground used to       develop specifications for the installation of humps on the Victoria Line       upgrade (2010-2011), and on all other lines as they are upgraded.
It found       that the design could be more flexible than previously thought and the       cost per hump reduced from the initial &#163;500,000 to &#163;300,000, with the       prospect of reducing it further to &#163;100,000.
The humps were introduced on       the Victoria Line between 2010 and 2011 and the Metropolitan line in 2012.
As of 2012, 90 humps had been installed at 35 stations across the       Underground network, representing a multi-million pound saving to TfL.
[a]     The results of UCL's work on Thameslink 2000 ensured that, in       2008, the specifications UCL recommended were supplied to all bidders for       the train design and manufacture call for tenders.
The Thameslink research       highlighted some issues that were then pursued by Network Rail with       Siemens as part of the final negotiations over the supply of these trains       [output 4, above].
The work was also a cornerstone of the House of Lords       Select Committee on Science and Technology Report on Government       Procurement (2011), in which Tyler's empirical approach to using       scientific facilities was praised as an example of best practice in       innovative procurement, rather than relying on computer models alone to       provide estimates [b].
The work has been made available to the Crossrail       team, with the DfT's Chief Scientific Advisor recommending they adopt a       similar process (although at an earlier stage) for their trains [c].
The       Select Committee also commented that the Olympic Delivery Authority had       taken note of the Thameslink project with a view to including its findings       in their activities for its train transport systems [b].
The research has informed transport authorities' understanding of the       value of life-scale research.
For example, in 2012-13, London         Underground's use of PAMELA for the New Concept Deep Tube Train       Programme [d] was the first time they started to develop the concept from       the passenger perspective rather than the mechanical/engineering       perspective.
The results of the trials have enabled London Underground to       test and consider impacts on boarding and alighting rates resulting from       different options in the design of the internal and external details of       the train and the platform accoutrements (such as platform edge doors).
As       a result, they have reduced the size of the doors on the new train design       to 1600mm, for inclusion in the project tender documents [e].
Shared road space, Exhibition Road, South Kensington: The work at       UCL allowed the resolution of concerns raised by the Guide Dogs for the       Blind Association about the safety of including a kerb-free,       single-surface space shared by pedestrians and vehicles within the local       borough's &#163;30 million redevelopment of Exhibition Road.
UCL's research       findings were cited in a judicial review of the project in 2010 [f].
One       of UCL's recommendations was for on-street testing of the corduroy paving       at "more acute" angles; Kensington and Chelsea Council commissioned this       testing from MVA Consultancy in 2010 and 2011 [g].
The corduroy surface       recommended in the underpinning research findings was eventually installed       in the area, which is used by around 11 million visitors each year [h, f].
