     Since 2008, TMG has disseminated its expertise in systems engineering       through its portfolio of training courses, with resulting improvements in       performance and competitiveness of a range of companies, including some of       the world's largest aerospace, defence and engineering companies.
This       know-how has received an even wider audience with TMG's contribution to a       systems engineering competency framework that has been adopted worldwide       in the professional certification of systems engineers.
Improvement in the performance of organisations through the provision         of training: The TMG has developed and delivers a range of tailored       continuing professional development courses for industry in the areas of       systems engineering, project management and technology management.
Over       the period 2008 to July 2013, 76 of these courses were delivered across       five continents to 14 customer organisations: the European Space Agency       (ESA), General Dynamics UK, SELEX ES, BAE Systems, General Electric,       QinetiQ, EADS Astrium, Ultra Electronics, EADS Cassidian, National Air       Traffic Services, Mahindra, Marshall, L3 Communications and Transport for       London.
The number of trainee-days per year (# courses x # days x average       # trainees per course) showed a general increase (254 in 2008, 580 in       2009, 555 in 2010, 630 in 2011 and 1,020 in 2012), almost doubling between       2011 and 2012, and totalled 3,039 trainee-days in 2008-12.
Teaching on       these courses involves a mix of interactive lectures, discussions of case       studies, group exercises and dynamic simulations of projects, and is       underpinned by the principles derived from the TMG's experience in space       instrument developments and their research into systems engineering       practice.
There is a common focus on delivering value in the face of       unpredictable or changing requirements, as today's complex projects       demand.
All of the courses seek to share theory and best practice in the       management of technology projects, including technology decision-making,       risk management, and ensuring projects are well-managed, maximising the       chance of completion on time, to budget and with the quality envisaged.
This training reduces the risk of major project failure (overspend, late       delivery, inadequate functionality and failure in service).
This is       particularly important for the TMG's customer organisations, which operate       in sectors where very large and complex systems are developed; the       complexity of such systems and the nature of the development approach make       them very susceptible to huge cost overruns.
For example, in a project led       by BAE Systems, the Royal Navy's Astute class nuclear submarine programme       is now expected to finish over seven years late and &#163;1.3 billion over       budget; problems the company has had with projects like this are a key       justification for investing in the TMG's training courses.
One indicator of impact is the overall cost of the training to the       company, which includes direct costs (charged by UCL) and the staff-time       of delegates (salary assumed to be &#163;100,000 per delegate including       overheads).
The direct costs are &#163;634,000 and the staff costs are &#163;1.748       million giving a total over the period of almost &#163;2.4 million.
Companies       have been prepared to invest this level of resource with an expectation       that this will lead to an improved performance and greater profitability.
For the type of training offered, providing proof of the link between       training course delivery and company performance is difficult, but there       is a large amount of repeat business, with several of the customers having       been using the courses throughout the five-year period covered.
One company that has made increasing use of the training courses is Ultra       Electronics.
This company, with around 5,000 employees worldwide,       identified the need for systems engineering training following a number of       engineering `near misses' that could have resulted in fatalities.
Initially (in 2008), Ultra just asked the TMG to provide systems       engineering training courses in the UK.
This service was subsequently       extended to North America, and, since 2011, TMG has also provided project       management courses in the UK and US, and occasional consultancy services.
Over 200 Ultra engineers, managers and directors have now received       training, and 26 courses have been delivered since 2008 [A].
The company's       Chairman has commented on the value of the courses to his company, saying:       "the feedback from Ultra's engineers has been extremely positive and in my       view has had a significant beneficial effect on Ultra's engineering       capabilities", and that "through the adoption of best practice, senior       management has the confidence to compete for large engineering programmes       without the necessity of including excessive contingencies in competitive       bids.
As a result the company has been successful in securing more       business through competition and which it has executed successfully and       continues to do so.
A proof of the effectiveness and value of this       activity is that Professor Smith's courses continue to be offered to       Ultra's personnel" [A].
He also noted that the consultancy Professor Smith       provided to support project reviews had led to "significant improvement in       Ultra's Systems Engineering capability with consequent positive impact on       the Group's competitiveness" [A].
Ultra also recommended the service to       Mahindra [A], a major Indian partner of theirs, and the TMG has provided       training and consultancy to them on two occasions in 2012/13.
Repeat       business and deepening of relationships like this are strong indicators       that customers believe that the benefits to their organisations of using       the training courses is greater than the costs they incur in doing so.
Selex ES, an international electronics company, has also benefited from       the training.
Eleven courses have been provided for 176 trainees in the       last three years at sites in Luton, Basildon and Edinburgh.
A range of       courses in Engineering for Complex Systems has been developed and       delivered at foundation, experienced and senior management levels.
Selex's       Head of Systems &amp; Supportability Engineering (UK) stated: "It is clear       that the training is adding huge benefits to the company in many ways"       [B].
The impacts on Selex that he identified include "The message of       Systems Thinking and using the principles to add value to the wider       company is gradually percolating to senior managers.
Last year we used       such principles to actually redesign part of our organisation and       processes"; "Engineers understanding that they have more than a technical       role to play (leadership, schedule, cost, etc.
)"; "There is a wider       cross-discipline appreciation of SE principles and of each other's       discipline too"; and "Engineers are becoming aware that the old way of       thinking isn't enough today.
Just that realisation is significant as they       are asking questions or performing additional analysis that wouldn't       normally be done" [B].
Another organisation within which the training has led to changes in       knowledge, capabilities and behaviour is General Dynamics UK.
Eleven       courses have been provided to 143 trainees since 2009 in Newbridge, South       Wales, in the subjects of Systems Engineering and Systems Design.
The       company's Learning and Organisational Development Consultant reported       comments from employees who benefited from training, including "I now see       the systems as a whole and how the small part I am working on fits into       the bigger picture", "I understand that applying process and systems into       daily working practice can improve work output" and "Understanding of       process has meant that I have been able to work more efficiently" [C].
The       improved knowledge and skills have benefited four General Dynamics UK       projects: Joint System Integration Body, Scout SV Video Server, Bowman       Long Term Support Services, and New Integrated Marines Communication and       Information System.
A web-based training course in Technology Risk Management was developed       for BP in 2008 and several evening lectures have been provided over the       last five years to support a University of Manchester course.
BP "found       UCL's support to be of high quality and valuable", reporting that "over       the past few years, BP has become much, much better at understanding       technology risks in the context of the facilities and equipment it needs       to develop.
The importance of this cannot be overstated.
As our industry       has found many times, the costs associated with recovering from a failed       piece of technology far outweigh the costs of the initial investment in       planning the appropriate technology development and well-managed       implementation.
The many discussions and activities between UCL and BP       over the years have demonstrated that UCL possesses unique skills and       experience that are relevant to BP now and in the future.
It is also able       to work flexibly with our large organization, an important attribute in       itself."
[D]     Impacts on practitioners and professional bodies: Based on their       knowledge and experience of systems engineering, underpinned by the       research in references [1] to [5] above, three TMG members were selected       to chair or otherwise take part in the International Council on Systems       Engineering (INCOSE) working group on the core competencies of systems       engineering, and contributed significant insights to this group.
The       Systems Engineering Competency Framework that was developed was adopted       worldwide by INCOSE in 2010 [E], including in the professional       certification of systems engineers.
It has been rolled out across a number       of companies as a basis for career development and standardisation of       systems engineering practice; major organisations that have used the       framework include Thales, General Dynamics, BAE Systems, Atego, Bombardier       and the Ministry of Defence [F].
