     MSSL research findings have led to a high level of public interest and       demand for public engagement activities related to the specific research       described in section 2.
Within the REF impact period, MSSL researchers       have been invited to speak at numerous public and school events and have       received a large volume of requests for media interviews and other media       engagement activities.
Schools talks: Seventy talks were delivered by Green to over       20,000 school students between 1 January 2008 and 31 July 2013.
Audiences       ranged in size from 30 to 1,500 people and included both primary and       secondary school students.
The talks covered a range of research that was       conducted at MSSL, including an overview of the research in references [1]       and [4] above.
On-going relationships were formed with a number of schools       in the south of England; for example, St. Teresa's school in Effingham,       Surrey, and Thomas Hardye School in Dorchester, Dorset.
Both of these       schools have benefited from repeat visits from Green and other researchers       and engineers at MSSL.
As well as talks given in the schools, MSSL also       hosted visits from school groups and delivered talks at the laboratory       itself.
A selection of feedback [A] demonstrates that the talks have       inspired students, stimulated their interest in science, and improved       their knowledge and understanding of the topics:     "Years 5 and 6 were hugely inspired by a presentation at St Teresa's         from Dr Lucie Green, which provided an excellent start to our National         Science Week activities.
They found her talk on the Sun, Solar System         and other stars absolutely fascinating, prompting them to ask plenty of         questions.
[...] Our Year 5 groups have been visiting Lucie at the         Mullard Laboratory for several years now.
This is a popular and highly         valuable trip, which supports the girls' science studies on the Earth,         Sun and Moon physics topic.
We appreciate this exciting link with the         scientists at Mullard and are incredibly grateful for its significant         contribution to the education of our girls."
"The students (and staff!)
at The Thomas Hardye School in Dorset have         been very fortunate to benefit from several high-quality enrichment         opportunities presented by scientists and engineers from the Mullard         Space Science Laboratory since 2008.
Year 9 and Year 10 students were         able to quiz Dr Lucie Green at a "Meet the Scientists" event [...] As a         result, students have found their pre-conceptions about scientist [...]         stereotypes altered in a positive way.
[...] Dr Green returned in         February 2013 to impress a packed audience of more than 500 people drawn         from the community and school with "Solar Max".
The numbers of THS         students taking science (especially physics) [...] beyond school have         increased steadily over the intervening years &#8212; the impact of meeting         cutting-edge inspirational scientists [...] who have a passion for their         subject is invaluable in helping the school make students aware of         cross-curricular STEM subjects and the myriad of career possibilities         that they offer."
Science education: From 2008 onwards, MSSL's Green developed a       series of teaching resources [B] to aid delivery of the primary and       secondary school science curricula by teachers.
These resources, which are       underpinned by Green's research and experience at MSSL, provide practical       ideas for bringing Solar System science into the classroom and enable       teachers to illustrate their teaching with examples from current research.
They were one of the top 25 resources downloaded through the ESERO       (European Space Education Resource Office) section of the National STEM       Centre eLibrary website in the 2012 autumn term [B], and continue to be       amongst the website's `Most Popular' resources [C].
Teachers have found       the resources to be very effective, with feedback from one reviewer on the       website including: "The Sunspots activity worked excellently with my year       9 GCSE Astronomy class.
It is a straightforward task that produces a clear       result and by combining the information from the graphs it is clear there       is a pattern to the sunspot cycle but variation in this pattern.
It was       very good for showing the advantages of displaying data in graphs rather       than tables and for building up graphs skills, which is something I'm       always surprised at the number of students who struggle with it."
[C]     Green also delivered talks during the REF impact period to a total of       around 300 school teachers at continuing professional development (CPD)       events.
These talks covered the basics of the Sun and observing the Sun       from space using missions for which MSSL has supplied instrumentation, as       well as the research findings in references [1-4] above.
Activities       included delivering the Association for Science Education keynote John       Lewis lecture in January 2012, delivering the Institute of Physics (IoP)       keynote lecture in July 2012, speaking at the ESERO Space Education Day of       the UK Space Conference in July 2011, and speaking at the Prince's       Teaching Institute in March 2010.
Her input enabled the teachers to take       current MSSL research (that in references [1], [2] and [4] above) into the       classroom and to develop new lesson plans.
Feedback collated in the       evaluation of the IoP keynote lecture included: "The keynote speaker was       fantastic &#8212; I have a lesson in mind for year 7s who are very interested in       the solar system" and "Fantastic start with such enthusiasm &#8212; info on sun       was excellent, possibly best ever!"
[D]     The ESERO Space Education Day was attended by 25 primary school teachers       and 69 secondary school teachers from across Britain.
Evaluation of the       day as a whole found that teachers "were overwhelmingly positive about       their experiences of attending the event" [E], and that the event was       valuable as it connected teachers with expert speakers who provided       information about current developments in space science together with ways       to use this information in the classroom [E].
Public talks: Over 60 public talks were given on MSSL research       (references [1-4] above) during the REF impact period, including repeat       visits made to adult education societies, astronomical societies and the       Cheltenham Science Festival (2010-13).
Other events included Astrofest in       February 2012 and a public UCL Lunch Hour Lecture, delivered by Green in       November 2011 about her research (references [1], [2] and [4] above).
The       total audience reached through these events is many thousands and is       composed mainly of adult and family audiences; for example, Astrofest was       attended mainly by adults and had an audience size of one thousand, and       the Lunch Hour Lecture had an audience of over one thousand (direct and       online webcast).
Public talks delivered by MSSL researchers have also resulted in on-going       and sustained relationships with the local community.
Feedback from the       audience after a community talk about solar physics given by Green at       Thomas Hardye School in February 2013 indicated that public interest had       been stimulated and understanding of the topic had been increased, and       included the following comment: "The fascinating insight into your work       was portrayed in such an illuminating manner (apologies for the pun) that       even a layman like myself could feel a degree of understanding (well, at       least for the basics!
), and your enthusiasm is infectious &#8212; I seem to be       developing a curious fondness for solar magnetic flux ropes, of all       things!"
[F]     In addition to attending MSSL's public talks, members of the local       community visit the department on open days.
The 2009 open day was       attended by 220 people from the local area.
Evaluation of the event showed       that visitors "had had their awareness of the space science that occurs       locally raised" [G], and that 53% and 27% of visitors rated their learning       about space science and the work at MSSL as `very high' and `a lot'       respectively.
Their overall enjoyment of the day was rated as `very high'       by 83% of visitors [G].
Online content: A video discussing Green's research area, and the       upcoming solar space missions that she is involved with, was recorded in       collaboration with the UK's Astronomy Now magazine in April 2011.
This       video received over 1,700 views on YouTube between April 2011 and 31 July       2013 [H].
Green also discusses her research on her personal website, which       was visited by 30,000 unique visitors during the last three years (up to       31 July 2013).
Most visitors were from Europe, with a smaller percentage       from North America, South America, Africa and Japan.
The number of unique       visitors has increased year on year: there were 2,675 in 2010, 8,578 in       2011, 12,110 in 2012, and 6,677 in the first seven months of 2013 [I].
This increase in online visitors demonstrates an increase in public       interest in Green's work.
Media activities: The various public engagement activities       mentioned above stimulated interest among the media, which has led to       increased demand for expert comment from Green on solar physics research       and its relation to space weather and Solar System physics, in addition to       on-going relationships with journalists and producers.
For example, Green       presented a BBC Radio 4 programme on space weather (Solar Max, broadcast       April 2013) and has given expert comment in many interviews regarding       solar activity and space weather.
Insurance industry: MSSL research (references [1-3] above) has       been disseminated to the insurance industry and to the growing UK space       weather community; for example, Green visited the Met Office in July 2011       to discuss her research results and their relevance.
The visit involved       the small team who were responsible for developing the space weather       activity at the Met Office at that time and has led to on-going       engagement.
Talks discussing flux ropes and their potential for use to       predict space weather were also delivered by Green at two events for       insurance industry employees: the EQECAT London conference in May 2011 and       the IUA (International Underwriting Association) Catastrophe Risk       Management Conference in October 2012.
This dissemination has led to an       increased understanding amongst these communities of how space weather       events could affect the insurance industry and of what steps they need to       take to minimise the impact on business operations and earnings.
Feedback       from the IUA event showed that Green's talk was by far the highest rated       of the conference (84% of respondents rated it as `excellent') [J], with       the attendees greatly valuing the science and its importance in the       emerging risk of space weather.
This positive feedback has led to Green       being an invited speaker at the IUA's 2013 event and to on-going dialogue       with several of the 2012 conference attendees.
A further outcome of MSSL's       interaction with these communities is a national meeting being held in       December 2013 that will bring together MSSL academics with the Met Office,       the National Grid and the insurance industry to discuss future       collaborations.
While the impacts focus on UCL contributions, they are also underpinned       by a wide body of solar physics research that was conducted over many       years by research teams in many institutions worldwide.
These other       institutions therefore share in the credit for the impact generated.
