     UCL research into dark matter and dark energy has led to significant       stimulation of public interest       in these topics, achieved through a large number of public talks, online       blogs, articles in the media,       a BBC television programme and a public competition.
It has also impacted       upon two artists,       influencing their creative practice and inspiring a number of their       publicly exhibited artworks.
Public events: UCL cosmologists regularly deliver public talks       based on their research.
For       example, dark energy work at UCL was the subject of talks by Ofer Lahav at       the Royal Institution in       June 2013 (attended by 300 people) and at Tate Britain (in March 2009),       and a talk by Sarah Bridle       at the British Astronomical Association (in 2008).
Lahav also delivered a       public UCL Lunch Hour       Lecture (in November 2010), "Light and Darkness in the Accelerating       Universe", which was       subsequently uploaded to YouTube and had received almost 2,000 views as of       31 July 2013 [A].
Hiranya Peiris delivered a Space talk at Royal Greenwich Observatory in       March 2013 and a talk at       the British Interplanetary Society in July 2012, both of which were on her       Planck research; a UCL       Science Centre lecture to several hundred sixth formers and teachers in       March 2012; and a talk to       MPs and policymakers at the RCUK event "Impacts: people and skills" in       2010.
Peiris was also invited to present results from the Planck mission on the       origin of the universe at       CERN's first TEDx event, TEDxCERN, in May 2013.
The event had a live       audience of 600, as well       as viewing parties at 27 international participating institutions that       were attended by a total of 1,000       people, and 10,870 unique viewers who tuned into the webcast.
Peiris's       talk was subsequently       posted on YouTube and had been viewed over 2,000 times as of 31 July 2013       [B].
Blogs: UCL cosmology research is regularly discussed in two blogs       set up by members of staff:       MSSL ASTRO, which was initiated by Tom Kitching in March 2013 on behalf of       MSSL's       Astrophysics Group; and Early Universe @UCL, which was set up by Peiris in       May 2013 to       highlight the Planck research.
As of 31 July 2013, these blogs had       received respectively around       2,000 views from 21 countries, and over 3,000 unique viewers with over       10,000 page hits.
Media coverage: Cosmology discoveries at UCL are regularly       reported in press releases that       attract a significant amount of attention from the media.
For example, to       accompany the first       release of data from Planck, ESA published two press releases in March       2013 that featured work       contributed by UCL researchers on the physics of the early universe,       large-scale anomalies, and       the weak gravitational lensing of the CMB.
This work then received       international press coverage in       March 2013, with articles in the New York Times (NYT), the Financial       Times, The Guardian, The       Economist, and on the BBC's website.
These articles stimulated much public       interest and       discussion about Planck and the CMB, as evidenced by the many comments       posted online; for       example, 451 and 345 comments followed the BBC [C] and NYT [D] articles       respectively.
In February 2012, The Economist included both a feature article about       UCL's DES work and an       online video interview with Lahav about the research, which proved to be       one of the most popular       articles published that year.
The interview sparked considerable in-depth       discussion about dark       energy by viewers, as evidenced by the detailed online comments [E].
The       article also stimulated a       significant amount of public interest in the topic, as described by the       newspaper's Online Science       Editor, who commented in August 2013: "The nature of dark energy remains       one of the most       perplexing mysteries in all of physics.
Despite being abstruse and       baffling, however, the topic       sparks great public interest.
Our three-page article about dark energy       (which appeared both in our       print edition and online [...]), focusing on the ambitious Dark Energy       Survey and its quest to       understand the phenomenon, has been read a whopping 115,000 times since it       first appeared in       February 2012.
That places it among the most popular pieces The Economist       published in the       whole of 2012, not just in its science section.
It also secured 1,200       Facebook "likes" and was       tweeted more than 400 times.
An accompanying video interview with       Professor Ofer Lahav has so       far been viewed nearly 12,000 times.
Astronomy, it seems, has not lost its       ability to amaze and       inspire."
[F]     Television and radio: An episode of Dara &#211; Briain's Science Club       featured UCL researcher Filipe       Abdalla talking about the LOFAR array and the challenges of pulling       hard-to-detect cosmological       information out of the data.
The episode aired on BBC Two on 1 August       2013, with an audience of       1.22 million [G].
DES research at UCL was discussed on the BBC Radio 4       Today programme by       Bridle, Lahav and Peter Doel in October 2011.
Public competition: In October 2012, UCL's Tom Kitching launched a       public online competition       through the company Kaggle, with the brief to develop algorithms to       improve the mapping of dark       matter using gravitational lensing.
The competition was underpinned by       UCL's research on weak       lensing for the Euclid space mission.
It ran for two months and attracted       the attention of London-       based Winton Capital Management, which contributed $20,000 of prize funds.
The interesting       problem posed by the challenge attracted 3,553 online entries from 353       teams of participants, and       stimulated much discussion among entrants on the competition's forum about       their solutions and       dark matter [H].
The competition also received significant press       attention, including articles in Time       and Wired magazines, and was discussed in many blogs, including those       written by the       competition's winner and runner-up [I, J].
These participants' detailed       posts about the competition       and their solutions show that taking part increased their interest in and       understanding of the topic.
Winton benefited from its involvement in the competition, using it to       advertise its brand to the exact       demographic in which it was interested in finding future employees; for       example, it led to the       company recruiting a new Senior Data Scientist in 2013.
Winton's       Recruitment Manager said:       "Kaggle was a hugely successful venture for Winton.
We expend huge amounts       of money and time       on identifying and trying to hire exceptional research scientists for our       business.
We only manage       to hire 10-15 per year, though we interview several a week, and through       the Kaggle competition we       sourced two outstanding researchers, one a professor of statistics from       Portugal, the other a       postdoc physicist from California with a PhD from Harvard.
The competition       was great branding       and even better it allowed us to help generate new physics research!"
[K]       The collaboration       between UCL, Kaggle and Winton is continuing, with a new competition using       Sloan Digital Sky       Survey imaged galaxies soon to be launched.
Creative practice of artists: UCL research has influenced the       creative practice of two artists, both       of whom spent time in the Department of Physics and Astronomy as       Artists-in-Residence and have       created new art inspired by cosmology research carried out at UCL.
The first Artist-in-Residence worked within the department from 2010 to       2011.
UCL research on       dark matter, dark energy and DES inspired her to create a new body of       artworks: 100 Billion Suns,       As the World Turns, and History of Darkness.
These works have been       exhibited all over the world,       in seven solo exhibitions and 21 group shows, including at Selfridges in       London, the Museum of       Contemporary Art in Sydney, Kettle's Yard in Cambridge, the Modern Art       Museum of Fort Worth,       The Art Institute of Chicago, Kunsthalle Wien, and Ingleby Gallery in       Edinburgh.
In total, the       artworks have been viewed by over 1 million people.
They also generated       significant press       coverage for the artist, including articles in Wired magazine, The Sunday       Times Culture, Art       Monthly, Observer New Review, AnOther Magazine, The Guardian and The       Independent.
She       commented of her experience: "My time spent as Artist-in-Residence in the       Department of Physics       and Astronomy has been invaluable to my research and artistic output.
[...] The ideas I       experienced in the department have inspired several more new works and       will continue to do so for       years to come."
[L]     This artist has appeared in two films talking to Lahav about cosmology       research at UCL.
"All the       Dead Stars" was made by Tate Britain in 2009 and "When Art Meets       Astronomy" was made by       UCL in 2011; as of 31 July 2013, these films had been viewed on YouTube by       around 8,000       people [M] and around 6,000 people [N] respectively.
Lahav also delivered       talks at Tate Britain (in       2009) and the Whitstable Biennale (in 2010) on the connection between the       department's research       and the artist's work; these two talks were attended by a total of around       100 members of the       public.
The second artist began her residency in 2011 and completed an artwork in       February 2013 called       "untitled &#8212; the dark energy survey".
This artwork was directly inspired by       the DES optical corrector       constructed at UCL and took almost two years to produce.
It is now on       display at the University of       London Observatory at Mill Hill, where it will be viewed by hundreds of       visitors every year.
