     Knowledge transfer between UCL and industry has enabled technological       developments in the       microelectronics industry, including the employment of HfO2 in       new products.
This has been       facilitated by UCL contracts with SEMATECH (SMT), a non-profit,       world-leading technology       research and development consortium, which includes several of the world's       biggest microchip       manufacturers &#8212; IBM, Intel, TSMC, Samsung and GlobalFoundries &#8212; as full       members, and over 40       other semiconductors-related companies as associated members.
The       consortium works to       accelerate the development of the advanced manufacturing technologies that       will be needed to       build more powerful semiconductor devices.
Contracts with research       consortiums such as SMT are       vital for university research groups to be able to contribute to the       development of new technology       and secure impact in the microelectronics industry.
Research findings from the Shluger group at UCL, along with those from       many other research       groups, are collated by SMT and presented by them to their member       companies on a regular basis       via confidential reports.
Member companies then make use of these       findings, together with their       own in-house research, to enable technological developments and new       devices such as improved       transistors.
Due to the highly confidential nature of this industry it is       impossible to deduce which       particular research findings are implemented by the member companies in       their improved devices;       however, the fact that UCL research has been continuously financially       supported by the industry       (via its research consortium) since 2004 constitutes an unambiguous proof       of its practical       significance.
The UCL results and analysis - and process modifications       based on these results &#8212; contained       in SMT's confidential reports have also been consistently highly evaluated       by the       member companies [A].
Industry's high valuation of the research presented       to it by SMT, including       that from UCL, also ensures that the consortium is able to keep operating       [A].
Since 2004, the Shluger group has been actively involved in three major       programmes at SMT.
For       each of these programmes, the UCL research described in section 2 has       helped SMT to meet their       obligations to their member companies by providing them with important       insights, which they were       able to pass on.
The particular impacts described below all took place       after 1 January 2008 [B].
One programme was the development of the next generation of gate       dielectrics, the so-called       higher-k dielectrics, intended for transistor devices with an effective       oxide thickness (EOT) of less       than 0.5nm (required by the International Technology Roadmap for       Semiconductors).
Scaling the       transistor size helps to increase their packing density and improve       performance and power       consumption of microchips.
The UCL group provided an understanding of the       material properties       responsible for the HfO2 dielectric constant, which enabled SMT       to fabricate and demonstrate       transistors with an EOT of 0.49nm [B].
The understanding of the origin and       structure of defects in       HfO2 and at Si/HfO2 interfaces developed by the       Shluger group also provided the way to minimise       the negative impact of these defects by modifying processing conditions;       SMT confirmed that the       proposal made in the UCL work to apply the post-deposition anneal using       ammonia improved       device transconductance and reduced device threshold voltage instability.
Additionally, the UCL       group's determination of the size of the electron traps enabled the       thickness of the HfO2 layer to be       scaled down to below 2.5nm, drastically reducing the instability [A].
Another programme involved the development of advanced non-volatile       memory, based on a well-controlled       and highly repeatable change of the dielectric resistivity rather than on       a conventional       electron storage technology.
SMT reported that: "Calculations of the       sub-stoichiometric poly-crystalline       dielectric structures performed by Prof. Shluger's group allowed to       pinpoint that the       grain boundaries are the critical morphological material properties which       define the resistive       switching paths.
Furthermore, Prof. Shluger's study identified atomic       characteristics of the oxygen       vacancies at the grain boundaries and their kinetic, which played a       critical role in resistive       switching process.
Based on these findings, SMT was able to optimize the       material properties and       fabricate high performance memory devices meeting the project objectives"       [B].
They added that       "the UCL contribution is highly valuable" for this programme [B].
The third programme involved the mechanisms of dielectric degradation,       which, to a great degree,       determines overall device reliability.
The UCL group's research provided       an atomic-level       description of the defect generation process in the SiO2       dielectric when subjected to electrical       stress.
This research finding was employed by SMT to develop a model       capable of estimating the       device lifetime, which received high evaluation by member companies [B].
All of the important insights above were communicated by SMT to their       member companies and,       together with contributions from many other research groups, have enabled       technological       developments in the microelectronics industry, including the employment of       HfO2 in new products.
For example, in 2009, Intel released a new 32nm microchip [C] that uses       the hafnium-based       dielectric [A].
This was an improvement on its 45nm microchip released in       2007, which was the first       technology node to use the new high-k dielectric material.
To enable       production of the 32nm       technology, modifications were mostly made to the device architecture and       sizes, improvements       that were underpinned by research including that conducted by the Shluger       group.
For example,       the EOT of the high-k dielectric was reduced from 1.0nm in the 45nm       technology to 0.9nm in the       32nm technology [C].
Further technological improvements enabled Intel to       release in 2011 the       even smaller 22nm transistor technology [D], which also uses the       hafnium-based dielectric [A].
Other companies &#8212; IBM, TSMC, Samsung and GlobalFoundries &#8212; now also make       use of the       hafnium-based dielectric in their microchip technologies.
