     NIB directly led to the creation of an entirely new organisation.
DIYBIO Manchester (DIYBIOMCR) is now an established independent entity,       the UK's largest "do it yourself" biology group, and is an active       participant in the global DIYbio movement.
For a full list of relevant       DIYBIOMCR activities, please see [A,B].
Relevant projects included       the Manchester Microbe Map (a bacterial "atlas" of bus stops in       Manchester), and the construction of "homebrew" DNA replication equipment.
As a result of the project, the turnover of MadLab (the parent       organization) has grown significantly, and, since 2011, an average       of 80% of MadLab's income has been due to DIYBIOMCR.
The MadLab finance       manager, provided the following figures on 14/11/13:                                Period           Total Income           DIYBIO-attributable           Unrelated to DIYBIO           DIYBIO-attributable %                             2013-14 (pred.)
&#163;330,000           &#163;228,000           &#163;102,000           69                             2012-13           &#163;160,606           &#163;140,919           &#163;19,687           88                             2011-12           &#163;85,185           &#163;72,011           &#163;13,174           85                          These show income that is directly attributable to the       DIYBIOMCR project, including income from the Wellcome Trust,       consultancies, residencies, paid workshops and other collaborative       projects that arose as a result of the work done on DIYBIOMCR.
A deposition from MadLab Director states that "DIYBIOMCR has brought much       positive attention to MadLab, and exposed the organization to a wide range       of new audiences.
We have become much more outward-facing, as opposed to       focusing on community groups and in-house training.
At the time, the       Wellcome Trust funding was MadLab's largest single block of external       money, and represented its most significant external relationship with       another organization.
This seed-corn money, in turn, gave access to more       funding, and allowed MadLab to present itself in a different light to       external bodies.
To put it bluntly, the Wellcome Trust "seal of approval"       gave MadLab a significant "cachet", on which we have since built.
MadLab       is now in the process of converting into a Community Interest Company, and       we have separately raised &#163;160K of the &#163;250K we need to refurbish our       space.
Much of the money raised has come from local and national sources       that have been developed and nurtured as a direct result of DIYBIOMCR."
[C]     In recent years the US Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) has       developed a DIY bio program that aims to share information and make       connections between amateur scientists and local law enforcement officers.
The objective is to address any concerns (on either side of the regulatory       "fence"), and to provide a framework for ongoing discussions.
The Bureau's       local Weapons of Mass Destruction (WMD) coordinators are the focal point       of such conversations, and ensure that local authorities (e.g., fire and       police service, environmental health) are informed of the nature and       location of cooperating DIY biology laboratories.
The FBI also works       closely with the Department of State on biosecurity, and the Department of       Health and Human services on biosafety.
As a result of our high-profile activities, the FBI invited DIYBIOMCR       participants Asa Calow and Rachel Turner to attend a workshop held in San       Francisco on 12-14/6/2012; Calow and Turner were the only UK-based       participants in attendance, and they were specifically invited as a direct       consequence of the outcomes of DIYBIOMCR.
The purpose of the workshop was       to "educate the FBI about biology" (in the context of the growing DIY       biology movement), and to "foster the positive relationship among FBI,       DIYbio, amateur biology and local stakeholder communities to ensure safe       conduct in science."
[D] The FBI explicitly stated that "we want       to model this for the international community..." (that is, they       want to help to develop policy and practice, both within       the US and beyond).
Their explicit aim is to help to avoid extra       regulation of DIYbio scientists "that hinders their abilities to push       scientific progress.
Ultimately, it will be up to the communities       themselves how they wish to operate, and the FBI will continue to work       with them to further their efforts."
[D].
A subsequent email (27/7/2012) to Calow and Turner from an FBI       supervisory special agent with the FBI Weapons of Mass Destruction (WMD)       Directorate in Washington DC stated that "I wanted to thank you again for       agreeing to come and present at the event ...
Your perspective on media       issues was delivered so well that I believe that a great impact was left       [on] the attendees ...
It really left a great impression on me that some       direction and reinforcement is being given to this community in       proactively engaging the media, to their ultimate benefit."
[D]     A later message (10/6/2013) to Prof. Amos from the FBI Special Agent       (about the DIYBIOMCR contribution) stated that "their insight, engagement       within their community and energy makes them, in my eyes, a leader in       being a proactive member of the amateur biology community...
These steps       take a long time to climb, but it seems as if they have been very       successful in developing a working model that serves their community.
Additionally, Rachel's input regarding interactions with the media have       kept this issue in high standing for our future events with this       community."
[D]     The total immediate (in-person) audience reached was around 700 for       DIYBIOMCR [B].
Results were disseminated widely, and though       high-profile channels such as pieces (both 28/3/2012) on the main BBC       Ten-o-clock News (estimated viewing figure: 4.75M) and Radio 4's Today       programme (average weekly audience of around 7M) [E,F].
