     The primary beneficiary of the research described in section 2 is MSSL's       collaborator on much of the work: e2v Ltd. e2v is a UK company that       develops a range of innovative technologies including CCDs.
It employs       1,600 people, roughly a third of whom are scientists and engineers, and       has annual sales of around $370 million.
The MSSL research has underpinned       improved performance of e2v within the REF impact period; it has enabled       the company to win major contracts, led to improvements in its CCD       technology, and enhanced its standing in the space market.
e2v's Chief       Engineer (Imaging Applications) confirmed the importance of UCL's work to       the company: "the e2v relationship with MSSL and UCL has been one of the       foundations of our space science imaging business" [A].
The development of new generations of CCDs is an expensive affair,       costing millions of pounds, yet cannot be left to chance once a future       space programme is selected.
e2v tends to undertake new device       developments under contract from customer organisations (rather than fund       such developments fully themselves).
Prior to selection it is necessary to       first demonstrate the science performance and reliability of devices.
MSSL's engagement with e2v and assistance in areas such as this &#8212; in       addition to their joint research with e2v on prior space missions &#8212; has       enabled the company to secure two major contracts with ESA that have been       active within the REF impact period: a &#8364;20 million contract (2007 to 2011)       for the supply of CCDs for the Gaia mission, due to be launched in late       2013; and a &#8364;10 million contract (2012 to 2016) for the supply of CCDs for       the visible (VIS) instrument on the Euclid mission, due to be launched in       2020 [A].
Gaia and Euclid will include the largest and second largest CCD       focal planes ever built for space, with 109 and 36 CCDs respectively.
The       success of both missions is critically dependent on the performance of the       CCDs, since their main data product is the output of these devices.
Interpretation of the CCD signals therefore delivers the primary mission       objectives.
MSSL's engagement and work with e2v has also enhanced the company's       standing in the competitive space market, and has assisted them in       becoming Europe's dominant and preferred supplier of CCDs for space       science applications [B].
Indeed, the track record that the research has       helped e2v to secure is unrivalled.
This enhanced reputation and improved       ability to secure contracts was recognised by the company's Chief       Engineer, who, speaking about the impact of the joint Gaia mission       research on the Euclid contract and other business activities, said: "The       supply of custom CCDs to the Gaia mission is still the largest space       contract that we have won [...] and the support of MSSL in making this       mission feasible is of course significant.
The capability that this       experience has built at e2v now makes it possible for us to be a credible       supplier to the next ESA science missions.
For example, we have recently       won a contract for &#8364;10M for supply of CCDs to the Euclid VIS instrument       [text removed for publication]" [A].
The influence of MSSL research on the success of e2v is further       emphasised by the Chief Engineer, who praises "the strong technical       liaison between yourselves and the Lockheed Martin Solar Physics group,       which enabled us to supply CCDs into several programmes from SXI on GOES,       to all of the Hinode instruments, the HMI and AIA instruments on the Solar       Dynamics Observatory, and has built both our experience and reputation for       Solar Imaging such that we have also been able to address other       opportunities such as IRIS (the Interface Region Imaging Spectrometer),       STEREO, and SUVI [text removed for publication]" [A].
This liaison       comprised collaborative CCD research and was manifest in part in a joint       publication (reference [3] in section 3).
In addition to enhancing e2v's reputation and helping them to secure       large contracts, the symbiotic relationship between the company and MSSL       has led to an improved understanding at e2v of mission science       requirements and their implications for CCD design.
The Chief Engineer       said: "the insights that the MSSL team have brought to us on the mission       science requirements and how these translate into CCD performance needs       have enabled us to better understand how we can design and optimise our       detectors for particular applications.
This insight has been invaluable in       allowing us to address other customers with similar requirements, being       able to offer solutions rather than simply asking questions.
In this high       technology marketplace this is a very strong selling point."
[A]
