     The Abraham solvation model is a well-known and well-used equation for       the description of relationships between structure and both       physicochemical and biochemical properties, which can be applied to       biological, chromatographic and environmental partition systems.
As such,       Abraham descriptors and the Abraham solvation parameter approach are       widely used in the chemical industries, where they provide a rapid and       efficient way to compare and characterise partition systems and solutes,       and allow the determination of unknown properties of solutes without       conducting an actual experiment or even synthesising the molecule.
In the       pharmaceutical industry, the model is used for predicting the       pharmacokinetics (absorption, distribution, metabolism, excretion, and       toxicity; or ADMET) of chemical agents, which is vital in determining       their performance and pharmacological activity as drugs.
Meanwhile,       agri-businesses use the method to create bioavailability profiles for       agrochemicals, which informs not only on efficacy but also the fate of the       chemicals in terms of environmental risk assessment.
In recent years, commercial, open source and "in-house" computational       modelling software has been developed and made available to users       worldwide based upon the Abraham solvation model, in order to provide a       framework with which to analyse, rationalise and quantify problems such as       solubility and partitioning.
For example, the Absolv software is used by       chemists to calculate various solvation-associated properties from       equations (LFERs) involving transfer from the gas phase to a condensed       phase or between different condensed phases, and to carry out       structure-based prediction of the solvation parameters required for those       calculations [A].
Absolv was first commercialised by Sirius, then later by       Pharma Algorithms, who in 2009 partnered with ACD/Labs; in 2011, the       latter launched the "Percepta Platform", which includes the Absolv       prediction module.
From a commercial perspective, Absolv has been, and       continues to be, a very important component in ADMET and physicochemical       property prediction.
As such, Percepta is recognised as a core component       of the drug discovery toolkit and is highly valued by research       institutions and industrial groups worldwide [A].
In many drug discovery       teams at multinational pharmaceutical companies &#8212; [text removed for       publication] &#8212; the use of such software, and thus the Abraham model, has       become a fundamental part of the way that they understand and optimise       drug candidate solubility and partitioning.
It has also become fundamental       to how they establish vital parameters for determining whether a candidate       can be formulated and delivered in sufficient quantities to be effective       as a drug.
The alternative approach is simply calculating the number of       hydrogen-bond donor and acceptor groups and the size of the molecules,       which often gives inferior information to the Abraham approach.
The useful       information provided by the Abraham approach means that scientists need to       make fewer compounds before a candidate is selected and do not often make       the wrong compounds [text removed for publication].
[text removed for publication]     In 2010, a team from Pfizer developed an in silico model of rat       biliary excretion &#8212; an important property in drug discovery &#8212; with the       help of the Abraham approach [D].
When Sanofi sought an improvement in the       solubility of the main compound used in an oncology program in 2008,       commercial software proved unsatisfactory at predicting more soluble       compounds; however, the team was able to build their own local models       using Abraham descriptors.
The model built at pH = 4 was a success,       achieving an 82% correct prediction rate of the solubility [text removed       for publication] [E].
The results obtained from the work in these and       other examples have made a significant contribution to internal research       at pharmaceutical companies and have helped to streamline discovery       efforts over the last five years.
Outside of the pharmaceutical industry, physical chemists supporting       Syngenta, one of the world's leading bioscience companies, measure a       diverse range of organic/water partition coefficients to enable the       experimental determination of Abraham descriptors and prediction of       difficult-to-measure properties such as water/air, soil/water and       plant-related partitioning processes from LFERs.
A significant benefit of       this work to Syngenta is that it offers its scientists an alternative way       of thinking about and addressing chemical design issues related to       expression of activity and environmental fate for agrochemicals, beyond       conventional physical chemical properties [F].
[text removed for publication]     The RP-HPLC methods for determining lipophilicity expressed as CHI and ElogP/ElogD,       which were co-developed at UCL, are now in routine use within drug       discovery at [text removed for publication], Pfizer, Merck and other drug       discovery companies.
These techniques allow scientists to measure more       quickly and accurately the lipophilicities of potential drug candidates,       which helps them assess whether the candidates would be suitable for use in         vivo.
The high-throughput HPLC methods are also useful when       scientists wish to modify the lipophilicity (alongside other       physicochemical properties) of drug candidates systematically in order to       optimise a series and find the most promising compound to progress to       further testing.
Most uses of the methods are confidential; however, there       are a few published examples that demonstrate how this method has helped       drug discovery teams to optimise series of compounds.
These include novel       GPR119 agonists (for a potential treatment for type 2 diabetes) in 2011       and ghrelin receptor agonists (for the relief of symptoms of gastroparesis       in both type 1 and type 2 diabetes) in 2012 by drug discovery teams at       Pfizer [H]; and novel cannabinoid CB2 receptor agonists and novel TRPV1       antagonists (both investigated as potential treatments of pain) in 2011 by       teams at Merck and MSD respectively [I].
Additionally, the biomimetic HPLC systems are also now in use at GSK       [text removed for publication] and other companies.
They provide       scientists with fast and automated methods for modelling the membrane       interaction and protein binding of drug candidates.
Again, most uses are       confidential; however, a few examples of impacts on drug discovery       programs have been published.
These include the use of the CHI IAM and HSA       biomimetic systems, as well as CHI, by a GSK team in 2012 in a successful       attempt to find novel antimicrobially inactive anti-inflammatory       macrolides; and the use of the two biomimetic systems by a Novartis team       in 2011 to confirm the superior physicochemical properties of the useful       2-amino-5-tert-butylpyridine fragment compared to the currently       used fragment [J].
