     The outcome of the CRASH2 trial has been a worldwide change in protocols       and practice, with treatment using TXA now being regarded as the standard       of care in severe injury.
Once fully implemented, TXA could prevent 15% of in-hospital deaths from       bleeding following trauma each year (around 100,000 per year), giving a       worldwide health cost-benefit of &#163;26 billion per year (assuming &#163;20,000       per Quality Adjusted Life Year).
Around 600 lives could be saved in       Britain each year.
A single dose of TXA costs around &#163;3, so there are no       substantial cost implications to its widespread adoption.
Impact on the battlefield       As uncontrolled bleeding is the leading cause of preventable death among       combat casualties, it was not surprising that within weeks the British       armed forces and US military were working with the CRASH2 team to       implement the use of TXA on the battlefield.
British armed forces       protocols were changed in 20101 (A) and the US military Standard       Operation Procedures changed in 2012 (B).
A 2011 registry-based study of combat injured troops receiving blood at       the Bastion Role 3 facility in Afghanistan has demonstrated findings       supportive of TXA use: the group receiving TXA had a lower mortality rate       (17.4%) than the no-TXA group (23.9%) despite being more severely injured.
In 2012 the drug box onboard the US presidential plane `Air Force One'       was updated to include TXA (supporting evidence not available as       classified).
Impact on civilian practice in the UK       The rotation of Territorial Army / Home Guard trauma clinicians through       combat deployments greatly aided in spreading the implementation of the       results into civilian practice.
In the UK, the research has changed       patient care, being incorporated into both national and local trauma care       guidelines across the UK (C,D).
The Joint Royal Colleges Ambulance Liaison Committee has changed       ambulance protocols (2013) to mandate that all severely injured patients       in the UK are given TXA in the prehospital phase of trauma care (E).
The National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (NICE) was       initially unable to comment on the research as its constitution does not       allow it to comment on `off label' indications; however, after some       discussion a new category of NICE activity has been developed and the       research has resulted in the first NICE Evidence Summary of       Unlicensed/off-label Medicine (F).
Within the wider NHS the results of the research have been chosen as one       of the key components of the 2013/14 `Payment by Results' system for       trauma care, with the supporting documentation specifically mentioning the       high quality of the evidence (G).
International impact       The standard European Guideline for the management of bleeding after       trauma (for which Prof. Coats is a co-author) was modified in 2013 to       include the results of this research as a Grade 1A recommendation (there       are only four recommendations of this grade in the guidelines; H).
In 2012 the CRASH2 team successfully applied to the WHO `Essential       Medicines' Committee for tranexamic acid to be included in the WHO List of       Essential Medicines, which guarantees availability of tranexamic acid in       the developing world (I).
This is a very important step towards       maximising the impact of this research, as trauma is a disease epidemic in       the developing world: 90% of trauma deaths are in low and middle-income       countries, and the potential of TXA to reduce premature mortality is       likely to be much greater in these settings.
Of the 100,000 lives that       could potentially be saved each year, around a quarter are in India and       China (J).
TXA is cheap to produce, widely available and easy to       administer, making it ideal for use in low and middle-income countries       where healthcare budgets may be limited.
