     Wylie's recent research has focused on the architecture of conflict.
Wylie was the only       photographer granted official and unlimited assess to the Maze Prison site       during its demolition,       resulting in the book Maze II (2009).
This was made available to a       public audience of a quarter       of million people, with over one hundred thousand visiting the exhibition       at The Photographers       Gallery London, and       extensive coverage in national and international press, including The       Daily       Telegraph Magazine, The Independent, The Guardian and The Observer, and       further exhibitions       in Frankfurter Kunstverein e.V.
Frankfurt and Canadian Centre for       Architecture, Montreal.
His       additional publication, Scrapbook, a project where the research       investigates a personal       approach to diary-making in the context of historical record, subverting       conventional forms of       media representations through the re-structuring of media narratives       against personal       experiences, received similar public exposure and is cited as an important       document within the       context of Irish History.
Wylie's ongoing research into the architecture of conflict resulted in       2011 his book Outposts,       which was a result of negotiations with NATO and subsequent visits to the       remote outposts and       forward operating bases in Southern Afghanistan.
The work has been exhibited at the National       Media Museum in Bradford,       Imperial War Museum, London, Royal Ontario Museum, and       included in the exhibition Topography of War at Le Bal gallery in Paris       2011 (catalogue).
The       resulting publication of his photographs constitutes a unique public       record of these ephemeral,       military and otherwise inaccessible military sites.
An important further       aspect of dissemination       has been the serialisation and publication in mainstream media sources in       national and       international press including a six-page feature in the Financial Times       Magazine and       reviews/features in The Daily Telegraph, Time Magazine, and BBC News       online.
The continued impact of Seawright's earlier work at Ulster takes various       forms.
Many of the       works cited are in national and international museum collections &#8212; a       complete body of early work       from Inside Information was purchased for the permanent collection       of the Imperial War Museum       in 2012.
This and later works in their collection (Hidden 2002 and       Volunteer 2009) provide an       alternative narrative of contemporary conflict.
Associated audio and       visual material is also held in       the IWM archive and is available for educational purposes.
Amnesty       International produced an       education pack for schools in 2009 containing Seawright's Belfast works.
Subsequently they       invited him to discuss his research on conflict with 90 Irish school       teachers.
The workshop was       hosted by the Irish Museum of Modern Art in 2010 and led by Seawright.
It       enabled secondary       level teachers to use art practice as a way to open a dialogue with       teenagers about war and       human rights.
The keynote lecture was published by Amnesty as a DVD for       teachers in 2011.
Impact upon public understanding is demonstrated the featuring of       Seawright as one of three       photographers in the BBC Documentary War Photography, broadcast four times       on BBC2 May,       June, July and Sept 2008.
Volunteer was discussed on British       Forces Radio and broadcast to       troops worldwide (2011).
Conflicting Account and Volunteer       were featured in interviews on BBC       Radio Ulster Arts Extra (2009) and (2011), and BBC1 Festival Nights       (2010).
RTE Television's       The View featured Volunteer and it was reviewed on RTE radio and       featured in an article by       Aidan Dunne in the Irish Times (2011) and discussed on BBC Breakfast       (2013).
Key works were       included in major group exhibitions, often drawn from institution       collections e.g.
: Fall Out &#8212; War         and Conflict in the British Council Art Collection, Whitechapel       2010, How We Are &#8212; Photographing         Britain, Tate Britain 2007/8, Italian atlas: portrait of a         changing Italy, MAXXI       Rome (2008) Beautiful Suffering &#8212; Photography and the Traffic of Pain,       Williams Museum Boston       Mass, Can Art Save Us?
, Sheffield Museum of Art (2009), The         Troubles Archive OBG/Arts       Council of N.Ireland       (2009) The Sublime Image of Destruction Brighton       Biennale (2009) 30         Years of Photography in N.Ireland MAC Belfast (2013) Catalyst:         Art and War Imperial War       Museum North (2013) and discussed in the Tate Papers article; Moriarty, C       &amp; Weight, A The       Legacy of Interaction: Artists at the Imperial War Museum 1981-2007, Tate       Papers (2007)     Wylie and Seawright have made public the research process and contributed       to public discourse       through numerous presentations and public events reaching audiences from       the visual arts,       military, human rights, law, charities and NGOs.
Public discussions and       presentations include:       First Site: Queen and Country public lecture to an audience of Military       personnel at Headgate       Theatre Colchester (2009) Crucial Exposure, Photographing Afghanistan,       Imperial War Museum.
London (2012); Photography, Nature, and Human Rights, Yale School of Law       (2012);       Architecture of Conflict Yale Art Gallery (2011); Between Architecture of       War and Military       Urbanism.
Tallin, Estonia.
(2013).
Intersections of Photojournalism and Art.
Harry Ransom       Centre.
Texas (2013) 30       Years of Art at Conflict in N.reland MAC Belfast public discussion       (2013).
Works purchased for key public collections are evidence of how the work       is regarded as a visual       legacy of conflict representation and include: The UK Govt.
Art       Collection, The Irish Museum of       Modern Art, Ulster Museum, Portland Art Museum, Imperial War Museum, Arts       Council       Collection, British Council, National Museum of Wales, Archive of Modern       Conflict.
London;       National Media Museum, Bradford;       Imperial War Museum, London; Whitworth Gallery,       Manchester; Harry       Ransom Centre, Austin,         Texas; Museum of Contemporary Art MAXXI Rome.
