     Cardiff's demonstration of the effectiveness of SLNB has helped establish       the technique as the global standard of care.
As a result, beneficiaries       include:            Breast cancer patients enjoying improved quality of life       Healthcare providers making time and cost savings on surgery       Surgical practitioners, who have been quickly and safely trained in a         new technique          Impact on surgical training     As a result of the conclusive results of the ALMANAC trial, Mansel,       designed, secured funding for, and led a collaboration between Cardiff       University and the Royal College of Surgeons5.6 to set up and       participate in a national training programme called "NEW START" (funded by       the Department of Health).
NEW START was directly informed by the ALMANAC       findings, both on the effectiveness of the dual technique and the       surgeons' `learning curve'.
The programme, designed to introduce the       benefits of the research rapidly to the UK population, was introduced in       2004 and closed to new enrolments in December 2008.
On completion, more       than 200 breast surgeons, operating on over 6,500 patients in 103 centres,       had been trained.
The programme held centrally audited data on the       surgeons, and issued certificates of completion of training when they met       a pre-defined standard of performance.
The programme results published in       2013 showed that surgeons, who had never done the procedure before, were       subsequently skilled to carry out this technique, with a less than 10%       risk of missing cancer in lymph nodes 3.7.
The programme involved close collaboration with the Administration of       Radioactive Substances Advisory Committee (ARSAC) which licences the use       of all medical isotopes5.7.
This helped to exercise control       over unregulated and untrained enthusiasts who wished to perform the       procedure without suitable training.
NEW START also ran training workshops       internationally (China/India/Brazil/Turkey), funded by the International       Union Against Cancer (UICC), to spread the benefits in the international       population.
Impact on clinical guidelines     Following the conclusive results of the ALMANAC and other trials,       sentinel node biopsy has become the standard of care for breast cancer       surgery patients.
It was adopted as the preferred method of axillary       staging and the recommended procedure for suitable patients in national       clinical guidelines in the USA (2010)5.5 and the UK (2009)5.3,       and in the surgical guidelines of the Association of Breast Surgeons       (2009)5.4.
The ALMANAC trial is cited in all three guidelines       as having demonstrated the benefits to patients.
Further NICE guidance,       drafted and undergoing consultation as of July 2013 and published the       following month, recommended the intra-operative node assessment trialled       by Mansel and cites NEW START and the ALMANAC findings on the       effectiveness of SLNB.
Impact on patients     Annual audits of breast screening in the UK show that no patients were       reported to have SLNB in 1997/8 (the year that the MRC ALMANAC trial       started).
By 2009/10 the audit showed that 67% of 13,226 patients with       invasive cancer were undergoing SLNB.
The latest figures, for 2011/12,       show that of the 14,449 patients with invasive cancer undergoing axillary       surgery, 84% had sentinel node biopsy5.1.
The ALMANAC trial and other studies demonstrated the significant       improvement in quality of life that sentinel node biopsy has for the       50-75% of women with early breast cancer where no lymph node invasion has       occurred.
The adoption of this method as the preferred axillary staging       technique for breast surgeons means that most patients now avoid the major       morbidity associated with having all the lymph nodes removed.
These women       experience lower levels of pain, decreased arm and shoulder stiffness, and       a decreased risk of lymphoedema compared to those who received axillary       node clearance.
A recent decision model analysis of SLNB's effectiveness       against axillary node dissection concluded that SLNB was more effective       with an average of 8 quality of life years gained per 1000 patients over a       20 year period.5.8     The research to refine methods for testing the molecular pathology of the       removed sentinel node within the operating theatre3.6 using       PCR quantification of two breast markers, also benefits patients.
The       speed of the new test means that full axillary node clearance is possible,       when necessary, immediately following the biopsy.
Patients avoid       undergoing a second surgical procedure and hospitalisation.
They also       avoid the anxiety patients may experience of awaiting biopsy results (and       possible additional surgery).
The impact of sentinel node biopsy was summarised in a 2011 Clinical       Breast Cancer paper by staff at the University Hospital of North       Staffordshire, who had undergone New Start training.
: They found the       technique allowed conservation in 80% of the patients with negative       sentinel lymph nodes and stated: "Overall, sentinel node biopsy has       revolutionized the management of the axilla for the majority of patients".
5.2     Impact on professional practice     The section of the 2009/10 breast screening audit dealing with SLNB       (section 7.2) confirms the vital influence of the NEW START programme in       driving the adoption of the new technique among surgeons.
It states: "The       overall use of SLNB has increased by 9% since 2008/09 as the roll out of       the NEW START Programme has continued."
The same section of the 2011/12       audit restates that the recommended technique should be the combined       isotope/ blue dye technique, which is that advocated by ALMANAC and       specified in the NEW START programme.
In its 2009 guidelines, the Association of Breast Surgeons recommends       that practitioners take part in "NEW START or equivalent training       programmes.
"5.4 The NICE Guidelines state that SLNB should only       be performed by teams "validated in the use of the technique, as       identified in the NEW START training programme.
"5.3     The close collaboration with ARSAC allowed the safe introduction of the       isotope/dye technique in nearly all hospitals across the UK over the       2007-2010 period as shown by the national breast screening data5.1 The       figures for 2011-12 show the dual isotope/dye technique was used in 79% of       SLNB procedures.
The NEW START educational workshops held abroad speeded up the       introduction of sentinel node biopsy in many parts of the world where no       facilities existed for training.
As a result, a cohort of highly trained       surgeons can now train the next generation around the globe in the       technique For example, In 2009, Mansel conducted a workshop for 50       consulting surgeons and surgical trainees in the principles of SLNB at       Kolkata, India.
In 2011, he signed an agreement to establish a       standardised approach to SLNB at Chongqing, the most advanced cancer       hospital in western China.
Impact on healthcare costs     The recent decision model analysis of SLNB compared with axillary node       dissection5.8 noted that SLNB was less costly over 20 years       with $883 saved per patient.
Cardiff's role in the development of       intra-operative sentinel node pathology testing has also helped reduce       healthcare costs.
A recent paper from Spain shows that the testing makes a       per patient saving of 439 Euros compared to conventional post-operative       histology (Guillen-Paredes MP et al Cir esp 2011;89:456-62 available as       .pdf from HEI).
The 2013 NICE guidelines conclude the techniques would       represent "a cost-effective use of NHS resources".
