     Nelson's model of PaR knowledge has established impact as a model for       creating and disseminating arts-based research to both the professional       art's world and the wider general public.
The impact on creative practice       is profound.
Nelson's article `Practice-as-research and the Problem of       Knowledge' has been accessed by 1095 readers.
[1] PaR continues to       be an MMU specialism supported by Linden and Mackenzie's innovative       approach to curating knowledge, AAC enables PaR to be developed and       disseminated.
The CK methodology has had strong impact on the wider art's       practitioner field: since 2008, 48 creative practitioners have benefited       directly from residences at MMU's AAC.
For example, Dogshelf Theatre       company confirms that it is `as a direct result of our time in the Open       Space that has led to an upcoming installation at CARPA/TEAK in Helsinki'.
[A] Another high-profile contemporary artist and founder of OU       Performance, describes CK as `a unique opportunity to develop my       practice-led-research in a public yet supported context.
I have had key       outcomes that were made possible because of Curating Knowledge'.
[B]     Fairhall's PaR projects typify Nelson's model and have been supported by       the CK methodology.
Fairhall's research articulates new insights within       the jazz musical language through the use of code-mixing jazz structures       and musical parameters, and enriches the experience of individuals and       groups.
The impact is evidenced through his collaborations with leading       jazz musicians, through his engagement with key jazz platforms and through       the albums he has released.
Fairhall has played piano under acclaimed saxophonist Nat Birchall's       leadership on 4 studio albums and a session for BBC6 Music, Birchall,       commenting on Fairhall's ability to code-mix, states that:     ...importantly he is able to convincingly play in these various styles,       often blending them seamlessly into a personal amalgam which never sounds       artificial or affected in any way.
This ability has meant that his contribution         to my own music cannot be overstated.
[K]     Fairhall's performances on these albums have received airplay on Radio 1,       Radio 2 and Radio 3, and widespread acclaim in the music press and       broadsheet newspapers.
Fairhall's contribution has been particularly       noted.
He was described as `a total star' in the Independent on         Sunday's 5-star review of Birchall's album World Without Form.
[I] Second Handed Blues was played on BBC Radio 3's Jazz Line-Up       (2009) with listening figures approximating 70,000.
[E]     In 2009 Fairhall was nominated by NW Jazzworks for the prestigious       Jerwood Charitable `Take Five' Edition VI artist development scheme, a       professional development scheme designed to give some of the UK's most       talented young jazz musicians the unique opportunity to develop their       craft; he won the award.
[E] As a consequence of winning the       award, his work was selected for a performance at the London Jazz Festival       in 2010.
Fairhall's work has thus reached the specialist jazz community       and it has had significant impact on them in terms of their perceptions of       the current condition of jazz.
[C] Dave Sumner of eMusic selected       The Imaginary Delta as pick of the month and says `Fairhall ... is       vivid evidence of the strength represented by a new generation of UK jazz       musicians'.
[C] Daniel Spicer writing in Jazzwise magazine gave The         Imaginary Delta 4 stars     ...Fairhall's piano is a questing, quixotic voice with a comprehensive       "inside and out" vocabulary that recalls some of Sun Ra's solo passage.
[C]     The album was named Album of the Year by American website       Birdistheworm.com, whose critic stated: `If I had to point to one album       that exemplified the thriving state of Jazz and its undeniable hope for       the future, it would be The Imaginary Delta.
[D] These       critical opinions corroborate Fairhall's success in mixing early jazz and       contemporary elements in a way that problematizes simple readings of       pastiche or parody; the Birdistheworm.com critic wrote that `Fairhall is       simultaneously forward-thinking while still tending to the roots of Jazz'       past'.
[D] To date SLAM Productions report that The Imaginary         Delta has had more than 10,000 sales and downloads.
[L]     The Imaginary Delta was commissioned by the Manchester Jazz       Festival (MJF) `Original's Scheme' in 2011 and brought together musicians       from both Manchester and London thus underlining the national profile and       status of the Manchester jazz scene; subsequently the project was also       performed at the London Jazz Festival 2012.
MJF Artistic Director Steve       Mead wrote:     Adam's project was a natural choice for this year's festival commission &#8212;       his ambition to draw upon the early language of jazz and make it speak to       us in the 21st century is something we've not explored fully before; Adam       is proving to be a pianist and composer with ingenious talent, fascinating       ideas and an un-rivalled knowledge of jazz history ...[C]     The album also received 4-star reviews in Jazzwise [C]       and The Jazzman.
[C,G]     Fairhall has been invited to speak about his research at events, namely       the `Jazz Roots + relevance Debate' at the MJF in 2011, the `Thinking in       Jazz' Symposium (Lancaster University, 2012) and the `Thinking In Jazz'       session at the Rhythm Changes International Jazz conference 2013 (Salford       University).
In 2011 he gave a solo performance at The Sage as part of the       Gateshead International Jazz Festival.
In 2012 he performed at the Royal       Northern College of Music.
