     Fortnight delivered impact in terms of its involvement with and       support for professional       organizations seeking to adapt to changing cultural values: Fortnight       has had impact on Arts       Council England's (ACE) ten year strategy (2010) that reports a need to       identify ways to engage       theatre audiences with changing technologies.
ACE's report [C]       identifies Fortnight as having       impact because of its `formal technological innovation'.
Annie Warburton,       in her Some Kind of         Magic report on the Theatre Sandbox scheme, notes that Fortnight       demonstrated a `thirst for       discovery, a spirit of openness, deep generosity, and a meticulous quest       for excellence'; she goes       on to describe the project as having a `deep attention to and care for the       audience experience.
'[D]     The project has had direct positive impact on the audience/participants       and their individual lives:       One participant (details included in section 5) stated that `[i]t created       new lasting social networks in       my local community.
'[E] Its impact has also extended to influence       enterprise: The Director of       iShed, stated that the RFID technology created in Fortnight had       `been turned into a business' by       Matter2Media.
[F] The impact of the project is particularly       evident in the way in which the RFID and       QR technology was developed and applied.
Matter2Media and Infolab,       collaborating creative       industries, helped realize the Proto-type technology and the founder of       Matter2Media, stated that       Petralia:     ...created a software platform that enables the triggering of experiences       when participants       touch their electronic tokens (RFID tags) to 'portals'.
I have since       benefited by generalising       this platform, and have applied it commercially both in the arts and       promotional sectors.
[G]     Specifically, Matter2Media has subsequently utilized the technology with       events for Ford Focus       cars and the Ledbury Poetry Festival 2012 [B]; in addition,       technological framework developed       through Fortnight has also had an impact on the arts community:       theatre company Mercurial       Wrestler are working with similar technology as a direct result of Fortnight.
A key aim of Fortnight's approach is to demystify technology and       participants engaged with RFID,       QR codes etc.
as part of an immersive experience involving missions to       discover and re-discover       parts of their city; however, the engagement with technology was woven       into the fabric of the       experience and was deliberately not made too explicit.
Fortnight's       Twitter and Blog platforms       enabled participants to instantly feedback on the impact of the cumulative       experience.
[H,I] The       Pervasive Media Studios, a collaboration between the Watershed, University       of the West of       England and University of Bristol dedicated to showcasing the best in new       technology, selected       Fortnight to feature in their "cookbook", describing it as `cutting       edge practice'.
[B]     To date Fortnight has resulted in a three-day and a one-week test       run in Bristol, and 4 x two-week       runs in Lancaster, Manchester, Bristol and Oxford.
Total direct engagement       with participants is       close to 900 people as each of the 4 x two-week projects directly engaged       200 participants from       the local community; in addition, posters with QR codes, and an       alternative SMS address located       throughout the cities has created a database of over 1,000 individual       responses.
This database       tracks the movement of participants through the host cities and also       identifies their decision-making.
Many of the posters are still up in Bristol, Lancaster and Oxford and the       impact of the       project continues to be monitored [H].
Fortnight has had an impact on arts-based audience development and       has created a sense of       place for many participants who have met new people in their communities.
In some cases,       Fortnight encouraged participants to make major changes in their       life.
For example, Fortnighters,       have started to meet regularly generating art-related tasks.
One       participant reconnected with a       daughter that he had not spoken to in 20 years; two people changed jobs;       one person started an       artistic practice and associated blog and another person disclosed, for       the first time, that she had       cancer.
One participant commented, `[o]n an individual level it's been       like therapy.
Nothing less       than transformative'.
[H,I,E].
Maddy Costa from The Guardian       was a participant in the Bristol       project and described it as `absorbing, tender &#8212; and requiring no       technological skills whatsoever'.
[J] The co-director of Bristol's Mayfest, told the Assistant       Producer of Fortnight in Bristol, that:     during the project it appeared that Proto-type had accessed a nameless       `non theatre'       crowd... it seems that the ambiguity of the project created a varied       audience.
[K]     She goes onto state that `A Fortnight community had developed and       was now active beyond the       limits of the planned events' [K]     As part of the original "Sandbox" commission, Fortnight created       links with Bristol's Old Vic Theatre       and the Pervasive Media Studio [B]; dissemination events included       three `salon' events and a final       showcase attended by 196 delegates, including technologists, funders,       venue commissioners,       journalists and theatre makers.
Proto-type have subsequently been invited       to France to work with       Compagnie Derezo engaging in a European collaborative project which       continues their       investigations into `The City' and its inhabitants all of which started       with Fortnight.
