     Most psychological research on reading does not have any impact on       practice in schools.
Fortuitously, the publication of a report on the long       term gains found in the Scottish study coincided with the House of Commons       Education &amp; Skills Committee considering methods of teaching reading.
Verbal and written submissions by Johnston on the underpinning research       largely led to the impacts described here.
The written submission reported       on the longitudinal study, where the analytic phonics condition was       identified as being similar to the NLS programme; it also included a small       scale study comparing NLS phonics with synthetic phonics in a school in       England (Ev61-67).
There was also verbal evidence from Lloyd (teacher and       author) about the effectiveness of her commercial synthetic phonics       programme in one school compared to the average on the NLS programme;       Stuart (Professor, Institute of Education, University of London) gave       verbal evidence that when using Lloyd's programme she had also found good       results, but pointed out that the comparison was with a class not using       phonics at all.
The resulting Select Committee report, Teaching Children       to Read (2005), summarised the evidence on the effectiveness of using       phonics `first and fast' (the term used to distinguish the kind of phonics       used by Johnston from that used by the NLS, also claimed to be synthetic       phonics).
The committee recommended an immediate review of the NLS       programme in view of Johnston's experimental evidence and the informal       evidence from schools in England using the approach (paragraph 52, p23);       it seems very unlikely that this recommendation would have been made       without Johnston's published research evidence.
The committee noted that       in Johnston and Watson's (2005, 3b) study the control groups had learnt by       the analytic phonics method, but that as these children had subsequently       carried out the synthetic phonics programme, there was no long-term       comparison involving an NLS type phonics programme.
The committee       recommended that the government should commission a large scale study to       compare `phonics first and fast' with the NLS approach.
Following on from       this recommendation, the 2006 Rose Review was set up.
This recommended       that all primary schools in England should use a synthetic phonics       programme like the one used in Johnston and Watson's study, and this in       turn led to the new government programme Letters and Sounds       (2007).
Thereafter, government documents and the media have mostly       referred to synthetic phonics, rather than directly citing Johnston's       research.
In its 2010 White Paper The Importance of Teaching, the       Government stated that it wanted to ensure that synthetic phonics is used       in every school (5a).
In 2012, the government expressed concern about the       decline in reading standards compared with international benchmarks, and       reviewed the evidence in favour of using synthetic phonics (5b), citing       Johnston and Watson (2004).
It made the case for focussing on decoding,       i.e.
word and nonword reading, which Johnston's underpinning research       showed was greatly enhanced by synthetic phonics teaching.
The Government       then provided matched funding for the purchase by schools of approved       commercial phonics schemes to improve phonics teaching, and in 2012 the       Phonics Check was introduced to test decoding skills at the end of Year       1(5c).
In 2102, 58% of children passed the Phonics Check, and in 2013, 69%       of children passed (see press release, 5d); this document also       corroborates the influence of the Clackmannanshire Study on government       policy.
The 2012 Key Stage 1 Assessment showed that the percentage of pupils       achieving the expected level in reading comprehension in Year 2 had       increased by 2 percentage points from 2011; it is estimated that a further       7,500 pupils performed at this level over the previous year.
The gender       gap favouring girls also narrowed by 1% point, supporting Johnston's       findings.
The 2013 Key Stage 1 assessment (5e) has just shown a further 2%       rise from 2012 in children reaching the expected standard, and a further       1% gain by the boys relative to the girls.
A letter from one of the       authors of Letters and Sounds corroborates the impact of the       research on i) the government's synthetic phonics programme Letters         and Sounds, ii) the associated teacher training programme, iii) the       Phonics Check, iv) the increase in attainment in 2012, and v) the revised       National Curriculum for English (5f).
In recognition of her services to education, Johnston was awarded an MBE       in 2012.
The underpinning research has made a significant contribution to       stimulating, informing and moving forward public and policy debate around       synthetic phonics teaching, particularly amongst teaching practitioners       and parents (5 g,h,i,).
Economic impacts     The research described in section 2 has also led to large sales of a       number of commercial synthetic phonics programmes.
Estimated sales of two       synthetic phonics programmes from 1st January 2008 to May 2013 are: out of       around 16,000 primary schools in England, 6,203 are using Phonics Bug       (Watson and Johnston, published by Pearson http://tinyurl.com/cxwmqwu),       and an estimated 7,000 are using Read Write Inc (Miskin, published by       Oxford University Press http://www.oup.com/oxed/primary/rwi/ (5j).There       are also a number of other publishing companies selling synthetic phonics       programmes.
Contribution of other HEIs     Two years of the experimental underpinning research (for two studies) was       carried out by Johnston at the University of St Andrews.
Since then, the       research has concentrated on a longitudinal follow up, to look at the       gains in reading at the end of primary school, and the effects on low SES       children, boys and underachievers.
One year of the follow up data       collection was carried out while Johnston was at St Andrews, 1.5 years       were carried out whilst Johnston was at the University of Birmingham, and       3.5 years were carried out at Hull (where further underpinning       experimental studies were carried out and published).
