     UCL-led research on chimpanzees has facilitated conservation practice       within Nigeria's 7,000 km2       Gashaka-Gumti National Park and the surrounding region by developing       enhanced infrastructure       and skills.
Fieldwork demonstrated the necessity for integrating       conservation into research       planning if the park's unique ape population was to survive.
Research       findings were then used to       create public support for this approach, and thus secure a steady stream       of funding for       conservation activities.
These were designed to support park officials in       preserving indigenous       fauna and flora and develop vital infrastructure for the 15,000+ people       living in the park and its       environs.
Since the start of the project, the chimpanzee population in the       central regions of the       park has remained stable, particularly compared to other West African       sites where decline has       been as high as 90% in 15 years.
Whilst this cannot be linked exclusively       to Sommer's research, a       recent survey of 109 areas hosting great apes showed that the Gashaka       Primate Project (GPP)       model &#8212; engaging local communities and supporting desperately       under-resourced law       enforcement while maintaining a permanent research presence &#8212; is the most       effective       conservation method [1].
Increasing public engagement with and understanding of conservation         issues     The GPP's design centres on the use of research outcomes to support       conservation activities tied       to capacity building, particularly among the 214 rangers employed by the       park.
On the basis of his       discovery that Gashaka-Gumti holds the largest remaining population of the       world's most       endangered chimpanzee subspecies, Sommer used public and media engagement       activities to       create widespread awareness about the importance of conserving this iconic       but fragile wilderness       and its flagship species.
Between 2008 and mid-2013 these included [2]:     - 27 interviews and 8 articles in national and international media       outlets, including extensive       coverage on TV, radio, and in major German-speaking newspapers (Berliner       Zeitung,       Frankfurter Rundschau, Welt am Sonntag), as well as in GEO, Europe's       principal non-English       nature magazine (circulation 285k in Germany alone), plus a cover article       in the German       edition of National Geographic (circulation 227k).
- 77 talks in 7 European countries and in Nigeria.
These included       keynotes at prestigious       industry events (e.g.
Petersberger Forum, 2010 / Verlag f&#252;r die Deutsche       Wirtschaft); high-       profile talks at universities, museums and public forums.
- 2 popular books.
Schimpansenland (2008) is used by       Julius-Berger-Nigeria (JBN), one of the       largest construction companies in sub-Saharan Africa, as a corporate gift.
The company also       invited Sommer to deliver talks to senior management, employees and their       families.
2,000       copies of a coffee-table volume titled Apes Like Us (2010) were       distributed in 2010 by       Germany's largest private science-supporting organisation, the       VolkswagenStiftung, as its       annual gift for supporters.
- In 2011, French-German TV culture channel ARTE produced "Ich bin ein         Menschenaffe / Je         suis un singe" / "I am an ape", a 45 minute documentary on Sommer's       life, research and       conservation approach which, by May 2013, had been viewed 15,000 times via       YouTube.
Through these and other engagement activities, Sommer has inspired       sponsors and stakeholders       to support the systematic improvement of protection measures in the       Gashaka forests as the       principle remaining refugium of the world's rarest chimpanzee.
That       support (about &#163;527k),       administered through UCL, improved infrastructure to the benefit both of       the wildlife whose       protection it helps to ensure, as well as of human communities residing in       the park's enclaves and       buffer zone [2].
Supporting law enforcement and land management within the national         park     One of the GPP's first major projects was the demarcation of the       vast reserve's hitherto "unvisible"       border &#8212; using beacons and motorable tracks to improve ranger patrolling.
Funded by Chester       Zoo, the initial demarcation of several hundred kilometres of park border       was completed in late       2009; a rigorous programme of on-going maintenance and improvement since       then has included       its extension in 2013 to the 6 grazing enclaves that lie within the park.
Marking the boundaries has       removed legal ambiguities and significantly improved law enforcement,       providing incontrovertible       evidence to support charges against illegal activities such as poaching,       cattle grazing and forest       cutting; 200 such incidents have been authoritatively reported since 2009       [4].
Since 2008, park management has been further improved by an additional       GPP initiative       facilitating the identification of hotspots in which unusual rates of       plant cover loss require special       attention.
Supported by funding from the US Fish and Wildlife Service, GPP       began a satellite-based         vegetation mapping of the park as part of its biodiversity research.
Several park officials       were trained to interpret remote sensing imagery through GIS, and a       complete set of related soft-       and hardware was handed over to the park management in 2010 [4].
The       research project also       initiated seed programmes to improve park ranger efficiency and         motivation to patrol their areas       fully and conscientiously.
Regular donations to the ranger clinic helped       to build up a sustainable       stock of drugs.
From 2006-09, GPP provided gear and rations as an       incentive to guard remote       forests; this was so successful that the scheme was adopted by the       National Park Service in 2010.
A prime poaching spot was identified by the project team and further       funding obtained from       Chester Zoo to erect a permanent `rotary camp' shelter for rangers in 2010       [4].
Supporting communities and learning     As well as aiding park management and conservation efforts, hybridising       support for research and       law enforcement has also benefited those living in this remote region, as       GPP has led on the       development of several important infrastructural improvements.
For       example, in 2005, the project       established an extensive radio communication system across the       park and its buffer zone.
This       was facilitated by Sommer's long-standing relationship with       Julius-Berger-Nigeria (JBN), who       sponsored the installation and maintenance of the network covering 10,000       km2 across the park       and its buffer zones.
In a project spanning several years, a repeater       station was erected on a       mountaintop in the park's heart and hand-held radios distributed (2005),       land rover-radios were       acquired (2008), and ranger stations fitted with solar-powered stationary       radios (2009) [5].
This not       only enabled researchers to coordinate across vast tracts of forest but,       crucially, enhanced the       capabilities of rangers to protect this unique biotope.
Moreover, in a       region where messages       normally travel at walking speed and mobile phones don't work, reliable       radio coverage has       allowed notice of medical emergencies to be provided and transportation       arranged from the edge       of the forest to the nearest health facilities; locals and rangers cite       examples of victims of snake       bites and women in childbirth receiving urgent medical care during the       census period [6].
Since its inception, GPP has encouraged knowledge transfer leading to         the recruitment and         training of a new generation of park management and conservation experts       in Nigeria.
Since 2008,       30 African students have received bursaries sponsored by industry and       donations and       administered through GPP.
Ten later entered conservation or park       management careers, while 13       proceeded to higher education [8].
GPP also initiated German-Nigerian cooperation in the field of solar         engineering.
Students of the       Oskar-von-Miller Schule, an engineering polytechnic in Kassel, Germany,       designed a sustainable       `power-island' ensuring a clean, uninterrupted electricity supply to the       research station [7].
Supported by JBN and German industries, the facility was installed in       2005, and expanded or       reset four times during 2008-2013.
11 German students have received       accreditation as solar       engineers and several Nigerian park personnel were trained in renewable       energy techniques [7].
Supporting conservation     GPP has contributed to wider conservation goals in West Africa       through the development of the       Regional Action Plan for the Conservation of the Nigeria-Cameroon         Chimpanzee (2011) [9].
Professor Sommer, twice elected member of the IUCN / SSC Primate       Specialist Group on Great       Apes, was a main contributor to the plan, which was endorsed by the       wildlife and environment       ministers of Cameroon and Nigeria.
The plan cites Sommer's research to       show the cultural       uniqueness of this ape subspecies and to argue for urgent measures to       protect its remaining       members.
Using UCL-led population mapping data, the plan declares Gashaka       an `exceptional       site', identified key threats, and recommended a five-year conservation       plan [9].
Professor       Sommer's conservation vision was always tied to the challenge of creating       sustainable long-term       support for one of West Africa's last chimpanzee havens.
This plan came to       fruition in 2012, when       Chester Zoo agreed to permanently fund conservation activities through a       newly created Gashaka         Biodiversity Project (GBP), now registered as an international NGO       in Nigeria [10].
Sommer was       appointed director with oversight of research activities, and awarded the       North of England       Zoological Society's highest honour, the Gold Medal.
The laudatio stated:       "Before the project was       established, gunshots rang out daily in the very heart of the park; now,       tranquillity reigns &#8212; except       when the chimpanzees are calling...."
