     UCL research on the history of Jews in Europe has helped to shape the       stories British and European Jews tell about themselves.
This has been       achieved by providing cultural organisations, media and individuals with       information from research on under-reported facets of Jewish cultural       heritage, and creating original forums at which to engage with this       heritage.
Informing genealogical research and engaging the public with a         little-known heritage     Research at UCL has enabled investigations of British Jewish heritage by       the producers of the popular BBC genealogy programme Who Do You Think         You Are?
Guesnet and Berkowitz received enquiries from the programme       makers (eg Guesnet, 2010, 2011 and 2012).
Most notably, on 11 August 2011       Berkowitz appeared on an episode aired both in the UK and overseas.
The       producers approached Berkowitz to help the actor June Brown &#8212; who played       Dot Cotton in EastEnders.
Berkowitz drew on research to advise on       tracing her ancestor, the Sephardi Jewish boxer Isaac Bitton, and       recommended sites of particular relevance such as the Tom Cribb pub which       was later used for filming.
The audience of the original broadcast was       5.82 million, demonstrating the reach of this impact [1].
The significance of this public engagement impact is demonstrated       by the intense interest this segment generated in this little-known       history.
The episode's web forum had an active discussion about the boxing       connection, including a viewer who discovered her own ancestral links to       Jewish boxers in the East End of London [2] and many others who noted       their prior ignorance of this history.
The episode was reviewed in news       outlets including the Daily Mail, Independent, Daily Mirror,         Metro ("perfect fodder for a social history programme") and on       genealogy blogs such as Genes Reunited [2].
As a result, a wide       public has gained a new appreciation of the complex routes by which Jews       integrated themselves into British society.
This has profound impacts both       on those of Jewish heritage, who thus gain a deeper understanding of and       connection with their cultural heritage, and the wider British public       whose understanding of Jewish history is improved, thus contributing to       community cohesion.
Fostering debate between academics, cultural organisations and the         public     UCL research provided cultural organisations and embassies with a means       to fulfil their mandate to promote informed and authoritative debate in       London and internationally about contested or little-known histories,       demonstrated by their repeated sponsorship of events bringing the research       to an interested public.
Research also provided British Jews with a       sustainable forum at which they could engage with academic debates around       the history and experiences of Eastern European Jewry and thus created       interest and engagement with a shared, but often overlooked, history.
This       was achieved through a series of free talks and public conferences at the       UCL Institute for Jewish Studies, which were advertised through community       newspapers and mailing lists to attract a non-specialist audience and were       accompanied by exhibitions and film screenings.
For example, research provided the Polish Cultural Institute (PCI), a       diplomatic mission, a means by which to achieve what it terms "one of the       most challenges priorities of Polish cultural diplomacy": to engage the       British public with Polish and Jewish relations in their historical and       contemporary aspects [3].
This was achieved through a partnership,       beginning in 2009, to arrange a conference titled `Warsaw: the History of       a Jewish Metropolis' (June 2010), organised by Guesnet, who lectured on       the 19th century transformation of Warsaw's Jews "from community to       metropolis".
This was sponsored by the PCI, its collaborator the Instytut       Adama Mickiewicza and the Polish Embassy as part of Polska!Year.
This was       so successful that the Polish Embassy invited Dr Guesnet back in March       2012, to moderate a discussion on Polish-Jewish relations in the Second       World War, which was also widely covered in London's Polish press [4].
According to the Director of the PCI, this was the largest academic       conference devoted to the history of the Polish capital outside Poland       itself [3].
The conference, and those which succeeded it, was designed as       a hybrid event attracting a non-academic Polish and Jewish audience       interested in engaging with the latest research on the subject.
It was       attended by over 300 people [8] and sparked a series of successful       collaborations, including:     - May 2011: Unsere kinder, the last Yiddish film in Poland,       introduced by Guesnet     - Dec 2011: launch of a special issue of the journal Polin (over       100 attendees)     - Feb 2013: sold-out screening of the Venice Biennale film And Europe         Will be Stunned by Yael Bartana for Jewish Book Week.
Guesnet was       the historian on the discussion panel before about 400 Jewish and Polish       attendees [3].
These and similar events in 2010-2013 collectively attracted over 1,400       people and enabled the PCI to fulfil its commitment to promote discussion       of the contentious history of Jewish-Polish relations while reaching out       to a British public interested in Jewish themes [3].
It also enabled the       PCI to build sustainable new relationships with other organisations, such       as Jewish Book Week, with whom a new partnership was subsequently arranged       for 2014.
The communities attending these events also benefited from a new       conversation about British Jewish history and connections to continental       Europe, which facilitated the strengthening of this group with its       cultural heritage and history.
When several screenings of Unsere         kinder sparked an interest in historical research amongst members of       the Shomrei Hadat Congregation in London, for example, they invited       Guesnet to deliver a series of three lectures on the history of the Jews       in Poland and Lithuania in October 2012-January 2013 [5].
These, in the       words of the congregation's President, "enhanced our community and our       understanding of who we are and who we have come from" [5].
UCL research led to wider public awareness of, and interest in, the       little-discussed role of Jewish sportsmen and thus challenged assumptions       about the role of this community in British society.
This was achieved       through the development of heritage resources in order to conserve and       interpret cultural and historical heritage.
In 2007 the Jewish Museum       London mounted Ghetto Warriors, the first major exhibition on the       relationship of Jews and other minorities to boxing.
Drawing on the work       which was later published as [e], Berkowitz served as its Academic       Consultant and co-edited with Ruti Ungar the widely praised catalogue, Fighting       Back?
Jewish and Black Boxers in Britain (2007), to which Berkowitz       contributed a essay .
This was, unusually for a publication in this field,       reviewed in Supersport in 2009 and recommended as a `fascinating       new book' of interest to boxing fans despite its academic style [6].
The       significance of this exhibition is demonstrated by its ongoing use by the       museum, which incorporated parts of Berkowitz's interpretation into a new       permanent display launched in 2010 [7].
It also integrated objects from       the show into its Sandford Award-winning Take One educational       programme, such as a pair of shorts worn by a Jewish boxer competing in       the Olympics [8].
In 2013, this research was used for a special exhibition       and public lecture (30 July), on Jews and boxing, for members of the       Jewish Historical Society of England as a preview of its 120th anniversary       celebration later that year.
A two-day public colloquium on relations between Jews and Lithuanians,       co-organised by Guesnet, brought this contested subject to worldwide       attention.
`No Simple Stories' (February 2011) was co-sponsored by the       Rothschild Foundation (Hanadiv) Europe and the Lithuanian Embassy.
It was       attended by over 250 people from non-academic and academic backgrounds       [9].
Even before the event, the involvement of the Lithuanian government       was strongly disputed by groups who felt it was complicit in downplaying       the Holocaust and difficulties faced by present-day Lithuanian Jews.
Heated debate erupted in the media and at the event [10].
A comparatively       little-known controversy was thus brought to mainstream attention and       covered in The Economist (circulation over 1.4 million) where       lively debate continued in the comments section [10].
As many positive       emails on the thought-provoking content confirmed [9], the conference       provided space for a stimulating and informed debate on this contested       history.
