     The major impact of Balmer's research has been to create greater public       awareness of the development of chemical and biological weapons (CBW)       research in the UK by penetrating the secrecy which surrounds them, and to       inform public discourse and policy debate by putting them in their       historical context.
The history of CBW is poorly understood but attracts       considerable media and public interest due to events such as the post-9/11       anthrax attacks.
Through media work and public engagement activities,       Balmer has reached a large general audience in the UK and Europe, and in       the UK he has been directly consulted by policymakers and other interested       parties.
The reach of the impact of Balmer's research among the general       public has been very wide as a result of frequent media appearances in       which he has discussed past biological weapons programmes.
In 2010, the       National Archives released newly declassified documents about Britain's       biological weapons programme in WWII, which included new lists of       microorganisms that were to be considered as potential agents on which to       experiment.
These lists generated considerable media interest and, on the       strength of his monograph [a], Balmer was invited to put these documents       in context.
Initially he was interviewed and quoted in an article in The         Guardian, which at the time had a print circulation of 300,472 [1].
This led to three appearances on BBC TV and radio, and Irish radio;       Balmer's discussion of his research insights in an interview on BBC Radio       5 Live, Drive Time reached an audience of 6.76 million [2].
Later       in 2010, Balmer was approached to view and comment on a newly discovered       film of `Operation Cauldron', a 1952 biological weapons trial using plague       and other pathogens that had taken place at sea in utmost secrecy off the       Hebrides islands, about which he had written in his book [a].
This       interview was broadcast as part of BBC Bristol's Inside Out West,       `Operation Cauldron' (18 October 2010), with an accompanying BBC Wiltshire       web article [3], and was subsequently quoted directly in The Daily         Mail, with a daily print and online readership of over 6 million       [4].
In 2011, Balmer provided extensive research- based advice to TV       production company North One for a feature they produced for BBC 1's       flagship factual programme The One Show about poison darts       research in WWII [5].
Most recently, Balmer's research attracted media       attention abroad, when his keynote lecture at a conference on Technology,         Values and Ethics at the University of La Coru&#241;a led local and       regional Spanish press to interview him about how his recent historical       work [f] could contribute to contemporary arms control debates [6].
The significance of the impact of Balmer's research on the public       awareness and understanding of CBW is indicated by the award in 2008 of a       News &amp; Documentary Emmy for `outstanding science, technology and       nature programming' to `The Living Weapon', a documentary broadcast in the       USA during the previous year, in which Balmer was interviewed at length.
It was part of the Public Broadcasting Service's American Experience       Series (`America's most watched history series'), and continues to be       available for viewing on the series website [8].
The way in which that       initial media appearance has generally led to several further requests for       interviews is further evidence that Balmer's contributions have widely       been perceived as important.
Unusual and striking evidence of the significance of Balmer's research       was its use as the basis for an arts project, Dark Spaces,       produced by Neal White and the Office of Experiments, which explored       hidden sites of scientific research in the UK.
This both expanded the       reach of his work, and extended the range of beneficiaries.
White, an       artist in residence at UCL, discussed this project with Balmer and       consulted his work.
Dark Spaces involved a range of activities,       including the compilation of the Overt Research Database, `an on-going       project to map and record advanced labs and facilities in the UK, and to       involve the public in this exploration and revelation'.
The South Edition       of this database featured in the exhibition Dark Places at the       John Hansard Gallery, Southampton (2009-2010, in partnership with Arts       Catalyst and SCAN), reviewed in The Guardian and ArtDaily.
Balmer is acknowledged in the exhibition brochure [9].
As well as reaching the general public in their millions via these       contributions to local, national and international media, Balmer's work       has informed political discussion through presentations of his research to       policy-makers and non-governmental organisations (NGOs) in Britain and       abroad.
In 2012, he discussed his recently published chapter on V-series       nerve agents [f] with two such special-interest audiences.
At Chatham       House, at the UK launch of the book in which this chapter was published,       he addressed an audience of c. 50, including a FCO representative and a       former director (who is still active in arms control) of Dstl Porton, the       chemical and biological defence establishment.
In September 2012, he was       an invited discussant for a panel exploring the use of history to       understand the present at the US-UK Joint Workshop on Improving         Intelligence Analysis on Emerging Biotechnology Threats, organised       by the ESRC Genomics Forum.
The non-academic participants on that       invitation-only occasion included members of the US and UK intelligence       community, and representatives from the Federal Bureau of Investigation       (USA), the Department of Homeland Security, US State Department and Dstl       Porton.
Balmer also presented this research to the World Health       Organisation, Geneva, at their Global Public Health Histories seminar       series (11 July 2012), where the audience of c. 40 people (plus a       `webinar' virtual audience) included interns and WHO staff, including       personnel from their Centre for Strategic Health Operations, which       provides `a single point of coordination for response to acute public       health crises including infectious disease outbreaks, natural disasters       and chemical emergencies' (WHO website) [7].
This remit encompasses       response to deliberate malign use of disease or chemicals.
The talk, on       the history of nerve gas, was therefore directly relevant for their       understanding of the historical context of the Centre's mission.
Evidence for the significance of Balmer's research for policy-makers and       NGOs is inevitably limited by the sensitive nature of CBW: much of the       policy debate takes place in closed environments and it is accordingly       difficult to prove the extent to which it has been influenced by Balmer's       research.
Nevertheless, there are strong indications that beneficiaries       attach great value to Balmer's expertise.
When the FCO and the DTRA       sponsored a project on the governance of `dual-use' technologies in 2009,       they invited Balmer to contribute one of the two featured historical case       studies.
This case study [f] was described as supporting `a very important       argument' about the nature of dual-use technology by Michael Moodie,       Assistant Director for Foreign Affairs, Defense, and Trade at the       Congressional Research Service (CRS) and former Assistant Director of the       US Arms Control and Disarmament Agency [9].
In July 2011, when the Pugwash         Mapping Disarmament in the UK project report (begun several years       earlier in response to a request from Baroness Shirley Williams when she       was an advisor on nuclear proliferation, for an overview of UK       non-governmental work on nuclear disarmament) extended its directory to       include individual experts, Balmer was listed as a recognised expert on       the history of CBW [10].
The US-UK Joint Workshop on Intelligence       (September 2012) at which Balmer was invited to speak was explicitly       designed to ensure `Analytic Outreach' in accordance with a 2008 directive       from the US Office of National Intelligence that charged intelligence       analysts to engage with outside experts in order to `explore ideas and       alternative perspectives, gain new insights, generate new knowledge, or       obtain new information' [11].
The fact that Balmer has been one of the       first scholars invited into their normally closed world is clear evidence       of the significant impact of his research.
Support for Balmer's research by key officials and policy makers also       demonstrates the significance accorded to his work.
The Joint Workshop       generated so much interest from participants that the organiser (Prof       Kathleen Vogel, Cornell University) and Balmer subsequently submitted a       joint application for funding of a follow-up workshop bringing research to       intelligence experts to the National Science Foundation in 2013.
In 2013,       an award of &#163;460,446 from the AHRC for a new 3-year research project Understanding         Biological Disarmament: The Historical Context of the Origins of the         Biological Weapons Convention was supported by an invited project       advisory board, which includes senior staff from the FCO, Chatham House       and National Archives; their willingness to serve on the board is based on       their familiarity with Balmer's underpinning work, and constitutes a clear       indication of the significance which they attribute to his research in       this field.
