     Radner's research has had a significant impact on education in, and       public engagement with, the history of the Middle East via two major       online resources, used by non-academic audiences worldwide as a primary       portal to Assyrian history.
Both provide access to the original texts and       offer tools for working with these documents; one also offers an       independent learning course in the cuneiform script.
Since the sites'       launch, access data has been monitored as part of a dissemination strategy       designed to further worldwide interest in the field of Assyrian history.
In 2007, Radner teamed up with Dr Eleanor Robson (then Cambridge, now       UCL) and online cuneiform text corpus pioneer Steve Tinney (UPenn,       Philadelphia) to create a teaching website.
Funded by Higher Education       Academy e-learning grants in 2007 and in 2009 (Subject Centres for       Philosophical and Religious Studies and for History, Classics and       Archaeology) as well as UCL and Cambridge University, the site Knowledge         and Power in the Neo-Assyrian Empire (K&amp;P) [1] focuses on       cultural history.
It supports non-specialist use of a fully searchable       digital text corpus of 2,100 texts from the Assyrian state archives of the       7th century BC, and offers 15 introductory essays on key topics in       Assyrian politics (by Radner) and scholarship (by Robson); the site also       makes the underpinning research itself (e.g.
[a]) and many other research       publications available for download.
In 2009, `Cuneiform Revealed' was       added, enabling users to teach themselves the cuneiform script and the       Akkadian language in 10 lessons &#8212; the only such resource available       worldwide and the most popular part of the site.
The global reach of this aspect of the impact can be clearly       demonstrated by Google Analytics.
The statistical data which follow refer       to the period 1/1/2008 to 15/12/2012, when the site was housed on a server       of the Higher Education Academy.
After the devolution of HEA, the site       migrated to a UPenn server; apart from an initial dip, the access data for       the new site are largely in line with previous usage, but they are not       included here, to avoid double counting [2].
During this period, the site       attracted 194,202 visits by 142,260 visitors from 202 countries, that is,       all existing states save ten (North Korea, Western Sahara and eight       Central African states); 7,028 visits came from the countries of Western       Asia, the region of the ancient Assyrian Empire.
These visitors viewed       610,409 pages; repeat visitors accounted for 26.8% of visits (52,013).
In       2012, K&amp;P had over 5,000 unique visits per month.
Important evidence for K&amp;P reaching non-specialist audiences       is that the majority of visitors who came to the site by referral, as       opposed to directly or via a search engine, were referred by Wikipedia,       Facebook, stumbleupon.com and other such general-interest sites rather       than by the many academic websites that link to the site.
Impact beyond       academia is further demonstrated by the visits from regions where Ancient       Near Eastern History is not studied or taught at all: e.g., the       Philippines (3,099), India (2,792), Brazil (1,643), Romania (1,136),       Pakistan (741) and Indonesia (648), to name but a few countries, or indeed       South America (2,800) and Africa (1,894): entire continents without any       academic tradition in the subject.
Users in these regions can only have       been non-specialists.
This evidence for widespread popular interest       suggests that even in countries where Assyrian history is taught       at universities a high proportion of users of K&amp;P are       non-academic.
This is confirmed by the geographical distribution of the       42,780 visits from within the UK: far from being confined to the `golden       triangle', users came from 833 towns across the country.
The significance of the impact lies in essence in the simple fact       that K&amp;P makes possible the teaching and independent study of       a foundational part of world history that was previously almost       inaccessible to most of the world, and limited to a small body of       specialists at best.
In other words, the evidence for reach among       non-academics, cited above, is at the same time the best evidence for       significance.
Corroboration and illustration come from the interest shown       by the media.
Not long after the site was launched, it attracted the       interest of the editors of BBC Radio 4's In Our Time, who invited       Radner to discuss aspects of her work on the programme, chaired by Melvyn       Bragg (15/5/2008).
The programme remains available on-line, and the main       BBC page includes a link to K&amp;P, which accounts for 457 visits       with an average duration of 5:55 minutes.
Its availability on this and       other sites means that the programme has had an audience well beyond the       UK, and comments left on the BBC page are highly enthusiastic (`a really       fascinating look at a topic deserving of much greater attention') and       thoughtful (one listener suggested a comparison between Assyrian and       modern elites of knowledge) [3].
In April 2012, another non-academic user       of the website, journalist Tiago Cordeiro, was sufficiently inspired to       interview Radner for the Brazilian monthly magazine Superinteressante       (circulation c. 460,000) [4].
The second website, Assyrian Empire Builders: Governors, diplomats         and soldiers in the service of Sargon II and Tiglath-pileser III, kings         of Assyria (AEB), focuses on administrative, political and       military history in the 8th century BC.
It makes available a fully       searchable on-line corpus of c. 1,400 letters of the Assyrian state       correspondence, and provides context and explanatory materials in 30       introductory essays by Radner and her project team [5].
The reach       of this site is only slightly less wide than that of its older       counterpart: from 1 January 2010 to 31 July 2013, it had attracted 77,941       visits by 54,465 visitors from 170 countries, who viewed 162,711 pages.
Repeat visitors accounted for 30.1% of visits (23,495).
In 2013, the site       had over 3,000 unique visits per month.
AEB is among Google's       first three search results for all obvious search terms, such as `Assyrian       Empire', `Tiglath-pileser III' and `Sargon II'.
Again, referral traffic       generated by Facebook and other non-academic sites demonstrate appeal to       non-specialist audiences.
One aspect of the significance of AEB is indicated by a       notable difference to the visitor pattern of K&amp;P [2].
This is       the high number of visits from Sweden (sixth highest with 2,039 visits,       after 34,749 visits from the USA, 9,038 from 482 towns in the UK, 3,022       from Germany, 2,636 from Canada, 2,580 from Australia), where Ancient Near       Eastern Studies is taught only at the University of Uppsala.
Academic       usage cannot account for these numbers and the explanation is likely to       lie in the high number of refugees from Iraq granted asylum in Sweden,       including Northern Iraqi Christians who trace their origins back to the       ancient Assyrians and therefore have a pronounced interest in regional and       political history.
The significant impact of Radner's research on Middle       Eastern expatriate communities, not only Iraqi Christians in Sweden but       also other Christian and Syriac-speaking population groups originally from       the Middle East, is corroborated by the fact that websites maintained for       and by these expatriate communities such as Assyriska ungdoms&#246;rbundet         i Sverige, Christians of Iraq or Assyrian International         News Agency: News and Analysis of Assyrian and Assyrian-Related Issues         Worldwide make frequent use for their postings of AEB       materials or studies accessible through AEB download links, such       as Radner's article on the Tur Abdin mountain range [e], a key site for       Syriac-speakers [6].
Expatriate Kurds are another group that makes       frequent reference to AEB materials and downloads in blogs and web       forums such as WorldNews and ForumBiodiversity [7],       especially when discussing possible links between modern Kurds and ancient       Medes where Radner's article [a] is cited.
(Radner herself does not       endorse any direct link.)
The site is also intensively used in countries of Western Asia itself,       which account for 4,260 visits, the highest number after North America and       Northern and Western Europe.
An illustration of its significance here is       that the commissioning editor of the popular Turkish monthly magazine, Akt&#252;el         Arkeoloji Dergisi, after a visit to AEB, asked Radner to       adapt website materials on the Assyrian Empire's political presence and       cultural influence in Anatolia (which were in turn based on [e]), for       publication in its May/June 2012 issue [8].
A further use of AEB is in the education of younger children.
In       Britain, 561 visits to the sites followed links from children's reference       book publisher Usborne's "quicklinks" site [9].
In Australia, the website       is used for teaching ancient history at high schools, among them St       Gregory's College Campbelltown and Shore Sydney Church of England Grammar       School, whose teachers sought direct contact with Radner: "The boys love       your work and so do I.
You make it very accessible to us non academics."
[10].
In sum, the impact of Radner's research as disseminated via K&amp;P       and AEB has had a truly global reach and has been highly       significant in contributing to the cultural heritage of several ethnic and       religious groups, but above all in making possible for the first time the       study Assyrian history in detail at all levels, from school to university       to independent self-taught students.
