     Health Policy Changes: In November 2009, Walsh and Toleman were       part of a UK-wide Department of Health (DoH) call alerting all UK       hospitals and departments (through the Public Health England Reference       Laboratory) to this new type of antibiotic resistance.5.1 Their       NDM-1 studies were used to invoke mandatory screening be conducted for all       patients arriving from overseas hospitals - these proposals were fully       adopted by the UK DoH.
5.1 The ECDC called for greater       surveillance and enhanced European-wide infection control measures to       contain the threat of NDM-1 - see Table 2 of reference 5.2.
In South       Africa, the National Institute for Communicable Diseases issued a       nationwide alert calling for increased infection control measures due to       NDM-1.
5.3 In Canada (through governmental agency       focusing on practice and policy interventions for Canadian populations),       alerts and altered policies have been implemented.
5.4      In August 2010 as a direct response to the first publication, the       Ministry of Health and Family Welfare together with the National Centre       for Disease Control in India constituted a National Task Force for the       containment of Antimicrobial resistance.
In March 2011, this task force       produced India's first ever national antibiotic policy document entitled "National         Policy for Containment of Antimicrobial Resistance in India" (http://nicd.nic.in/ab_policy.pdf).
In August 2012, all major Indian clinical, academic and research bodies       met in Chennai to discuss for the first time implementing 1.
Antibiotic       stewardship.
2.
Infection control and 3.
National Surveillance.
This       document, entitled "The Chennai Declaration - A Roadmap to tackle the         Challenge of Antimicrobial Resistance", is a direct response to       studies in India, led by Walsh and Toleman that have persuaded the Indian       government to acknowledge the very serious antibiotic resistance issues.5.5       Walsh is advising the authors of the Chennai declaration and the Pakistani       health authorities on antibiotic stewardship and infection control issues.
IMPACT: Prevention of the spread of NDM-1 bacteria throughout UK       hospital wards as witnessed by the recent example published in the Lancet       and International policy changes e.g.
India.5.1-5.5     Public Behaviour Changes: These studies encouraged the Indian       government to take antibiotic resistance more seriously.
The work was the       catalyst for the Indian government to organise emergency meetings       resulting in the publication of the first Indian Government policies on       tackling antibiotic resistance.
The subsequent Chennai agreement has time       lined a road map for implementation of antibiotic stewardship and       infection control programs in response to Walsh's description of the       issues of multi-drug resistance in India - these are currently being       implemented across all of India so their impact is yet to be assessed.5.5       A secondary behaviour change has resulted from the work because it       highlights the threat posed by the growing industry of medical tourism and       international cosmetic surgery; this has caused clashes with Indian       private hospitals undertaking cosmetic surgery.
IMPACT: As a direct result of the research, stricter control of       antibiotic stewardship and national infection control programs are being       implemented in India.
The research highlighted some of the medical issues,       i.e.
post-surgical infections, associated with medical tourism.
Public Awareness of a Health Risk: Immediately following       publication of the seminal paper in Lancet Infectious Diseases,       NDM-1 was the fourth biggest story world-wide, the lead story on the BBC 6       o'clock news 5.6 and broadcasted by ABC, CNN,       Al-Jazeera, China-TV, India Today, SKY, ITV, Channel 4 and Channel 5.
On       11th August, 2010 the NDM-1 story was covered on the front       pages of the Telegraph, Independent, Guardian, Mail, Times, Financial       Times, Sun and Mirror.5.6-5.8 Interviews with the       Telegraph, Times, Guardian and Independent provided informed editorials in       the weekend editions5.6-5.8 On the web, the NDM-1       feature registered 4.7 million internet hits in 2 days (11th-12th         August).
Moreover, the follow-up study published in April 2011 was       covered widely in India and internationally including by the BBC - this       was the first study linking the emergence of "superbugs" to the lack of       sanitation in developing countries.
This study was covered at the time by       a Channel 4 documentary and more recently by BBC Horizon and ABC public       awareness programs.5.9, 5.10     IMPACT: This global coverage changed the public's perception of       "superbugs" and demonstrated that resistance can be readily spread from       one bacterium to another - a clear demarcation from MRSA and "C.         difficile".
This perception resulted in international alerts by the       Communicable Disease Centre (CDC) (USA), European CDC (ECDC) World Health       Organisation (WHO) etc.
and resulted in global behavioural and policy       changes.
The Control of Diseases has Changed.
The follow up study       describing the discovery of NDM-1 in the Indian tap-water and environment       has directly led to the Indian government issuing chlorine tablets to       sanitise tap water for New Delhi residents unable to afford bottled water.3.6       This practice continues, although control studies have not been undertaken       in India to assess the impact of the intervention.
IMPACT: Introduction of potable water treatment in New Delhi.
Impact on National and International Organisations: The impact of       NDM-1 has been detailed by many international health organisations       including: Individual national governments (China, Korea, France, USA and       UK) 5.1-5.5, the European Society of Clinical Microbiology and       Infectious Diseases, (CDC) (USA), WHO, European Parliament, and World       Health Assembly.
As a result of this international interest,       Walsh has been invited to give over 46 international talks (including       Australia, Norway, China, USA, Canada, Saudi Arabia, Thailand, Vietnam,       Japan, Pakistan and India) and Toleman has given talks in Italy,       Switzerland, Austria, USA, Saudi Arabia, and the UK.
Walsh has addressed       the European parliament with the director of the WHO, Margaret Chan (http://www.who.int/dg/speeches/2012/amr_20120314/en/         available on request from HEI) on NDM-1; Toleman has addressed NATO       surgeons at the NATO headquarters in Brussels.
Walsh has recently been       asked by the WHO and the Chinese CDC to act as a consultant on       international antibiotic resistance surveillance and was asked to become a       member on the World Health Associated infections forum (http://www.hai-forum.com/ webcast).
Walsh has also been asked by the UK government       "GoScience" to write a positioning paper predicting resistance rates in       2030 and its impact on human health.
.
IMPACT: Mission statements and general alerts on the impact of       NDM-1 issued by the above organisations including national screening       programs.
Outcomes for Patients have Improved: The research on NDM-1 has       altered treatment of individuals presenting with NDM-1 positive       infections.
The work documenting NDM-1 resistance profiles and prevention       measures for spread is known throughout the UK.5.1 A       recent case was of a traveller from India who required emergency admission       in at Southmead Hospital, Bristol.
Treatment as above prevented further       spread of NDM-1 pathogens.3.6     IMPACT: Production of guidelines, in collaboration with the HPA,       for patient treatment and management.
Less harm to patients, limited       spread of "superbugs" in UK hospitals and reduced costs.3.6
