     Legacies of British Slave-ownership (LBS) had an immediate and       highly visible impact on public debate.
A dramatic example was the       response to its findings about the extent to which the prosperity of the       City of London, including some of its most distinguished firms, was built       on money awarded as compensation to slave-owners.
From the moment the       project was launched in 2009, this discovery attracted much media       attention, including a front-page story in the Financial Times       which drew largely on research underpinning Draper's book [d].
The media       coverage elicited public statements from merchant bank N. M. Rothschild       and law-firm Freshfields acknowledging the findings of the project and       expressing regret for their past associations with slavery.
Draper was       invited to meet with senior managers at Freshfields to talk about the       project's discoveries and their implications for the firm's view of its       own history and McClelland was invited to address the Black and Asian       employee group of BP.
As a further result of this research, the Royal Bank       of Scotland changed their Historical Research Report, `Predecessor       Institutions Research Regarding Slavery and the Slave Trade' to include       directors of the bank and its British predecessors who were awarded slave       compensation but had previously not been identified as connected to       slavery [1].
The project also attracted the interest of acclaimed author Andrea Levy,       whose novel The Long Song makes extensive and fully acknowledged       use of Hall's research [a].
The novel &#8212; shortlisted for the 2010 Booker       Prize, longlisted for the 2010 Orange Prize for Fiction, a finalist for       the 2011 Commonwealth Writers Prize and named as a 2010 New York Times       Most Notable book &#8212; aimed `to instil pride in anyone with slave ancestors'       and has been widely lauded for its ability to evoke the plight of slaves       and their relationships with slave-owners.
Levy further acknowledged the       importance of the LBS project to her work by giving a public reading and       speaking at the Neale conference organised by members of the team in March       2012 [2].
To enhance the reach and significance of the project's impact on public       awareness and debate, members of the team have spoken to very many diverse       organisations and groups about the project and its work.
Most importantly,       the team organised workshops (6 in 2010, 2 in 2012) in London, Glasgow,       Newcastle, Liverpool, Birmingham and Bristol which ensured that members of       the public could participate in the research process, sharing ideas and       findings.
Around 220 people attended, mostly local and family historians       from outside academia, librarians, school teachers, museum professionals       and community activists.
These workshops outlined the findings of the LBS       project, focusing on the relevant region or city, and then gave       independent researchers the opportunity to talk about their work before       opening up the sessions to collective discussion.
The feedback forms       distributed after each workshop revealed an overwhelmingly positive       response.
Participants wrote that what they learned was useful to       understanding their own family history: `Good to have input that makes me       think'; `Will add a new dimension to my local history research'.
School       teachers commented on the benefit to their work: `As a teacher it is       always useful to know or learn of different approaches to teaching Black       History... the topics, relevant, very enlightening'; `As a school teacher,       this information is vital &#8212; knowledge of oneself + history of surroundings       helps to promote self-value &amp; sense of worth'.
Many feedback forms       stressed the events' inclusivity and diversity (22 of 97) and their       usefulness in helping participants network and make new contacts (23 of       97) [3].
The LBS team created two exhibitions based on research towards the Encyclopaedia       [b].
`The Slavers of Harley Street' at the Museum of London in Docklands       in 2008-9 was widely reviewed in the local press with all commentators       noting that the exhibition enabled them to view the history of the area in       a new light: `new research reveals a sinister side to the noble street       that will send shockwaves through consulting rooms and operating theatres       across Marylebone' (West End Extra); `lifts the lid on London's       middle class investments in slavery, dispelling the myth that the       archetypal slave-owner was sitting on a porch in the Caribbean surveying       his plantations' (Ethnic Now).
The Museum of London in Docklands       received nearly 159,000 visitors during this year, one-third more than       expected.
A group of emerging film-makers produced a film inspired by the       exhibition: according to a Museum of London Docklands Inclusion Officer,       `it was a subject they knew very little about and their inspiration came       from the Museum and gallery space enabling them to produce a touching and       informed film'.
Draper was invited to give a public lecture on the       exhibition at the Museum of London Docklands, which also led to an       invitation for him to give a talk to the Marylebone Local History Society       in April 2010; the findings presented in his lecture were described as       `quite astonishing' in their newsletter [4].
A second exhibition, `The Slave-owners of Bloomsbury', was created at UCL       to commemorate Black History Month in 2011.
An updated version was on       display at the Archives Centre in Holborn Library in 2012; after receiving       positive feedback from members of the public, library staff transferred       the exhibition to the public lending section, ensuring a higher public       footfall [5].
The LBS team are also active members of the Facebook groups Jamaican         Colonial Heritage Society and Coming to the Table which have       a combined membership of over 2,500 people.
The project has its own blog       and produces a monthly newsletter with over 200 subscribers [6].
Finally, a very substantial impact in terms of both reach and       significance is achieved by the online Encyclopaedia of         Slave-ownership [b], launched on 28 February 2013.
Crucial to its       success is its accessibility and usability for the general public.
Visitors to the site can search for individuals by surname, forename, age,       address, religion, occupation, by level of wealth, by size of       slave-ownership, by colony and estate name for each holding or by an open       search of the freeform notes &#8212; and therefore easily access the data       according to the users' wide variety of interests.
The team organised a       major publicity drive so that a wide audience would become aware of the Encyclopaedia       and its possible relevance to them.
All members gave interviews to the       press and the launch of the website was discussed in over 60 broadcasts       and publications with a reach of 20 million people, including national and       international media &#8212; e.g.
the Today programme on BBC Radio 4 or       the Jamaican Voice newspaper &#8212; but also regional media focusing on       the relevance of the project for specific areas.
For example, Hall gave an       interview to Radio Solent and This is Plymouth published a piece       on Devon's links to slavery [7].
The Encyclopaedia had 137,998 visits from 108,022 unique visitors       between the launch in February and 31 July 2013 [8].
The news spread       quickly through online shares, likes and tweets.
For example, the Independent         on Sunday article of 28/2 was shared 26,000 times and received over       1,000 comments.
Bloggers reported on the broad scope of the project &#8212; for       example the British GENES blog (which first picked up a tweet about the       project from Dianne Abbott MP) &#8212; but also used our search functions to       report on specific interests &#8212; for example, a blog on the Ekklesia website       which discussed slave-owning clergymen [8].
Between February and July       2013, the LBS project received and replied to over 500 emails from members       of the public, the great majority from descendants of slave-owners and the       enslaved.
Some e-mails reported personal reactions, many contributed       additional information on individuals in the database, and many led to a       long correspondence [9].
On numerous occasions the team was able to       provide information on ways in which people can pursue their own research       beyond the Encyclopaedia.
Conversely, the Encyclopaedia       was enriched by their input: over 330 entries in the database [10] now       present information contributed by members of the public, and 30 to 40       links to other people's websites have been added as a way of providing       access to more detailed information.
In sum, the LBS project has not only made its research available to large       numbers of people through a wide range of media but helped thousands of       non-academics to conduct their own historical investigations.
In doing so,       it has succeeded in making the legacies of slave-ownership a topic of       engaged and informed public debate.
