     Kaplan's book, Divided by Faith, has had a major impact on the       vigorous and vital current debate in public discourse and in academic       education about the possibilities for toleration in the contemporary       world, including in highly religious societies across the globe.
The book       was not only widely read beyond academia but gave rise to extensive and       lively debate in US, UK and Dutch media, and was adopted as a key text by       two human rights organisations as well as on a range of undergraduate and       postgraduate university courses in Britain and abroad.
Kaplan further       contributed to the development of public discourse on toleration by means       of a TV appearance and a number of lectures to non-academic organisations.
The extensive reach of Divided by Faith is demonstrated       first of all by sales figures.
The book sold many more copies than       academic books typically do: total sales until mid-2013 are just under       6,000 copies [1], and in the months following its publication, the book       was for a time ranked #1 for sales on Amazon.com in the category of       Western European History, while in the UK it was ranked #1 on Amazon.co.uk       in the category of Religious Studies.
These figures are in themselves       proof of considerable extra-academic interest in the book and its themes.
Still wider public awareness of Kaplan's research findings was ensured by       extensive media coverage, with a feature article in the New York Times       (print circulation c. 780,000) by the paper's religion correspondent, who       wrote: `at this moment, there may be no more important story than the one       Europeans and Americans proudly tell themselves about the rise of       religious toleration.
So please take note of Benjamin J. Kaplan's argument       that the story may be dangerously flawed' [2].
Divided by Faith       was also the subject of an extended discussion in American political       periodical The Nation [3], the oldest continuously-published       weekly magazine in the United States (print circulation c. 174,000), and       of newspaper reviews that noted the book's contemporary relevance - in the       Economist, the Times Higher Education Supplement, the Dutch       national daily NRC Handelsblad (which noted the book's       contribution to the contemporary `debate on integration' in Dutch       political circles), the Church of England Newspaper, and the       ecumenical Christian Century Magazine [4].
A total of up to 1       million people were thus made aware of Kaplan's research through print       media.
We may add the many users who continue to access on-line versions       of several of the above publications, including the substantial articles       [2] and [3], and the TV audience that saw Kaplan discuss his findings on       religious toleration in an episode of the series Christianity: A         History, broadcast in February 2009 on Channel 4 (UK) and       subsequently viewed more than 46,000 times on YouTube [5].
A combined       audience of c. 80 people benefited from Kaplan's insights through       smaller-scale but more intensive public engagement activity: his lectures       on toleration in public forums incl.
the USC Shoah Foundation, Los       Angeles; the Hampstead Museum, London; and Austin Friars, the Dutch Church       in London.
The significance of the impact made by Divided by Faith       was noted immediately by the first reviews of the book, but these appeared       in the last few weeks of 2007 and will therefore not be cited as evidence       of significant impact in the current assessment period.
From early 2008       onwards, however, Divided by Faith fed directly into the debate       sparked by proponents of `the new atheism' when it was featured in a       highly polemical article by Daniel Lazare in The Nation, which       denied the possibility that people of genuine religious faith could be       tolerant.
Kaplan weighed in on the debate with a rebuttal of Lazare's       article that was published in a subsequent issue of the same periodical on       a Letters page, which also included responses from other readers [2].
Similarly, a blog reviewing the book for the Dutch national newspaper De         Volkskrant provoked 48 readers' comments in the first day alone,       most of the responses discussing contemporary relations between Christians       and Muslims, in particular mixed marriages; the principle of freedom of       speech; and the difference between freedom (vrijheid) and       liberalism (vrijzinnigheid) [6].
Kaplan's findings and arguments       have become a regular point of reference in non-academic books that       address contemporary problems of religious diversity, such as those by       high-profile public intellectuals Ian Buruma and Richard Sennett [7], but       also in specialised studies which apply Kaplan's research in order to find       practical solutions to problems such as the ecumenical use of multi-faith       spaces [8].
At the other end of the spectrum, Divided by Faith is       cited in the world's most popular reference tool, in Wikipedia       entries on Toleration, Religious Persecution, and Early Modern Europe.
Kaplan's book has established itself as required reading in academic       education at both undergraduate and postgraduate levels in Britain and       abroad, not only in humanities programmes but also in programmes of law       (e.g.
SUNY Buffalo Law School in 2011) and theology (e.g.
Lancaster       Seminary), which are more practice-orientated.
Recently, it was the key       text for a module on toleration in early modern Europe on a Political       Science/Study of Religion advanced seminar course `Secularism and       Religion' (Spring term 2013) at the University of Toronto, as well as the       main textbook for the second half of an introductory undergraduate history       course `Early Modern Europe 1500-1789' (Summer term 2013) at Simon Fraser       University, Canada [9].
The ideas and evidence presented in Divided by Faith have been       used by human rights organisations to enhance their own understanding of       religious toleration and to formulate a discourse designed to combat       intolerance.
Kaplan has in person acted as consultant in these processes:       in 2008 and again in 2010 the Executive Director of the international       human rights organisation Humanity in Action (HIA) solicited his expert       advice.
The Director reports that Kaplan's research `helped me to       reconceptualize toleration &#8212; to understand it as a social practice rather       than an abstract ideal, ... to see the wide variety of forms it could take       ... [and to] identify the flashpoints for religious conflict ... currently       operative in India, Indonesia, and other places around the globe' [10].
Kaplan spoke about the practical lessons to be drawn from his research in       November 2008 to a gathering of HIA's UK fellows, and Divided by Faith       was adopted by HIA in 2008 as required reading for its fellowship       programmes &#8212; about 60 fellows subsequently read portions of the book [10].
The book is also cited on the website of Tolerance International UK, an       NGO which `aims to promote community cohesion, tolerance and moderation       between peoples' [11].
In sum, the significance of the impact lies in the success of Kaplan's       research in making people aware of clear historical evidence that       pragmatic religious toleration is entirely possible even in a world that       seems doomed to be torn apart by violently opposed religious       fundamentalists.
The research has also demonstrated by historical examples       that toleration can take forms other than the ones dominant in       contemporary western countries.
The obvious implications for current       political debates on religion, atheism and multiculturalism were       recognised by the nomination of Divided by Faith for the       Louisville Grawemeyer Award (2008), established `to highlight ideas and       works that "make the world a better place"`.
