     Peacey's research has had an impact on public understanding of the role       of mass media in politics and society insofar as it has provoked       discussion and reflection among large non-academic audiences in both US       and UK.
In the US, Peacey communicated the results of his research to the       general public primarily through a major exhibition at the Folger       Shakespeare Library in Washington, DC, the world's most important       non-university centre for the study of the Age of Shakespeare.
The impact       of the exhibition was further enhanced by Peacey's appearance on National       Public Radio (NPR), by blogs posted by visitors and above all by feature       articles in the quality press: The Nation, The New York Times       and Washington Post.
In the UK, Peacey has engaged with the       general public via media appearances, on-line articles and public       lectures, notably including senior staff of the Secret Intelligence       Service (MI6).
The Folger exhibition, Breaking News: Renaissance Journalism and the         Birth of the Newspaper (25/9/2008-31/1/2009), co-curated with Chris       R. Kyle (a historian of the early modern British parliament at Syracuse       University), explored issues which have been central to Peacey's research       (esp.
[b-d] and [f]), including government censorship and manipulation of       the news, the ways in which readers responded to journalists and their       innovations, and the opportunities which newspapers offered to citizens in       terms of facilitating political engagement and participation.
This       exhibition resulted from a formal proposal to the Library by the two       curators, following informal encouragement from library staff, as well as       successful bids for funding from an educational trust, the Gladys Kriebel       Delmas Foundation, which contributed $20,000.
Its preparation involved the       two curators sharing the responsibilities involved in undertaking research       within the Folger collections, collaborating with a range of curatorial       and conservation staff, and liaising with those involved in designing and       publicising the exhibition and its catalogue.
In addition to drawing on       the Folger's own resources, the exhibition brought together materials from       collections in New York, Boston and London, and involved the construction       of a working full-scale replica of a seventeenth-century printing press,       which the Folger Library continues to use for educational purposes.
The (free) exhibition attracted c. 5,000 visitors, and was accompanied by       a website and an audio tour, both of which are still available [1].
Also       still available is the substantial exhibition catalogue, of which 384       copies have been sold to date [2].
Peacey outlined the key elements of the       exhibition on National Public Radio [3], and the feature articles in the       US press discussing the exhibition had a potential combined readership of       hundreds of thousands: the daily print circulation of New York Times       [4] is 779,731; the Washington Post [5] 2.12 million; and The         Nation [6] 174,000.
Adding coverage in minor printed media, such as       the Washington Examiner, and the readership of blogs devoted to       the exhibition [7], we may conclude that Peacey's key research findings       reached up to 3 million people in the United States.
In the UK, Peacey presented elements of his research in three radio       programmes with a combined audience of 1.19 million people.
He was a       contributor to Killing the King (Radio 3; 1 February 2009;       audience 51,000), which discussed evidence about and interpretations of       the trial of Charles I in 1649, not least the ways in which this key       episode was politically managed as a media event.
He acted as historical       consultant and contributor to The Long View (Radio 4; 3 March       2009), where he offered the audience of 307,000 a historical perspective       on political transparency and accountability &#8212; not least in relation to       investigative journalism &#8212; during the recent scandal relating to MPs       expenses.
His largest UK audience were the 832,000 listeners of Random         Edition (Radio 4; 7 May 2010) to whom he explained the role of a       vibrant journalistic culture in the events leading up to the Restoration       of the Stuart dynasty in 1660.
More recently, he has communicated his       research findings on the relationship between the print revolution and       ideas about political representation through digital media, with an       article on the official website of the Westminster Parliament to mark       Parliament Week 2012 [8], and a contribution to a public history project       based at Sheffield University's Centre for the Study of Democratic Culture       [9], started up in early 2010.
Throughout, Peacey has also addressed wider audiences in person, giving       public lectures to a range of societies and institutions: the Maidstone       Museum (2008), Buckinghamshire Historical Association, Bath Royal Literary       and Scientific Institute (2009), the Cromwell Association (2010), the       Winchester Historical Association (2012), and, as noted, the Secret       Intelligence Service (2009), where he spoke on intelligence gathering       under Cromwell.
These lectures had a combined audience of c. 400,       including the Director General of MI6.
This impressive reach is complemented by clear evidence of significance:       Peacey's audiences demonstrably learned from, and actively engaged with,       the research findings that he presented to them.
This is best illustrated       by the response to the Folger Library exhibition.
A nice indication of the       difference made by research is the contrast drawn by both a newspaper       reviewer and a blogging visitor between the Folger exhibition and an       ostensibly similar exhibition on the history of newspapers in the nearby `Newseum'.
Barbara Krasnoff's Live Journal blog sums up the latter as       provoking merely `a shrug', whereas Peacey's exhibition is by contrast       `fantastic' [7].
What underlies her response is further articulated by E.       Rothstein in The New York Times [4], who argues that the Newseum       presents merely a glorification of the modern press, whereas the Folger       exhibition showed how `the genetic code of modern journalistic culture was       laid down four centuries ago in England' and provoked serious reflection       on the challenges now faced by print journalism.
Indeed, Rothstein felt       that the exhibition illuminated the much larger story of the emergence of       `an expanded sense of the importance of individual opinion' and ultimately       `the birth of the modern West' itself.
In The Nation, Richard       Byrne reported that the exhibition offered `useful' and `valuable' lessons       for those who are concerned about the fate of the news media in the modern       world, both because it showed how early journalism managed to overcome       obstacles to its development, and because it explained the `complex       interplay between government and the press' [6].
Philip Kennicott in The         Washington Post, stressing the exhibition's `timely relevance' was       struck by other modern resonances.
As well as pointing out the `stark and       powerful' lessons to be drawn from the evidence for the use and ultimate       failure of `brutal' censorship, he noted that `Folger exhibitions let you       make your own connections' and proceeded to identify striking similarities       between `journalism when it was young' and `our own anarchic and newly       democratised age of the World Wide Web' [5].
The impact of Peacey's       research here lies in its ability to stimulate reflection on the nature       and potential of modern electronic media.
Not all feedback on Peacey's exhibition or other public engagement work       is quite so articulate, of course, but it does uniformly testify to its       `engrossing' nature, as the Washington Examiner put it [10], and       thus to its significant contribution to the intellectual life of a very       large audience, who have been not only educated in the history of the       printed media but also prompted to reflect on parallels with the position       of mass media in the modern world and on implications for the currently       controversial use of social media.
