     The OPAL Water Centre applied key aspects of the research methodologies       and insights outlined above to deliver benefits to non-academic audiences       including disadvantaged and traditionally hard-to-reach demographics [see       5 in Section 5, pp.
25-26].
These pertained particularly to public       engagement with water science through the OPAL Water Survey, but also,       through the parallel research activities at the OPAL Water Centre, to the       provision of important water quality data used by policy-making bodies to       protect and enhance local and national environments.
The Survey, which was       launched on 12 May 2010, allowed people of all ages and abilities, but       especially disadvantaged communities, to learn about aquatic environments       and issues relating to water quality through hands-on science, generating       a `snapshot' assessment of the nation's lake and pond water quality and       the first national survey of lake sediment trace metals.
Promoting pupil and public education through water quality surveys:       Since its inception, the OPAL Water Centre has distributed 40,000 free       water packs, 20,000 of which were sent as class packs to schools.
The       Centre has particularly encouraged young people to participate in water       science and develop an interest in the natural world via 39 school visits,       demonstrations and events delivered by UCL staff over the course of the       project.
These activities have led, in some cases, to the development of       sustainable long-term initiatives supporting children's ongoing engagement       with freshwater monitoring and conservation.
For example, following a       visit to them in 2012, Thames Ditton Junior School, Surrey successfully       applied in the same year for a Royal Society Partnership Grant to support       their pupils' continued monitoring of local ponds using OPAL Water Survey       methods with support from UCL researchers [7].
The school science       coordinator said the pupils "were truly enthralled and excited to be       taking part in a real scientific investigation" [7].
Other youth       organisations benefiting from participation in the project include the Cub       Scouts who, in May 2012, adopted a version of the OPAL Water Survey as       part of their newly revised `Naturalist' badge [8].
Water Survey pack       contents remain available for free download from the OPAL Water website (http://www.opalexplorenature.org/TakePartWaterSurvey).
17,200 packs had been downloaded by the end of the project in May 2013       [4].
The OPAL Water Survey, the largest lake and pond survey undertaken in the       UK, led to widespread media coverage of water science, including       publications aimed at young people.
It was widely publicised in the       national and youth press [3] and by the end of the project data returns       exceeded 4,500 representing a &gt; 10% return [4], [5]; 94.7% of survey       questionnaire respondents said they had learned something new from it [5,       p.31] compared with 89.8% for OPAL overall.
Participants also contributed       photographs to a national pond-life photo gallery set up by the Guardian       [3] and over 450 lake mud samples to the supplementary OPAL Metals Survey       (May 2010-Dec 2011), to our knowledge the first public participation trace       metal survey in the world [4].
Data from this were incorporated into the       British Geological Society's G-BASE [4].
Engaging deprived communities with water science: One of the OPAL       Water Centre's primary objectives was to facilitate participation in water       science among demographics that might not otherwise have the opportunity,       by targeting survey distribution and public events within these       communities.
Of more than 45,000 OPAL Water beneficiaries (who actively       took part in activities), 17% were classified as `hard-to-reach' and       included deprived communities, people with special educational needs,       victims of domestic abuse and black and minority ethnic groups [5, p.       24-6].
240 surveys were conducted in the country's 20% most deprived       areas, and 483 in areas in the two highest crime domains.
Participants       included organisations such as the North Norfolk Workout Project, who work       with the long-term unemployed, people with physical and mental health       problems and adults with learning disabilities [6]; St. Mungo's, an       organisation supporting homeless people, and providing drug and alcohol       support and physical and mental health care; London Wildlife Trust's       `Budding Together' project (helping people experiencing mental health       problems get involved in conservation); and Southwark Youth Offending       Services / New Leaf [5, p. 29], as well as Interact (Interfaith Action) an       organisation working with young people of different faiths and       non-religious beliefs to build understanding and respect through social       interaction; and Blackpool's Marton Mere Junior Rangers (area in lowest 5%       of Deprivation Indices).
Alongside its educational benefits, one unexpected but gratifying outcome       of the project's engagement with these groups has been the many       participant testimonies to additional benefits in terms of increased       personal wellbeing [5, p. 26].
As one worker from a charity supporting       female victims of domestic abuse in the East Midlands explained: "I am       dealing with people with mental health issues, such as depression, and       spending a few hours out in the open air, doing things they did as kids,       has really boosted their confidence" [5, p. 26].
Provision of data supporting local and national governmental         environmental interventions: Our research at a lake in each of nine       regions of England (2008-12) (see 3 [e], above) undertaken alongside the       main public participation surveys enabled local groups to develop       conservation policies [1] and also provided key data for the UK       contribution to a 2010 consultation on the Stockholm Convention on       Persistent Organic Pollutants [2].
This arose from the OPAL Water team's       detailed monitoring and research at the 9 lakes providing new data on       pollutants listed as Priority Hazardous Substances under the European       Union's Environmental Quality Standards Directive (2008/105/EC), such as       mercury, PCBs (polychlorinated biphenyls) and brominated flame retardants       (3 [e] above).
The report to Defra [2] produced by AEA Technology (an independent       scientific consultancy), used OPAL water and fish data to provide evidence       for bioaccumulation of hexabromocyclododecane (HBCD) in UK freshwaters to       demonstrate that "values are well above the bioaccumulation criterion...       for listing under the Stockholm Convention".
It noted that no other UK       data were available and made specific reference to OPAL research outputs       (3 [d], above), concluding these data provided "ample evidence of       bio-accumulation...of HBCD in biota" [2].
HBCD has since been included in       the Stockholm Convention for proposed elimination [2].
At a local level, the OPAL Water Centre provided data to Hart District       Council to help classify one of the 9 monitoring sites, Fleet Pond       (Hampshire), as a failing water body under the EU Water Framework       Directive (WFD) and thereby lever funds for a restoration strategy (first       phase 2012- 15) [5, p. 72].
Hart District Council's Fleet Pond Management       Plan 2010-2015 drew on OPAL Water Centre bathymetric, sediment and aquatic       biota monitoring survey data [1, p. 77-79].
Dredging of Fleet Pond began       in March 2012 on the basis of our data, and these will additionally be       used to assess the success of current restoration activities.
