     Research conducted at UCL has improved the provision of targeted local       health services through Camden and Southwark Primary Care Trusts.
The       underpinning names classification has subsequently been licensed to       healthcare and government organisations, as well as to CACI Ltd. to       improve the industry-leading ACORN commercial neighbourhood classification       system used throughout business, government and public services.
The       public has been engaged with the research through innovative websites that       allow searching and tracking of surnames across the UK and the world.
Museums (such as London Science Museum) and heritage organisations (such       as the National Trust) have presented these data to the public through       interactive exhibits or their own websites.
Licensing classification tools to public sector organisations:       Names classification software was applied, in partnership with two London       Primary Care Trusts (PCTs), to analyse the ethnic backgrounds of those       seeking screening and care, and to target interventions accordingly.
This       occurred, as described in section 2, through Knowledge Transfer       Partnerships (KTPs), with Camden PCT and Southwark PCT, two of the       country's most ethnically diverse boroughs [c, d], where vagaries in the       recording of ethnic background hampered effective targeting of health       interventions.
Building on the KTP, Southwark PCT hosted a 2011 pilot       project seeking to increase extremely low rates of breast cancer screening       amongst women of African Caribbean descent.
As part of the this project,       the names classification was used to identify the ethnic groups of women       who missed screening, and then targeted resources and information       accordingly, leading to an increase in the uptake of screening among       African Caribbean women [1].
These partnerships, in turn, had an impact on       how these and other PCTs understand GP referral patterns and admissions to       A&amp;E. For instance, PCT staff worked with UCL researchers to use       surname data and challenge a commonly held perception that A&amp;E usage       differs by ethnicity [c in section 3 above].
As awareness of the names classification tool has increased, over 15       PCTs, strategic health authorities and other government organisations used       it under licence between 2008 and 2013.
For example, the Health Protection       Agency, England (now Public Health England) used the software for ethnic       classification in sentinel surveillance of hepatitis and other blood-borne       viruses in 2011 and 2012 [2].
NHS Lothian, Scotland, licensed the software       in August 2010 to code patient records by ethnic group and determine       differential disease prevalence, as well as the level of uptake and       accessibility to public health prevention services such as smoking       cessation or cancer screening.
NHS Lothian officials also used it to       assess need and usage of interpretation in GP surgeries by Polish       speakers, and to assist in developing a new interpretation service (ITS)       contract [2].
In the business sector, the classification was licenced to CACI Ltd for       its ACORN classification &#8212; one of the most widely used general purpose       geodemographic classifications in the UK today.
ACORN is licensed to a       very wide range of customer-facing organisations seeking effective       communication with target groups.
It has over 500 core licensees with       long-term use of the complete dataset throughout their organisations,       including government departments, local authorities, hospitals, banks,       etc, and many others making more restricted use.
Culture, ethnicity and       linguistic group is profoundly important in shaping the neighbourhood       geography of the UK as the country becomes more multi-ethnic and its       ethnic minorities become more geographically dispersed.
Recognising the       increasing importance of effective classification of ethnicity, and       cognisant of prospects for future UK population censuses, UCL research was       used by CACI to provide a more differentiated source of ethnicity       information than Census sources alone [3].
In March 2013, the latest ACORN       classification was released, using this new approach, and was made       available to CACI's huge customer base.
Engaging a UK and international public with research: Through       online maps that graphically present the research described in section 2,       research has engaged a global public with an interest in family histories       and historic migrations and, at the most basic level, the question: where       do we come from?
During the impact period, the website collectively was       accessed by over 4 million unique visitors.
The Public Profiler website (gbnames.publicprofiler.org) was originally       developed, in 2006, out of the initial investigation into the geographic       patterning of names in Great Britain.
This was accessed by 1.6 million       unique users in its first year alone, and between 1 September 2007 and 31       July 2013 had over 1.3 million unique visitors, each of whom spent an       average of nearly five minutes on the site and looked at 15 pages: this       indicates a substantial degree of user engagement [4].
As a result of this       widespread interest, and to mark the centenary of its founding       legislation, the National Trust licensed a version of this website for       three years (August 2007-2010) [5].
When the initial analysis was extended to 25 other countries, an       international surname mapping site (worldnames.publicprofiler.org) was       created in 2007.
Google Analytics show that this site was visited by more       than 3.6 million unique users between 2008 and 31 July 2013, with each       spending over 3 minutes viewing 6 pages [4].
Visitors originate       predominantly from the USA and UK, with significant numbers from the       European continent.
James Cheshire was commissioned by National         Geographic (US print circulation 5m) to draw upon the research to       create a map of surname distribution in the United States, which appeared       in February 2011.
[7]     A Twitter names map of London (twitternames.publicprofiler.org) was       launched in December 2012 as part of the EPSRC Uncertainty of Identity       project and building on names classification data.
This was reproduced       widely on high-circulation news websites, such as the Mail Online       (24 April 2013; 170 comments, demonstrating engagement with research; 2.1m       daily visitors) and Guardian (13 Dec 2012; nearly 1.4m daily       visitors), collectively reaching up to 3.5m readers.
Interactive educational exhibits for museums, increasing public         understanding of science: Capitalising on the popularity and       user-friendliness of the research and the website, science museums have       utilised the research in interactive exhibits and to improve their own       presentation of science topics such as identity and genetics.
To date,       over four million visitors to various museums are estimated to have been       exposed to this interactive exhibit, and its significance may be gauged by       the relationships cemented with various museums during the impact period.
The At-Bristol science discovery centre used the research to develop an       interactive exhibit for the Inside DNA exhibition (December 2007 to August       2008), making the understanding of genetics both engaging and personally       relevant by enabling visitors to trace migration patterns by the spread of       their own surnames.
Inside DNA subsequently became a 5-year travelling       exhibition and appeared at museums including National Museums Liverpool       (September 2010 to February 2011; 1.2m visitors in this period), MOSI       Manchester (May 2011 to November 2011; 536,000 visitors in this period),       and Thinktank Birmingham (May 2012 to November 2012) [8].
Another       interactive exhibit was developed with London Science Museum       (approximately 2.7m visitors per annum) where the exhibit was included in       the 'Who Am I?'
interactive exhibition (2010-15); visitors engage with       complex issues of identity, genetics and inheritance through reference to       the changing geography of visitors' own family genealogies.
In the first       year alone (2010-11), an evaluation found the redeveloped `Who Am I?'
gallery had over a million visitors (twice the expected number) [9].
In       2012, this research was selected for a display on Genetic Maps at the       Royal Society's prestigious Summer Exhibition, showing how genetic makeup,       names and facial characteristics are distributed across the UK (11,120       visitors, 3-8 July).
Most recently, the Glasgow Science Centre's &#163;1.9 million BodyWorks       exhibition has the Family Names interactive exhibit, based on Public       Profiler, as a key part of its exhibit, which "aims to allow visitors to       learn about genetics, inheritance and cell biology".
From its opening in       April 2013 to August 2013, the exhibit received "overwhelmingly positive       feedback" and attracted over 143,000 visitors and over 32,000 school       children [10].
