     The Lamanai Archaeological Project is an example of long-term fieldwork       embedded in a       community.
With decades of ongoing relations, it is difficult to isolate       specific impacts of research.
Instead the impact needs to be viewed holistically.
Over the years, the       LAP has been instrumental       in developing both the site and access to its rich finds for visitors,       and in contributing to the       local community of Indian Church Village by facilitating the tourism         industry and providing vital         skills training.
In 2001-2005, the Belize Government's Tourism       Development Project worked with       Graham's team to excavate and conserve the Maya buildings on the site       (including the Palace       courtyard group and the two churches) and to develop a visitor centre here       [1].
Lamanai is       amongst the most visited Maya sites in Belize, and these improvements form       the core of its       offering to the over 212,800 people who visited the site in 2008-2013.
By       contrast, in the       equivalent time period before the tourism development project began       (1995-2000), the site was       visited by only 93,200 visitors or less than half those recorded during       the impact period [1].
The       ongoing significance for visitors is demonstrated by the reviews the site       continues to receive from       tourists and travel books &#8212; on Trip Advisor, for example, the Lamanai       Archaeological Reserve is       rated 4.5/5, with all but 4 of 169 ratings (2011-2013) `very good' or       (predominantly) `excellent' [2].
The research project has been vital in creating economic development       in this historically       deprived area.
This is achieved through the increased employment       potential, but also through skills       development.
A specific example during the impact period is the direct       impact of Graham's       research on 16th century Spanish churches at Lamanai [b, e] which informed       the Belize Institute of       Archaeology's consolidation and reconstruction of the churches to       reinstate them as important       historical landmarks, and provided specialised training for the Orange       Walk Tour Guide       Association in nearby Orange Walk Town [1] to ensure that they used the       latest findings in their       work.
This, and other research, also informs the interpretation at the       site itself.
Community       development activities accompanying the research have included training in       jewellery making and       the development of an artisan centre at Indian Church, the village of 300       people where Lamanai is       located [1].
This example of a long-term engagement with a site and the       surrounding community       was an important factor in Graham's subsequent research and community       development initiatives       on Ambergris Caye.
Tourism is the second-largest industry in Belize and with the largest       barrier reef in the western       hemisphere, Ambergris Caye is one of the country's most important diving       destinations.
As a result       Mayan heritage has not formed a strong part of the sense of place and       identity of its main       settlement, San Pedro, although most San Pedranos themselves are almost       certainly descendants       of east coast Maya who staunchly resisted the Spanish invasion.
In 2008,       however, a plan for a       condominium development (called South Beach) galvanised a younger       generation of San       Pedranos to protect the island's archaeological heritage, centred       in the small site of Marco       Gonzalez.
As a result of the example provided by the nearby Lamanai       Archaeological Project, and       knowing that Graham had participated in a reconnaissance of Marco Gonzalez       (with David       Pendergast) in the 1980s, the Director of the Belize Institute of       Archaeology invited her to liaise       with the then-nascent Marco Gonzalez Maya Site Ambergris Caye (MGMSAC)       preservation group       in 2009 [1].
Existing site (left) and proposed development (right) at Marco         Gonzalez           The Director used Graham's prior research (e.g.
[d,f]) to argue for the       importance and extent of this       site and indicate that the Belize Institute of Archaeology, which has       oversight of the country's       archaeological resources, would challenge this plan [3].
Simultaneously,       Graham launched a new       archaeological project at the site that demonstrated and cemented its       importance and contributed       to the call for a buffer zone to protect it.
For the first time, residents       of Ambergris Caye were       galvanised to protect this Maya site and challenge the proposed       development.
This was reflected       in the news coverage in local papers, such as the San Pedro Sun,       and in 2010, led to the site       becoming Belize's first Maya archaeological reserve located on an island,       and to the institution of a       buffer zone [4].
Due to the economic climate, the development was       subsequently suspended.
Thus Graham's research was instrumental in providing the evidence         base to have Marco         Gonzalez declared a protected site, and thus prevent catastrophic damage.
It was also       instrumental in bringing a new awareness of the richness of their Maya         history amongst San         Pedranos, and a realisation of the periods of transition and       external contact through which Maya       culture and heritage survived to the present day.
It is important to note       that the site itself contains       no surviving monuments; thus the finds, the activities of the field school       and the underpinning       research, are essential to bring this period alive in the minds of       visitors [5].
Those findings thus       continue to inform educational and tourism activities at the site, and are       an important factor in       MGMSAC's fundraising and awareness activities [5].
For example, the MGMSAC       website       (http://www.marcogonzalezmayasite.com) draws on both findings and research       activities to explain       the importance of the site and evoke its past [6].
When research began at Marco Gonzalez, access was via a 45 minute trek       through a mangrove       swamp.
Providing access, therefore, was a major priority for MGMSAC.
For       the 2010 field school,       a 433 metre walkway was built for the site.
This provided essential access       for the school, but also       a permanent benefit for the island and its heritage community in       developing a blueprint for       environmentally sensitive access.
For the first time, therefore, it was       possible to bring tours to the       site [6].
As awareness amongst visitors grew, from 2012, the San Pedro       Town Council began to       proactively repair the road leading to the site, demonstrating its       increasing profile [9].
By 2011       traffic was sufficient that MGMSAC hired and housed a caretaker on site       from visitor fees [5].
The ongoing research enabled MGMSAC to apply successfully for the funding       required to develop       it as a heritage tourism site on a caye previously best known for       water sports.
The archaeological       and heritage evidence was used by MGMSAC to launch a vigorous awareness       and fundraising       campaign, including developing a range of souvenirs, and to argue for the       need for a visitor centre.
As a result, in November 2011, MGMSAC had raised US$40,000 for the site       [7] including       donations from the Frederick Upton Foundation to improve interpretation       and signage using reports       written by Graham and Simmons for the National Institute of Culture and       History (the parent body       of the Belize Institute of Archaeology).
These were also used to develop a       guide narrative [5].
To develop the site as a central part of the caye's heritage, the       research project provided the       information underpinning cultural and learning resources to facilitate       school and tourism visits.
In       2011, a brochure was developed summarising the research findings and       introducing the site.
In       2013, funding amounting to 1500 USD was received to develop this further       into a full-fledged       guidebook.
According to the reports delivered by the MGMSAC to the       National Institute of Culture       and History (the parent body of the Belize Institute of Archaeology), the       site received 274 visitors       during its first year (February-December 2011), rising to 617 in its       second (2012).
In the first       quarter of 2013 alone, the site received 286 visitors, showing its growing       popularity [8].
These visitor numbers are small compared to larger Maya sites, such as       Lamanai.
Yet for the       14,000 inhabitants of Ambergris Caye, they indicate an unprecedented       appreciation of the island's       Maya heritage.
The MGMSAC and the researchers actively use the findings       from the site to       promote this.
This has included, for example, leaflets provided at hotels       and tourist offices.
Regular       Archaeology Days and Exhibitions are held in San Pedro, at popular       locations such as Fido's       Courtyard, the largest beach bar on the island (20-23 June 2012), or at       the Belize Yacht Club (8       July 2010) [12].
These introduce town residents and visitors, both       children and adults, to research       findings, and are accompanied by talks from Graham and members of MGMSAC.
The increasing profile of the site &#8212; and of the island's heritage &#8212; is       demonstrated by the fact that       San Pedranos are now actively investing in it.
As described earlier, the       Town Council has taken       responsibility for maintaining access roads [9], and local residents and       businesses donate       financially and in kind [9].
Research findings are keenly covered in the       local press [10].
Also       reflecting this recognition is the fact that school engagement is now a       regular activity.
The project       runs the Ambassadors of the Past programme which brings two ethnic Maya       university students to       the caye to deliver talks to school children about the place of Marco       Gonzalez in Belize's Maya       heritage &#8212; about 300 children attended talks in 2012, the first year, and       the programme was       repeated in 2013 [11].
