     The Voicebox: an educational resource for secondary school science         teaching.
There is a need in the UK to engage school pupils with       science at an age where they are still forming their subject preferences.
The phenomena of speech and the voice are familiar to pupils and have       intrinsic interest because they convey so much social and individuating       information.
It was therefore expected that an extension activity that       uses speech as a vehicle to introduce some key concepts in physics and       biology might engage pupils, including those who otherwise show little       interest in science subjects.
As an additional outcome of our research, therefore, we decided to       produce materials to enable school science teachers to introduce the       evolution of speech and language in the classroom.
School science teaching       has its own priorities and constraints, which require specialist       expertise.
We therefore formed a separate team specifically for this       purpose, involving academics in UCL Archaeology (Sandra Martelli, James       Steele) and in UCL Speech, Hearing &amp; Phonetic Sciences (Mark       Huckvale), along with curriculum developers at the Institute of Physics       (Charles Tracy, Education Manager) and the Nuffield Foundation Curriculum       Programme (Peter Campbell, co-Director, Nuffield Twenty-First Century       Science project).
The result of this collaboration was Voicebox: The Physics and         Evolution of Speech, a school science teaching resource for pre-GCSE       teaching, which included a 52-page booklet, DVD with additional learning       resources, and an innovative physical apparatus [1].
It was published in       2010 as part of the Science Enhancement Programme (SEP; http://www.nationalstemcentre.org.uk/sep)       run by the Gatsby Foundation.
The Voicebox booklet contains an illustrated overview of the       topic with suggestions for teachers on how to introduce the ideas in the       classroom, plus student activity sheets and notes for teachers and       technicians.
The electronic files (now downloadable from the National STEM       Centre website [1]) include the activity sheets in PDF and editable Word       formats; PowerPoint presentations containing a complete set of the images       used in the booklet and activity sheets; and further resources including       video clips and drag-and-drop interactives that accompany the student       activities.
The further resources also include software packages written       by UCL's Mark Huckvale to illustrate graphically the different properties       of sound (amplitude, pitch and timbre) as pupils speak into a microphone       in real time (`Faroson'), and to simulate the sound emitted by vocal       tracts of different sizes and articulated into different shapes       (`VTDemo'), as well as a video of the larynx showing footage from a camera       introduced into the oropharynx to show one of the team's (Steele) vocal       folds in motion [1, see online resources].
In addition to this, a physical       apparatus (the vowel resonator kit) was specially designed to enable the       sound properties of the human vocal tract to be reproduced for three       different basic vowels ([a], [i] and [u]), using       inexpensive everyday materials that the pupils can assemble [2].
The Voicebox resource was favourably reviewed in the trade press.
A reviewer for School Science Review commented that "many of         the SEP resources give me a new insight into teaching traditional         topics, and this publication is no different.
A useful resource that         contextualises some of the science behind evolution and sound" [3],       while a reviewer of the vowel resonator kit for Physics Education       gave it four stars out of a possible five, commenting that "The         apparatus is easy to use and with younger students would make an ideal         practical investigation into the human voice.
[...] the apparatus is         simple but excellent and can, with a little ingenuity, be extended into         a more diverse investigation into the structure of the sounds produced.
[...] an interesting extension to the usual sound experiments" [4].
The whole resource currently (October 2013) has a five star user rating       out of five on the National STEM Centre website [1].
When the booklet (with DVD) was published in 2010, it was sent free of       charge to the c. 4,000 SEP Associates (school science teachers) who       requested a copy.
It was also sent by SEP to another c.150 targeted       individuals (e.g.
Science Learning Centres, Association for Science       Education regional officers, and so on).
The Institute of Physics       meanwhile distributed the booklet to all 1700 of its affiliated schools       and has since distributed copies to teachers at events and/or on request       (another 847 copies) [5].
The e-resources were hosted on the SEP website       from its publication in Summer 2010 until the website closed at the end of       2011, at which time they were transferred to the National STEM Centre.
Statistics for individual resources on the SEP website are not available,       but there have been 763 downloads from the National STEM Centre website       since 2012 (all figures for period to September 2013) [5].
To reinforce and evaluate the Voicebox resource, we offered       one-hour workshops to up to 10 London secondary schools during Third Term       of 2013 (May-June), taught jointly by Steele from UCL and by an       experienced teacher from the Institute of Physics curriculum development       network, with the science teachers of the host schools.
The offer was       oversubscribed and nine were delivered, with one postponed to a later       date.
A freelance educational consultant formerly employed by the SEP       programme undertook the evaluation.
The workshops were assessed by       feedback questionnaires completed anonymously by the pupils, and by       follow-up telephone interviews with the teachers at the host schools, and       a report was written synthesising these results [6].
The report summary       concludes:     "It was found that the workshops were rated highly by the teachers, and a       very large majority of the students were interested in the workshop       activities and in doing further similar activities.
The workshop appealed       to a wide range of students, including those who were in general less       interested in science.
The teachers reported that they would value taking       part in further workshops, and they found ideas in the sessions that they       would like to incorporate into their curriculum teaching."
This is based on a sample of 157 pupil feedback questionnaires, and six       telephone interviews with teachers (all those teachers who were       contactable in the follow-up period at or shortly after the end of term).
Particularly noteworthy, in relation to our aim of engaging a wide range       of pupils with science subjects, is the fact that, of the pupils who said       they were only `fairly interested' or `not very interested' in science       generally, 70-80% were either `interested' or `very interested' in the       workshop activities and in doing more activities on this topic.
The report       also states that:     "The teachers were asked whether they thought that students who were not       especially interested in science might become more engaged through these       kinds of activities on the human voice.
All of the teachers were very       positive on this point.
Although the students attending the after-school       workshops tended to be those already interested in science, the teachers       felt that the materials would work well with less interested students.
They commented on the value of the approaches that were relevant to       students and which appealed to their broader interests.
In fact, one       teacher had already tried some of the resources on the CD-ROM with less       motivated lower ability girls and found this to be successful."
In conclusion, a multidisciplinary research project on the evolution of       speech led to the formation of a specialist team to develop a resource on       this and related topics for enhancing secondary school (pre-GCSE) science       teaching, which was then widely distributed within the UK science teaching       network.
A follow-up evaluation confirmed that the resource successfully       uses the voice and speech, and its relationship to human and hominid       anatomy, as a vehicle to introduce some key concepts in physics and       biology, engaging even pupils who otherwise show little interest in       science subjects.
The Voicebox is currently part of the Institute       of Physics' offer for teacher training workshops on the broader topic of       sound, and support for further London schools workshops will be offered by       Steele from UCL.
It is intended that future initiatives led by UCL       Archaeology will follow, taking the Voicebox as a model.
Expanding reach and engaging new audiences with research.
While Voicebox       facilitated an in-depth engagement with our research for a specific and       defined group, wider media engagements allowed us to broaden the reach of       this engagement.
Our work reconstructing Neanderthal vocal tracts and       speech potential was featured in the media, most notably in a contribution       on the vocal tract by Barney and Martelli to the first episode of BBC 2's       `Prehistoric Autopsy' series (aired 22 October 2012; 1.6 million viewers),       in which Neanderthals were studied and their bodies and appearance       reconstructed [7].
Barney also described our work as part of a podcast on       Neanderthals, which is available online on the (London) Natural History       Museum's website, where it enhances the presentation of the Gibraltar       skull, the first adult Neanderthal skull ever discovered (one of 22       `Treasures' of the Museum, all of which have been on permanent display in       a new gallery space since November 2012) [8].
