     In April 1999, the minimum wage was introduced to the UK labour market.
The role of Machin's research in this decision is demonstrated by the fact       that no fewer than 22 of his papers are cited in the first Low Pay       Commission (LPC) report of June 1998 before the National Minimum Wage       (NMW) was instituted [1].
Since then, and throughout the impact census       period (2008-2013), the minimum wage has been set by the LPC, and       underpinned by the guiding logic demonstrated by the research: that       setting a minimum wage at an appropriate level does not harm the economy.
Research papers [a-e] above continue to be cited in the LPC's annual       reports almost every year [1].
Some indicative outcomes based on research       during the impact period are described below.
Impact on minimum wage policy     i) A direct impact from the research, and from Machin's position as a Low       Pay Commissioner, has been the raising of the NMW at the right level at       the right time; to &#163;5.73 per hour in October 2008, to &#163;5.80 in October       2009, to &#163;5.93 in October 2010, to &#163;6.08 in October 2011, to &#163;6.19 in       October 2012 and to &#163;6.31 in October 2013.
These upratings were       recommended by the LPC, and accepted by government following the       principles laid down in the research that a minimum wage pitched at the       right level need not harm employment [a], even in the context of the       economic downturn when some argued that there should be a freeze of the       minimum wage.
ii) At the same time, the research suggested that in an economic       downturn, care had to be taken in raising the wages of younger low wage       workers who are more prone to unemployment during recessions [b].
Following this logic, during the years of the economic downturn (through       the upratings announced each October from 2010-2013), the LPC decided, for       the first time, to not raise the youth development rate (the minimum for       18-20 year olds) by as much as the adult rate.
Thus the research, through the setting of the minimum wage, continues to       have impact on over a million UK workers and on large numbers of       businesses every year.
In particular, it has been an important factor in       ensuring the minimum wage was increased without harming employment levels.
Benefits to low wage workers     The principal beneficiaries are, of course, the large number of low wage       workers in the UK: about 4 per cent of workers, around a million people,       are in minimum wage jobs.
Between 2008 and 2012, the LPC raised minimum       wages by 8 per cent (in line with the research), whilst the wages of the       `typical' worker in the Labour Force Survey (at the 50th percentile in the       wage distribution) grew by only 5 per cent (in nominal terms) [1].
Thus       the NMW acted to keep up the relative wages, and by association the living       standards, of low wage workers.
The NMW has been a highly popular and successful policy.
A recent policy       overview from the Institute of Government reported that the "minimum wage       tops the chart of the most successful policies of the last 30 years" [2].
Impact on the operation of the LPC and on government policy 2008-2013     Every year, including during 2008-2013, the LPC recommends to government       the level at which the NMW should be set and produces an annual report       justifying this on the basis of evidence.
These reports are presented to       Parliament by the Secretary of State for Business, Innovation and Skills       (BIS) [1].
Its recommendations are submitted to government in spring, and       typically come into effect in October the same year.
The LPC comprises a chair, three employer representatives, three employee       representatives and two independents.
Since 2007, Professor Machin has       been one of the two independent members.
Through this appointment, which       was made on the basis of Machin's research expertise, he has brought       evidence from research to bear on the debate within and decisions made by       the Commission.
This, as the chair of the LPC confirms in a written       testimonial, has `had a strong and wide-ranging impact on government       policy on minimum wages'; he further notes that this research impact `in       interacting with policymakers and practitioners has been second to none       amongst the academic economics community.'
[3].
The evidence base for the LPC's annual recommendations to government       comprises several dimensions, in all of which Machin and his research play       an important role.
(i) Professor Machin has had direct impact on the LPC's use of academic       evidence during the REF period by commissioning research projects       undertaken by other academics and research consultants [4].
Thus the       original research listed in section 2 has important knock-on effects to       facilitate the next generation of minimum wage research.
One clear example       of this was a project commissioned by the LPC in 2012-13 that directly       built on [e] listed in section 3 by looking at the impact of minimum wages       on firm profitability from the upratings of the minimum wage in the REF       assessment period [5].
In line with [e], they found profit margins were       squeezed by the minimum wage over the longer time period 1999 to 2007.
This was used in the LPC report released on April 2013 as evidence to take       into account when setting the NMW (para.
2.139-140, p. 69-70).
(ii) Professor Machin has, along with other LPC members, taken evidence       from a large number of groups each year and met them in presentations of       oral evidence in a two day meeting in November of each year (these are       listed in the LPC annual reports, [1]).
(iii) The LPC also conducts visits where commissioners meet employers,       workers and other individuals potentially affected by the minimum wage.
Many of these are in areas and industries with a high proportion of       minimum wage workers.
This consultation with relevant parties generates a       wider impact through engaging members of the general public in the minimum       wage setting process.
An indicative example is of the LPC visit to       Sheffield in November 2012, during which Debt Support Unit staff at a       Citizen's Advice Bureau provided specific feedback on the problems faced       by their clients on zero hour contracts [6].
Thanks to this robust evidence base, despite occasional objections       against the proposed level by both employer and employee groups, to date,       the government has always accepted the LPC's recommendations &#8212; which are       informed by Machin's contribution based on his research &#8212; on the setting       of the adult national minimum wage rates.
Impacts on policy debate     The research evidence has shaped the debate on minimum wages in the       policy arena.
For example, the Resolution Foundation set up a Commission       on Living Standards to study aspects of this &#8212; first coining the now       commonplace phrase `the squeezed middle'.
Professor Machin was a member of       the Commission and the evidence from section 2 was used in their report       [7].
They also refer to the research work in their new venture on `The       Future of Minimum Wages' [7].
The role of the minimum wage in alleviating inequality has been       acknowledged by the National Equality Panel (NEP), set up by the Right       Hon.
Harriet Harman MP through the Government Equalities Office, of which       Professor Machin was also a member.
The NEP emphasised the role of minimum       wages in keeping wages up at the bottom end of the wage distribution,       particularly for women, and drew upon the evidence of section 2 in doing       so [8].
Introduction of minimum wage in Hong Kong and experience of other         countries     The evidence provided by research continues to be used in discussions of       minimum wage in other countries, showing the international reach of this       work.
Professor Machin presented his research to policy audiences in Hong       Kong in July 2008) as part of a search for evidence to inform minimum wage       policy.
In 2011, Hong Kong introduced a National Minimum Wage, affecting       10 per cent of its working population.
This referred to the use of the       LPC's assessments of the impact of minimum wages on employment as a       justification for the level at which a minimum could be introduced without       damaging employment [9].
The 2010 report of the Provisional Minimum Wage       Commission, which set the parameters of implementation in Hong Kong,       referred extensively and positively to the UK precedent, and cited eight       separate research outputs by Machin and nearly every LPC report since 1999       [9].
The UK research evidence has also featured prominently in minimum wage       discussions elsewhere, for example, the Australian Fair Pay Commission's       Minimum Wage Research Forum in Melbourne in October 2008 at which Machin       presented his research [10], while discussions in Germany (where Professor       Machin presented his research to policy audiences in Berlin in April 2008)       referred to the UK evidence and looked to the LPC as a model if an       economy-wide minimum wage were to be introduced.
