     East Looks West (ELW) expanded horizons, particularly in eastern       Europe.
By encouraging audiences to engage with different perceptions of       the world, ELW has challenged stereotypes, increased self-awareness in       East and West, promoted cross-cultural communication, and       contributed to debate on issues of difference and foreignness.ELW research       has contributed to the cultural life of east European audiences by       creating a new awareness of, and dialogue about, the richness and       diversity of travel writing from the region.
Its publications have helped       to show the value of East European travel writing as a source for the       cultural history of Europe, and created new resources now used in         higher education in eastern Europe and beyond.
Through publications and media partnerships research contributed to         cultural life and stimulated discussions of travel and identity       across eastern Europe.
Indicative evidence includes Romanian blogs (e.g.
on the utility of ELW approaches to East/West divisions) and news reports       (e.g.
ELW illuminating cross-cultural perceptions in the new EU) [1].
Bracewell's article `Lovrich's Joke' [e] was selected for translation and       broadcast on Croatian national public radio (9-10 May, 2013) for its       provocative use of `cultural cringe' to unpack Croatian attitudes to       `Western' cultural authority [2].
More specialised audiences influenced by ELW include collectors.
Two       Greek examples are a) the uniquely valuable 30,000 volume E. J. Finopoulos       collection of travel books on the Balkans and Levant, and b) the private       Lekkas collection on Ionian history.
Using ELW research, their consultant       librarian alerted these collectors to the significance of travel book       production in Eastern Europe, and made it possible to identify new items       for purchase, enlarging both the scope and utility of their collections       and contributing to a major scholarly and cultural resource.
The       Finopoulos collection was recently donated to the Benaki Museum, thus       making these texts available to a wide public [3].
Research publications are used as unique educational resources       which enable teachers at higher education institutions to pose new       questions and introduce unfamiliar perspectives, particularly across local       linguistic boundaries, allowing the use of texts that were otherwise       inaccessible.
For example, ELW resources counter mono-causal       interpretations of the `Western invention of Europe' in history syllabi       (Collegium Artes Liberales, Warsaw; Central European University, Budapest;       University of Szeged; McMaster University, Canada; University of St       Andrews), while courses in travel literature and cultural studies at the       Universities of Cyprus, Bucharest and Prague use ELW research to contrast       eastern and western European travellers and introduce specifically east       European perspectives [4].
A Bucharest public symposium used Under         Eastern Eyes [b] to focus discussion of Romanian reconfigurations of       identity, and a teachers' handbook from the University of Athens uses Where         to Go in Europe [f] to explore foreign city-soundscapes [5].
Indeed, the availability of ELW publications on pirate download sites such       as LibraryGenesis, hosted in Russia, is further evidence of demand!
Where to Go in Europe [f] was an important channel using       accessible and amusing content to promote public engagement with the       research.
This anthologised travellers' lavatorial anecdotes to show how a       universal necessity has been used to construct East/West divisions and       thus engage an English-speaking public with the ideas of constructed         differences examined in the research described in section 2.
First       printed in 2009, and praised by Times Literary Supplement Editor Peter       Stothard on the TLS Blog [6], all 200 copies were rapidly distributed.
In       May 2013, students in UCL's MA in Publishing produced an expanded edition       of 650 print copies and an e-version, launched through a series of       exhibitions, readings and interviews attended by some 200 visitors,       predominantly young, non-academic Londoners and tourists.
Lively comment       focused on a new awareness of cultural construction, prompted by       travellers' expectations (e.g.
"what is a normal toilet?").
In the       first two months following the re-issue (to 31 July 2013), a third of the       print-run (208 copies) was sold at a RRP of &#163;4.99.
Sales were to a broad       audience beyond the academic community, such as a book club whose convenor       cited the combination of accessibility and serious message.
Other       responses emphasised the effectiveness of toilet humour as a prompt to       self-reflection: as an Amazon reviewer stated: "The book's pervasive       humour, by inviting us to laugh at these constructed differences,       simultaneously does its part in working to dissolve them"; "shows that       differences, within the Balkans, and also East/West, are never so clear       and consistent as imagined" [7].
In 2009, Professor Bracewell organised a series of public engagement       events together with the Leverhulme writer-in-residence Tony White, using       ELW research into east European representations of London, which provided         an important London forum for public debate on experiences of migration.
Destination London (19 October to 7 November 2009) events included       podcasts of readings, a radio broadcast on east European London in       collaboration with Resonance FM, a book launch, a public panel of travel       writers, and writing workshops which promoted cross-cultural       communication between migrants and hosts.
The reach is demonstrated by the       attendance: around 200 people (about half of east European heritage)       attended and many commented that it was their first engagement with       academic research on migration.
The significance of this impact is       demonstrated by the fact that all available books sold out (worth over       &#163;1,000).
The lively discussions at the event were echoed in the positive       visitor feedback received ("Tonight really helped me understand my       feelings as an immigrant in London, and as a Londoner back at home in       Poland").
Subsequent coverage of the event in the Croatian press (Ve&#269;ernji         list, Zagreb, 24 Nov 2009; one of the two largest dailies in the       country), noting the significance of London as a Croatian destination,       applauded ELW's recognition of `a new outlook on the city' created by       immigrant travel writing [8].
The success of the 2009 event was repeated in 2013 at Through         Different Eyes, part of UCL's Festival of the Arts, 11-12 May 2013.
This actively sought to use research to challenge stereotypes in the       context of UK debate on east European immigration, and thus contribute         to social cohesion and cultural understanding.
Some 50 participants,       British, Polish and Romanian, used travel writing to look `through       different eyes', in a reading group and discussions with artists, writers       and workers.
The positive feedback indicated that the experience was       transformative for both migrants and hosts, deepening discourse about       migration by including the voices of those who are more often depicted       than heard.
Comments included: "many times it revealed not only the       ignorance about the `foreigner' but also the contradictions in the `eyes'       of the viewer!
"; "I think that we can understand a country, no matter       which, when we stop comparing with what is familiar to us"; "We are not so       different, but what a gap between us!
If only that type of exchanges of       ideas would happened more often, maybe the gap was smaller"; "the other       side of the story is how outsiders have themselves reshaped the city and       have actively transformed it".
The events were reported by UK migrant       blogs, showing reach within the community.
One Romanian migrant, after       reading an 1840 ELW travelogue of London, blogged his own version:       "I follow in Codru's trail and see London today as a very different city.
But Codru has opened my eyes to things I did not see before".
This text       was subsequently republished by a website showcasing oral histories of       migration for a popular and academic audience in Romania and was       accompanied by a report, applauding the attempt to understand migration       `from within' in contrast to UK tabloid journalism [9].
