     Gerry's research has stimulated debate and discussion both within and       beyond academic circles, in the UK, the US and in the regions under       discussion, about health in post-Communist societies, particularly       demonstrating the need for indigenous capacity in health economics.
This       led to the establishment of a project in 2011, co-directed by Gerry, to       develop health economics as a part of core economics teaching and research       at universities across the region.
To date, 15 universities in Eastern       Europe, Russia and Central Asia have sent early career researchers and       teachers to a health economics training programme jointly led by Gerry.
Within two years of the programme's start, impact is evident, with new or       substantially reformed health economics teaching and research introduced       in major universities in Russia, Kazakhstan, Tajikistan, Ukraine and       Croatia.
The publication of Gerry et al's critique [a] of the much-discussed Lancet       article linking mass privatisation directly with increased male mortality       in post-Communist regions, was quickly picked up by the mainstream press.
Its coverage in national outlets, including The Guardian (4 May       2010), ensured that this challenge to an accepted `fact' contributed to       media discourse about the findings themselves and raised broader questions       about issues such as the reliability of statistics [1].
As the research developed, Gerry was invited to present its findings in       Moscow, Tartu, Georgia, St Petersburg, Vienna, Kiev, Oxford and London.
Not only did those presentations extend the reach of the research impacts       on public discussion, debate and awareness of associated issues, they also       resulted in multiple further invitations to give lectures and       masterclasses in Health Economics in universities including the Higher       School of Economics, Moscow (two lectures in 2012); University of Tartu       (summer school lecture in 2010); and International School of Economics,       Tbilisi (2 x 1 week lecture courses in 2011-2012).
These invitations       themselves and the subsequent delivery of talks based on the research       demonstrated and enhanced its contribution to a raised awareness of both       the importance and the absence of a capacity for health economics       in the region.
Prior to this, where health economics existed at all, it       was based largely on the financial management of health care organisations       rather than being seen as part of the behavioural social sciences bridging       economics and public health [2].
Following one of these visits, Gerry applied with Dr Yulia Vymyatnina       (European University, St Petersburg) to the Open Society Foundations'       Higher Education Support Program, from which they sought support for a       project (ReSET) to develop health economics as a part of the core       Economics teaching and research syllabus at universities across Russia,       Central Asia and Eastern Europe.
The findings published in [b] were       central to this application, particularly as they related to: the complex       relations between socioeconomic events and health outcomes; the challenges       of finding robust relationships using econometrics; and the importance of       linking empirical work to both the theoretical underpinnings of the       discipline and the area specificities conditioning the relationship.
On       the basis of these findings, the training programme was designed to       combine a theoretical and an empirical approach to the dynamics of health       production which enabled it to address the specific weaknesses of health       economics teaching in the region, while also recognising the importance of       the controversies on which the research focused.
Their application was approved in 2011, since which date Gerry and       Vymyatnina have co-directed the almost $500,000 `Global Health Economics'       programme.
The programme, which involves multiple international experts as       expert faculty (lecturers), provides exposure to and training in       contemporary methods and thinking in health economics to early career       economists and health specialists in universities in the post-Communist       states of Russia, Kyrgyzstan, Kazakhstan, Ukraine, Tajikistan and Croatia.
Expertise delivered through the programme has been drawn from across the       globe with a view to providing the most solid foundation possible in       theoretical health economics and a good understanding (through the use of       the research outlined in section 2) of methods for empirical research in       health economics.
Since 2011, the Global Health Economics programme has       delivered eleven sessions on topics such as Health Financing, Economics of       Evaluation and Applied Health Econometrics to 30 young academics from 15       different universities in the region, recruited through a competitive       selection process in early 2011.
Participants all attended annual two-week       intensive summer sessions held in St Petersburg in July 2011, 2012 and       2013, as well as shorter winter sessions in February 2012 and 2013; a       final session is scheduled for April 2014.
In between, there were site       training visits and sub-group meetings in Sumy (May 2012 and 2013), Almaty       (May 2012 and 2013), Moscow (2011, 2013) and Nizhny Novgorod (June 2013).
Participants also worked interactively on their teaching and research       portfolios throughout the period under the online mentorship of the       programme's international faculty.
Through this, they generated shared       resources [3] for health economics.
The programme has allowed participants       to engage in collaborative research projects in the health economics field       and equipped them with the tools to establish contemporary health       economics programmes in their own universities for the first time.
The       resultant paradigm shift, both in participants' approach to research and       in the incorporation within their home institutions of health studies into       mainstream economics courses, has already led to the development and       delivery of new or improved programmes in the region.
These and other benefits of the project &#8212; the continuation of which is       contingent on the demonstration of its impacts across the region &#8212; are       revealed through its scrutiny (most recently in May 2013) by external       reviewers tasked with compiling an annual audit report [2] and through       participant feedback [4].
The latter established that Health Economics       (HE) courses either had been or were being introduced for the first time       or in substantially reformed mode in major state universities in Ukraine,       Kazakhstan, Tajikistan, Russia and Croatia, as demonstrated by the table       below (derived from [4]):                                University           Did HE exist             at the start of             the project?
Has HE provision been             introduced or             substantially changed as             a result of the project?
Are you now engaging             in HE research,             whereas you weren&#8217;t             previously?
Higher School of Economics,             Moscow (Russia           Yes           Yes           Yes                             European University, St             Petersburg (Russia)           No           Yes           Yes                             Sumy University (Ukraine)           No           Yes           Yes                             Zagreb University (Croatia)           Yes           Yes           Yes                             Almaty (Kazakhstan)           No           Yes           Yes                             Dushanbe (Tajikistan)           No           Yes           No                             Penza (Russia)           No           Yes           No                             Novosibirsk (Russia)           n/a           n/a           Yes                             Nizhny Novgorod (Russia)           No           Yes           Yes                          The participant feedback below, from 2012, confirms the benefits both to       participants themselves and more broadly to the institutions to which they       belong:     [text removed for publication]     The programme's impact and reach has been such that a new research       laboratory (`Department of Economics of Health Reform') in Moscow under       the Russian Presidential Academy of National Economy and Public       Administration was established.
It was formally opened in September 2013,       following an application for funding accepted in May 2013, with Gerry       approved as an `international expert' and appointed as Vice-Head for the       period 2013-2016 [5].
Four participants of the ReSET project have been       appointed as Research Fellows affiliated to the new research laboratory.
