     The research described above has been used by businesses and provided a       basis for legal rulings and expert testimony in British courts.
Impacts on Legal Understanding and Judicial Rulings       Professor Ledeneva's research has been widely used in legal proceedings,       informing both commercial and extradition cases in London.
She has used       insights garnered from her experience of research to transfer specialist       knowledge and provide scholarly advice to legal experts and policy makers       dealing with Russia or Russian matters.
Notable examples since 2008       include: [1]     - Discussion for about 50 lawyers and businessmen at the Forum of the       Russo-British Chamber of Commerce, London, on the legal environment for       investment in Russia, 23-34 June 2010.
- Talk at Pushkin House for over 100 attendees on the ramifications of       high-profile Russian legal battles in London courts, sponsored by       Littleton Chambers (on `Russian Legal Battles in London' on 6 June 2013.
Through these talks and similar activities, Ledeneva's research has made       a valuable contribution to major commercial and extradition cases at the       High Court.
An example of this is provided by one major extradition lawyer       who has represented Russian individuals living in England but charged with       criminal offences in Russia, leading to extradition requests.
In nearly       all of the cases for about 10 individuals he has been involved in, he was       required to provide expert advice on issues surrounding the judicial       system and related factors [2].
For these he considered Ledeneva's       research `absolutely essential' [2], and specifically cited [a], [b] and       [c] in section 3 above.
Specific examples of the contribution of Ledeneva's research to recent       legal cases include its use by an expert witness to argue, during a case       brought in February 2010 for the extradition of the oligarch Yevgeny       Chichvarkin, founder of Russia's biggest mobile phone company, Evroset,       who fled Russia when police alleged that he had kidnapped a truck driver       whom he believed had stolen a $1m consignment of mobile phones.
Ledeneva's       research on telephone justice was used to argue (inter alia) that the       accused could not receive a fair trial in Russia unless special measures       were taken.
The request for extradition was eventually dropped [3].
Another example was that of the expert witness report on the Russian       political and legal regime in the $5bn Berezovsky -v- Abramovich case       before Justice Gloster in 2012 [4].
The research has also been quoted directly by judges in rulings on high       profile commercial cases, including the &#163;2 billion suit by Michael Cherney       against his fellow oligarch, Oleg Deripaska, in which Cherney claimed that       he was owed a share of Rusal, the world's largest aluminium producer.
First brought in 2006, the case was notably predicated on a request that       the claim be served in London, rather than Russia.
In his widely cited       ruling on Cherney -v- Deripaska (2008), High Court Judge Mr Justice       Christopher Clarke directly cited Ledeneva's research [c, e] in support of       his ruling that Cherney did indeed have the right to sue Deripaska in an       English court due to `the risks inherent in a trial in Russia'.
In making       this judgment, he referred particularly to `persistent rumours of       "telephone justice", where the state or a senior judge gives the judge       instructions to decide the case as was the norm in the Soviet era' [5].
This decision was unanimously upheld in the Court of Appeal in 2009 [6].
In an analysis of this much-discussed decision, a lawyer at the commercial       law firm Herbert Smith LLP pointed out that: `Clarke was further persuaded       by expert evidence that in Russia, in cases where the government itself is       a party and which concern a direct material strategic interest of the       Russian state, the courts may depart from their generally fair and       impartial performance in a commercial dispute between private persons'       [7].
Impacts on Corporate Training and Consultancy       In 2012, Transparency International ranked Russia 133rd out of 174       countries on its corruption perception index, and according to some       estimates, corruption accounts for 20-30% of the cost of doing business in       Russia.
However, the real picture on the ground is extremely complex, and       businesses employ a wide range of internal and external strategies to       navigate and tackle corruption.
As a result, Ledeneva's expertise on       informal practices was frequently solicited by business intelligence       consultancies and think tanks in the UK, US and Europe; during the impact       period, she received several requests for talks which led to her work       being utilised for business intelligence services to a wide range of       corporate clients, but particularly large banking institutions, by Alaco       and GPW [8].
Ledeneva has also drawn on her research ([b] above) in work conducted       between 2010 and 2013 with Professor Stanislav Shekshnia of INSEAD, one of       the world's leading graduate business schools, with campuses in France,       Singapore and Abu Dhabi.
Here, her work was used to devise surveys on       informal practices to help CEOs and other executives to reflect on the       variety of informal practices in their own organisations, to monitor and       assess the subsequent risk of corruption there, and to devise strategies       to manage them in this unique context [f].
Informal practices identified       in Ledeneva's work constitute 27 entries in the questionnaire, thus       enabling executives to reflect on the variety of informal practices in       their organisations.
Ledeneva's expertise on informal practices and       corruption therefore allowed the development of this innovative corporate       tool for the identification, measurement and mitigation of corruption       risks.
These surveys were disseminated to 140 senior managers through three       training sessions (2010-12) on managing corruption in the INSEAD       executive education programme at Fontainebleau and Singapore.
They were       subsequently used for almost 1,000 managers in the Sberbank-5000 INSEAD       executive development programme [10].
In 2009-12 she also conducted       executive workshops for approximately 40 executives from DTEK (Ukraine),       NIS (Serbia) and Gazpromneft (Russia) [10].
The academic programme       director, and Ledeneva's collaborator, cited the positive rating her       sessions received (3.9 out of 5), and noted that several attendees had       utilised the materials independently; one launched an internal corruption       mitigation programme, while another applied the methodology to their North       African operations [10].
Russia's third-largest oil company, TNK-BP, for       example, incorporated the surveys into training materials for executives       in Singapore (September and October 2011) and for alumni conferences in       Moscow (December 2011), whilst PricewaterhouseCoopers sponsored a lecture       on Russian cases in London courts at the Great Britain Russia Society,       London (2 December 2009) and a PwC in-house talk on 18 March 2010 [9].
These tools thus provided a new approach to understanding and tackling       corruption in the Russian context, and of developing ways to address it by       drawing on tools developed on the basis of Ledeneva's research [10].
