     Since she joined MMU, the culture of the MMU Writing School has helped       Duffy to form her vision, that British poetry &#8212; in reinvigorating its       traditional forms and modes, such as lyric, elegy, dramatic monologue &#8212;       could reconnect with a broad popular audience.
This conviction is       confirmed by her book sales.
In the past two years, according to Nielsen       BookScan, the three bestselling poetry titles in the UK have all been by       Duffy [The Christmas Truce (38,181), The Bees (29,716) and The World's       Wife (19,933)], and this at a time of falling poetry sales.
http://www.theguardian.com/books/2013/may/24/salt-poetry-market-slump.
In conjunction with colleagues like the broadcaster, publisher and critic       Michael Schmidt, the poet and critic Jeffrey Wainwright, and fellow poets       with a popular following like Simon Armitage and Sophie Hannah, Duffy was       able to develop a genuinely populist poetic following without compromising       the quality of the work itself, giving her the ideal grounding for her       work as Poet Laureate.
The Laureate is chosen according to three main criteria: poetic       achievement and reputation, ability to connect and communicate with a       broad range of people across the UK, ability to write accessible `public'       poetry.
Duffy more than meets these criteria.
Her poetic achievement over       more than four decades has won her the TS Eliot, Forward, Whitbread and       PEN/Pinter Prizes, plus an OBE and CBE.
Her ability to connect with wide       audiences is evinced by her high media profile, the presence of her work       on the GCSE and A-Level syllabus [A], and the continuing demand       for her to read at schools, festivals and other public venues, a schedule       averaging around three performances a week.
Her skill at writing an       accessible `public' poetry is demonstrated by the lasting popular success       of work such as `The World's Wife'.
Within months of being appointed Poet Laureate in May 2009, Duffy set out       to act as an ambassador for British poetry and poets, and immediately set       up a number of new impact-generating initiatives to change the role,       providing creative and academic leadership, reconnecting the British lyric       poetic tradition with the largest possible number of people and finding a       place for poetry as a public art in contemporary Britain.
The chief       beneficiaries of her impact-generation are young writers and readers,       teachers and educators, emerging poets and new audiences beyond the core       readership of poetry books.
Her vision for the laureateship is to revive       and reshape it as public-facing and inclusive.
From the announcement of her laureateship she has rooted her laureateship       in the northwest of England, where she lives, and her regular commitment       to working with northwest based artists and arts organisations (Sasha       Johnson-Manning and Royal Northern College of Music for `Manchester       Carols', Opera North, the Royal Exchange Theatre) has had an impact on the       range of opportunities for northwest poets, performers and audiences.
Her       flagship readings series `Carol Ann Duffy and Friends' at Manchester's       Royal Exchange Theatre [B] has been a huge success, regularly       selling out within days of the programme being announced, and has given a       platform to new, emerging poets.
With her regular broadcasts and poetry pages in the Daily Mirror [C]       and the Guardian [D], she has extended the impact of her creative       leadership, by commissioning new work from many fellow poets, established       and developing, and enabling them to participate in the laureate's public       role, and to reach new audiences.
This inclusive approach to the       laureateship has continued with commissioned anthologies, including the       2012 `Jubilee Lines', in which Duffy commissioned 60 fellow poets each to       respond to a different year in the Queen's reign.
She gave up the annual stipend that goes with Laureateship, and put it in       the hands of the UK Poetry Society, to establish an annual prize (of       &#163;5,000) for `New Work in Poetry', under the title `The Ted Hughes Award' [E].
This has quickly become a well-regarded and acclaimed prize honouring       ground-breaking work by poets.
Its remit to honour previously neglected       areas of poetic work (performance based and collaborative) has had a       significant impact on poets working in those fields, and on audiences       discovering this new work.
Like many areas of the arts in the UK, recent cuts in Arts Council       funding have threatened some major poetry organisations.
As Laureate, CAD       organised benefit readings in London and Manchester (2011) to raise money       for, and awareness of, the work of the Poetry Book Society [F],       which was set up by TS Eliot in 1953 to support the propagation of poetry.
She gave the PBS further support by agreeing to chair the judges for their       TS Eliot Prize in 2012 [G].
Her work on behalf of PBS had a       significant impact on their profile and fundraising, and has helped them       to continue their work.
Her extensive work in schools as Poet Laureate has contributed to a       resurgence of interest in reading and writing poetry at that level, and       has `opened the doors' to a literary form often regarded as too       old-fashioned or too difficult [H].
As the most widely read and       best-known poet in Britain today, Duffy has made the Laureate's role her       own, generating not just cultural impacts, but contributing to social,       economic and policy impacts too.
Her growing overseas reputation and       travel has given the Laureate's role a genuinely international dimension.
[I]
