     Cultural Life: Biswell's critical biography,The Real Life of         Anthony Burgess       (http://www.panmacmillan.com/book/andrewbiswell/thereallifeofanthonyburgess),       sold more than 3,000 copies in its month of publication, and an additional       3,000 copies were sold in hardback.
Paperback sales have exceeded 10,000       copies, and the book was reprinted in 2012 (sales figures from       Pan/Macmillan Books).
It was reviewed by all of the national newspapers       and literary journals in the UK and Ireland.
There were other positive       reviews from journals in Canada, Australia, France, Germany, the       Netherlands and Argentina.
Positive feedback from readers was received via       personal letters, emails and online reader reviews at Amazon UK.
Publication of the book led to invitations for Biswell to lecture at the       Whitworth Art Gallery, Portico Library and John Rylands Library in       Manchester; the Graham Greene Festival in Berkhamsted; the Edinburgh       University International Summer School; and at the Toronto Public Library.
Following the initial English-language publication of Biswell's restored       edition of A Clockwork Orange, a Portuguese translation, with new       illustrations by the graphic novelist Dave McKean, was published by       Editora Aleph in Brazil.
Biswell's publications have played a central part in reviving Burgess's       reputation, which had declined sharply after his death in 1993.
In the       mid-1990s just two Burgess novels were available in the UK.
As a       consequence of Biswell's books, articles and other public interventions       (including regular TV and radio appearances), more than 25 of Burgess's       books are currently in print, and further reprints have been announced.
Since the biography appeared, there is now a renewed interest in Burgess's       short stories, one of which, `Chance Would Be a Fine Thing', was broadcast       on BBC Radio 3 on 22 October 2010.
Two other `forgotten' long essays by       Burgess were published in the Observer and New Yorker in       2012.
Other contributions to cultural life include radio programmes in the       United Kingdom, the United States, France and Russia.
BBC Radio's Archive         on Four: A Clockwork Archive (broadcast on 18 August 2012) was a       60-minute documentary, in which Biswell was interviewed at length about       Burgess's life and works (http://www.bbc.co.uk/programmes/b01lz7yk).
The estimated audience for this programme was 10.85 million, and the       interview with Biswell was selected for re-broadcast as part of Radio 4's       Pick of the Week.
In the United States, Biswell was interviewed       about Burgess on National Public Radio by Tom Ashbrook, whose On Point       programme has 1.2 million listeners (NPR audience figures) [A].
Biswell has also been interviewed about his work by the BBC World Service,       Channel 4 News, BBC Radio 3, BBC Radio 4, Radio 5 Live, Radio France and       Radio Free Europe (in Russia) [B].
Biswell's edition of A Clockwork Orange was favourably reviewed       by the Independent on Sunday [C] and the Observer       [D], among other newspapers.
The Times Literary Supplement       made it their cover story on 28 September 2012 &#8212; an accolade never granted       to Burgess during his lifetime [E].
School Education: As a result of Biswell's advocacy of Burgess, A         Clockwork Orange is now one of the texts recommended for study on       the A-level curriculum under the `Dystopias' theme.
For the International       Anthony Burgess Foundation, Biswell has written and designed an       educational resource about A Clockwork Orange and other dystopias       for A-level students and their teachers [F].
Public Discourse: One of the results of Biswell's on-going work to       revive Burgess's international reputation has been the publication in       France of a best-selling non-fiction book by Laurent Obertone, La         France Orange M&#233;canique (Paris: Editions Ring, 2013).
The book has       initiated a lively debate among criminologists about the social       demographics of `ultra-violent' crime.
A report in the Daily Telegraph       (19 March 2013) indicated that more than 55,000 copies of this book were       in circulation [G].
Burgess's work is now attracting the attention       of criminologists, sociologists and historians, some of whom are among the       contributors to `Day of the Droogs', a colloquium jointly organised by the       IHSSR at MMU and the International Anthony Burgess Foundation 	  (http://www.hssr.mmu.ac.uk/hip/day-of-the-droogs/).
Commercial Activity: Working with Random House Digital, Biswell       curated an enhanced e-book version of the Restored Edition, featuring       hypertext annotations and 12 hours of audio-visual content, for use on the       iPhone and iPad (http://www.randomhouse.co.uk/lp/aclockworkorangeapp).
According       to Random House Digital, this electronic edition was downloaded more than       1,000 times in the first three months after its release.
The app was       shortlisted for the Bookseller's FutureBook Prize for digital innovation.
Contribution to Tourism: `Fifty Years of A Clockwork Orange',       co-curated by Biswell with the Anthony Burgess Foundation, was a major       public exhibition at the John Rylands Library in Manchester (August 2012       to January 2013).
The exhibition, which included items loaned by the       Stanley Kubrick Archive and the Arts Council's permanent collection, was       installed in the library's Historic Reading Room, and attracted more than       30,000 visitors over five months (John Rylands Library visitor figures).
Feedback indicated that people travelled from all over the British Isles       to view the exhibition [I].
Commemoration and Remembrance: Biswell was interviewed by Channel         4 News about the discovery and public performance of Burgess's music       dedicated to the fallen of the Second World War, which formed part of a       concert, attended by more than 300 people, at the Imperial War Museum       North on 11 November 2012 [H].
Additionally, the European premiere       of Burgess's Manchester Overture was broadcast on BBC Radio 3 on 1       October 2012.
Writing in the books pages of the Boston Globe, Scotsman,       Scotland on Sunday, New Statesman, Daily Telegraph       and Literary Review, Professor Biswell has produced a series of       biographical articles about writers and film-makers who were associated       with Burgess, such as Graham Greene, J.B. Priestley, Olivia Manning,       Angela Carter, Stanley Kubrick and Ian Fleming [J].
This body of       writing about Burgess in relation to those who knew him has been cited in       commercial publications such as Deirdre David's new biography of Olivia       Manning (2012) and Richard Greene's edition of the Selected Letters of         Graham Greene (2007).
These interventions, which involve writing       Burgess into the life stories of his contemporaries, are part of an       on-going project to reposition him within the canon of twentieth-century       writing.
