     Contribution to political and policy deliberations in Westminster and         Holyrood       Phillips O'Brien has become one of the UK's leading experts on Scottish       independence and defence, and is head of the Scottish Centre for War       Studies and the University of Glasgow's Global Security Network.
He has       informed political debate and public understanding of the Scottish       independence question through media appearances as an impartial expert,       and has contributed to EU policy debates by advising the UK, French and       German governments on the potential impacts of an independent Scotland on       European defence policies.
The issue of Scottish Independence began to be discussed in earnest after       the victory of the Scottish National Party (SNP) in the Scottish       Parliamentary elections in 2010.
On 12 October 2011, the UK Parliament's       Scottish Affairs Committee (SAC) announced that it was convening an       inquiry into the `Referendum         on Separation for Scotland'.
The purpose of the inquiry was to focus       on "the processes and mechanics" of such a referendum and to identify "the       issues which will need to be resolved before a referendum is held in order       to allow voters to make an informed choice."
One of the most important       such issues is defence.
For 30 years (until 19 October 2012), the SNP held       a clearly stated position against membership of NATO because it was a       defence alliance based on nuclear weapons.
Since 1998 the UK's nuclear       programme has been the submarine-delivered Trident programme, with its       entire nuclear submarine fleet located at Faslane Naval Base on Scotland's       Rosneath Peninsula.
For these reasons, the question of a future defence       policy in an independent Scotland was one of great significance to the UK       Parliament in particular.
Based on an extensive research background in UK naval defence issues and       policy, in May 2012 O'Brien was asked by a senior staff member for the SAC       to work with the Committee to help develop the defence-related research       questions for the inquiry.
He was also asked to provide evidence to the       inquiry on the implications of Scottish independence for the future of the       Faslane and Coulport naval bases and for the defence shipbuilding industry       on the Clyde, and for Scotland remaining in NATO.
In addition to the       evidence and opinion provided to the committee, O'Brien became one of the       key media commentators on the subject of defence.
The bases at Faslane and       Coulport currently support 6,500 civilian and military jobs and are set       for expansion to 8,000.
O'Brien pointed out the significance of this in       the west of Scotland, an area that has been less enthusiastic about       independence than the east.
He has been able to use his understanding of       the political nature of basing decisions and of the development of British       strategic policy to comment on the likely shape of Faslane/Coulport in an       independent Scotland, in particular what units could be based there and       how large a facility it could be in terms of jobs.
He consistently spoke       to the media on the advantage to an independent Scotland of staying in       NATO, pointing out the similarities to countries such as Denmark and       Norway.
His analysis showed that a non NATO-aligned independent Scotland       would need to relocate its naval bases to the east coast, potentially       alienating a large constituency in western Scotland through loss of jobs.
Through his work with and testimony before the SAC in September 2012,       O'Brien was then commissioned to write a briefing paper on the issue of       comparative policies for defence bases for nuclear submarines in different       similarly sized countries (Ireland, Norway, Denmark and New Zealand) to       identify for the Scottish National Party the potential implications of       deactivating the Faslane base in Scotland.
He concluded that although the       Trident submarines could be deactivated in as little as two days, it would       take at least 20 years for the UK government to build a nuclear base       elsewhere for the weapons to be moved out of Scotland, and he commented on       the options open to the UK government for renting facilities in other       countries.
On 12 September 2012 he presented oral testimony on this       subject and other defence matters to the SAC in Westminster.
(There was       considerable press coverage, particularly in Scotland, around both       appearances before the Committee.
The SNP's change of position on NATO was       announced on 19 October 2012.)
The SAC report         on the issue of Trident and the future of Faslane/Coulport was       published on 23 October 2012 and directly quotes Dr O'Brien five times,       delivering his expertise directly to parliamentarians.
Advising on the international implications of Scottish independence       As a result of his oral testimony and work with the SAC in September 2012       O'Brien was asked by a specialist for the House of Commons' Foreign       Affairs Committee to assist the UK government to prepare a further phase       of research, this time on the international implications of Scottish       independence.
In response, O'Brien submitted a briefing paper for the       committee examining the potential American, German and French positions on       Scottish independence and NATO.
While the UK government does not have an       official position on the Scottish referendum question, O'Brien has clearly       influenced the examination of the issues under debate.
As O'Brien's involvement with government committees on the issues of       defence in an independent Scotland gained momentum, he was approached by       the foreign services of Germany and France to brief government       representatives on the same topic.
On 21 June 2012 he briefed a team of       German diplomats including the Deputy Ambassador to the UK.
On 5 October       2012 he provided a similar briefing to a team of French diplomats led by       the French defence attach&#233; and the French Consul-General in Edinburgh.
He       has also been consulted by a former US Ambassador (now a UN Ambassador for       human rights), on the various strategic implications of Scottish       independence.
These talks have opened up important areas of international       feedback.
Subsequent to the meeting with O'Brien, the French       Consul-General wrote an official report briefing the Foreign Ministry of       France on Scottish independence and the implications for issues of defence       and the European Union.
O'Brien's analysis is quoted extensively, sourced       both from his appearance before the Scottish Affairs Committee and his       private briefing to the French diplomats.
O'Brien is trusted by parties on all sides of the independence debate.
He       has been consulted on a confidential basis a number of times by the head       of the SNP's defence agenda.
During these consultations O'Brien questioned       the wisdom of an independent Scotland having only one naval base from       which the North Sea is relatively inaccessible, leaving the oilfields on       which the independence campaign's economic projections depend vulnerable       to attack.
O'Brien's influence on policy is illustrated by the SNP's       subsequent adjustment of its policy to acknowledge that there would need       to be another naval facility on the East Coast, almost certainly at       Rosyth.
The UK government's Ministry of Defence has also consulted O'Brien       on a number of occasions on the progress in Scotland of the debate around       defence and the issues that require more intensive investigation.
In July       2013, O'Brien was asked to meet with the Scottish Government's Defence       Policy Unit and share his expertise as part of their work to support       Scottish Ministers in the development of defence and security policy in       the event of constitutional change.
Contribution to public debate       O'Brien's analysis has been influential in the independence debate being       played out in the UK media.
He has appeared on BBC Newsnight Scotland       twice to discuss defence issues, STV's Scotland Tonight (29 October 2012),       BBC Radio 5 (29 October 2012) and BBC Radio Scotland's `Good Morning       Scotland' show (30 October 2012, 12 January 2013).
The Scotsman       commissioned O'Brien to write expert pieces on key issues in the       independence debate; the first was published on 17 April 2012 and the       second on 30 October 2012.
He was also commissioned to write two articles       for The House, the official magazine for the Houses of Parliament,       in March 2012 and October 2012 (distribution within Westminster is an       average of 2,744 per issue).
He has been asked to give expert comment in       articles in Holyrood, the magazine for Scottish Parliamentarians,       and The Herald, following work with the Scottish Government, with       these articles reaching an estimated combined readership of c.50,000       people.
He was also invited to make a presentation on the subject of       defence and Scottish Independence to the Royal Society of Edinburgh on 29       May 2013.
Finally, he has worked very closely with the editor of The         Herald to further develop stories on the question of Scottish       independence and defence; a major piece on the state of the defence debate       (`Defence of the New Realm') was published 10 June 2013.
