     Research from UoG has provided the evidence base driving public-facing       initiatives to address the       lack of information and awareness about women's contribution to Scotland's       society, economy and       culture.
The work to recognise and celebrate the role of women is       implemented at all levels and all       ages.
Our work has:     a. created cultural capital by contributing to public understanding of       the position and       experience of women in Scottish society; and,     b. provided research for policy-makers and agencies to inform policy and       practice on       contemporary gender issues in Scottish society.
a.
Contributing to public understanding of the position and         experience of women in Scottish         society     The Women of Scotland project       developed by UoG's Centre for Gender History was implemented       through collaboration with Women's History Scotland, Glasgow Women's       Library and Girl Guiding       Scotland and was funded by a Lottery Awards for All grant       (AFS/1/010349993; &#163;5,840), plus       charitable donations from the Martin Connell Charitable Trust, The Hugh       Fraser Foundation and       The Mary Andrew Charitable Trust.
Women of Scotland enabled members of the       public to       contribute to a national record of memorials to women in Scotland and was       organised and       administered by Women's History Scotland.
The project began in 2011 with       `The Big Name Hunt',       which facilitated Rainbows, Brownies and Girl Guides in Scotland to work       towards their `Heritage       Badge' through the identification of memorials to women in their area, and       learning about the       women's lives and work.
In March 2012 the project was launched       Scotland-wide to the general       public as `Mapping Memorials to Women in Scotland' and since then more       than 300 memorials to       192 women have been mapped.
In spring 2013, the project went `on the       road', with training       sessions in the use of the memorial mapping system held in Aberdeen,       Inverness, Alness and       Brora.
The beneficiaries of this work fall into several categories.
Girl Guiding       Scotland was an       important initial partner.
Girl Guides on the `Big Name Hunt' were       recruited to discover plaques,       statues, street names or other commemorations of women in their local       areas and report these to       the project team for addition to the map.
They also took part in team       activities within their troops,       themed around the Big Name Hunt.
One notable example of how research into       the role of women in Scottish history and society has       translated into very real recognition of the       importance of that role within a community is       evidenced by the activity in the Shieldhill community.
When, as part of the Big Name Hunt, the 1st Braes       Girl Guide Troop found that they could not find any       commemoration of notable women in their area, they       identified and researched a local midwife who they       felt should be celebrated for her contributions to the       community.
They raised money through local events       and won funds from the O2         `Think Big' Fund to       establish a memorial bench (pictured, above) that now sits outside       the Shieldhill and Blackbraes Church Hall.
The Girl Guides found       that midwife Mary Cockburn (1875-1943) (pictured, below) not only       delivered babies but she fed and cared for the families of the new       mothers.
She also spent 10 days on-site treating survivors of the       1923 Redding pit coalmine disaster.
The participation of the local       Girl Guides in the Big Name Project resulted in a wave of community       recognition and support, with the local bowls club even organising a       memorial tournament in her honour.
In addition to communities, the general public have benefited       from the additional knowledge and the opportunity to contribute to       the Mapping Memorials project.
Since March 2012 when the website       went live to the wider public, more than 13,000 people from over 50       countries have visited the site, offering names of women,       information on memorials and updates on entries.
The project is       being rolled out nationwide via Glasgow Women's Library outreach       work in adult continuing education and in public information sessions       in Clydebank, Dumbarton, Edinburgh Central Library, and in the       Highlands &amp; Islands region.
The information captured on the website       has been used to inform the `women's history trails' offered by the       Women's Library in Glasgow and by volunteers in Wigtown (featured       on the Destination         Dumfries &amp; Galloway tourism website) - the ITC       and Systems Administrator from the Glasgow Women's Library       talked about the Women of Scotland programme on Castle FM on       12 November 2012 to an audience of 250,000 listeners, and the       project &#8212; and its theme of recognising women's place in history &#8212; was       promoted at an event at the       Wigtown Book Festival in October 2012, and at events in Edinburgh and       Dumfries.
The project was       featured on BBC Radio Scotland's `Past Lives' programme on 20 August 2012.
The public launch       of the site received the support of Scotland's First Minister Alex       Salmond, and attracted media       coverage with an estimated footprint of 109,000, including features in The         Scotsman and the       Glasgow Evening Times.
b. Informing policy and practice in contemporary gender issues in         Scottish society       The strong body of research expertise in the history of the family in       Scotland, masculinity and       domestic violence has, through consistent engagement, informed the work of       a range of public and       non-governmental organisations.
UoG's Centre for Gender History has       developed working       relationships with Glasgow Women's Library, Scottish Women's Aid and the       Scottish Institute for       Policing Research, Strathclyde Police Violence Reduction Unit and a host       of national and local       organisations dealing with abuse, mental health, justice and community       issues.
They have       discussed domestic abuse and family violence in the media to raise the       profile of these issues and       give a historical perspective.
The Women in Scotland project has helped to       expand Glasgow       Women's Library reach throughout Scotland with information and training       events nationwide, and       the Centre has built a good working relationship with the Library       throughout the course of this       project.
Glasgow Women's Library is a partner in Gordon, Hughes and       Elliot's AHRC funded       project on 'Working Class Marriage in Scotland' (&#163;792k, 2012-15) and the       Centre is collaborating       with the Library, Women's History Scotland and Scottish Women's Aid on a       history of Scottish       Women's Aid (Heritage Lottery Funding application submitted).
Another       member of the UoA and       Centre (Bracke) is a member of the Glasgow Women's Library Advisory Board.
In 2010, with support from a Workshop award from the Royal Society of       Edinburgh, gender       historians from Glasgow held a workshop for practitioners from Scottish       Women's Aid, researchers       and members of the Strathclyde Police Violence Reduction Unit (which works       with young people       involved in gangs) to examine the relevance of historical research on       masculinity on contemporary       domestic abuse issues.
Academics, practitioners, responders and       policy-makers exchanged       insights on domestic violence and strategies to address the issue in       today's society.
Hughes gave a lecture on `An Ambiguous Relationship?
: Policing,       Prosecuting and       Censuring Wife-beating in Scotland c1870-1939' in May 2010 for the       Scottish Institute for Policing       Research &#8212; also available as a podcast.
This provided an opportunity for contemporary crime and       policing issues to be considered from a historical perspective.
The Centre co-hosted a conference with Scottish Women's Aid for       International Women's       Day in March 2012 on domestic abuse, attracting practitioners from 19       national and local       organisations dealing with domestic violence against women, children and       men, mental health       issues, criminal justice, sexual assault, abuse, community safety,       rehabilitation and criminal law.
Forty-four attendees signed up to receive further information after the       course for educational use       within their organisations.
The conference marked Scottish Women's Aid's       35th anniversary and in       the view of SWA's coordinator:     provided a forum for information exchange that continued ongoing debates       about theory and       practice and how these intersect; it highlighted developments in legal,       housing, social work       practice, reminding us of the need to keep listening to victims/survivors       if we are to make a       difference.
Centre researchers also appeared on BBC Radio Scotland's 3-part series Disposable         Brides,       from 13 April 2011.
BBC Radio Scotland's reach for that quarter was       1,035,000 viewers.
Abrams       also contributed to BBC Radio Scotland's 4-part series Killing:           the History of Murder in Scotland in       March 2013.
Also in 2013, the Centre for Gender History ran a public       engagement event on       'Women and the Value of Work', a collaboration with the Scottish Trades       Union Congress, the       campaigning organisation 'Close the Gap' and Women's Enterprise Scotland,       investigating the       place and value of women's work within and in relationship to the family       in the past and present.
