     The use of UCL research to develop ICE-GB and later the IGE website has       provided an innovative,       free resource for English grammar teaching and learning which has       profoundly enhanced       educational opportunities and standards both within and beyond formal       education systems, all       around the world.
Since its inception in 1998, the IGE website has       attracted 3.7m users worldwide;       between 2008 and 2013 it reached more than 1.2m users, including a core of       over 215,000 repeat       users.
Provision of an educational resource for individual learners around         the world       There is a long tradition of using artificial,       invented examples to illustrate grammatical       phenomena to learners (e.g.
The cat sat on the         mat.).
However, teachers and learners find the       artificiality of these examples a barrier to their       ability to get to grips with how grammar applies       to real life.
The IGE website and iGE app       remedy this problem by making use of       authentic examples sourced from the ICE-GB       corpus to help learners acquire real English.
The IGE website is freely available and has       received over 1.3m hits since 2008 (over 3.7m       hits since inception in 1998).
These range from       184,046 to 337,561 per year.
Visits from       unique users range from 149,642 to 298,089       per year while 30-50,000 per year are repeat       users, totalling over 215,000 repeat users since 2008.
Although overall       page hits declined from       2008 to 2011, they were on the rise again through 2012 and the first half       of 2013 [1].
The website       brings key insights from UCL's long history of research into English       grammar use to global users,       as shown by the chart below, which demonstrates its appeal in the world's       biggest markets for       English learning.
As a direct extension and further development of the IGE website, the iGE       app sustains and       expands IGE's impacts on beneficiaries in the non-academic educational       sector and in the       commercial sector by expanding its reach from the web to an easily       accessible offline app.
The       iGE app is available in both free and paid versions.
It has been       downloaded by over 34,500 users       who can now access innovative grammar lessons and exercises any time,       anywhere.
The paid       version has been downloaded by around 3,500 users (Apple version &#163;4.99,       Android version &#163;2.99)       and the free version by over 31,000 users [1].
The app helps maintain       IGE's global reach and user-base: 	  while the paid versions of the app are largely accessed in OECD       countries such as the UK,       US, and Australia, the free versions allow access to the vast number of       people in non-OECD       countries who are interested in learning English.
Thus, the free version       of the Apple app has a       significantly higher proportion of downloaders from non-OECD countries,       and while downloaders of       the paid version are based in only 33 different non-OECD countries, those       for the free version       come from 74 [1].
Note: The Google Store only gives the top ten countries from which apps have been downloaded.
Thus &#8216;Others&#8217; may include both OECD and non-OECD countries.
Note: The Google Store only gives the top ten countries from which       apps have been downloaded.
Thus `Others' may include both OECD and non-OECD countries.
In July 2013, the iGE app had a rating of 5 stars (the highest possible       rating) on both the Apple       App and the Google Play stores.
Reviewers described it as: `Authoritative       (as you would expect       from UCL), comprehensive, clear and informative...' [2], and noted       appreciation for the wide range       of materials it included: `Even in the free version', one reviewer wrote,       `there is both scholarly yet       easy to understand content about key aspects of English grammar, as well       as very useful       exercises...The full glossary included is easy to use and a fantastic       reference for students of all       levels.
It is clear that this is the product of university-level work,       made accessible to all kinds of       users.'
The app has also been positively reviewed elsewhere, including:       Linguistics Research         Digest; iPad English (`an essential purchase for iPad-owning       English teachers... more advanced       EFL/ESL students should also find it useful`) [4]; David Crystal's blog       (`The model presented is a       well-established and influential one, and there are lots of real examples       of usage') [5]; Emphasis         Business Writing Trainers; and the English Editing blog,       which described it as `an essential       acquisition for iPad-owning English teachers and more advanced learners'       and listed iGE in its top       10 apps for learners of English [6].
The most recent review on Google Play       remarks: `This is a       great way to refresh grammatical knowledge for adults....The best part is       the large number of       practice exercises that give great feedback and teach through the errors.
... Worth 10x the cost.
Thank you for making such a quality learning tool' [3].
Provision of a new resource supporting English language teaching       Both the website and the app support individual study, and have provided       an important and freely       available resource for English language teachers the worldwide.
Both are       recommended on the       BBC's `Learning English' site, while the IGE website has been recommended       for use by English       language teachers by, among others: the British Council, Macmillan       Dictionaries Online, Guardian       Education Online, Palgrave Study Skills, English Teaching in the UK,       Intute, BUBL English       Language Education, and UsingEnglish.com.
Accordingly, it was noted in the       Guardian in 2011       that: `[T]his excellent site offers a detailed and clear course in English       grammar for       undergraduates' [7].
The iGE app has also provided a useful learning resource to accompany       professional educational       courses both within and beyond the UK.
For example, it now comprises a       central part of the       curriculum for undergraduate modules in English grammar at University of       York [8] and at Montclair       State University (USA).
At MSU, the app is the only required resource for       students enrolled in       `Structure of American English', which in turn is a required course for       all undergraduates in       Linguistics, including those working towards certification in English as a       Second Language [9].
English Language Teaching is a huge growing industry worldwide, described       in 2006 as second       only to North Sea oil in its importance to the British economy [10].
The       SEU has contributed to the       global market in English teaching through its sale of licences of the IGE       website.
Since January       2008, 13 such licenses for offline access to the IGE website were       purchased by a number of       companies and individuals [10].
