     a) BBC Discovering Dutilleux Festival, 15-17 February 2008     Aware of Rae's research on Dutilleux and 20th-century       French music, Tim Thorne (Senior Producer BBC NOW) invited her to be       programming consultant and co-organiser of the BBC's first festival       dedicated to his music.5:1, 2     It comprised five BBC Radio 3 broadcast concerts, two public orchestral       concerts (St David's Hall, Cardiff); two public chamber concerts (Cardiff       University); two days of public talks; and an exhibition.
Rae and       Thorne developed a set of five programmes that included the world premiere       of Dutilleux's Correspondances (revised version), Tout un         monde lointain, Myst&#232;re de l'instant, Second Symphony, and       the rarely performed Sonnets de Jean Cassou.
At Rae's       suggestion, Bart&#243;k's Music for Strings Percussion and Celesta was       featured among the supporting works by other composers to underline       Dutilleux's links with non-French music.
Rae's programme notes       explained Dutilleux's international importance and links with Bart&#243;k, Berg       and Lutoslawski.
The programme book featured a two-page interview with       Dutilleux, undertaken by Rae in Paris especially for the Festival.5:4       (Broadcast audience figures: c.170,000, RAJAR, plus BBC iPlayer; combined       SDH &amp; CU Hall audiences: c.2,060).
Rae organised the talks and       explained to a public audience Dutilleux's compositional process while       deconstructing the concept of `French Tradition' to underline his       relationship with non-French music.
Rae curated a unique, public       exhibition of Dutilleux's complete published works - over 30 items - at       Cardiff University, and discussed the materials publicly with the       composer.
(Audience figures c.
150.)
The Guardian (19 February       2008) noted that `Under the joint auspices of the BBC National Orchestra       of Wales and Cardiff University, this weekend feting Dutilleux constituted       an initiation for most of the audience, but it was significant that the       clarity and compelling energy of the works won him an eager reception.'
5:5     b) Other Dutilleux     Rae co-convened `Dutilleux at 95', an Institute of Musical       Research Study Day (January 2011) at London University Senate House,       comprising illustrated public talks (incl.
by Rae) that discussed       his placing, techniques and influence; professional composers and       performers were among the audience.
Rae further promoted       understanding of Dutilleux's compositional style and techniques to a       public audience in a piano lecture-recital at which she performed and       discussed Figures de r&#233;sonances at London's Senate House (June       2013).
To underline the international significance of Dutilleux's       compositions, and their stylistic relationship with non-French music, Rae       curated a public exhibition of facsimile manuscripts of works commissioned       by Swiss conductor Paul Sacher (loaned by the Paul Sacher Stiftung) at BBC       Hoddinott Hall (Wales Millennium Centre) as part of BBC NOW's 2012 Sacher       Perspectives season.
Facsimile manuscripts of Dutilleux's Sacher       commissions were displayed for the first time alongside those of Bart&#243;k,       Lutoslawski, Honegger and others, and were viewed by concert audiences       over a four-month period (2000+ individuals), enhancing understanding of       Dutilleux's musical interactions beyond France.
Rae's Dutilleux research gained further attention through her       commissioned programme notes for the BBC Proms in 2011:5:6       Prom 26, Tout un monde lointain, BBC Scottish Symphony Orchestra,       Runnicles; Prom 52, L'arbre des songes, Slava's Fanfare       (Prom premiere) London Symphony Orchestra, Gergiev.
Following Dutilleux's       death (22 May 2013) Rae was invited as featured expert to discuss       his status and legacy with conductor Fran&#231;ois-Xavier Roth in a       commemorative interval programme for BBC Radio 3's `Live in Concert' with       BBC NOW (24 May 2013).
c) BBC Jolivet Composer Portrait (December 2011 - January 2012)     Thorne approached Rae to be programming and project consultant       for BBC NOW's BBC Radio 3 `Composer Portrait' series featuring Jolivet's       music, in the concert hall and on air.
On Rae's advice, works       featured included the UK premieres of Jolivet's rarely performed Second       Cello Concerto and Third Symphony.
The event comprised: a Radio 3       broadcast concert by BBC NOW, conductor Pascal Roph&#233;, at BBC Hoddinott       Hall (2 December 2011, broadcast January 2012); a public study day in the       School of Music, Cardiff University that investigated Jolivet's style,       technique and placing, and BBC Radio 3 interviews with Rae and       Christine Jolivet-Erlih (the composer's daughter).
Rae's programme       notes and Radio 3 interview contextualised Jolivet's works, and explained       his musical relationships with Messiaen and Var&#232;se.
The study day featured       interview discussions with Christine Jolivet-Erlih and performances of       rarely heard chamber works.
(Audience figures c.380: Broadcast audience       c.456,000, RAJAR, plus BBC iPlayer).5:3     Rae's Jolivet research has gained wider public attention through       her 3000-word booklet article for Warner Classics CD-set `Jolivet Erato       Recordings' (Warner Classics 2564 61320-2);5:7 6000+       units have been sold in Europe and the Far East, with the largest market       in the UK.
Explaining and contextualising 19 little-known works, Rae's       article identified new compositional links with Jolivet's contemporaries.
Although first issued in 2004 the CD-set has been commercially available       through to 2013 and remains the single largest collection of Jolivet       recordings.
d) Messiaen and other contemporaries     UK audiences have come to understand Messiaen in a new light through Rae's       contextualising of broader trends in 20th-century French music.
She participated in a live BBC Radio 3 interval feature for the BBC       Messiaen Centenary Concert (BBC NOW, December 2008).
This led to an       invitation from BBC Radio Ulster to discuss influences in Messiaen's Quatuor         pour la fin du Temps for Radio Ulster's `Arts Extra' (20 March       2013).
Understanding of French musical traditions by UK audiences has been       further enhanced by Rae's public lecture-recitals on Ohana's piano       music in London, Oxford and York universities, in which she investigated       his Debussian and Hispanic descendancies.
Rae's Ohana research has       gained wider currency through her 3000-word booklet article for the Warner       Classics CD-set of 13 works, `Ohana Erato Recordings' (Warner Classics       2564 61321-2);5:8 2000+ units have been sold throughout       Europe and the Far East, with the largest market in the UK.
First issued       in 2004 this set remains commercially available and is the largest       collected edition of Ohana recordings.
Broadening understanding of international interactions in 20th-century       French musical traditions to acknowledge and incorporate the       Franco-Suisse, Rae was invited by BBC NOW to be programming       consultant for their 2012 Sacher Perspectives season comprising six BBC       Radio 3 broadcast concerts,5:1 during which the music of       Honegger and Martin was featured.
(Hoddinott Hall audience c.200.
Broadcast audience 304,000, RAJAR, plus BBC iPlayer).
e) Recent and on-going collaborations     Aware of the breadth of Rae's French music research, in 2011 the       Philharmonia Orchestra invited her to be Series Advisor for its       forthcoming festival at London's Royal Festival Hall (2014-15), `Paris:       City of Light'; this will explore the rich diversity of French music       between 1902 and 1948.
As well as advising on the programming of       orchestral and chamber works, study days and talks, she is coordinating       and contributing to the Festival Book.
Early in 2013, she was invited by       conductor Jac van Steen to advise on repertoire and programming for BBC       NOW's forthcoming recording series of orchestral and choral works by       Jolivet; the first CD is scheduled to appear in 2014.5:2
