     Two days before the Bloomsbury Project website was launched on 15 April       2011, an article of 1,100 words by Kieran Long appeared in the Evening         Standard [1], which has a circulation of roughly 600,000 readers in       London and beyond.
This article eloquently described the nature of the       website's impact: `It enriches,' Long observed, `our understanding of this       small, vital area of London, helps us to understand how institutions, from       small charities to international universities, can influence its       neighbourhood in ways at first unimaginable.
It also shows how       individuals, brought together by contrasting motivations, create the city       between them.'
Long's article for a mass-circulating London paper indicates the extent       to which the Bloomsbury Project has succeeded in translating the research       of Ashton and her team into a resource of lasting value to the world       beyond academia.
The project has enhanced understanding of 19th-century       Bloomsbury and made easily available to the public a wealth of information       about numerous significant institutions and historic buildings in an area       of London with a contribution to intellectual and social history which       extends far beyond its borders.
The chief beneficiaries of the Project include those with an interest in       the history and influence of London, as well as organisations seeking to       investigate and conserve the past in this area.
As Long's article       suggests, it has also made a significant contribution to the       interpretation of the cultural and historical capital of this area, and in       doing so, enriched the lives and understanding of the public in London and       beyond.
This was achieved through the release of the immensely popular Bloomsbury       Project website, which has brought the research to a global audience and       attracted over 3,000 visits per month.
Ashton's monograph Victorian         Bloomsbury was reviewed positively in mass circulating papers such       as the Telegraph (`That Ashton has managed to tame "Bloomsbury",       and present it in such a coherent, digestible fashion, is triumph       indeed'), the Guardian (`absorbing, researched from the ground       up'), and Independent (a `fascinating account of 19th-century       reforming bodies and personalities that shaped the other, institutional       Bloomsbury') &#8212; newspapers with a combined daily circulation exceeding       900,000 readers [2].
Reaching a global public through the Bloomsbury Project website     In the month following its launch the website received 9,777 hits, and       since then it has attracted an average of 3,000-5,000 hits a month [3].
In       total, between April 2011 and 31 July 2013, the website has received       117,135 hits.
Feedback and enquiries from users suggest that the Project       has been successful in reaching its target beneficiaries, namely       individuals who live in and/or work on Bloomsbury.
A five-minute film       outlining the Project, available on YouTube, has been viewed 6,074 times       to date.
Although disaggregated Google Analytics visit data is only available for       one month (May 2013) [3], it demonstrates the global reach of this       resource.
While most site visits came from the United Kingdom, a       substantial proportion also originated in other English-speaking and       European countries.
Indeed, visitors from France and the United States       spent the longest time on the site, at over 7 and 4 minutes on average.
The significance of its value as a reusable learning resource is       demonstrated by the fact that the Bloomsbury Project website was nominated       for inclusion as a permanent resource `of long term research value' by the       Wellcome Library, and was archived and made available through the British       Library [4].
As the number of hits recorded and the many emails to the Project       testify, the website has proved a valuable resource for the general       public.
One television producer `found a treasure trove of information in       your Bloomsbury Project' for a forthcoming BBC documentary.
Local historians and amateur local historical associations, made       extensive use of the findings of the Bloomsbury Project, whose website has       developed into an important resource for the memorialisation of the area's       history.
The Bloomsbury Association has declared this website `very useful       as it provides the definitive story of the area's development'.
The Camden       Local History Society, a charitable organisation of about 300 local       historians, which publishes street histories of the borough, consults the       Project website for information in order to revise and update its       publication, Streets of Bloomsbury and Fitzrovia.
The editors,       David Hayes and Peter Woodford, called the Bloomsbury Project website `an       invaluable source both of facts and of inspiration for further lines of       research' [5].
The Marchmont Association, a residents' association based       around one of the area's historic streets, also drew upon the website to       add to the fourth edition of the book The Story of Marchmont Street       [6], and the organisation has `found the site very useful as a source of       information for former residents of other streets... for whom we may       consider installing commemorative plaques'.
During the impact period, this       included gathering information to put the case for a Blue Plaque for J. M.       Barrie in Grenville Street [7].
An important aspect of the Project's impact derived from its active       solicitation of public engagement in the research process itself.
For       example, a blog run by Carole Reeves during the lifetime of the Project       (2008-2011) reached out to descendants of people living in Bloomsbury.
This blog attracted dozens of family stories reaching from Bloomsbury to       Canada and South Africa.
An indicative example is that of Bishop Andrew       McLagen whose life and relationship with Bloomsbury (as well as South       Africa and even, via his son, Hollywood) was traced through a series of       emails from correspondents [8].
Engaging the public through walks, talks and exhibitions     A deeper engagement with research was achieved through a series of events       open to the public which used diverse, innovative means to engage the       public with the findings of the research.
These proved to be immensely       popular, and collaborators in the organisation of these events attest to       the significance of their impact on public understanding.
For example, on 12 March 2010, the Department hosted a celebration of       Bloomsbury Past and Present.
This was free and open to the public, and       included a series of talks given by Ashton and members of her team, and by       invited speakers such as David Lodge and Lynne Truss.
The audience of over       300 included attendees from a wide range of local institutions, namely       librarians, museum curators and archivists from Senate House, the British       Museum, the Foundling Museum, the Swedenborg Society, and Camden       Libraries, together with representatives of the Royal Historical Society       and the Royal Commission on Historical Documents, local residents, blue       badge guides, and local architects and publishers.
A similarly diverse       audience attended an event to commemorate the launch of the website by       local novelist Ian McEwan on 15 April 2011.
Both events played a       significant role in bringing the Bloomsbury Project to the attention of a       diverse non-academic audience, as the attendance figures and subsequent       emails show [9].
Members of the Bloomsbury Project team have given numerous talks on       research findings at a range of public venues, including historical       societies, further education centres, churches and libraries.
These       include the Institute of Historical Research (5 November 2008), Camden       History Society (20 November 2008), the Mary Ward Centre (12 May 2009),       the Bright Club (15 September 2009), St. George's Bloomsbury (23 November       2011), Paddington Library (25 April 2012), the Bishopsgate Institute (18       October, 2012) and Waterstones Gower Street (4 October, 2012).
They have       also led guided walks around Bloomsbury (5 July 2008, 24 October 2010).
In       2008, Ashton and Colville published an online leaflet of historic       buildings of Bloomsbury as part of the London Festival of Architecture.
From January to June 2010, UCL Library hosted an exhibition entitled       `Innovators and Educators: UCL and Bloomsbury in the 19th Century'.
An important example of public engagement involved the participation of       the Project team in the Bloomsbury Festival.
This is a free annual       festival which attracts 50,000 people to Bloomsbury to attend talks,       concerts and other cultural events.
The significance of the impact on       public understanding here is demonstrated by the close, ongoing       relationship formed between the Project and the organisers of the       Bloomsbury Festival, which led to repeat appearances every year: on 23-24       October, 2010, 22 October 2011, and 20 October 2012, during which project       researchers led guided walks, delivered talks and introduced audiences to       the Project's research.
The organiser of the event summarised the enthusiasm of beneficiaries       thus: `Professor Rosemary Ashton's walks and appearances on Festival       panels have been a highlight of the Festival for a number of years.
Her       walks are always fully booked, and receive brilliant feedback.
They have       acquired such a reputation that we often have enquiries about them well       before the Festival programme is announced.'
The organiser stressed the       opportunities created by the Project for public engagement, noting that       `it is brilliant for members of the public to have access to the kind of       expertise that Rosemary brings, which is often otherwise found only in an       academic context' [10].
