     Research by Jonathan Wolff has had a significant influence on the design       and delivery of curricula       in the UK and beyond, particularly through the publication of the two       major research-based books       ([e] and [f]) described above.
Both IPP and EPP were consciously developed       to serve as useful       pedagogical resources to engage students and self-directed learners,       including those with little       prior exposure to political philosophy, while at the same time drawing on       and presenting substantial       original research.
Although An Introduction to Political Philosophy [e] was first       published in 1996, it has continued to       have a lasting and substantial impact on the development and delivery of       philosophical education       throughout the period of assessment.
Since 2008 the average yearly sales       figures for the English       language edition alone are 5,000 and have not fallen below 3,900 per year       [1].
The revised edition,       published in 2006, has sold over 25,000 copies since 2008: 43% in the UK,       24% in the US, 14% in       Europe, and 19% in the rest of the world.
Sales regularly spike       significantly in September,       indicating that it is predominantly use for teaching [1].
IPP is also       widely disseminated through       photocopying, and has generated more than &#163;23,000 in photocopying       royalties since 2008; about       half from UK schools and further education colleges, a further third from       UK higher education and       the remainder from overseas [2].
Students of philosophy, political science and other fields have all       benefited from the research.
The       reach of the books' impacts on education in these fields is       demonstrated by their use in a large       number of institutions across several countries (including China,       Bangladesh, Switzerland, the US       and Canada) [3], and by the diversity of their readers, who range from       school students and       undergraduates to postgraduates and adult learners.
The significance       of their impact upon these       beneficiaries is suggested by the high number of modules and courses       modelled, in part or in       whole, on the books, and by the excellent feedback received from       instructors and students who       have used them.
It is also demonstrated by the sheer fact that so many       courses have continued to       rely on IPP 17 years since its initial publication, and despite the       subsequent appearance of many       excellent competing texts.
In spite of being less than two years in print       by July 2013, EPP has       similarly already become a core text for some courses on applied ethics.
Impacts on curricula for university students: Both books are key       texts for courses at a range of       institutions in the UK and overseas [3], where they have received       excellent feedback from both       students and teachers.
In many cases, the courses that use them rely very       heavily indeed on the       books: at the University of Lancaster, for example, the first part of the       course Understanding       Politics and Governance follows IPP chapter by chapter [4]; the same is       true at Florida State       University, whose Introduction to Political Philosophy course (PHM 2300)       is likewise structured,       chapter by chapter, almost entirely around IPP.
In Canada, the University       of Western Ontario used       IPP as the basis for a very large course, POL1020E, and set EPP for course       tutorials [5].
In 2012&#8212;3       around 500 students were enrolled on this course, which is required for       Political Science       programmes, and the course is currently being repeated in 2013&#8212;4 with a       similar enrolment [5].
The longevity of these courses suggests the significance of the       use of these books to them.
At the       Open University, for example, extracts from IPP were used in the set book       (Arguments for         Freedom) used for course A211 which ran for ten years until 2011       with an average student       enrolment of 700, and for AA311, half of which was organised explicitly       around IPP [6].
Further evidence of the significance of the text to course leaders in the       field may be found in the       feedback they provide, both directly to Wolff, and to their students,       wherein they have also cited       the significance of these books to their teaching.
At Dublin City       University, for example, where IPP       is essential reading for the course LG116, the course module guide ends       with the words: "By far       the best and most accessible introduction to political philosophy.
Read it       from start to finish, and       you may surprise yourself by enjoying it" [7].
Further global impacts: As the book sales and royalties listed       above indicate, IPP reaches a       large audience overseas.
Its English language version is used in overseas       territories such as       Japan, Bangladesh, Norway and Germany, as well as the USA, Canada, and       Australia.
It has been       translated into Traditional Chinese (for Taiwan and Hong Kong) Simplified       Chinese (twice),       Japanese, Spanish, Portuguese, Croatian, Lithuanian, Mongolian, and       Persian (an unauthorised       translation for the Iranian market) [1].
An example of its international use comes from China where IPP is a       widely used book on political       philosophy.
For example, on DangDang.com, the largest book retailer in the       country, the Chinese       edition received 180 reviews between its publication in 2009 and July       2013, 99.4% of which       awarded the book at least 4 of a maximum 5 stars [8].
The newly       established Asian University for       Women in Chittagong, Bangladesh, likewise structured its introductory       course on Political       Philosophy (first taught in 2012) around IPP, which was also the assigned       primary text [3].
At a more anecdotal level Wolff has, over the years, received many       unsolicited emails about the       book from university and school students, members of the public and       teachers, commending it as a       compelling and accessible exploration of research.
As a Jordanian       undergraduate at the Ludwig       Maximilian University of Munich explained: 'It's really one of the very       few books that actually get       the ideas across so easily, without having to over-complicate things.'
(24       April 2012) [9].
This       accessible but comprehensive presentation of Wolff's research findings       allows the book's wide-ranging       readership to engage meaningfully &#8212; often for the first time &#8212; with key       tenets of Western       political philosophy.
Impacts on learning outside the university: The reach of the       educational impacts of IPP and       EPP extends even beyond its very significant contributions to curricula at       higher education       institutions (HEI) internationally.
These wider impacts are delivered       particularly through its use as       the basis for less traditional higher education learning resources, which       allow a broader cross-       section of both UK and international communities to engage with political       philosophy at       undergraduate level.
At a local level, for example, The University of the       Third Age (U3A) in Poole       organised a reading group for mature students using EPP in 2012; the group       was so successful       that it was recommended to other U3A groups [10].
Rather wider,       international benefits accrued       from Wolff being contracted in April 2006 to write an online module for       the Oxford University       Extension Course, which follows IPP chapter by chapter.
The course ran 11       times between 2009       and 2013, and was taken by approximately 320 students internationally       [11].
The books have, moreover, introduced political philosophy to new, young       audiences, including       school students.
Both IPP and EPP are designed to enable students to       engage with questions of       philosophy and consider their applications to issues or debates relevant       to their own daily       experience.
This makes the two books particularly well suited for       non-traditional learners, and even       for GCE students.
Alongside the reader Political Thought (also       co-edited by Wolff), IPP is the only       work of political philosophy listed in the Teacher Resource Bank for GCE       Philosophy published by       AQA, the UK's largest provider of academic qualifications for 14-19 year       olds.
In 2013, 2,491       students took the Philosophy A level and 5,129 the AS level [12].
