     Dutch is a mid-sized European language with about 22 million native       speakers, but historical       reasons have led to it having a global profile.
The language is taught as       far afield as Georgia,       South Africa and Indonesia, and in most cases is largely dependent on       support from the Dutch       Language Union (DLU, or Nederlandse Taalunie).
This is a unique       intergovernmental treaty       organisation which sets the language policies of its Dutch-speaking member       countries, and       provides financial and logistical support to teaching and research in       Dutch Studies around the       world.
The research described above catalysed a global paradigm shift in       the disciplinary       conceptualisation of Dutch Studies, both among practitioners and in the       DLU itself.
Via this       influence on the Dutch policy body, the research informed the deployment       of a 5-year budget of       some &#8364;60 million, thereby shaping the ways in which lecturers at       approximately 220 faculties of       Dutch in 43 countries [p. 2, see 1 in section 5] define, teach and       research this discipline.
Fenoulhet's research was the basis for her contributions as one of a team       of four academics       commissioned in 2008 by the Raad voor de Nederlandse Taal en Letteren       (RNTL), to investigate       the position of Dutch Studies both within and beyond the `home countries'       of the Netherlands and       Flanders in Belgium, and to give policy recommendations on the future of       the discipline.
The       findings in the report were supported by a practitioner survey and an       academic conference, and       were based in part on Fenoulhet's earlier study of the development of       Dutch Studies.
The report resulting from that commission was generated specifically to       provide policy advice to       the Netherlands' Committee of Ministers, which oversees the work of the       Dutch Language Union.
Through this report the RNTL, which sets the DLU's policy direction,       sought to revitalise a       discipline which was increasingly seen by its practitioners as divided and       stagnating, and       especially to redress the disjuncture between intra muros (that       is, `home countries') practitioners,       regarded as occupying the centre of the disciplinary field, and those extra         muros: practitioners       operating in its periphery.
Publications arising from the research       described in section 2 had, in fact,       already emphasised the importance of supporting two-way academic exchange       between intra and       extra muros practitioners, and suggested pathways to achieve this.
Fenoulhet et al's       recommendations for a move to an international or transnational       (rather than a merely       national[istic]) approach within Dutch Studies &#8212; as well as for the steps       required to effect this &#8212;       were incorporated wholeheartedly into the RNTL policy advice document Naar         een internationale         en interdisciplinaire neerlandistiek, published in March 2009 [2]       and submitted to the Flemish       Minister for Culture, Youth and Sport [3].
This document prompted a paradigm shift in the field of Dutch Studies,       notably the International       Association for Dutch Studies, a key channel for the distribution of       funding from the DLU and       crucial player in catalysing change in Higher Education teaching and       research.
The       recommendations to which Fenoulhet's work contributed enabled the DLU to       instigate long-desired       change in the field.
The DLU has subsequently integrated these       recommendations into policies       and work plans.
Policy reorientation at the DLU     Policy recommendations in the RNTL document linked to Fenoulhet's       research include: [2]     - Stimulating international cooperation and developing joint curricula       (3.1.1)     - Reducing administrative obstructions to cooperation between       universities (3.1.2)     - Furthering international collaboration in teaching (3.1.3)     - Supporting the research community outside Netherlands and Belgium       (3.2.1)     - Supporting journals of international Dutch studies (3.2.2)     - Supporting joint PhD supervision (3.2.3)     - Encouraging/ supporting opportunities for public and international       research (3.2.4)     The extent of the DLU's policy reorientation relating to its definition       and promotion of Dutch Studies       was demonstrated by its new efforts to support debate and dialogue, on an       equal footing, between       practitioners intra and extra muros.
The RNTL policy       advice document was launched by the Chair       of the RNTL and the Director-General of the DLU in August 2009 at the       University of Utrecht, at the       17th conference of the International Association of Dutch Studies, a body       part-funded by the DLU,       which supports Dutch Studies teaching around the world.
Following       recommendation 3.2.4, and in       recognition of its importance for the direction of the discipline as a       whole, the Association devoted       to it a special issue of its journal Internationale neerlandistiek       (`International Dutch Studies'),       formerly known as the Neerlandica extra muros (the journal for       `outsiders'; renamed 2008) [4],       funded by the DLU.
Furthermore, Fenoulhet and the chair of the Association selected key       papers from the 2009       conference which represented the multidisciplinary way forward for Dutch       Studies.
These formed       the first volume in a new series entitled Lage Landen Studies (Low       Countries Studies), intended to       provide publication opportunities for researchers practising the new       transnational discipline.
Volume 1, edited by Fenoulhet and Renkema, bears the programmatic title Internationale neerlandistiek:         een vak in beweging (International Dutch Studies: a discipline on       the move [e]).
By       2013, six volumes had been published, demonstrating the lively response       from the field.
[4]     Changes in policy on the support and practice of Dutch Studies     The DLU's reorientation led to several specific changes in the ways in       which Dutch Studies are       funded and designed.
In 2010, Fenoulhet was appointed as the only       international academic       advisor to the 12-member RNTL policy advice body, with a watching brief       covering Dutch Studies       as a worldwide academic subject [5].
Many of the recommendations she has       made both in her       research outputs and within that forum are reflected in subsequent       decisions taken by the RNTL,       including in its new five year plan (2012) advising on priorities for the       allocation of its budget of &#8364;60       million during 2013-17 [5].
Thus, for example, despite budgetary cuts       prompted by the financial       crisis the plan includes, as a key innovation, the provision of funding       for digital access, a priority       which reflects recommendation 3.2.1 that the needs of professionals       outside the Dutch language       area be supported through the provision of an excellent digital       infrastructure.
In 2012, for example,       the DBNL was (the digital library of Dutch literature, an important       resource for Dutch Studies       worldwide) granted &#8364;[text removed for publication] in the DLU budget [6].
The current five-year plan also give a high priority to support for       literary translation through support       for the expansion of a new bi-national Masters in Literary Translation at       the Universities of Utrecht       and Leuven, to be launched in September 2013, and to include the       participation of Dutch Studies       outside the language area [10].
UCL and the University of M&#252;nster were       proposed as initial       international partners.
International meetings to discuss these       developments were funded by the       DLU via the Expertisecentrum Literair Vertalen (Centre of Expertise in       Literary Translation) [5, p.       58-9] from 2012.
Following the revision to its approach to the promotion of Dutch Studies       in 2010 [7], the DLU made       available funding opportunities according to the needs of international       Dutch Studies.
Support to       encourage contacts between researchers inside and outside the language       area was developed, for       instance, a fund to enable research visits to the Netherlands or Flanders       of up to 6 months to fulfil       the objectives of supporting young researchers, promoting Dutch Studies       and contribute to its       independence internationally, and promote accredited departments [7].
Changes in how Dutch Studies is practised     The DLU's change in orientation led to support for new forums where       practitioners from around the       word could engage in dialogue, on an equal footing regarding the future of       their field.
The open       discussions facilitated by these forums are also a pathway for broader       change within the discipline,       prompting a move towards collaboration for which the report proposed       channels and the DLU's       changed priorities provide material support [11].
See, for example the       digital platforms hosted by       the International Association for Dutch Studies: in particular, the       platform on Internationale       Historische Neerlandistiek which hosted informal international debate       among colleagues and       ultimately gave rise to volume 6 in the Lage Landen Studies       series, Beatrijs de wereld in, a study       of translations of the medieval Dutch text in several European languages       [11].
In 2010, the University of Amsterdam launched the peer-reviewed       English-language Journal of         Dutch Literature, in line with recommendation 3.2.2.
As its website       states: `With its methodological       and frequently interdisciplinary approach, the journal places Dutch       literature in an international       context, treating literary phenomena against the broader perspective of       international literary       research' [8], an approach that accords entirely with Fenoulhet's research       and policy       recommendations.
Similarly, an international interdisciplinary conference       (the 18de Colloquium       Neerlandicum) held at the University of Antwerp in August 2012 with       funding from the DLU [9]       aimed to stimulate relevant changes in teaching.
The conference included a       programme of       facilitated discussion on the nature of the Dutch Studies curriculum at       universities around the       world, and its future shape to ensure the internationalisation of the       material taught as well as transnational co-operation between universities [9].
There have been significant changes since 2009 in the extent of and       significance attached to       translation studies.
Previously frequently considered peripheral to Dutch       Studies, its role in       intercultural exchange is now accepted, as is the role of departments       outside the language area       which are now seen as capable of producing good translators.
In the       current 5-year plan [5 p58-9],       literary translation is identified as a site of dynamic exchange which       strengthens the study of a       language and culture.
Since the publication of that report:     - In 2012 Utrecht, Ghent and other universities launched talks on       developing a new joint       masters programme in literary translation.
[10]     - At UCL itself, in 2012 the DLU, via the Steunpunt Literair Vertalen,       supported a workshop       on Literary Translation, to bridge the gap between university study and       literary translation       as a career.
Fourteen students from all over the UK were selected.
The       DLU, through the       Expertisecentrum Literair Vertalen, contributed 40% of the total costs       which came to       &#8364;10,000.
[10]
