     The Nordic Noir Crime Fiction Book Club (NNBC) exists as an online       community and also hosts       regular events in London.
It was founded to enhance viewers' experience of       Nordic crime literature       and television by providing relevant background information and       facilitating discussion about       Scandinavian culture and society, through engagement with the research       described in section 2.
Since its launch in February 2011 to coincide with the arrival of the       Danish television series The         Killing in the UK, and up to 31 July 2013, there were a dozen NNBC       events, averaging 40-50       attendees, in settings including cafes, community centres, arts venues,       museums, and the Danish       Embassy [1].
From this initial aim of deepening the enjoyment of a defined       online and face-to-face       community of fans by enhancing contextual understanding, NNBC has expanded       its reach to       provide similar benefits to a wider audience, through the national and       international press, and       through invited participation in public events.
The reach of the NNBC is demonstrated by its high profile         online and on social media: the       accompanying Wordpress blog, featuring commentary and event summaries, had       51,841 visits       from individuals in 105 countries between January 2011 and July 2013 [2].
Podcasts of selected       events on UCL iTunesU were downloaded or streamed 392 times in the first       month they were       launched (September 2011) and have sustained popularity, with 639       downloads/streams between       January and July 2013.
The NNBC Facebook page attracted over 500 `likes'       by July 2013, while       NNBC and Department of Scandinavian Studies (which retweets NNBC material       and vice versa)       had a combined reach of over 1,300 Twitter followers [3].
Within this larger pool of beneficiaries was the core group consisting of       some 300 active London-       based fans of Nordic crime fiction and television, who attended events and       joined our mailing list,       and participated in discussion and knowledge exchange via our social media       platforms.
Member       profiles included various professions (from psychotherapist to civil       servant, to radio researcher),       with ages ranging from teens to 70s.
Around half of participants at each       event were repeat       attendees, demonstrating that this is a sustainable and growing         community.
To attract an       enthusiastic audience, most events for NNBC members featured a visiting       Nordic author or       director.
The guest speaker's contribution was complemented with lively       and accessible       presentations by UCL researchers, and hosted by a UCL researcher whose       expertise matched the       thematic or national focus, and thus stimulated discussion between       audience and speakers.
For example: The Bridge Briefing (2.5.2012) attracted a paying audience       of 45, and responded to       UK interest in the Danish-Swedish crime co-production Broen (The       Bridge).
This series centres on       the relationship between Danish and Swedish detectives, and crucial to the       UK viewers' enjoyment       of the series are many implicit regionally-specific tensions and       practices, spanning language, law,       culture and political norms (the fictional killer's motive is to spark       debate on social and legal       injustices).
The event was planned by crowd-sourcing via Twitter what       kinds of background       information UK viewers needed.
Four 20-minute presentations by invited       speakers covered       Danish-Swedish cross-linguistic communication (a key narrative device in       the series); an overview       of the portrayal of the region in crime fiction; and the political and       architectural context of the       &#216;resund Bridge and regional development.
The event was hosted by Thomson,       who drew on her       published and ongoing work on the cultural, literary, filmic and social       history of the region [e, f] to       identify emerging themes, plant relevant questions, and facilitate       audience discussion [1].
Feedback received during and after such events was uniformly       positive.
Qualitative evidence of       impact was gathered using feedback forms, and the Wordpress blog.
Comments       include: `Another       excellent event [...] thanks to Jakob, I understand the fine distinctions       between the (seemingly)       hundreds of Danish political parties (where Right is Left and Left is       Right)' (Barry Forshaw, blog,       19.2.12, after Borgen Briefing event); `I hadn't appreciated the closeness       of the community -       people knowing each other quite so much.
The need for the sidekick in       literature was already       documented but to explain so much of Icelandic history/geography not       previously appreciated'       (anonymous feedback form, June 2011, after NNBC meeting with Icelandic       author Yrsa       Sigurdardottir) [1].
NNBC attendees thus benefited from an improved understanding of the         social, political,         historical and linguistic issues pertinent to the Nordic crime       fiction and television they enjoyed.
They benefited from provision of background information which assisted in       satisfying       interpretations of plot, setting and characterisation, and were involved       in collective reflection, with       likeminded attendees, authors and UCL researchers on issues related to       reading, viewing, writing,       translating and programming.
The meetings stimulated subtle and detailed       public debate on issues       central to crime fiction &#8212; criminality, ethics, social change, ethnic and       gender identities &#8212; which play       out in distinctive but comparable ways in Scandinavia and Britain.
Beyond our London events and our blog, our research and the mediation       model developed through       NNBC resulted in numerous invitations to participate in public events         and media stories in       Britain and abroad, demonstrating the significance of our research-led       contribution through NNBC       to this popular subject.
For example, in March 2012 Stougaard-Nielsen was       invited to discuss       Scandinavian crime fiction's popularity in Britain at Horsens Bogmesse, a       major Danish book       festival held in a former prison [4], based on his research for [d].
In       March 2012 he appeared in the       BBC4 documentary Time Shift: Nordic Noir (2011), on BBC5 Live       Saturday Edition [5] - the       RAJAR listener figures for the station in March 2012 were 6 million and       the programme has had       58,659 views on YouTube.
His UCL Lunch Hour Lecture for the public on the       relationship between       the welfare state and crime fiction (drawing on [c]) has had 662 views on       UCL Youtube and the       resulting SoundCloud podcast was listened to 2,700 times during the impact       period.
He also       contributed material on crime fiction to two Brain Train podcasts on the       environment and       sociopathy, which together have had 2,922 listeners [5].
Stougaard-Nielsen's research has also       enhanced the commercial offerings of Arrow Films, the main distributor of       Scandinavian drama in       the UK.
Arrow Films commissioned a 1000-word commentary from him in March       2012 [text       removed for publication] [10].
The reach of this work extends across Europe: Stougaard-Nielsen has been       interviewed in the       Danish, Italian, Finnish, Slovenian, Greek and UK press.
A powerful       example of synergy between       media and NNBC came about in Stougaard-Nielsen's interviews with       Slovenia's largest daily       newspaper Delo and in the Italian online newspaper       Affaritaliani.it in July 2011, assessing the       power of crime fiction to diagnose and mediate racism and extremism after       the terrorist attacks in       Norway.
These in turn proved to be of interest to NNBC members: when       extracts were translated       into English and posted on the NNBC blog, they were viewed 546 times [5].
Meanwhile Thomson       was invited to chair a Nordic Noir panel at the London media industry       event ProMax 2012 as a       result of NNBC events, and was interviewed by the Danish broadsheet Politiken       (daily print run of       94,169, Dansk Oplagskontrol; 800,000 monthly web visitors, wikipedia)       about the popularity of       Danish culture in the UK (20.8.2012) [6].
Hilson was invited by the Nordic       Horizons parliamentarian       interest group to speak on 27.10.2011 at a sold-out (100-capacity) seminar       at the Scottish       Parliament on the Nordic welfare model in the context of growing UK       (especially Scottish) interest       in the culture and society of the region [7].
Such discussions require us       to explain to a       Scandinavian audience the popularity of Nordic popular culture in the UK       (drawing on research       such as [b] in section 3), or to explain aspects of Nordic culture to a UK       or international audience       (drawing on research such as [a], [c-f] listed in section 3).
A significant instance of audience expansion was our video for The         Guardian Online, conceived       by Thomson and Vicky Frost (Television and Radio Editor at The         Guardian), and presented by       Jesper Hansen, Teaching Fellow in Danish.
Planned in conjunction with the       UK launch of The         Killing III in November 2012, the video enhanced the viewing       experience of readers by providing a       language-focused cultural briefing.
The video attracted [text removed for       publication] 260       comments from readers, including: `just wanted to say that I wish all       foreign language learning       materials were as interesting and fun as this mini-lesson' (GavinRoberts,       16.11.12).
[8].
This video       was followed by a Q&amp;A feature hosted by The Guardian's Radio       &amp; TV blog (14.12.2012), which       featured Hilson, Stougaard-Nielsen and Hansen answering readers' queries       about the Danish       culture underlying The Killing [9].
