     The Silk Roads thematic study and the Ancient Merv Project have       transformed inter-state working       of governmental and heritage agencies in the Asian region and have had a       major impact on the       conservation, management and interpretation of Silk Road archaeology.
Listing as a World Heritage Site brings tourist and media attention, as       well as access to       international funding.
The Silk Roads thematic study transformed         the 26 partner countries'         approach to the nomination of trans-national and serial properties.
It created a conceptual       framework of `corridors of movement' which now forms the basis of the Silk       Roads World Heritage       nomination strategy adopted by the 26 State Parties in 2011 [1] and       implemented through two       trans-national nominations in 2012 [2].
As a result two trans-boundary       `corridors' have now been       submitted to UNESCO [3, 4] and several more transnational dossiers are       underway, demonstrating       that active trans-boundary working has been achieved by states working in       partnership.
In addition,       the research has created an overarching vision for the Silk Roads       Statement of Outstanding       Universal Value (containing key references for the effective management       and protection of the       World Heritage Site) which was agreed amongst the State Parties in 2012       [2].
This agreement       resolved more than 10 years of unfruitful discussion regarding chronology,       site election, disparate       tentative lists and the sites' key attributes [1, 2].
The researchers have       been actively involved in       working to improve the quality and scale of trans-boundary co-operation       (for example, a keynote       speech by Tim Williams at a meeting of 26 foreign and tourism ministers,       organized by the       UNWTO in Berlin, March 2013 [5]).
The impact of this trans-national       approach was also reflected in       a commission from UNESCO to undertake a series of South Asian workshops in       April 2013 and to       be repeated in April 2014, and to write a thematic study on the Silk Roads       nomination process for       India, Nepal, Bhutan and China in 2014.
UCL research into the scale, range and geographic diversity of the       archaeological evidence of the       Silk Roads changed the focus of the State Parties from simply focusing on       large individual cities or       spectacular monuments to a more holistic approach to the complexity of the       Silk Roads       archaeology.
It has focused the attention of government and heritage       agencies in the Asian region       on key sites and landscapes and the project has had a major impact on site       protection and       management, as evidenced by the attention to the protection and       interpretation of smaller sites,       approaches to sustainable development and integrated education programmes       in the nomination       dossiers [3, 4].
Research also helped to show governments that a holistic       approach to the Silk       Roads would have beneficial impacts on tourism, leading to a series of       high level government       meetings to discuss and plan trans-national tourism initiatives [5].
The       identification of smaller sites       and landscapes, within broader corridors of movement, has provided the       platform for a new United       Nations World Tourism Organisation (UNWTO) approach to Silk Roads tourism       [5].
Impact on heritage conservation, preservation, interpretation and         education in Central Asia     In addition to providing a framework which focused State Party activities       and the development of       tourism in the region, our continuing research there has enhanced heritage       preservation,       conservation and presentation at the Merv Park World Heritage Site in       Turkmenistan itself, and       more widely in the region through skills, knowledge and resource       transfers.
Our first phase of       collaborative work, led at UCL by Georgina Herrmann (1992-2000), led in       1999 to the listing of       Merv itself as a World Heritage Site; Herrmann also contributed a       five-year management plan to       the listing bid document [6].
More recently, and during the REF impact       census period, a team       coordinated by Kirsty Norman (UCL-based Project Officer since 2007) in       collaboration with the       Ancient Merv Park and the Turkmen Ministry of Culture drafted a new       2012-17 Management Plan       [7] for the World Heritage Site.
Conservation work on site focused on the       reburial of excavations,       artefact conservation and museum storage.
In addition, the team under the       supervision of Louise       Cooke (Project Research Assistant from 2003) carried out conservation work       which addressed the       particular needs of earthen architecture: examining reburial, sacrificial       approaches and the role of       traditional forms of maintenance [8].
Our research in earthen architecture conservation has developed the       Turkmen approach to       internationally recognised standards of minimum intervention, in contrast       to the previous approach       of extensive restoration [8]; this has led to more sustainable approaches       including the revival of       lost skills in traditional techniques of earthen material manufacturing       and maintenance [9].
Capacity       building in artefact conservation and museum storage, for Turkmen museum       and park staff (14       individuals) and students (12 individuals) who do not otherwise have       access to training between       September 2011 and May 2013, has helped to establish more effective       systems for the retrieval,       storage, conservation and display of the archaeological objects in local       institutions [9].
The management planning for the Merv World Heritage Site prompted       specific advances in       heritage protection, including the national implementation in January 2013       of `buffer zones' (to       prevent incursion up to their boundaries) for all the designated monuments       in the country (5,000+)       [9], and a Russian version has been requested by the other Central Asian       republics.
Two       workshops for national heritage professionals, in 2011 and 2012, led by       researchers on       documentation and condition surveys significantly enhanced these processes       in the country and       have led to the revision and computerisation of the Soviet-era Monument       Passport System       enabling quicker/more efficient response to threats, by improving both the       quality and       dissemination of information [9].
These workshops, attended by 20 staff       from the State Park       Service, were the first of their kind in the region.
The research into 3D laser scanning undertaken at Merv in 2009 for       documentation and monitoring       of earthen architecture (www.cyark.org/ancient-merv-intro)       has been used as a model for other       programmes [10] and was selected as one of featured case studies at the       launch of CyARK's 500       initiative (to document 500 of the world's most important heritage sites)       in October 2013,       demonstrating innovative applications of existing technologies (http://archive.cyark.org/500/).
In addition, an urban archaeological recording manual (adapted from       previous work at the Museum       of London) was developed, with specific modules designed to tackle the       complexity of recording of       earthen architecture and archaeology, the advanced in digital recording       systems, and tackled       Central Asia preservation conditions: this was produced in both English       and Turkmen.
This manual       was widely disseminated (over 100 copies), which have influenced       professional approaches to       recording complex stratigraphy throughout the region (English version       currently in use in       Uzbekistan and Kazakhstan) [10].
The aerial survey work in 2011-2013 led       to a redefinition of the       boundaries of the Merv Park World Heritage Site in 2013, and discussions       regarding the inclusion       of the important early Islamic city of Shaim Kala [9,10].
Archaeological excavations, landscape research, monument documentation       and historic       photographic research have provided detailed interpretive information       which was synthesised in       2009 into a `guides pack' and used to train and support tourism guides,       enhancing the quality and       range of interpretation, and diversifying destinations within the site       [11].
The Teachers Handbook       and workshops have substantially increased the use of the site by schools       groups (c. 25 school       visits in 2003 to c. 500 today), as well as transforming the approach to       learning from a descriptive       authorised discourse to evidence-based learning [11].
An adapted version       of this handbook was       requested by the park managers of all the seven State Archaeological Parks       in Turkmenistan [10]       and its reach was extended when the book was adapted to sites outside the       region, e.g.
for Tell       Balata in Palestine, published in January 2013 [12].
In collaboration with       local counterparts,       therefore, the project was able to encourage positive changes in heritage       management and       heritage legislation in the country through influencing highest levels of       the government in       Turkmenistan and, through the ICOMOS research, all along the historic Silk       Roads.
