     Research at DIS gives the public and museum visitors new ways to make       sense of their heritage and engage in dialogue and partnerships with       academics and curators.
While other museums had previously used       interactive displays, QRator is the first project in the world to allow       visitors to enter into a conversation with museum professionals and other       visitors, rather than simply absorbing what the labels tell them.
Transcribe Bentham gives members of the public unprecedented access to       primary historical material and the ability to take part in a project that       adds to public understanding of history, philosophy and culture in Jeremy       Bentham's time.
Our research therefore benefits the public, whether they       are museum visitors using interactive labels, or internet users employing       crowd-sourcing, social media technologies or the internet of things.
It       has also had a profound impact on the work of cultural heritage       professionals, museum curators, archivists, and special collections       librarians.
Engaging the public with historical records     Transcribe Bentham enables the public to become part of the research       process of interpreting historical documents &#8212; here untranscribed       manuscripts by the 19th century philosopher Jeremy Bentham &#8212; in a way that       was previously only possible for professional archivists and       historians.
[1] Since its public launch in September 2010, Transcribe       Bentham has enabled 3,051 people from 21 countries to contribute to the       transcription of over 5,862 documents (an estimated 2.9 million words),       demonstrating a genuine public desire to contribute time and effort to       preserving and making this archive accessible.
Several users returned       repeatedly and transcribed several different manuscripts.
[2] The project       has attracted widespread press and blog coverage as a new model for public       participation and the unprecedented access it gives users, who have no       previous training in palaeography, to unique historical materials: 31% of       users enjoyed being part of the project because of an interest in history       or philosophy [2,3].
In 2011, Transcribe Bentham's innovative approach was recognised with the       "Award of Distinction" in the "Prix Ars Electronica" &#8212; the world's       foremost digital arts competition &#8212; in the Digital Communities category.
The jury commented that: `this is likely the first initiative to open up       such scholarly social research to the masses'.
It was runner-up in the       DISH Digital Heritage Award 2011 and the `Platforms for Networked       Innovation' competition, run by the EU-funded Knetworks project and was       nominated for EngageU Award (European Competition for best Innovations in       University Outreach and Public Engagement) 2012.
[4] The value of this       approach was recognised through subsequent funding to develop and expand       it: in 2012, the Mellon Foundation awarded Transcribe Bentham a grant       [text removed for publication] to modify and improve the interface, and       provide ongoing support to the user community, and it became part of an EU       FP7 project on manuscript transcription: TranScriptorium, worth &#163;220,838.
Further evidence of its success is the re-use of its open-source code by       the Public Record Office of Victoria's for its transcription initiative.
This will enable PROV to make historical records available to the public       for the first time.
Changing practices and improving visitor experience in museums     Since its launch in March 2011, QRator has demonstrated the feasibility       of social media as an outreach mechanism for the museum sector: it showed       that given "radical trust", users behave responsibly.
It has proven       immensely successful at UCL's Grant Museum with 83% of over 4,300 comments       between launch and July 2013 being on topic or about the museum as a whole       (41% and 42% respectively) [8].
Assuming visitors leave one comment per       visit, an estimated 1/3 of visitors to the museum have contributed, as       opposed to the tiny number who previously wrote in the visitors book or       spoke to staff.
The comments have provided curators with insight into the       needs and opinions of visitors, allowing them to better shape the visitor       experience, and plan and present future exhibitions.
Contributing to sector debate on museums and the public     QRator attracted significant interest from the museums and scientific       community during the impact period [5].
It was nominated for a Museums and       the Web Best of the Web Award 2012 and won a UK Museums and Heritage Award       for Excellence 2012 in the Innovation category: `The judges can see clear       potential for use of this technology to be applicable to many different       organisations and their collections.
It is impressive in the way it       encourages participation within museums but also, importantly, in       maintaining that participation beyond the walls of the museum when       visitors have returned home.'
[6] Where many museums have `over-modernized       with too much emphasis on interactive displays', QRator, described as       `unobtrusive social media', blended easily with the classic exhibition       style of the Grant Museum of Zoology [7].
QRator also featured in the       highly prestigious NMC Horizon Report: Museum Edition 2011, which       identified our work as a model for the rest of the sector: `Incorporates       QR codes into exhibits that link to a rich database of curated content and       allow users to document and share their own interpretations of the       collections with each other.'
[9] This is a highly selective publication       about new technologies in museums: decisions about inclusion are made by       an international committee of museum professionals and it is widely read       and respected.
Influencing practice in other museums     The Horizon Report discusses the future of museums: two museum       partnerships subsequently put this into practice.
As a result of QRator's       success, in 2011 the Imperial War Museums (IWM) invited us to collaborate       on a bid to NESTA's Digital Research and Development Fund for Arts and       Culture.
It was ranked first of 495 applications [10].
This led to the       Social Interpretation Project installed at IWM North and IWM Lambeth's A         Family in Wartime exhibition.
Its interactive methods, inspired by       QRator, allowed visitors to enter into a digital conversation with       curators and other visitors using social media, interactive touch screens,       and the IWM website.
Between July and December 2012, visitors to IWM North       made 8,791 comments, 42% of which were on topic and 26% about the museum;       between April and December 2012 visitors to IWM Lambeth made 18,115       comments, 19% on topic and 33% about the museum.
[11] Methods of digital       interaction developed on QRator were thus applied successfully to a large       national museum, allowing visitors to interact with exhibits and each       other.
QRator was also been deployed in the Museum of Brands as part of an Arts       Council funded collaboration between UCL, The University of the Arts and       various London museums (&#163;100,000 total funding: &#163;10,000 to QRator).
As in       the Grant Museum, about 1/3 of visitors made comments, and most found the       experience enjoyable.
[text removed for publication]
