     Classification research in DIS has had significant impacts on the design       of new versions of two major library classification systems, the Universal       Decimal Classification (UDC) and Dewey Decimal System (DDC), cumulatively       used by over 350,000 libraries around the world.
Most existing       classification systems originate before the computer age, employ pragmatic       ideas of knowledge organisation, and lack a sound theoretical basis.
Facet       analysis on the BC2 model offers solutions to some of these issues and       enables more accurate representation of subject content, especially       important for online searching and discovery.
Of particular importance is       the research into classification in the humanities, and the special       challenges of culture-specific concepts and terminology which they       present; effective ways of managing these difficulties allow for the       elimination of cultural bias which is evident in many older systems, and       the creation of schemes which are more acceptable to minority users.
Impact on the design of UDC library classification     The UDC is an international classification, available in 40 languages,       and used in more than 150,000 bibliographic databases, documentation       centres and libraries in around 130 countries, notably in central and       eastern Europe, where it is the dominant scheme [1].
UDC has to exhibit a       consistent and logical structure &#8212; such as that offered by facet analysis       &#8212; because of its use in scientific and technical research establishments,       as well as general academic collections, and its application to       documentation as well as books.
Collections include VINITI &#8212; All-Russian       Scientific and Technical Information Institute of Russian Academy of       Sciences (28 million records), NEBIS &#8212; The Network of Libraries and       Information Centres in Switzerland (3m), Romanian Science and Technology       Portal (3m), the national libraries and bibliographies of Slovakia (4m),       Slovenia (3.5m), Hungary, Czech Republic, Croatia, Poland, Finland,       Serbia, Spain and Portugal [1].
Facet analysis also provides for a data       structure that is compatible with the maintenance of the classification in       a database format, and for its machine management.
As Ines Cordeiro (UDC       Editor-in-Chief 2007-2011, Deputy Director of the National Library of       Portugal and former doctoral student in DIS) reported in 2007, BC2       provided a model for UDC to achieve its organisational goal of developing       a classification suitable for online environments, not just one designed       for better shelf arrangement [4].
In the 1990s UDC agreed to make BC2 the basis of all new revisions of the       UDC, using its terminologies and adopting its faceted structure within the       UDC format.
In 1997, DIS researcher Broughton joined the Editorial Team to       help achieve this goal, presenting the principles of facet analysis to       editorial workshops, helping to establish editorial policy and practice,       and working on the conversion of BC2 classes to UDC format.
Her       identification of the Genesis Problem [d] demonstrates the difficulty of       representing, in a relational database, subject content and terminology       that is specific to particular cultures and traditions.
She also developed       several new auxiliary schedules, which assign common facets across classes       [2].
In 2000, Broughton created an entirely new Religion classification, based       on her work on BC2 [3].
This was incorporated into the 2005 edition of UDC       and applied to all accessions in religion since.
Between 2008 and 2013,       books in 130 countries were classified using this system.
Broughton`s work on Religion [3] provided precedent for editors       developing other UDC classes.
In 2009, a working group led by Claudio       Gnoli began updating Philosophy, explicitly `trying to follow the pattern       of facet presentation introduced in the Class 2 Religion by Vanda       Broughton' [5], and using her expertise in humanities classification [f].
Revision of the important Class 61 Medicine was announced in 1995.
In       2009, its editors, including Ia McIlwaine, outlined the process of       adapting BC2 [6] and how auxiliary schedules created by Broughton were a       major factor in rationalising its structure: `In phase 1, a framework for       the new class was established ... Bliss terminology was used in the       captions together with UDC notation and formatting as needed.
Concepts and       terms, the common auxiliaries, and classes related to medicine were used       insofar as they were appropriate.
There was heavy use of common auxiliary       tables of general characteristics (Table 1k) -02 Properties, -04 Relations       and Processes, and -05 Persons' [7].
In 2011, Broughton was invited to explain the BC2 structure of physical       sciences at the UDC Editorial Workshop, and the following year BC2       principles were also considered in the revision of the mathematics class,       with work beginning in 2013 [8].
Impact on the design of the Dewey library classification system     The Dewey Decimal Classification (DDC) has been translated into more than       30 languages and serves library users in over 200,000 libraries in 135       countries, making it the world`s most widely used library classification       system.
Dewey was consistently criticised for its Class 200, Religion, in which       Christianity and the Bible occupied numbers 220-289, with all other       religions sharing 290-299.
A 2005 user survey confirmed this general       discontent with the Religion Class, and with its far greater weighting of       Christianity compared with other religions [9].
In 2006, following the       publication of the new UDC Class 2 Religion, the then-Editor of the DDC       Joan Mitchell proposed collaboration with McIlwaine for a revision       incorporating many features of Broughton`s UDC schedule into the 22nd       edition of Dewey [10].
When released in 2011, the top structure of the new DDC class mirrored       almost exactly the UDC structure as designed by Broughton.
A separate       publication, `developed for libraries with extensive religion collections'       appeared in 2012 [11].
This featured `an optional arrangement for the       Bible and specific religions based on a chronological/regional view, in       order to help reduce Christian bias in the standard notational sequence       for the Bible and specific religions, based on a similar development       introduced in the UDC in 2000' [10].
Between its release in 2012 and 31       July 2013, 178,000 books in the field of religion were added to the       WorldCat database maintained by the Online Computer Library Centre (OCLC),       which also publishes and maintains Dewey; the majority will have received       a new DDC number using this system [12].
Between them UDC and DDC are used as organising and retrieval tools for       collections in 350,000 libraries across the world.
Facet analysis, the       focus of DIS research, has been instrumental in addressing such issues as       logical structure, currency, cultural neutrality, and machine       compatibility in both of these, two of the three leading systems of       library classification.
The influence of faceted classification in general       and BC2 in particular has ensured that its advantages are available to       millions of library users.
