     As a result of the underpinning research described above, buccal       midazolam has become the drug of choice for the treatment of status       epilepticus in the community, quoted in guidelines as part of the care       pathway for status epilepticus.
It was included as first-line therapy in       the Advanced Paediatric Life Support (APLS) status epilepticus algorithm       for the first time in 2005 [a].
In the same year, the Scottish       Intercollegiate Guidelines Network recommended the same, citing our study       directly [b].
Both available pharmaceutical formulations of buccal midazolam have       arisen as a result of work conducted at UCL.
The first, Epistatus       (midazolam maleate), was developed by Scott and Neville at ICH, and was       brought to market under a commercial licence agreement between UCL       Business and Special Products Ltd [c].
It has been employed       clinically for over 10 years, being manufactured under a `specials'       licence issued by the MHRA.
The second, Buccolam (midazolam       hydrochloride), arose from work conducted at UCL School of Pharmacy and       resulted in the foundation of Therakind Limited, a spin-out company       designed to develop the product further.
In 2010, a controlling       interest in Therakind was sold to ViroPharma Inc. [d], and in       2011, Therakind was granted a centralised Paediatric Use Marketing       Authorisation (PUMA) by the European Medicines Agency (EMA) for Buccolam       as a treatment of prolonged acute seizures in individuals 3 months to 18       years of age, the first of its kind [e].
The pharmacokinetic and       pharmacodynamic properties of Buccolam described within the EMA       application cite and rely upon the initial data generated on buccal       midazolam at the ICH [1, above] [f].
This authorisation has allowed distribution and access to Buccolam to the       one million children and adolescents with epilepsy in Europe.
Importantly,       as Buccolam is a licensed product (unlike almost all other paediatric       prescriptions), it is easier to obtain as a repeat prescription in the       community rather than having to return to secondary or tertiary care &#8212; a       significant advantage for patients/caregivers.
In 2012, buccal midazolam was recommended in NICE Clinical Guideline 137       on Epilepsy as first line therapy for treating children, young people and       adults with prolonged or repeated generalised, convulsive seizures in the       community [g].
In addition to the inclusion in National Guidelines, buccal midazolam is       included in many local guidelines for treatment of status epilepticus in       the UK, for example North Bristol NHS Trust [h] and Great Ormond       Street Hospital [i] and in other parts of the world [j].
The charity Young Epilepsy report that: "Professor Scott's work on         buccal midazolam has fundamentally changed practice in the management of         status epilepticus.
The research has led to the development of a new         product that has not only proven to be an effective drug therapy for         status epilepticus but also a more socially acceptable method of         administration" [k].
Buccal midazolam has now clearly       superseded rectal diazepam as the drug of choice for treating status       epilepticus in the pre-hospital setting [l].
Scott and colleague have worked with the charity Young Epilepsy to       develop training programmes for professionals and schools on all aspects       of epilepsy in children, including training packages for the       administration of emergency medication.
Benefits are not isolated to clinical metrics such as seizure termination       rate, requirement for hospital or intensive care admission.
Patients and       their care-givers are afforded a higher quality of life through freedom of       activity, retention of dignity and security in the knowledge that they may       safely give/receive an effective treatment.
The Scottish Medicines       Consortium approved buccal midazolam in Scotland in 2012 and estimated       that for the approximately 1,000 patients who will receive it annually       there would be a cost saving on the drugs budget of &#163;100,000 per annum [m].
