     A major contribution of UCL DIS research has been in raising the         profile of community-based         heritage activity and recognition of its significance in the UK and         internationally.
This impact has       been strongest in terms of perceptions of community archives, and is       demonstrated by the       increased funding and formal acknowledgement for community-based archive       projects.
Between       2008 and 2013 research findings were disseminated to professional       archivists through articles in       practitioners' journals (e.g.
[a], [b], [c], [d] and [f] in section 3), in       other publications aimed at largely       professional audiences [e], at workshops and conferences organised by       professional bodies in the       UK (London, Manchester, Oxford, Liverpool, Brighton, Preston, Aberystwyth,       Llandrindod Wells,       Edinburgh, Dundee and Glasgow), internationally (Ireland, Sweden, United       States, Canada and       Australia) and at the International Council on Archives congresses in       Kuala Lumpur (2008) and       Brisbane (2012) [1].
With audiences ranging from 20 to 200, a total of       about 2,000 archive and       heritage professionals, members of funding bodies and policymakers heard       discussion of our       research and its findings during this period.
This widespread dissemination of the research has been instrumental in       creating awareness of the       significance of community-based archives and community-based heritage       activity in the       professional sector.
Although no one would claim that this is exclusively       due to DIS research, it has       certainly been an important contributor, as explicitly recognised in both       the UK and internationally.
In 2008, for example, the President of the Society of Archivists urged       fellow professionals to read       article [a] which `far more effectively than I could do here, [makes] the       case for seeing community       archives as an important part of the overall archival attempt to capture       the history of society in all       its diversity' [2].
A former senior manager at the National Archives of       Canada, referring to [e],       emphasised the significance of the research for contemporary archival       thinking and practice and       credited Flinn with being `an early and prominent voice in bringing the       community archives       perspective to the attention of the profession' [3].
The former national       archivist and librarian of the       United States Virgin Islands and a leading North American commentator on       archival issues       reflected on the influence of Flinn on a new generation of North American       archive professionals,       `Community archives is his area, I don't think there is anyone else...I       would say his work has been       foundational' [4].
This new awareness has contributed to broader and more inclusive       perspectives on professional       practice for archivists and other heritage workers.
A tangible result of       this may be seen in the fact       that in 2011 the Archives and Records Association (ARA, formerly the       Society of Archivists)       acknowledged the significance of community archives by the Chair and Chief       Executive of the new       association addressing the annual UCL community archives conference and       inviting the       Community Archives and Heritage Group (CAHG) and its approximately 400       members to become       a special interest group within ARA.
When ARA looked for someone to give       an overview of the       developments in the last ten years for community archives in their       professional magazine ARC, the       editors asked Flinn [5].
This has also affected funding policy: the       Heritage Lottery Fund (HLF) sees       the funding of community heritage even in a time of austerity as a       priority, introducing in its       strategic framework for 2013-2018 a new fund, `Sharing Heritage',       specifically targeting community       heritage activity and extending the scope of existing community-focussed       programmes such as       `Our Heritage' from &#163;50,000 to &#163;100,000 [6].
The AHRC included `community       heritage' as a strand       in its Connected Communities research theme, for which Flinn was invited       to participate in an       Expert Consultation Event in 2009.
Much of the DIS research has focused on better understanding the       motivations and significance of       community-based heritage and archive activity, and has changed practices       in a number of areas.
Flinn has been closely associated with the development of the advocacy       body CAHG since 2005,       and that body and its members had a mutual interest in the research,       informing it and benefiting       from it, and were thus close participants in the research process.
The       knowledge of the variety,       significance and challenges faced by community archives acquired through       the research [a, b, c]       directly impacted Flinn's drafting of the community archives movement       vision statement, which       `informed and continues to inform the essence of what [CAHG] do'.
The CAHG       chair notes: `There       is a two-way relationship that then evolves; Andrew's work in raising the       profile and scoping and       defining the field, impacts and benefits CAHG members and the work of CAHG       members benefits       and informs Andrew's understandings of what community archives are and can       be' [7].
DIS research on community-based heritage has influenced debates and       policy on archives and       heritage in London and beyond.
For instance, Flinn was an invited member       on the Mayor of       London's Heritage Diversity Task Force (HDTF) Archives Diversification       Sub-committee (2007-       2009), drafting the sub-committee's final report and jointly authoring a       section in the HDTF report       which was sent to all London arts, heritage and archival institutions and       policymakers stressing the       vital role of independent community-based archive activity in the context       of London's diverse       populations [8].
He also spoke on an expert panel at the cross-domain       Cultural Equalities Now       conference at the British Museum (2011), and was consulted by the HLF in       its discussions on the       evaluation of `success' of its funding of community-based heritage and       oral history work (2013).
Stevens contributed reflections from the findings of the Community         Archives and Identities       research and community-based heritage activity into publications for the       think tank IPPR, notably       `Stories Old and New, Migration and Identity in the UK heritage sector: A       report for the Migration       Museum Working Group' (2009) has been crucial to the direction and ongoing       work of the       Migration Museum Project to create the UK's first major museum of       migration [9].
Having identified the challenges and opportunities faced by       community-based archives [b, c, e],       researchers worked collaboratively with individual archives and led         workshops to provide training         and develop skills.
For instance, between 2009 and 2013, researchers       advised the Black Cultural       Archives, South Asian Diaspora Literature and Arts Archive (SALIDAA), the       National Centre for       Carnival Arts Carnival Archive, Eastside Community Heritage, ALDATERRA,       Hoxton Hall and most       recently the proposed UK Disabled People's Movement Archive (UKDPMA),       among others, on       different aspects of community-based archival and heritage practice.
In       some cases this has taken       the form of a one-off advisory session, in others it has been a more       sustained and long-term       collaboration and engagement.
Research on community-based heritage       practice and ethics led to       guidance to Hoxton Hall which, according to their Heritage and Education       Officer, `supported us to       shape and deliver a project (Shoreditch Storybank) that is of real       relevance to the community of       Shoreditch and our organisation', and the advice was then built into a       large on-going HLF-funded       project to develop the Hall and explore its community heritage [10].
According to ALDATERRA       Projects, research-based advice enabled them to identify new streams of       relevant HLF and AHRC       funding which supported the development of the organisation, and on       projects such as the Living       Archaeology of the Place `enabled a specialist competence to be brought       into our work' [11].
Drawing on the collaborative approaches discussed in [c], researchers       delivered ten workshops       between 2009 and 2013 on archival skills, ethical research practice,       digital preservation,       dissemination and intellectual property and models for community-based       heritage collaborations to       community groups.
Research findings were presented formally and informally       at seven successive       UCL-hosted Community Archives conferences.
These conferences are attended       by 150 delegates       annually, including community groups, heritage professionals and       policymakers.
As a member of       the organising group Flinn guided and directed the themes and messages       conveyed to the wider       membership, providing an unrivalled opportunity to discuss and disseminate       the outcomes of       research to the audience it most directly related to.
For example, a       finding of Community Archives         and Identities research was the extent to which the survival of       materials collected and created by       community archives and heritage groups was endangered by digital       instability [c, d].
Once this       need was identified, researchers led by Stevens organised a digital       curation workshop in 2009, as       well as talks at community archive conferences on digital preservation.
Eveleigh was asked by the       City Archives of Amsterdam to advise and collaborate on the motivations       underpinning successful       participatory archive and heritage projects, while Sexton has been invited       to address professional       audiences in Italy about her research on collaborative heritage practice       as part of the Dig Where         We Stand team.
In addition, Eveleigh was commissioned, with Flinn,       to produce guidance on       digital preservation guidance for community groups, which was disseminated       to community       archives via the Community Archives and Heritage Group.
According to the       CAHG Chair, this was       an important model of `turning academic research into something very       practical and very usable       which is very important to a sector where the whole point is to engage in       a practical process and       produce meaningful and lasting end products ... it was a perfect way in       which that [research]       expertise can be made accessible to community archives to fulfil a       knowledge gap' [7].
