     The identification of the gene for FMO3 and the elucidation of TMAU as a       genetic disorder have transformed our understanding of why some       individuals have an extremely unpleasant `fishy' body odour.
Prior to our       1997 paper [4], which proved that TMAU is caused by mutations in       the FMO3 gene, affected individuals were presumed to have poor       hygiene.
Individuals with TMAU can suffer social isolation, depression,       rejection and higher than normal suicide rates.
In some cases, because the       odour is episodic, medical practitioners assumed the symptoms to be       imaginary and resorted to psychiatric referral and prescription of       antidepressants or antipsychotics.
This creates an even worse outcome,       because several of these drugs are substrates for FMO3, and the limited       enzyme activity that the patient has is then occupied by drug       detoxification.
Impact on clinical practice     Our work on TMAU has led to increased understanding by the medical       profession of the genetic basis of the disorder of body odour.
In 2007, at       the invitation of the National Institutes of Health, USA (NIH), we       produced a TMAU resource for the medical profession, which was updated in       2011 [a].
The resource provides information on the disorder, its       treatment and its diagnosis.
A spokesman for the patient advocacy group,       MEBO, states that "this is the resource which we recommend to everyone who       wants information on TMAU" [b].
Shephard also contributed to the       NHS Choices page on trimethylaminuria in 2013 [c].
The identification of a genetic origin has enabled increased understanding     of the condition by sufferers and those around them.
For example, MEBO     report that: "One Kenyan TMAU sufferer was being persecuted by neighbours       and feared having to go to the police.
She was able to send Dr Shephard's       scientific TMAU paper to the management committee of her housing block to       support her explanation of her condition" [d].
Genetic testing     Following our discovery that TMAU is due to mutations in the FMO3       gene, private testing facilities began to offer a diagnostic test.
Subsequently, the NHS added the test to their list of genetic tests, and       testing is also available elsewhere in the world.
Various companies have       reported the numbers of patients tested as follows for the period 2008-13:            Sheffield Diagnostic Genetics Service: 236 patients tested (since         2007)       Prevention Genetics, Wisconsin: 79 unique patients       University of Colorado, Denver: 1-2 patients per month       Mount Sinai Hospital, Toronto, Canada: 1 patient tested       GENETAQ, Molecular Genetics Centre, Malaga, Spain: 13 families tested         [e].
Urine and genetic testing for TMAU are available on the NHS, but this is       not the case in most countries, where patients must pay for costly tests.
With the advent of cheaper DNA sequencing, some patients may elect to have       their FMO3 gene sequenced.
In collaboration with the patient group       MEBO (see below), Shephard assists with the sequencing reads and       explanation to patients [b].
In 2011 we published the European       guidelines (Clinical Utility Gene Card) for genetic testing of TMAU [f].
This provides guidelines for the medical profession and genetic testing       industry.
Work with patients and patient groups     The unusual nature of TMAU has led to close links between researchers and       patients developing in the course of the research described above, which       continue today.
In 2010, the patient advocacy group MEBO was founded, and       Shephard has acted as scientific advisor to this group since 2011 [g].
MEBO provides support and advice for those who suffer from TMAU with       registered branches in the US, UK and Europe.
It now has around 1,200       members worldwide.
In January 2012, Shephard assisted the organisation       with a submission to fast-track TMAU for Social Security support in the US       [h].
Later that year she was appointed to the Institutional Review       Board (USA) for ethical assessment of a breath test device as part of a       MEBO-initiated project.
One member of the group has reported on the       following positive impacts that Shephard's work has had on the community:       "her approachability as a scientific advisor for MEBO Research; her         educational articles which have helped our TMAU community         internationally; her willingness to build bridges between the layperson         sufferer and the biomedical scientist, and her support in empowering the         TMAU community to take action to help itself" [i].
Shephard has presented lectures and webinars on her research for MEBO to       explain the science behind TMAU to those with the condition [i].
She presented at the MEBO Research Body Odor and Halitosis meet-ups in       Washington (April 2011) and Miami (June 2012) [j].
Shephard also       posts on the MEBO website and assists with lay postings on the disorder on       the organisation's blog.
She has also helped patients to write articles       about their experience, for example, one such article was published in the       Daily Mirror and internationally.
In 2012 she assisted another patient       with an article for the Royal College of General Practitioners' InnovAiT       journal [k].The disorder has been the subject of several TV       programmes (e.g.
BBC 2011, Food programme), radio (e.g.
BBC World Service,       March 2012 [l]) and the press.
In each of these instances,       Shephard has acted as advisor or interviewee.
This coverage has had a huge       `advertising' impact, helping to increase public awareness of the       disorder.
