     1) Impact derived from the identification and cloning of the P2Y         receptor class     i. P2Y12 receptor: New antagonists to treat thrombosis         and stroke     Every year, arterial blood clots lead to approximately 90,000 heart       attacks and 150,000 strokes in the UK.
Historically, anticoagulants such       as aspirin and warfarin are used to reduce the likelihood of blood       clotting in high risk cases, but these drugs can have widespread unwanted       side effects.
Burnstock's characterisation of the P2Y receptor class made       it possible to identify specific antagonists for the P2Y12       receptor expressed on platelets.
Two new drugs acting on this receptor,       clopidogrel and its derivative ticagrelor, have been developed to prevent       platelet aggregation.
They are being used widely and successfully for the       treatment and prevention of thrombosis and stroke.
Clopidogrel (trade name Plavix, marketed by Bristol-Myers Squibb and       Sanofi) [a] is indicated for the prevention of thrombotic events       in patients suffering from symptomatic atherosclerosis, acute coronary       syndromes, (including myocardial infarction with and without ST elevation       and unstable angina), ischaemic stroke, or after placement of       intracoronary stent or as an alternative antiplatelet drug for patients       who are intolerant to aspirin.
Plavix is marketed worldwide to nearly 110       countries, with global sales of $7.09bn in 2011 [b].
Ticagrelor (trade names Brilique, Possia and Brilinta, produced by       AstraZeneca) [c], which acts faster than clopidogrel, is indicated       for the prevention of thrombotic events (such as stroke or heart attack)       in patients with acute coronary syndrome, or patients who have recently       had an ischaemic stroke.
Treatment of acute coronary syndrome with       ticagrelor significantly reduces the rate of death from vascular causes,       myocardial infarction or stroke.
Brilinta is now included in seven sets of       cardiovascular treatment guidelines by leading medical organisations       across the world: two in Europe, four in the USA and one in Canada.
It has       been approved in 65 countries and its use is currently being reimbursed in       21 of them.
Brilinta is now on formulary at more than 80% of the top 400       hospitals throughout the USA and its 2012 sales were $89m [d].
ii.
P2Y2 receptor: New agonists to treat dry eye     Keratoconjunctivitis sicca, or dry eye syndrome, is a relatively common       eye disease caused by either decreased tear production or increased tear       film evaporation.
Dry eye syndrome can be intensely uncomfortable and       painful, with some patients going to the lengths of surgery to reduce the       area available for tear evaporation.
Burnstock's characterisation of the       P2Y receptor class made it possible to identify specific agonists of the       P2Y2 receptors, which evoke mucus secretion.
A new such       agonist, diquafasol (Diquas), has been developed by Inspire       Pharmaceuticals (to whom Burnstock has been a consultant) [e].
Diquas was launched by Santen in Japan in 2010, with Inspire       Pharmaceuticals set to receive a milestone payment of $1.25m in the fourth       quarter of 2010 [f].
2) Impact derived from the identification and cloning of the P2X3         receptor     More than 270m people worldwide suffer from chronic pain, but there has       been little recent success in advancing truly novel therapies for pain       relief.
Existing therapies, including opioids, antiepileptic drugs and       non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs all have documented drawbacks.
Through the cloning of the P2X3 ion channel receptor located on       nociceptive sensory nerves and later the discovery of the involvement of       these channels in signalling pain, Burnstock's work has uncovered a new       target for pain relief, which is receiving attention from the       pharmaceutical industry.
Roche (with whom Burnstock was a Consultant and       Research Collaborator with over &#163;2m support for over six years for this       project) and, more recently, Afferent Pharmaceuticals (for whom he acts as       a member of the Scientific Advisory Board), have developed AF-219, a       specific P2X3 receptor antagonist, which is a promising new analgesic.
AF-219 is currently in Phase 2 clinical trials for the treatment of three       painful disorders: (a) osteoarthritis, which is the most common form of       arthritis; (b) interstitial cystitis / bladder pain syndrome, which is       experienced by 3-7% of women; and (c) idiopathic chronic cough, which       accounts for up to 15% of coughs.
Four Phase 1 studies of AF-219 have       demonstrated that the compound is safe and well tolerated and completion       of Phase 2 clinical trials is expected this year [g].
Antagonism of P2X3 purinoceptors on primary afferent neurons is a novel       analgesic approach that has been pursued by leading pharmaceutical       companies for the last 15 years.
Over 600 patents are currently held which       relate to the P2X3 receptor and pain [h].
3) Collaboration with clinicians and the pharmaceutical industry     As a result of his research on ATP, Burnstock has had links with 35       pharmaceutical companies, for whom he acted as a consultant or provided       research support.
He has collaborated with clinicians around the world on       over 70 projects, including work on skin inflammation, motor neuron       disease, diabetes, traumatic shock, liver and colorectal tumours, bladder       incontinence, vitamin E deficiency, hypertension, and pancreatic, bladder       and prostate cancer.
Burnstock is currently the Senior Advisor for the       Neuroallianz established by the German Government to link basic science,       clinical science and the drug industry.
