     Research at UCL Anthropology has led to significant changes in how       patients are treated and led       to a culture change in psychiatry and clinical practice in Europe and the       United States.
Perhaps the       greatest systemic change as a result of this research has been through       contributions to the fourth       edition of the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, or       the DSM-IV (American       Psychiatric Association 1994).
This is the hegemonic psychiatric       diagnostic manual used daily by       practitioners around the world, and which determines diagnosis and health       insurance, particularly       in the USA.
Contributions to this manual have enhanced practitioners'       understanding of the cultural       dimensions of psychiatric disorder.
Littlewood applied findings from his long and influential career of       research on the cultural shaping       of mental illness in the Caribbean and elsewhere (e.g.
[a]) in his role as       a consultant on the DSM-       IV.
This, and its 2000 revision the DSM-IV-TR, were used throughout the       impact period until       superseded by DSM-5 in May 2013.
Specifically, Littlewood co-authored the       appendix describing       culture-bound psychiatric syndromes and the systematic evaluation of       cultural context, which       represents the first major recognition of anthropological findings on       cultural diversity in an edition of       the DSM (Cave 2002).
This appendix was carried forward in both the       DSM-IV-TR and the new       DSM-5, thus demonstrating its ongoing use in psychiatric diagnosis [1].
A 2005 study found that 26.2% of Americans qualify for a DSM-IV-TR       diagnosis, a proportion       unlikely to have changed during the impact period, which suggests the       broad reach of this work [2].
DSM diagnoses are used by American clinicians to request reimbursement       from insurance       companies and to monitor morbidity and mortality by national agencies.
Thus, understanding       culture-bound syndromes and relating them to the appropriate DSM diagnoses       was essential to       ensure patients were diagnosed and treated correctly, their physicians       were paid, and these cases       were incorporated into national statistics during the impact census period       [3].
The research has also been disseminated into clinical practice         through training and the publication         of key texts.
For example, the findings from Calabrese's clinical       ethnography at Harvard teaching       hospitals [c] were published in a book that has influenced Swiss medical       education.
The book as a       whole was the subject of a 2012 training symposium at the University       Hospital of Basel, delivered       by the editors and attended by approximately 100 Swiss clinicians, who       discussed the book's       findings and interacted with authors.
The relevance of this symposium to       clinical practice is       demonstrated by the fact that attendees received continuing medical       education credits [4].
Similarly, Calabrese's monograph based on his Native American research [b]       is used to train       clinicians and medical researchers at Harvard Medical School [5].
Clinical ethnography adds an important perspective to clinical practice       which was previously       missing.
The impact of the work of Littlewood and Calabrese on the       clinical disciplines is apparent       in citations of their work in medical journals that clinicians must read       to stay current in their fields       and that typically do not cite anthropology.
For example, [a] has been       cited in the International         Journal of Psychiatry in Clinical Practice (Mosotho, et al.
2008),       the Journal of Marital and Family         Therapy (Dow and Woolley 2011), and the Journal of Social Work         Practice (Gray, et al.
2010), to       name a few references in journals representing three separate clinical       disciplines [6].
The provision of robust psychiatric care is an essential aspect of       delivering Bhutan's widely       publicised efforts to define and improve Gross National Happiness (GNH).
Yet a 2012 WHO report       found there were only two psychiatrists serving the country's entire       population of 672,000.
[7] The       mental health system is dramatically under-resourced and resistance to       psychiatric care derives       both from stigma and from traditional understandings of illness in terms       of spirit possession, soul       loss, or angry local deities, necessitating a culturally competent       approach.
Calabrese's action       research has been instrumental in building a foundation for         anthropologically-informed psychiatric         services in Bhutan, and thus has contributed to the country's       efforts to improve GNH.
Applying insights from his research on culture and mental illness [b, c],       Calabrese positively       impacted psychiatric services in Bhutan through the delivery of       anthropologically informed training       on-site daily to over a dozen psychiatric staff members in Bhutan during       three annual summer field       trips in 2011, 2012 and 2013 and through ethnographic description of the       lives of Bhutanese       people with mental illness [d].
A British Academy International Partnership Grant allowed Calabrese to       bring Bhutan's Chief       Psychiatrist and collaborator, Chencho Dorji, to UCL during April 2013 to       meet British medical       anthropologists and psychiatrists and learn about the latest developments       in these fields.
As a       result, in April 2013, Calabrese signed a Memorandum of Academic       Cooperation with the newly       established University of Medical Sciences of Bhutan (UMSB) to develop       curricula in Medical       Anthropology/Clinical Ethnography and Mental Health for medical students       and allied health       professionals in Bhutan [8].
Training began in July 2013, with       presentations delivered by Calabrese       to approximately 30 staff of the new university, including the directors       of constituent institutes such       as the Royal Institute of Health Sciences.
Calabrese was appointed       Visiting Lecturer, not only to       create programmes in Medical Anthropology, but also to help orient the       university toward a more       biopsychosocial and humanistic orientation generally.
Calabrese is thus       integrating these fields       firmly into Bhutan's nascent system of medical education.
An important aspect of Calabrese's work is direct public engagement and       use of local media to       inform the Bhutanese population about the nature of severe mental       illnesses and what forms of       treatment may help.
Calabrese has been interviewed on Bhutanese radio, for       example, an       interview on 6 August 2012 on Radio Valley 99.9, the country's second       private radio station which       covers the capital Thimphu [9].
He was also interviewed by Bhutanese       newspapers and has given       public lectures at the National Referral Hospital and the Centre for       Bhutan Studies to groups that       included traditional and modern doctors and their students, hospital       staff, and Bhutanese scholars.
Calabrese has also networked with Bhutanese political and educational       leaders around issues of       mental illness.
When it hit the impoverished coastal areas of Myanmar in 2008, Cyclone       Nargis killed 150,000 and       left up to one million homeless.
Thanks to David Napier's research for his       Lancet article (which,       though published later, informed his Nargis work) and prior field research       in Myanmar, he was       contracted to create the first fully integrated qualitative-quantitative       method for assessing       vulnerability in a disaster rapid-assessment tool, and to train 18 Burmese       to carry out work with the       consent of the military dictatorship that had driven away most       international NGOs at the time.
Napier's assessment tool abandoned existing lengthy questionnaire       schedules in favour of rapid       identification techniques developed in earlier research and adapted to the       fast-changing       circumstances immediately after the cyclone.
Drawing on his ongoing research on health effects of climatic events,       Napier investigated the most       efficient methods of rapid disaster assessment.
The UN stated that fully       integrated quantitative and       qualitative vulnerability assessments had been attempted "but never in a       disaster and post-disaster       relief context due to the significant logistic and organisational       requirements" (p. 96 in [10]).
Napier's       report to the UN and recommendations on the aftermath of Cyclone Nargis       were based on a       quantitative survey that involved over 13,000 people and a qualitative       vulnerability study involving       349 in-depth interviews with survivors, which focused on health and other       risks.
Napier focused on       vulnerable women and children and was able to develop immediately         responsive identifications of         where assistance should be directed by the Tripartite Core Group       (comprising the Government of       Myanmar, ASEAN and the UN).
The technique was subsequently adopted for       demonstration to       other aid workers and organisations seeking to enhance the efficiency of       their own interventions at       the UN conference on Cyclone Nargis held in Bangkok later that year.
This       novel disaster       assessment technique has subsequently been trialed in a number of       settings.
