     Elective abortion is a matter of considerable political, social and       ethical concern.
The UK has one of the most liberal laws in the world,       based upon scientific and clinical rationale and a strong sense of a       woman's right to choose, rather than upon religious beliefs.
After the       introduction of The Abortion Act 1967, the Act of the United Kingdom       Parliament legalising abortions by registered practitioners, and       regulating the free provision of such medical practices through the       National Health Service (NHS), the UK Government has regularly reviewed       scientific evidence related to this Act.
As a direct result of her published research, Fitzgerald was asked to       give evidence at a House of Commons Science and Technology Committee on       the scientific evidence relating to the Abortion Act of 1967 [a].
This and other evidence from different sources led to the UK Government       retaining the 24-week limit on abortion in the UK in 2007 [b].
This decision inevitably led to controversy, due to strong reactions from       pro-life religious groups, many of whom are of the opinion that fetuses       feel pain, are sentient and should not be terminated at any stage.
The       Minister of State for Health therefore commissioned the Royal College of       Obstetrics and Gynaecology (RCOG) to review the scientific and clinical       evidence for fetal awareness in detail and to update their original 1997       report on this subject (to which Fitzgerald had contributed) [c].
As a direct result of her published research on fetal nervous system       development, and specifically the development of pain pathways, Fitzgerald       was invited to join the working party and was a co-author of the updated,       2010 published report, entitled `Fetal Awareness.
Review of Research and       Recommendations for Practice' [d].
The intention of the report was to review the relevant science and       clinical practice relevant to the issue of fetal awareness and, in       particular, evidence published since 1997.
In so doing, the report was       completely rewritten to take account not only of recent literature but       also of the evidence presented to the House of Commons Committee.
The       report concluded that, since most neuroscientists believe that the cortex       is necessary for pain perception, it can be concluded that the fetus       cannot experience pain in any sense prior to 24 weeks gestation.
After 24       weeks there is continuing development and elaboration of intracortical       networks such that noxious stimuli in newborn preterm infants produce       cortical responses.
Such connections to the cortex are necessary for pain       experience but not sufficient, as experience of external stimuli requires       consciousness.
Furthermore, there is increasing evidence that the fetus       never experiences a state of true wakefulness in utero and is kept, by the       presence of its chemical environment, in a state of continuous sleep-like       unconsciousness or sedation.
This state can suppress higher cortical       activation in the presence of intrusive external stimuli.
The implications       of these scientific observations for clinical practice are such that the       need for analgesia prior to intrauterine intervention, for diagnostic or       therapeutic reasons, becomes much less compelling.
Indeed, in the light of       current evidence, the Working Party concluded that the use of analgesia       provided no clear benefit to the fetus.
Furthermore, because of possible       risks and difficulties in administration, fetal analgesia should not be       employed where the only consideration is concern about fetal awareness or       pain [e].
The number of women affected by this report is very high: in 2010, there       were 189,574 abortions in England and Wales; in 2011 there were 196,082;       in 2012 there were 185,122 [f].
Furthermore the impact spreads       beyond the termination procedure itself to the long term physical and       mental health of affected women.
The RCOG's updated guidelines were       followed by the Academy of Medical Royal Colleges' publication `Induced       abortion and mental health: a systematic review of the mental health       impact of induced abortion' [g].
The purpose of the review was to       examine the evidence of the impact of abortion upon women's mental health.
The Academy's conclusions echoed the RCOG's guidelines.
This report has set the clinical and scientific standards for medical and       allied health professions on the termination of pregnancy, and provided       scientific underpinning for the current UK abortion law.
It received       considerable press attention with reaction from both pro-choice and       pro-life groups [h] and the interest of medical ethicists [i].
