     In the UK, eight per cent of all live births are preterm and many of       these infants will spend time in a special neonatal hospital unit       receiving medical care.
This care necessarily involves repeated invasive       procedures, a median of ten painful procedures per hospitalised day.
Despite this, pain in this patient group is undertreated and there is an       acknowledged need to formulate a scientifically sound, evidence-based, and       clinically useful framework for the management of anaesthesia and       analgesia in neonates.
A major challenge in analgesic trials in the infant       population is the definition of a reliable, quantitative outcome       measurement of pain.
The most commonly used measures are based on       behavioural and physiological observations, or composite pain measurement       instruments, such as the premature infant pain profile (PIPP), based on       these observations.
These methods are unlikely to be an appropriate       outcome measure for neonatal analgesic trials because they are largely       based on human observation and judgment and take no account of the       developmental changes in infant motor behaviour.
The discovery by Fitzgerald and colleagues that single heel lances       (required for clinical care) in hospitalised infants evoke specific       nociceptive brain activity (recorded with neonatal electroencephalography,       EEG) and spinal nociceptive reflexes (recorded with electromyography, EMG)       meant that these responses could be used as the first quantitative neural       measure of pain processing in this vulnerable patient group.
For the first       time, a randomised controlled analgesic trial in newborn infants was       undertaken, using specific nociceptive brain activity as a direct measure       of infant pain.
The results showed that oral sucrose, a commonly used       `analgesic' for procedural pain in infants does not significantly affect       activity in neonatal brain or spinal cord nociceptive circuits, and       therefore is unlikely to be an effective analgesic drug.
The ability of       sucrose to reduce clinical observational scores after noxious events in       newborn infants should not be interpreted as pain relief [a].
This trial, listed on the UK trials gateway [b], showed that       current analgesic methods in use in neonatal care units around the UK and       elsewhere are inadequate and a more rational basis of care is required in       the future for this vulnerable patient group.
As is common for big impact clinical papers, the Lancet invited       commentaries on the results of this trial [c] and a reply to these       was also published [d].
Importantly the trial received a very       positive review on NHS Choices [e].
Evidence that the trial has changed views and practice       Professor Chris Kennard, Chair of the MRC's Neuroscience and Mental Health       funding board said: "This trial has significant implications for       healthcare policy and is a first class example of where MRC research is       helping bring scientific discoveries from laboratory bench to patient       bedside more quickly.
With uncertainty around the role that pain plays in       a baby's neurodevelopment, this research is a vital tool for informing       healthcare decision makers" [f].
Dr Judith Meek, consultant neonatologist at UCLH has discussed changes in       practice in the neonatal unit at UCLH as a result of this study [g].
Other recent publications, emphasising problems with sucrose, following on       from this sucrose trial have now been published [h].
It was also       reviewed on the Faculty of 1000 website [i], discussed in Nature       Medicine [j] and reported in the public press and on numerous       medical sites in the UK and the USA [k].
Increasing public awareness of science.
In 2011, Fitzgerald       contributed to the BBC Horizon programme The Secret World of Pain       which went out to 1.96m viewers [l].
A review in the Guardian       said: "The film's greatest pleasure was that each painful story was       narrated without exploitativeness aforethought, but with the aim of       teaching us some science."
This programme, and Fitzgerald's work,       were discussed widely in the press and online, including on blogs and       patient forums, showing how the work has increased public awareness of       this area of research [m].
