     Maximising performance in stressful environments is an area that has       grown in importance in the last few years as a result of fewer resources,       greater demands and the need to change.
There has been a significant rise       in reported stress levels in most sectors, with a growing number of stress       related illnesses and associated problems.
Mental toughness can help in       both the selection of, and the development of, the robust individuals who       can prosper and maintain wellbeing in demanding environments.
Perhaps more       importantly it has been linked to social mobility.
Business impact       A number of small businesses offer the model and MTQ48 measure as a core       to their consultancy provision.
Over 30 consultancies in 8 countries       provide mental toughness training, including AQR, Corporate Energising,       Call of the Wild, JHK mental toughness and PTPP.
Secondly, Clough and       colleagues have been directly involved in business development activities.
Two specific applied examples are:     Novartis: Clough and others have worked with Novartis from 2011,       providing consultancy advice and specific training related to mental       toughness and safety.
This has led to a significant change in the       perceptions of risk and risk taking.
Greater Merseyside Connexions Staff Welfare Project: The organisation was       aware that the management team was showing signs of stress and       commissioned a stress audit by Clough.
This confirmed that the managers       were stressed, which was a major factor in underperformance.
In 2008-2009,       a mental toughness development programme was designed by Clough and 60       managers went through it.
Within 12 months the organisation was achieving       or exceeding all its goals and objectives.
The organisation was recognised       as one of the best performing organisations in its field (ranked #2 in the       UK).
Educational impact       Again this work has two strands.
Firstly the work on mental toughness has       informed educational practice.
For example the Institute of Leadership       &amp; Management (ILM) is the UK's largest management body, combining       industry-leading qualifications and specialist member services.
In 2011,       90,000 people gained an ILM qualification.
The MTQ48 is available free of       charge to its members and is incorporated into a number of their courses.
Also, in 2011, Dubai Women's College established the Middle East's first       mental toughness centre for education.
This acts as a hub for mental       toughness training and research in the U.A.E.
Finally, the model has been       discussed by an APPG interested in enhancing social mobility.
They       concluded "developing psychometric tools is crucial to identifying the       best forms of intervention"     There are also a number of more focussed activities.
Four examples are:     Right Track Project.
Department for Education funding was awarded to       `reachfor' for the Right Track project to address the Improving Outcomes       Theme 6 priority: Early intervention to increase participation by, and       improve the achievements of, disadvantaged young people.
Right Track is an       initiative delivering bespoke packages of support to 4,500 young people,       including Mental Toughness assessments and coaching (developed by Dr       Clough) in order to improve attainment, attendance, behaviour and       ultimately progression of the target cohort.
Initial evaluation has shown       that there has been a significant increase in mental toughness for the       sample and improved attitudes to learning.
Data analysis is ongoing.
Adam Smith College: This is one of the largest FE colleges in Scotland,       which set up a project with the aim of using the MTQ48 questionnaire to       direct a range of interventions to reduce drop-out rates.
Potential loss       of income due to early departure of students was quantified as being in       excess of &#163;1m.
The plan put in place for the 2010/11 academic year       involved testing 10% of the college's full-time FE learners.
Students were       supplied with the UCanPass workbooks produced by Dr Clough/AQR Ltd.
The       results in terms of improved early retention in the 2010/11 academic year       have been encouraging.
11 of the 18 courses showed improvement with       previous years, 11 improved relative to sector averages and 13 showed       improvement when compared with college averages.
In 2010-11, early       retention rates for those full time FE student groups not tested for       mental toughness fell from 85% to 84%.
In contrast, early retention rates       for the groups tested for mental toughness increased from a       pre-intervention average of 81% to a post-intervention average of 88%.
Knowsley Firm Foundations: As part of the 2008/09 Firm Foundations       programme over 370 Year 11 pupils completed the MTQ48 assessment between       November 2008 and January 2009.
In addition to the measure, at least one       member of staff from each school attended a training session on providing       feedback and delivering mental toughness interventions.
As a follow-on       from the training, each school received a workbook of interventions and       three Bio-Feedback Tension takers to be used in school.
During the 2009/10       academic year a significantly larger cohort of KS4 pupils were tested       using the MTQ48.
Knowsley schools moved above the National Challenge benchmark of 30% of       pupils achieving 5 A*-C grade GCSEs including English and Maths in the       period during which mental toughness has been initiated.
Improvements of       3.2% were made in the years 2008-9 (baseline 29.3).
Mental toughness in primary schools       A Knowledge Transfer Partnership (2011 to 2013) with AQR developed a       mental toughness measure for primary school children based on the       underpinning research, with Clough as the academic supervisor.
The project       received a very good rating and the questionnaire is currently under trial       in a number of schools.
Impact on Sport       Work with professional and amateur sports teams and athletes is ongoing.
This work has included input and interventions with the Polish Winter       Olympic team and a number of professional Rugby League Clubs.
In addition       Clough has been working with the Rugby League academy to identify talent       and develop resilience in young athletes.
This work has become an ongoing       programme and the work of Clough has clearly informed coaching practices       according to Chris Chapman, National player development officer.
