     The work carried out at the University of Hull has been important for the       discovery of aspects of false memories that are crucial for court cases.
This knowledge has been disseminated via three books in Italian, the most       important being Mazzoni &amp; Rotriquenz, 2012, a number of articles in       Italian written by Prof Mazzoni, and a large number of invited lectures       for Italian legal professionals, including the police, barristers and       judges (most importantly Supreme Justices of the Court).
These       professionals have become increasingly aware of the potential dangers for       the witness' memory of poor interviewing techniques, and the risk inherent       in some of the current legal procedures.
The work by Prof. Mazzoni has       also started a debate on the adequacy of some existing legal practices in       court cases.
These practices (such as the Incidente probatorio, i.e.
the       interview that is used as valid evidence in court), are now more closely       scrutinized.
The impact of this work is evident in the justification of       verdicts of court cases for which Prof. Mazzoni was invited to be a       consultant.
Many of these are court cases on sexual abuse in children, the       major one being the so-called Rignano Flaminio case, that has been the       object of intense interest by the national media, and has triggered a       major debate (see letter by Avv Roberto Borgogno).
The impact of the work       conducted at the university of Hull is also evident in the justifications       of verdicts of the Supreme Court (see letter by Supreme Judge Claudia       Squassoni, President of the Third Section of the Supreme Court).
Prof. Mazzoni's research results have also been a main drive in modifying       the interviewing practice of vulnerable witnesses (children).
These       changes are evident in the new version of the Carta di Noto, in the       Protocollo di Venezia and in the first Italian Interviewing Guidelines.
These are all national documents which are described more fully below, for       which Prof. Mazzoni has been invited to be the main or one of the main       consultants.
Increased awareness due to the results of the research       carried out at the University of Hull has set new standards for what is       typically required by the court for considering a testimony reliable.
The       malleability of memory and the related risks due to inadequate       interviewing techniques is a topic now mentioned in every court case       involving minors and the work carried out by Prof. Mazzoni has represented       a major drive in it.
Although in Italy the law forbids mentioning       individual names and papers in verdicts and in the subsequent extended       justification (see letter by Supreme Justice Dr. Claudia Squassoni), Prof.       Mazzoni's work on false memories and eyewitness memory has been referred       to in most verdicts of First Degree and Appeal courts (for two example see       the letter by Avv.Roberto Borgogno, the defence lawyer in the Rignano       Flaminio case, and by Avv Prof. Guglielmo Gulotta, Defence lawyer in a       major case, the Brescia case), as well as all verdicts of the Supreme       Court of Cassation.
This latter is confirmed in a statement by Dr. Claudia       Squassone, President of the Third Section of the Italian Supreme Court.
The impact of the work by Prof, Mazzoni is also clarified by Avv.
Renato       Borzone, then secretary of the Italian Barristers' Guild.
Prof. Mazzoni       has been personally invited to consult for 26 court cases in Italy and one       in the UK.
Following the indications of the work by Prof. Mazzoni, the       request by defence lawyers for the court to choose expert witnesses of       high academic/scientific credentials, or else to justify the choice of       individuals of a lesser prestige, has been presented in 5 of the cases in       which Prof. Mazzoni has been involved as a consultant, and most likely in       at least all the cases in which the same judges and defence lawyers have       been involved afterwards.
More recently (2011-2012) prof Mazzoni has been asked to train the head       of the child neuropsychiatry unit of the Istituto Don Gnocchi (Milano),       and her team of neuropsychiatrists, psychologists and social workers, in       order to create a new centre for child sexual abuse cases.
Because of this       training, three of them have subsequently been invited in 2012 to become       instructors for a specialized courses for judges held by the National       School for Magistrates (Scuola Superiore di Magistratura), and the class       has been based on the research and the work developed at the University of       Hull.
In May 2013 Prof. Mazzoni has been invited to give a main lecture to       judges by the Scuola Superiore di Magistratura on memory in eyewitness       testimony following the publication of her book on eyewitness testimony       (2012).
As already mentioned, the work developed in Hull has shaped in part the       content of the current version of the Carta di Noto, and of two other       recent documents, the Protocollo di Venezia and the Linee Guida Nazionali       (Italian Interviewing Guidelines).
Prof. Mazzoni has been invited to take       part in the drafting and overseeing of these documents, which currently       are the three major documents that regulate child interviewing in forensic       cases in Italy.
The Carta di Noto, initially drafted in 2002, is the main       document in Italy in which the principles of conduct are delineated for       criminal court cases involving children.
The current version, drafted and       published in 2011, is inspired by the work developed at the University of       Hull.
Prof. Mazzoni was invited to be a member of the committee that       drafted the revision of this document, which has become the fundamental       point of reference for criminal court cases involving minors and       vulnerable individuals, and an essential part of the legal practice in       Italy.
The testimonials by Supreme Justice Claudia Squassone and by the       President of the Italian Society for Psychology and Law Avv.
De Cataldo       report on the importance of the work developed at the University of Hull       for the draft of the revision of this document, and its contribution to       the final document.
The pivotal role of Prof. Mazzoni in drafting the       final version of the document is also mentioned.
The Protocollo di Venezia, drafted in 2007, delineates the issues       involved in criminal cases of collective abuse on children, and provides       interviewing guidelines.
Research undertaken at the University of Hull was       one of the primary scientific underpinnings of this document, which is now       used in most court cases involving collective abuse.
The document was       drafted by a committee, and Prof. Mazzoni was invited to present her work       as the keynote speaker of the meeting, and requested to lead the       subcommittee that drafted the specific interviewing guidelines included in       the document.
The program of the meeting is evidence for this.
The third document, the Italian Interviewing Guidelines (Consensus among       Italian Scientific Societies), was drafted in 2009 and the final version       published in 2010.
As the leading author of the research developed at the       University of Hull, Prof. Mazzoni has been invited to be one of the four       experts for the Italian Interviewing Guidelines, as evidenced in the       document itself and in the testimonial drafted by Avv.
Luisella De       Cataldo, president of the Italian Psychology and Law Society.
The research has a beneficial impact on several groups of individuals in       the Italian society, including most Italian legal professionals (e.g.
police and special forces (e.g.
Carabinieri), lawyers, expert witnesses,       judges) involved in criminal cases.
The document drafted by the National       Barristers' Guild, as well as the new guidelines for witness interviewing       represent clear evidence of that.
The work has also had major impact on social workers, teachers, parents.
Several articles appeared in popular magazines and newspapers, as well as       pop-science magazines and one major pop-science TV program.
The research       carried out at the University of Hull was also presented in 2009 by Prof.       Mazzoni in an invited keynote address to more than 2000 elementary school       teachers.
Other beneficiaries are individuals who have been falsely accused of       abusing children (Prof. Mazzoni's work has been consistently mentioned by       interested groups, such as the centre Falsi Abusi, that gathers those who       have been unjustly accused and convicted).
The guidelines that have been inspired by the work at the University of       Hull also protect the victims.
The victims in these cases are children       who, if incorrect interviewing techniques are used, can be induced to       create traumatic personal histories that are not true.
Children in false       abuse cases that involve parents are typically taken away from the family.
Children in false abuse cases that involve teachers are moved away from       important adult figures.
In all these cases children can show       psychological problems that can range from mild forms of psychological       distress to severe forms of psychosis, depending on the extent to which       their reality has been progressively distorted during the court case.
Children who go through correct interviewing become additional       beneficiaries of the impact of this work.
