     The beneficiaries of this applied research were primarily the management,       coaching staff and players (senior and academy) of St Helens RFC (Date of       impacts: November 2010-September 2012), Warrington Wolves RFC (Date of       impact: September 2008-September 2010), and Premiership rugby union clubs       (Date of impact: September 2011-July 2013) as well as the governing bodies       of rugby league (RFL.
Date of impact: January 2011-July 2013) and rugby       union (RFU.
Date of impact: September 2011-July 2013).
Contracts with all       organizations have existed during the assessment period for employment of       research students to conduct knowledge transfer activities (RFL,       2006-2010; Warrington Wolves RFC, 2006-2010; St Helens RFC, 2009-present)       or funded studentships (RFU, 2010-present).
Some of these contracts remain       to ensure on-going impact from the original research or development of new       research.
Until this research was performed, the movement demands of elite rugby       players (league and union) were based on out-dated evidence or       inappropriate populations.
Accordingly, professional clubs were unable to       deliver training programmes informed by the internal and external loads       currently imposed on players in Super League (rugby league) and English       Premiership (rugby union) competitions.
Therefore, the primary impact of       this Group's research has been to influence coaching practice via the       objective quantification of individual player, and positional specific       demands during competitive match play.
Data from competitive matches       (Waldron et al., 2011; Sykes et al., 2011; Cahill et al., 2012; Waldron et       al., 2013) were reported to the management and coaching staff of St Helens       RFC, Warrington Wolves RFC and via one-to-one meetings with staff of       several Premiership rugby union clubs.
Findings were also fed into the       national governing body via national coaching conferences (RFU), seminars       (RFL) and invited symposia (BASES Annual Conferences 2009 and 2013), which       enabled dissemination of the work to a wider audience of academics and       practitioners.
The extent of the impact is evidenced in coaches' use of the data to       construct and deliver sport- specific, field-based practices that prepare       players for the demands of the competitive environment.
For example, our       work has had direct impact on coaches' practices at St Helens RFC where we       helped to inform position- and individual-specific conditioning       strategies.
More specifically, we have helped design and implement       training practices (i.e.
drills) that are based on worst-case game       scenarios that have been employed by coaches and `ensure players are         conditioned to meet the demands of competitive matches' (St Helens       RFC, see 5.1).
Governing bodies (i.e.
RFL) have also incorporated our data       into `The re-structure of the RFL competition framework for Super         League Academies' (RFL, 5.1), and coach education resources which `have         helped to change the delivery approach taken by many coaches across all         levels and have provided a more evidence-based approach to the use of         small-sided games in coaching young rugby league players' (RFL,       5.1).
These data have enabled rigorous evolution of individual clubs'       training practices and have been used to benchmark player performance in       relation to recovery and subsequent training.
Accordingly, our research       has been used by the RFL and `has been central to recent changes that         we [RFL] have implemented to the RFL Player Development Pathway and the         England programme in particular' (RFL, 5.1).
Assessing the movement       demands during matches has also allowed a better understanding of fatigue       (defined as reductions in high intensity activity during a match) and the       degree to which players `pace' their involvement within a game (e.g.
Sykes       et al., 2011; Waldron et al., 2013).
More specifically, the studies have       been invaluable for informing coaches on the preparation and use of       interchange players (i.e.
substitutions) who, it appears, have different       movement characteristics to those of whole-game players (Waldron et al.,       2013).
Accordingly, clear evidence to support the impact of our work has       been St Helens RFC's implementation of their interchange strategies during       the 2011 and 2012 seasons based on the research we had conducted with       them, i.e.
`we refined our preparation of individual players and         implementation strategy for interchange players during games         based on the data collected as part of the initial GPS project in 2009'       (St Helens RFC, 5.1).
In the case of rugby union, GPS data are collected and analyzed each week       then entered onto a central database (Rugby Football Union `Elite Hub')       for clubs to review.
Data are then used to review individual and team       workloads, from which club training practices can be altered to optimize       performance (RFU, 5.1).
These data are also used by international coaches       to monitor player match and training loads in advance of international       matches and training camps (RFU, 5.1).
Evaluating the efficacy of training programmes or dietary manipulations       in rugby players, monitoring player performance after injury or assessing       a player's match capability is problematic due to a variety of issues       involved in studying real matches.
For example, individual between- match       variability of approximately 15% in high intensity running has been       reported in rugby league, meaning that match-to-match comparisons of       performance are impractical.
This measurement `noise' complicates the       assessment of systematic changes in match-related performance variables,       thereby hindering potential developments in the understanding of rugby       performance.
Experimental research in a team sport environment is also       often considered to be invasive and difficult to control, thus preventing       its use with elite rugby players.
To avoid such problems, the research       from the initial movement demands studies has been used in conjunction       with Higher Education Innovation Funding to develop a match simulation       protocol that simulates the movement patterns observed during rugby league       matches (Sykes et al., 2012; Waldron et al., 2013).
This provides a more       stable research model with which to detect systematic changes in       performance and has several applications, including; informing coaching       practice and player selection (i.e.
talent identification), player       rehabilitation and research.
These match simulation protocols (Sykes et       al., 2012; Waldron et al., 2013) are now adopted by the broader rugby       league community for the assessment, monitoring and conditioning of rugby       league players.
For example, our work has changed practice at two Super       League clubs who have used the simulation protocol to condition players to       specific match demands (St Helens RFC, 5.1) and determine players'       suitability to return to play after injury and rehabilitation (Widnes       Vikings RFC, 5.1).
That is to say, rather than using running tests based       on subjective opinion as was the practice before, practitioners now have       players perform the simulation protocol (or part of) to ascertain their       physical capacity and ability to tolerate the running and contact demands       associated with match play.
Coaches are now able to make informed       decisions on the player's capacity and how they might be best managed on       their return to play.
The outcome is more objective judgement of player       capacity and a lower incidence of re-injury on return to play.
The       protocols are also being used in current projects to answer coach-led       research questions that will impact on improving performance via training,       nutritional or tactical interventions.
