     The beneficiaries of this applied research were primarily the management,       coaching staff and       players (senior and academy) of St Helens RFC (Date of impact: November       2010-September       2012), Warrington Wolves RFC (Date of impact: September 2008-September       2010) and the RFL       (Date of impact: January 2011-July 2013).
Contracts with all organizations       have existed during the       assessment period for employment of research students to conduct knowledge       transfer activities       (RFL, 2006-2010; Warrington Wolves RFC, 2006-2010; St Helens RFC,       2009-present) or funded       studentships (England Handball Association: 2010-2013).
Some of these       contracts remain to       ensure on-going impact from the original research or development of new       research.
The outcomes of the research, applications and future direction of work       were (and continue to be)       reported to the management and coaching staff of St Helens RFC (at least       bi-monthly) via one-to-       one meetings and player/coach workshops.
Findings from the research were       also fed into national       governing bodies - Rugby Football League, Football Association, England       Handball Association,       British Basketball Association and England Hockey Association - via       presentations delivered by       Group members at national coaching seminars (Football Association workshop       for Sport Scientists,       2011; England Handball Association coaching seminars), one day workshops       as part of the Level       4 UK Coaching Certificate (2010 and 2012) and invited Rugby Symposia at       the 2009 and 2013       BASES Annual Conference - attended by sports scientist, coaches, players       and researchers.
The       work is frequently acknowledged by leading administrators, practitioners       and coaches as the basis       for shaping current practice in monitoring fatigue and recovery in rugby       players, e.g.
staff at the       RFL, Rugby Football Union and St Helens RFC (see 5.1).
The eight-month in-season playing demands comprise one match every 5-7       days with frequent       (i.e.
daily), often high intensity training bouts performed in between.
Such demands necessitate       that players are regularly monitored to limit fatigue that might impair       health and performance.
Accordingly, the main aim of the research has been to optimize the       practices of elite team sports       (namely rugby league) for monitoring player recovery.
For example, the       work emanating from the       study by Twist et al.
(2012) responded to a request by coaches at St       Helens RFC seeking to better       understand the time-course of recovery in players in the days immediately       after a game.
The       research had four distinct aims based on the coaches' need to know: a)       whether the current       periodization of training in the days immediately after a game was       appropriate; b) if recovery       patterns differed between positional groups; c) the role of match demands       on player recovery; and,       d) the response to currently adopted recovery measures.
The research       provided a better       understanding of these issues and enabled coaches to devise suitable       training and monitoring       strategies in the days immediately after a game in order to optimize       player recovery.
For example,       `This [research] has enabled us to programme training schedules more         effectively after matches         and better manage player fatigue on an individual basis.
Indeed,         recovery protocols and monitoring       processes were changed as a consequence of the work conducted' (St       Helens RFC, see 5.1).
The       research initiated many changes to the daily and seasonal practices of       staff at St Helens RFC,       including: the identification of meaningful changes in individual player       well-being using a daily       monitoring system; introduction of a neuromuscular monitoring protocol in       the days after matches;       the integration of match data with monitoring data to evaluate individual       player recovery and       training load; the implementation of a system for monitoring of individual       player training load; and,       the introduction of player education material to optimize health,       performance and recovery (e.g.
nutrition and recovery guidelines produced for Warrington Wolves and St       Helens rugby clubs that       are now provided to all players.
From a position where player recovery and       training schedules       were based on coach intuition, the implementation of monitoring strategies       to manage player       fatigue and training practice content are seen as key impacts from the       Group's work.
Minimal recovery between matches and training occurs frequently during       tournament scenarios for       team sport athletes.
Accordingly, the Group sought to better understand       the impact of intensified       competition on player recovery and performance (Johnston et al., 2013)       working in collaboration       with colleagues from Heriot-Watt University, Australian Catholic       University and the RFL.
Findings       were used by Home Nations coaches to guide player monitoring strategies       during the international       competitions, which subsequently informed player selection and game time       throughout the       tournament.
Our work has been used to `build an argument regarding the         over use of players         during the Easter period' (RFL, 5.1).
Additionally, the recovery       practices of other sports have been       influenced by our work, such as the Scotland Football squad and Scotland       squash (Heriot-Watt       University).
Similarly, the work has since been extended with the England       Handball Association       (EHA) to inform their own practices during European training camps and       tournaments.
In an       emerging sport with little or no previous sports science input, our       research has assisted in the       implementation of new policies and changed the approaches taken by coaches       during       tournaments.
For example, the lead sport scientist has employed our       recommendations for daily       monitoring of player well-being and neuromuscular function to enable       management of player       training loads and recovery strategies during national and international       competitions where multiple       fixtures in 4-5 day tournaments are commonplace.
This information has been       critical with athletes       who are unaccustomed to the rigours of international tournaments, so much       so that the impact of       our work has been `useful to inform coaches of players more         susceptible to injury or illness so that         their practices can be adjusted.
Monitoring is also used to identify         players who have decreased         physical performance, which can be used by coaches in team selection or         to inform player match         time' (EHA, 5.1).
