     Wolff's research on alternative approaches to injustice helped provide       the intellectual framework for pioneering work on self-directed support in       social care by a national charity, In Control.
A collaboration between       Wolff and Simon Duffy, then Chief Executive of In Control, began in 2002       when Duffy, who had been experimenting with personal budgets for adults       with intellectual disabilities, attended a seminar at the University of       Sheffield, given by Wolff on the subject of disability.
In subsequent       discussions, the two realised that Wolff's conceptual framework could       support Duffy's practical work, and this conjunction of Wolff and Duffy's       respective skills as a theoretician and a policy maker resulted in the       expansion of self-directed support and its adoption by the UK government.
Since 2008, the two major impacts of this have been:            Shaping government policy at both a national and local level.
Improving the health and quality of life of disabled citizens and         their carers by improving service delivery.
Self-directed support enables people eligible for social care to make       decisions regarding their care using a personal budget allocated to them.
This enables individuals to direct resources where they are most needed       and thus take control of their own care, and reduces the burden on social       workers and others working in social care.
As a result, in 2012-13 alone,       over 600,000 people with intellectual and physical disabilities, including       many older people and people with mental health problems have been able to       direct their own care through personal budgets [10].
The idea of personal budgets had been treated with suspicion in some       political circles, in the belief that it was a revival of a `voucher'       system designed simply to save money, and would undermine collective       facilities such as day centres.
Wolff's research provided a way to justify       personal budgets by emphasising the positive benefits of developing the       autonomy of disabled people who previously had little control over their       own lives, as well improving the efficiency of government spending.
Those       receiving personal budgets could choose to spend money on collective       goods, as many did when the collective goods were of a decent standard.
Having the choice meant that individuals can design their own care package       which would typically also have other elements.
Duffy renamed Wolff's       concept of `targeted resource enhancement' `Conditional Resource       Entitlement' (CRE) and used it as the basis for the development of an       innovative and workable concept of adult social care [see for example 2].
CRE provides a way to explain the nature of an individual budget as a       resource under the control of the person to whom it is delivered, but       subject to some conditionality or rules.
According to Duffy, Wolff's       research paved the way for expansion of In Control's work by setting out a       conceptual framework that helped strengthen the intellectual foundations       of the work, clarified and framed the central questions it needed to       address and to explore novel ways of differentiating and conceiving policy       choices.
This is acknowledged, for example, in the introduction to a 2010       article, where Duffy states: "This article builds on initial analysis       first presented to the English Department of Health in 2007 via Waters and       Duffy's report for In Control on Individual budget integration.
As       acknowledged in this initial report and in the current article, much of In       Control's initial thinking in this area has been influenced by the work of       Jonathan Wolff on disadvantage, inequality and different forms of redress       (see, for example, Wolff, 1998, 2002, 2003)" [3, p. 506.
Wolff 2003 is       [a], above].
Duffy's adoption of Wolff's approach enabled him to present       its advantages in seminars and meetings with local and national government       officials, such as to the Cabinet Office in 2004, in a concise and       rigorous fashion that made it appealing to local and national agencies       alike [9].
Wolff continued to be involved in In Control's later, larger experiments,       connecting disability service provision with the `capability approach' in       political philosophy and stressing the importance of evaluating the       service to ensure that the burden of care was not simply transferred to       others in the community or family, such as mothers.
Self-directed support has since formed a key part of the personalisation       movement, which seeks to increase choice and control for adult users of       social services.
This has influenced several national government policies.
In 2006, after successfully testing self-directed support model, the       Department of Health commissioned an In Control report on individual       budgets.
That report, to which Wolff was a contributor, appeals to       conditional resource entitlement and draws `heavily from the recent work       of Jonathan Wolff on disadvantage, inequality and different forms of       redress' [1, p. 58].
It formed one of the bases of the development of the       Putting People First ministerial concordat, signed by 6 cabinet ministers       in December 2007, implemented from 2008, and adopted as a national       strategy from 2009 to 2011 [4].
Putting People First explicitly recognised       In Control as the pioneer of personal budgets.
It has, in turn, catalysed       and informed over a hundred local government policies directly affecting       service provision, and influenced further government policy and programmes       such as Think Local Act Personal (January 2011), the cross-sectoral       partnership that succeeded Putting People First and which is based on       `self-directed support' [7].
In Control's influence among policy-makers       across the UK continues to grow and can also be seen in the newly       implemented Social Care (Self-Directed Support) (Scotland) Act 2013.
By leading to improved social care service delivery, Wolff and Duffy's       collaboration has improved the health and quality of life both of citizens       who receive self-directed support, and of their carers.
By March 2011 all       councils in England had implemented Putting People First [6], to the       benefit of at least 338,000 service users: in this context alone, the       research informed the deployment of more than &#163;1.5 billion of government       allocations in support of personal budgets [7, p. 3].
Specific examples of       local councils are Barnsley and West Berkshire, both of whom implemented       Putting People First from 2008 [6].
In 2012-13, "the number of people       receiving self-directed support was 609,000 (an increase of 16% from       2011-12).
Of these, 151,000 received a direct payment &#8212; up 8% from       2011-12.
The number of carers receiving self-directed support was 100,000       (an increase of 28% from 2011-12)" [10, p. 5].
Evaluations of the service       found those receiving personal budgets were significantly more likely to       feel in control of their daily lives, the support they accessed and how it       was delivered [8].
This confirms Wolff's hypothesis that `targeted       resource enhancement' can improve an individual's autonomy, independently       of any other effects on well-being.
And as Wolff also argued, such       policies are likely to have further positive effects on the well-being       both of the individual who receives the budget and his or her carers.
Even       when other factors were accounted for, personal budgets were also found to       be associated with statistically significant positive effects on carers'       quality of life and social care outcomes, without increasing public       expenditure [8].
Use of personal health budgets was further found to be       associated with a significant improvement in care-related quality of life       and psychological wellbeing [8].
The principal direct impact of Wolff's collaboration with In Control is,       of course, its effect on the more than 600,000 people who were in receipt       of self-directed support by 2012-13.
However it is also important to note       that it has only been able to achieve this scale of influence through two       other types of impact.
One is its impact on national government policy [4]       [5], which was essential for the programme to be implemented at scale.
The       other is the way in which the programmes have been embedded in local       action [6] both prior and subsequent to its adoption as a national       programme.
Putting People First was itself unique in establishing a       collaboration between central and local Government, the sector's       professional leadership, providers and the regulator; In Control's role in       pilot programmes &#8212; supported by Wolff's research &#8212; also represented a new       partnership between government and the third sector.
