     The BPNRC conducts research assessing the effects of nutritional       interventions on brain function.
Although fully independent, BPNRC staff work closely with industrial       partners, including leading       global manufacturers and pharmaceutical companies.
Research income since       the inception of the       BPNRC in late 2007 totals more than &#163;2 million, working with more than 10       companies (such as       Beneo, GSK, Kellogg's, Vitabiotics) on more than 20 studies.
As such, much       of our work is directly       conceived to have an impact on our partners, most often in terms of       bolstering product value and       turnover by demonstrating efficacy, or by facilitating the development of       new products.
In turn,       these products can be used by consumers to bring health benefits through       improved lifestyle and       wellbeing.
Below are examples of how our research translates into       commercial benefits for two       international companies.
Bayer Consumer Healthcare (Basel) manufactures several leading global       brands of multi-vitamin/mineral       supplements.
Whilst significant proportions of the populations of       developed       societies have been shown to have inadequate micro-nutrient status that       might be rectified by       these and similar products, little research has actually been conducted       investigating their efficacy.
The management of Bayer assessed the potential impact that direct evidence       of the efficacy of       their products would have on consumer behaviour (i.e.
that credibility       would translate into sales)       and decided to sponsor research investigating the efficacy of Berocca&#8482; and       Supradyn&#8482; with       regards to cognitive function and psychological state.
The subsequent       research demonstrated that       both products could improve mood/mental health and/or cognitive       performance in healthy,       employed adults (Haskell et al.
2010; Kennedy et al.
2010, 2011).
This       research has been widely       used by Bayer who in a statement to Northumbria University confirm they       have used this "on brand         internet sites, company's intranet sites and pharmacy literature",       and to support "road shows,         media events and marketing brochures for health care professionals".
Bayer also confirms that       BPNRC research is also cited in the "registration dossiers (clinical         overviews) of Berocca         Performance and Supradyn" where they are registered for       over-the-counter sales.
Where it has       been allowed by governmental regulatory authorities (e.g.
Australia,       Philippines, Taiwan) the       BPNRC data have been further used as evidence to support direct health       claims and Bayer have       used statements such as "clinically proven formula" in       advertising, bolstering the credibility and       therefore sales of the products.
Bayer state that the research conducted by the BPNRC has increased the       value of their two       brands and has been instrumental in the growth in global uptake of both       products, with an estimate       of the contribution in the &#163;10s millions since 2010.
The initial       management decision to proceed with       the research projects was taken on the basis of forecasts of potential       growth and product value       and Bayer are satisfied that these expectations have been met.
Indeed       Bayer state that, "the         collaboration of Bayer with the BPNRC is crucial for the continued         success of our products".
The pharmaceutical company Boehringer-Ingelheim has sponsored BPNRC       research investigating       the effects of guaran&#225; on mental function (2003-2004).
Subsequently,       Cognitive Drug Research       Ltd sponsored a PhD programme (2004-2008) that included further research       into the effects of       guaran&#225;.
This research confirmed the benefits to cognitive function seen       in the previous research       and showed that this was not as a consequence of guaran&#225;'s caffeine       content.
Subsequently, the       resultant publications (Kennedy et al.
2004, Haskell et al.
2007) were       used by Bayer Consumer       Healthcare, in consultation with the BPNRC, as evidence supporting a major       investment in the       development of a multi-vitamin/guaran&#225; product, Berocca Boost&#8482;.
This       product was then tested       within the BPNRC and the results confirmed the previous observations of       acute improvements to       attention/executive function task performance (Kennedy et al.
2008).
Berocca Boost&#8482; was       subsequently launched in 2008 and is currently marketed in the UK and nine       other countries       (including France, Spain and Singapore) and has generated extensive sales.
Bayer confirm that       this "globally represents a substantial amount of total Berocca sales"       and BPNRC have played "a         substantial role in their commercial success".
The underpinning       research conducted in the BPNRC       not only provided the evidence on ingredient selection needed to drive a       major investment in       product development by Bayer, but has also been key to the success of the       product, which is being       rolled out globally over the coming years.
The underpinning research has       also been used as direct       evidence supporting product claims in several countries.
Conversely, research conducted within the BPNRC has demonstrated a lack       of efficacy for other       products: for instance, the omega-3 fatty acids that were widely purported       to benefit cognitive       function in children.
The largest (of several) studies within the BPNRC       investigating omega-3s       confirmed the lack of effect previously seen in children in a larger       sample of adults (Jackson et al.
2012) and led to the sponsoring organisation (Pharmaton SA, now Ginsana       SA) shelving plans to       develop omega-3 based products for improved cognitive function.
