     LSE work on Endogenous Risk [ER] has impacted upon both the regulation of       high-frequency trading as well as the design of macro-prudential       regulation, highlighting the importance of the work at both the micro and       macro levels.
We first discuss the policy impacts and public debates       related to high-frequency trading.
This is followed by a discussion of       macro-prudential regulation.
A. Impacts on regulation of high-frequency trading     Zigrand acted as lead expert to the Foresight project on "The Future of       Computer Trading in Financial Markets" (2010-13) sponsored by Secretaries       to the Treasury Hoban and then Clark [11].
Danielsson and Goodhart were       also commissioned to produce inputs into this process.
The final Foresight       Report [10] illustrates the power of the ER principles outlined in papers       [3], [5] and [6].
In particular, the Report casts doubt on a number of       widely-held views on how high-frequency trading works and formed the basis       for rethinking the nature of policy interventions.
The Report showed that       the MiFID II proposal of Minimum Resting Times (MRT) was flawed.
The EU       Parliament voted on the issue, with account taken of the Foresight       findings, after discussions with Zigrand and colleagues [11].
Between the       intervention and the vote, the MRT proposal was dropped.
Moreover, the       Foresight recommendation for time stamps based on synchronised atomic       clocks across trading venues was subsequently added to MiFID II.
Supranational and national regulators are now preparing their       interpretations and guidance for MiFID II.
On the basis of this impact,       Zigrand and colleagues have been asked to advise on the adoption of best       practice derived from Foresight by the Task Force on Micro-structural       Issues of ESMA (6.12.12) as well as BAFIN (Germany), the Autorit&#233; des       March&#233;s Financiers (France) and the AFM (Netherlands).
There was also impact through policy debates.
In its discussions of MiFID       II in relation to the City of London, the House of Lords [12] explicitly       referred to [7].
Zigrand was invited to No 10 Downing Street (11.11.11) to       inform the Prime Minister's advisors on the Foresight findings and also to       No 11 Downing Street (19.04.12).
On 26.11.12, the "Parliamentary       Commission on Banking Standards" invited and cross-examined Zigrand on the       effects of computer-based trading on financial markets [13].
Zigrand       emphasised the endogenous risk feedback loops operating in robotic markets       based on the academic papers [3], [5] and [6].
Zigrand was also invited to       present at the high level EU Joint Research Centre meeting, where EU       Commissioner Michel Barnier stated that "we should follow the lead example       and model of the UK Foresight project on computer trading" (8.11.12) [14].
Similarly, Zigrand spoke on the recommendations of Foresight to the US       Senate Banking Committee and to the US House Committee on Financial       Services and to the US Commodities Futures Trading Commission (CFTC),       including commissioner O'Malia as well as to Senator Coons.
The work has       also been discussed in numerous newspaper articles [15].
B. Impacts on macro-prudential regulation     The research has fed significantly into the macro-prudential policy       debate (see, for example [19], [20] and [21]).
The ER research outputs and       ideas have fed into the G20 regulation agenda to reduce systemic risk in       banking through Goodhart's influence in the development of the agenda and       through Shin as adviser to the President of the Republic of Korea (2010)       at the time of the crucial G20 meeting in Seoul.
In the UK, the research       has impacted policy, where the macro-prudential emphasis can be traced       back to Goodhart and Shin's advice to the Bank of England.
These ideas       have been pushed further by Danielsson who gave evidence to the Treasury       Select Committee of the UK parliament [16] and the Economic Affairs       Committee, House of Lords [17], and to Danielsson and Zigrand's meetings       with the Treasury to discuss endogenous risk (these meetings were not       minuted, though Mark Hoban [18] references the work).
The macro-prudential counter-cyclical measures as suggested by LSE       research on ER have become embedded in capital regulations emanating from       the Basel Committee at the Bank of International Settlements (BIS), as       well as in the latest push for macro-prudential regulations more       generally.
The emphasis on the role of systemic oversight, as opposed to       supervisory oversight of individual institutions, is the crucial message.
The ER approach leads to a natural focus on the need for and effective       design of counter-cyclical measures in Basel III, such as counter-cyclical       capital buffers.
The most significant effect of which is a systemic risk       surcharge on large interconnected banks as an absorption buffer.
Going beyond the two principal impacts detailed above, LSE research at       the micro level also has influenced the debate on European hedge-fund       regulation (Danielsson in 2008 at the European Parliament) and has had       input into derivatives regulation and the role of counterparties (Zigrand       at the European Commission 2009).
Danielsson and Zigrand also consulted       the Treasury on the endogenous risks of financial transactions taxes,       stamp duties and the UK bank levy.
At the macro level, the research has       ongoing input to central banks' policy discussions, including the Bank of       England, Banque de France, NY Fed and the ECB, as well as the Icelandic       and Luxembourgish Central Banks where Danielsson and Zigrand are advisers       to the respective Governors.
Influential books refer to this work ([4] and       [20]).
Why does the impact matter?
Both the impacts described above &#8212; on       the regulation of high-frequency trading and on macro-prudential       regulation &#8212; strengthen the stability of financial markets.
This outcome       is desirable for its own sake, but also because instability in financial       markets can spill over into the wider economy, as the financial crisis of       2008 and the subsequent economic crisis in its aftermath have shown.
The       scale of the current economic crisis, where there has not yet been a       return to pre-2008 trend paths in most economic indicators, demonstrates       the significance of the impact.
