     The impact of this research can be demonstrated both nationally in the       countries of the UK and       internationally.
With regard to the UK, in 2008 the Government introduced       in England a Direct       Enhanced Service (DES) commissioned through the Primary Care GMS Contract       in which GPs are       directed to offer an alcohol screen to all new registrations aged 16 and       over and offer brief advice       to reduce drinking to low-risk levels to those screening positive (roughly       1.75 million patients       screened per year).
The DES and local variations in the form of Local       Enhanced Services were       supported by a Primary Care Service Framework based on the How Much Is         Too Much?
SBI pack       (see above).
Also in England, in 2008 the Department of Health       established an Alcohol       Improvement Programme (AIP) which ran until 2011 with the aims of       addressing alcohol-related       harm at regional and local levels and reducing the increase in the rate of       alcohol-related hospital       admissions.
The provision of identification and brief advice was one of       the `high impact changes'       recommended to Primary Care Trusts as a way of encouraging people to drink       less.
Another       component of the AIP was an Alcohol Learning Centre http://www.alcohollearningcentre.org.uk/       which was an on-line, one-stop-shop to collate, co-ordinate and       disseminate learning and       promising practice from across the NHS and the Third Sector (between       250-500 visits per day and       50,000 page views per month).
It contained alcohol specific documents,       guidance and tools,       examples of alcohol harm reduction initiatives across England and training       resources to support       frontline practitioners and commissioners.
In Scotland, there was a health       service target of       delivering 149,449 brief interventions during the period 2008/09-2010/11.
This target has been met       (174,205 interventions delivered), has been extended for another year and       has become an NHS       standard in Scotland http://www.healthscotland.com/topics/health/alcohol/local-delivery.aspx.
SBI       has also formed an important part of recent health policy in Wales and       Northern Ireland.
More       generally, the provision of alcohol SBI is now an integral and mainstream       part of health services       throughout the UK.
In advice to `make every contact count', the NHS         Future Forum has recently       recommended that NHS staff in England should routinely take the       opportunity to talk to patients       about lifestyle, including alcohol consumption, even when the presenting       problem has no obvious       connection with it, and when required, offer motivationally-based advice       on lifestyle change       http://healthandcare.dh.gov.uk/forum-report/.
These recommendations have been accepted by the       UK Government and `Identification and Brief Advice' is an important       component of the UK       Government Alcohol Strategy published in March, 2012 https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/alcohol-strategy.
The Alcohol Programme Manager       for Public Health England states that Brief Interventions..."has been         adopted as one of our         principal recommended interventions and has been included in formal         health programmes         including the NHS Health Check for adults aged 40-75.
Professor Heather         has been a leader in         this field for many years and his research has been influential in         shaping our policy."
Following the conclusion of the WHO Phase IV Collaborative Study in 2004,       Heather took the lead       in setting up the International Network on Brief Interventions for Alcohol       Problems (INEBRIA:       http://www.inebria.net/Du14/html/en/Du14/index.html)       and was President from 2009 to 2012.
The       aim of INEBRIA is to promote wide implementation of brief interventions in       a variety of settings for       hazardous and harmful alcohol consumption at local, national and       international levels.
In addition       to offering online support for researchers and practitioners interested in       alcohol SBI, from 2004 to       the present, INEBRIA has held well-attended conferences in Spain, Germany,       Portugal, Belgium,       Brazil, the UK, Sweden and the USA (over 700 separate attendees from 40       countries).
Owing       partly to the influence of INEBRIA, and in combination with the work of       many other researchers,       SBI has now become an accepted strategy for responding to alcohol-related       harm in many       countries of the world.
In the USA, the federal government in 2007       established a programme       entitled Screening, Brief Intervention and Referral to Treatment (SBIRT)       at a cost of over $180m       http://www.samhsa.gov/prevention/sbirt/.
SBIRT services were disseminated across six states and       also through physician residency training programmes and grants to       colleges and universities.
In       addition, SBI has been implemented in the entire Veterans' Administration       medical system in the       USA.
Professor of Medicine and Epidemiology at Boston University states       that "Screening and         brief intervention for unhealthy alcohol use has been recognized as one         of the most effective and         cost-effective of preventive services and is recommended in primary care         by the authoritative US         Preventive Services Task Force, an independent group of experts that         rely on the highest levels of         scientific evidence."
In Sweden, the Risk Drinking Project carried out from 2004 to       2010 had a total funding of       approximately &#8364;25m and was based on a government initiative to give       alcohol issues a more       prominent place in routine primary, maternity and occupational health       care, involving both       physicians and nurses http://www.fhi.se/en/News/News/Striking-results-from-the-Swedish-Risk-Drinking-Project-/     Training in SBI was the major component of this programme.
While other       countries may not have       seen government-sponsored implementation programmes, SBI has been       incorporated in medical       services to a greater or lesser degree in many countries of the world.
