     This research has provided vital evidence to support the expansion of       school breakfast clubs all around the country.
Between May 2008 and       January 2013 four industry reports were produced for Kellogg's and one       report produced for Greggs (Sources 1 and 2).
These reports influenced       breakfast club models and have resulted in the first accredited breakfast       club training programme in England and Scotland.
As a consequence of the       findings of the report to Greggs in December 2010, members of the Unit are       now working with over 50 companies and businesses to deliver breakfast       clubs to communities across the UK.
The Unit has made considerable efforts to apply these findings to secure       impact: it has engaged users at all stages of the research through       collaborative work with industry, educational professionals and schools;       it has presented a number of parliamentary papers (indeed some of these       were invited and solicited by parliamentary teams).This research programme       has generated approximately &#163;350,000 in income from industry (Kellogg's UK       &amp; Kellogg's USA); an ESRC Knowledge Exchange Grant; and resulted in a       collaborative research programme with Kellogg's and ContinYou (a leading       national charity) to provide breakfast club training to 200 school       teachers in 2012.
It has informed policy makers, academics, user groups       and the public of the benefits regarding children's breakfast consumption       at a national and international level.
The PI has provided direct input to       public policy making through membership and consultancy with decision       making committees.
The PI is a member of the All Party Parliamentary Group       on School Food; the Breakfast Club Plus Trust (2008-2012); the British       Food and Drinking Group; and has been a panel discussant for the       Parliamentary Food and Health Forum (25/09/2008).
The research findings       have been presented in the Westminster Parliamentary Newsletter (17/07/08)       at the Parliamentary Food and Health Forum (23/03/2010) (Sources 3 and 4),       and the House of Lords (September, 2008; February, 2009).
The programme of       research has also been widely disseminated to academics, businesses and       the public through a number of conference presentations.
For example, the       PI was an invited speaker at the National Nutrition and Health Conference       and an invited speaker for the Vitafoods International Conference.
The       Unit has also engaged in a significant amount of national and       international press coverage resulting in increased public awareness of       the underpinning research (e.g.
BBC News 24, Look North, Tyne Tees,       Complete Nutrition (Australian Edition), Eating Well Magazine (USA),       Dieticians Magazine, Dietetics Today, Scientific America, and has       disseminated to local education authorities, at a national level, through       the Connexions direct website (01/12/2008), Children and Young People Now       (1/12/2008) and TES Direct (27/03/2009).
The work of the team has also       been cited in a Joseph Rowntree Publication titled, "How can universities       support disadvantaged communities?"
(Source 5)     In November 2010, the Inaugural Knowledge Exchange Conference on school       and community breakfast clubs was co-funded by Northumbria University,       ESRC, Kellogg's and leading educational charity ContinYou (ESRC-funded       knowledge exchange grant).
The conference entitled: School and Community       Breakfast Club: Breakfast on a plate &#8212; Delivery to Impact, and aimed to       develop ways to improve communication and co-ordination between breakfast       club organisers, supporting organisations, nutritionists, academics and       user groups.
The overarching aim was to secure awareness of the importance       of children's nutrition in relation to their cognitive and social       development and to ensure that breakfast club provision exists in schools       throughout the UK.
The event featured a keynote address from Rt.
Hon Anne       Milton, Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State for Public Health.
Delegates included MPs; businesses, charity workers; teachers; Food       Standards Agency; Public Health North East; and regional councils.
Some       examples of pledges collected from delegates post-conference are: I pledge       to: "work with partners/stakeholders to develop breakfast clubs in         Ireland"... "promote the importance of breakfast clubs within my         organisation and produce more guidance for our website (School Food         Trust)"..."introduce breakfast club to KS3 and 4".
Industry reports produced for Kellogg's (Source 6) and Gregg's have       impacted upon breakfast club models and have resulted in the provision of       the first accredited breakfast club training programme in the England and       Scotland.
This training programme is currently being extended to include       Ireland and Wales.
Future plans are to extend this training provision to       Uganda and Nigeria.
At the current time, a report is being produced for       Blackpool County Council on attitudes of stakeholders and users about the       school breakfast scheme;, impact on children's health; social, behavioural       and educational outcomes; and nutritional content analysis of food menu,       compared to recommended daily nutritional guidelines for children.
In 2013 Blackpool Council commissioned research for &#163;22,000 to evaluate       the impact of providing free breakfast to primary school children.
The       final report was delivered in April 2013 and as a result of the report       Blackpool Council decided to fund universal free breakfast club provision       for all primary school children in Blackpool for 2013-2014 at a cost of       &#163;1.3m.
(Source 7)     The online breakfast club training incorporates the underpinning       research, wider research findings and policy to provide a one-stop website       for school breakfast club related material and can be found on the Healthy       Living website (Source 8).
The training section of this website has had       over 2,553 visits over the last year, with 12,899 page views with an       average of 5.05 page views per visit.
Evidence of impact on school staff and pupils has been collected through       a number of case studies (N =5) and on-line questionnaires (N =154).
95%       of respondents reported a change in their school practice as a result of       attending the breakfast club training.
(Source 9)
