     Impacts: LSE research contributed significantly to the shaping of       parliamentary debates on identity cards, as well as to public perceptions       of ID card schemes in the UK and beyond.
A.
The LSE Identity Project played a key role in shaping the         parliamentary debates about The Identity Cards Bill, by highlighting         that the scheme was technically unsafe, expensive, untested and lacked         public trust.
These concerns were reflected in the election       manifestos of both the Conservatives and the Liberal Democrats, and, when       the coalition government came to power, the proposals were scrapped.
There were over 200 explicit mentions of LSE reports during the 56 days       of Parliamentary debate of the Bill.
For example, in speech during the       House of Commons Committee stage, the then Shadow Minister for Home       Affairs, Conservative MP Edward Garnier, said:     "My hon[orable] Friend the Member for Newark has, quite properly,       referred on a number of occasions to the valuable work done by the team at       the London School of Economics.
They have spent some time looking       carefully at the subject and have reached a number of conclusions.
I make       no claims of originality; I am relying heavily on the findings of the LSE       report."
[Hansard, 12 July 2005 Column 229]     The House of Commons Science and Technology Committee inquiry into       'Identity Card Technologies: Scientific Advice, Risk and Evidence' [8]       noted "the central role that the LSE reports have played in the debate       regarding identity cards" (&#167;63) and shared the LSE's concerns about "the       validity of costs produced at this early stage [2006]" (&#167; 105).
Edgar Whitley was called to give oral evidence to the Science and       Technology Select Committee and to the Public Administration Select       Committee.
The LSE Identity Project also submitted written evidence to a       number of parliamentary committees' inquiries [9-11].
B. LSE research influenced public and media perceptions of the         Identity Cards Scheme [3] and members of the LSE identity project       were in demand to comment in national print and broadcast media, including       the Financial Times, The Times, The Daily Mail,       Radio 4's Today Programme and The Economist.
An       independent analysis [12] found that the Scheme was overwhelmingly       reported in a negative light, specifically in terms of the concerns raised       by the LSE report.
Its unpopularity was reflected in the fact that by May       2010, after seven months of availability, only 14,670 cards had been       issued.
C. Direct influence on Government policy as first Bill introduced by         the Coalition government scrapped identity cards.
The Conservative       party included its intention to scrap identity cards in its manifesto for       the 2010 election and the Liberal Democrats also reiterated their       longstanding opposition to identity cards in its manifesto.
By the time of       the general election, almost every political party other than the Labour       party had included proposals to scrap identity cards as part of their       election manifestos.
As a result of this consensus, scrapping identity cards was probably one       of the less contentious parts of the coalition programme for government,       saving the country up to &#163;20billion &#8212; twice the cost of the Olympics.
More       controversial, however, was the decision to abandon plans to store       fingerprints on the next generation of chip &#8212; enabled passports.
This was       a specific Liberal Democrat proposal that had emerged following discussion       about cost savings with members of the LSE research team.
At the time of       the election, storing fingerprints was still part of the Conservative       policy.
D. Ongoing impact through close work with the Cabinet Office on its         Identity Assurance Programme.
The challenge of identifying oneself       in online transactions did not disappear with the scrapping of the Scheme       in 2010 and the LSE researchers have been working closely with the Cabinet       Office to facilitate ways that people, businesses and devices will be able       to verify their identity online in order to better access and transact       with public services.
In particular, Dr Whitley is a key member of the       Privacy and Consumer Group [13].
This group has developed an influential       set of privacy principles which were described by Francis Maude, Minister       for the Cabinet Office as being "all about putting the citizen in charge,       not the state" [14] and form a key part of the Government's Digital       Strategy [15, Action 11].
The ongoing influence of the LSE work is not limited to the UK.
A recent       report about India's identity scheme (UID) proposals noted that as LSE's       research is "very much relevant and applicable to the UID scheme, they       should have been seriously considered" [16, Section 6].
Dr Whitley has also been working with the InterAmerican Development Bank       in facilitating a series of high level policy workshops for governments in       Latin America and the Caribbean including Brazil, Chile, Ecuador and       Jamaica.
Why the Impact Matters: identity card schemes are costly and need       to command public consent.
LSE research persuaded the UK government not to       spend up to &#163;20 billion on an ill thought out scheme.
