     As described in section 2, the research team has applied information       theory to several contexts in       order to further understanding of issues and develop solutions for       industry, government, NGOs and       beyond.
They have therefore created multiple impacts in every strand of       the research series (with a       notable example being impact arising from the study of the Library of the       European Parliament       (UR2), where a series of published papers written by practitioners       within the European Parliament       Library (e.g.
Car, 2008; De Feo &amp; Finer, 2013) indicate that this       research has had a significant       impact upon the Library's marketing and service strategies).
It is beyond       the scope of this case       study to describe the entire body of research and relevant impacts within       the assessment period,       therefore, recent examples from the newest strand of research concerning       IB and information       needs in the energy sector are outlined below.
This focus on the energy       sector as a case       demonstrates the impact of the team's IB research most directly on       industry practice, the       establishment of standards and the improvement of management tools, and       the shaping of       government policy.
Research was presented at OPITO's International Conference in each year       of report publication       (RP1, 2010; RP3, 2011; RP4, 2012), where Marcella       attended in 2010 and 2011 with the       conferences attracting 177 and 233 registrations respectively.
The       research results were presented       by OPITO Group Chief Executive David Doig in 2012 which attracted over 300       people.
The       delegates at each conference represented senior decision makers from       training providers, oilfield       services companies and oil and gas operators from over 23 countries,       therefore providing wide       dissemination of the research findings and contributing to continuing       personal and professional       development by influencing methods and behaviours of professionals with       regards to the       management of safety and competence.
The three commissioned reports supported OPITO's drive for common       standards across the globe,       and eventually led to the development of pan-industry approaches to       measuring competency       (CE1), with the research findings informing and influencing the       standards and initiatives developed.
OPITO have subsequently been called upon by both government and industry       internationally to       assist in the development of workforce competence strategies.
The       identification of best practice       provided OPITO with not only valuable insight to assist in their work with       industry and government       globally (CE2), but also to assist the organisations they work with       to adapt and enhance their       approach to operating in multiple, diverse regions.
The research reports       generated news articles in       multiple local and international publications and the work conducted       surrounding competency       management led to an invitation to conduct seminar presentations at       Offshore Europe 2013 in       Aberdeen for Draeger Safety UK, focusing on competency management       practices, theories and       challenges.
The AVEVA report (RP2) was launched at an event in RGU on 1st       September 2011 with panel       members from: AVEVA, Subsea 7, AMEC, KCA DEUTAG; and Oil &amp; Gas UK       discussing the       implications of the findings for health and safety information management       in the industry (CE3).
Jeremy Cresswell, Editor of the Press and Journal Energy Supplement,       chaired the session, and       has published articles (CE4; CE5) on the research and its       implications.
In addition, the report       received extensive trade press coverage, for example: Cambridge         Network; Digital Energy         Journal; Finding Petroleum; OE Digital; Oil         Information Technology Journal; and Ship and         Offshore.
Furthermore, the research continues to be cited and       discussed in relation to information       solutions in subsequent AVEVA projects (CE6).
The findings were       also taken to Offshore Europe in       2011.
Collaboration between AVEVA and RGU allowed AVEVA to be seen as a       `thought leader' in the oil       and gas industry, contributing to innovation, which is a considerable       accolade from a company who       invest substantially in research and development.
The research confirmed       the criticality of safety       related issues to their customers, and the wider industry, allowing AVEVA       to prioritise the       development of information management software capabilities to such       issues.
The research output       also identified areas for subsequent follow up research by AVEVA which is       currently underway       (CE7).
The projects described have led to the research team being asked to       provide advice to       governments and companies on aspects of information management,       communications and       skills/competency management, both in the UK and internationally including       invitations to present       at a conference for HR directors on skill development and a seminar in       Houston hosted by the       Grampian Houston Association with a high level audience (CE10).
Recently Marcella and       Rowlands were invited by the International Centre for Oil and the       Environment (established in       1978) to submit a book chapter on health, safety and competence management       (CE8) for the       latest edition of the `Offshore Oil and Gas Operations, Environment,         Health and Safety         Management Handbook', the role and purpose of which is to provide       the industry with a       comprehensive distillation and synthesis of the operational context and       the lessons learned in the       last decade of operations.
This new volume builds on the seminal work       published by ICOE with       Elsevier in 1992, `North Sea Oil and the Environment: Developing Oil         and Gas Resources,         Environmental Impacts and Responses', aiming to bring together the       most significant research       thinking on oil and gas management.
The publication is sponsored by       industry and includes       notable section editors such as William J. Cairns and Professor Alex G.       Kemp OBE.
At a policy level, in 2011, Marcella was invited to be part of a       Department for Business, Innovation       and Skills (BIS) task force to advise Government on how business schools       can better engage with       mid-sized businesses to support their economic growth.
In July 2013       Marcella was invited to be       part of an Independent Expert Commission for the Scottish Government.
The       Commission was       established to consider options for the implementation of the key       principles set out in the Scottish       Government's paper `Maximising the return from Oil and Gas in an       Independent Scotland',       published in July 2013 (CE9).
