     The MyStreet project has provided a ground-breaking platform to         promote ethnographic film of everyday life for filmmakers.
The reach       of this impact is demonstrated by the visitors to the MyStreet website and       the Open Cities festival.
The website was designed and supervised by       Stewart to provide a permanent forum where such work can be advertised and       seen.
It went live in 2011, and by 31 July 2013, the MyStreet website had       been visited 21,708 times by 11,635 visitors; with an average dwell time       of over 4 minutes [1].
The reach was further enhanced by making       films available on YouTube and Vimeo [2] and for embedding on third-party       websites, with both local and national audiences, such as We Are         Camden and the Independent.
A second, live, platform for exposure was through Open City Docs Fest, a       festival held annually at UCL in London in June 2011-June 2013, with       audiences growing from 2,000 to nearly 4,000 over the years [3].
The ten       best MyStreet films were screened each year, at a total of 21 screenings       annually.
In 2011 alone, over 3,000 people saw a MyStreet film: in       dedicated MyStreet screenings; in shorts screened before main features and       in special pop-up boxes ([3] p. 3 in the 2011 report).
The best MyStreet       films were judged and a prize presented by an international jury of       acclaimed practitioners who also awarded the Open City Grand Jury Prize &#8212;       a conscious move to promote these films to the top of the festival's       agenda and facilitating the development of a self-sustaining social film       community [4, p. 4].
Over the years, the festival received substantial       notices as well as appreciative critical reviews that engaged directly       with the research.
Indicative examples are [5]:     - Global: CNN: `Why we are all digital anthropologists now' (29       May 2013) (62m monthly visitors from around the world in 2012):       `Anthropology as the `science of humanity' has broadened, and the idea of       the anthropologist has evolved.
Like with many professions, the baton has       passed from trained individuals to you, to me, to a big wide world.'
- National: The Independent.
`My Street Films: The Lea Valley       kids' (26/5/11).
- Local: The Evening Standard: `We're going to shoot film about       your homeless for Afghan TV' (17/6/11).
In Spring 2013 the Community Channel screened 8 of the MyStreet films on       14 occasions between March and July with a total of 14,000 viewers on the       occasions audiences were monitored [6].
These follow-up projects fostered       sustained impacts upon filmmakers: "it was the confidence thing and the       feeling worthy of Community Channel [...].
Taking you on a little bit       further than just that day before" [4 p.2].
The significance of these linked channels are demonstrated by the       sustainable partnerships formed with private organisations seeking       to promote film as a tool of research and the importance of voices of       marginalised individuals.
For example, in 2012 Arup Phase 2 (a gallery       space in the world-leading engineering company in Fitzrovia, London)       presented a rotating selection of MyStreet films for 22 weeks across the       summer in a bespoke exhibition box.
As the head of exhibitions later said,       "the screenings led Arup staff and visitors who are involved in planning       the built environment to engage with different perspectives on modern       urban life that they rarely get to hear or experience at first hand.
The       MyStreet initiative triggered discussions about several projects that Arup       is involved in, ranging from the Olympics to Kings Cross as well as       feeding into the research about the environmental and social impact of       High Speed 2".
Arup estimated that about twenty thousand visitors viewed       films at this exhibition [7].
The process of research &#8212; which includes training and providing platforms       for filmmakers &#8212; is a participatory one, and has had significant impacts       on the young people who took part, equipping them to question their       environment [4, p. 4].
As a focus group exercise for filmmakers and       teachers conducted in 2013 showed, at its most fundamental level, the       MyStreet research project has engaged both aspiring and experienced         filmmakers with ethnographic ideas, encouraging them to reflect on their         own work in this light [4, see p. 1, 4, 8].
Through MyStreet's ancillary training programme, DocinaDay (DiaD), the       understanding of film as a research tool has been widened amongst       filmmakers, as has their technical ability.
In its first year, MyStreet       worked with Open Cinema to make films with London's homeless and then       screened the resulting films at Open City 2011 alongside Penny Woolcock's       award winning film, On the Streets.
Homeless filmmakers, young       professionals, students and professional documentarists mingled at UCL in       an embodiment of DiaD's democratising agenda.
Here the online and offline       components of the MyStreet platform created a space to bring together       different communities of people, dissolving the producer/ consumer       distinction.
As noted by one filmmaker, MyStreet "connects you to a       community that is also offline, that you can actually have access to       through the festival" [4, p.4].
Between 2011 and 2013, 89 DiaD workshops were held around London, with       350 participants [8].
All of the schools and community groups were chosen       for their low university application rate (and high indices of social       deprivation), and five films were made in Pupil Referral Units for       excluded children [8].
This work &#8212; which mostly took place in schools and       youth centres &#8212; has led both to increased confidence [4, p. 9] and       impacted upon the students by providing them with their first opportunity       to create a permanent record of their vision of their place in the school       .
It also led to increased applications to creative courses following the       production of four DiaD films [4, p. 6].
DiaD brought new ideas into the       school, "things that they hadn't necessarily discussed before but led on       from being exposed to different sorts of creative arts [...].
It made them       think about what was out there for them and different opportunities were       available" [4, p. 6].
The films produced have since been integrated into       the curriculum of the schools concerned [9, p. 8-9].
Underprivileged       secondary school children, youth and local community groups in London have       learnt to tackle the issues and stories that are important to them and to       explore the `mysteries that reside in the humblest things' [4, p. 8].
To increase impact upon empowerment of the citizen filmmakers many of       their films were selected for screening at Camden Council funded       screenings at Open City Docs Fest in 2011 and 2012, with over 80 in       attendance on each occasion [3].
As a teacher at the Ark Academy in       Wembley explained, making the films had positive effects for social       inclusion through the impact on their understanding of cultural diversity       [4, p. 8].
Participating in DiaD increased the ability of students to work with       professionals from beyond their school: "it was about not just       communicating with their peers but with people who they hadn't even met       before and a lot of the students would find that difficult usually but       because I think it was something creative and something they were       interested in and wanted to be involved in it allowed them to communicate       much more effectively" [4, p. 7, 9].
In line with its democratising agenda       the programme strengthened students' abilities to "express their views" on       their everyday lives and, uneditorialised, "share their stories and their       emotions" [4, p. 6].
Some students `were empowered to ask questions that       they would not normally dare to put.
One group, for whom the police are       not a reassuring presence, were able to spend the morning filming in a       police car, talking with the officers' [4, p. 8].
In Somerstown, London,       new film projects were launched on the back of the DiaD experience [4, pp.
8-9, 11] [8].
Inspired by MyStreet, a filmmaker based at Central St       Martins launched a visual ethnography of the Kings Cross area, using Mass       Observation techniques to commission three films on the theme of       gentrification, and playing them at installations onsite [9].
One teacher       explained that staff, too, were influenced to be "more open and seek out       types of projects that we knew the [students] would really enjoy" after       seeing the "passion" of the students for filmmaking [4, p. 7].
MyStreet's promotion of a collaborative, visual research agenda through a       Web 2.0 environment has inspired others to launch similar projects, inspiring         new forms of cultural expression internationally.
In June 2013, work       on a clone site in Czech was begun by One World Prague, a human rights       documentary film festival who signed a contract with Open City Docs to       launch MyStreet Prague in 2014 [10].
As the director of One World Prague       film festival said: "The focus on the immediate surroundings that       encompasses urban, historical and social science aspects along with       educational elements in the field of film is inspiring.
It offers an ideal       connection of the real and the Internet world that is not reduced to the       creation of an artificial reality but builds a specific community of       people who actively relate to their immediate surroundings' [10].
Similarly, the Afghanistan-based media training and development       organisation, Afghan Voices, was inspired to engage their students with       ethnographic ideas, creating 8 films by young Afghan students researching       aspects of daily life in cities around their country.
As covered in the Evening         Standard [5], four of these filmmakers came to London in 2011 to       present their films at Open City.
Through these interrelated activities &#8212; MyStreet, DocinaDay and Open City       &#8212; Stewart's research facilitated a new form of digital, collaborative       anthropology and laid the foundations for a changed relationship between       `researchers' inside and outside the walls of the conventional university.
The contribution this research makes is demonstrated by the words of two       major filmmakers who served on the first MyStreet jury panel in 2011.
Stephen Daldry (The Hours, Billy Elliot) said, "As street       by street in the country a MyStreet film is made, we are learning who we       are", while Roger Mitchell (Notting Hill, Enduring Love) added:       "... the opposite of Google Earth, MyStreet sees ourselves from the ground       up, making a modern, urban Domesday Book which we can all help create and       dip into."
