     The implementation of PV systems within Europe, in combination with other       renewable energy       sources, provides a route to the decarbonisation of our energy supply and       an increase in our       energy security.
The research on PV system design and performance at       Northumbria University       has helped to promote the development of PV in the UK by providing       essential benchmarks for       expected performance that have informed Government policies for PV       implementation.
The Microgeneration Feed-In Tariff Policy (Linked to PV Performance         Assessment Research)     The UK installed capacity has increased from around 2 MW to around 2.5 GW       in the period 2008-2013,       with the most rapid growth occurring in the period since the introduction       of the       Microgeneration Tariff in April 2010.
This provides a fixed amount for       each kWh generated by the       registered PV system, and a further payment is provided by the electricity       supply company for the       proportion of the generated electricity that is exported to the grid.
For       small domestic systems,       there is a deemed 50% export for the purposes of calculating the export       payment to be applied.
The choice of this value was directly informed by the results of the       Domestic Field Trial analysis       carried out by Northumbria University, via PV experts on the development       committee.
The Field       Trial is the only major UK study that has investigated the export       percentage of typical domestic PV       systems.
By deeming the export amount, the costs of metering the export       electricity are avoided for       small systems.
As of June 2013, over 420,000 small PV systems (of capacity       up to 4kW) had been       installed under the scheme (as given by DECC statistics, June 2013),       giving an estimated saving in       required metering of around &#163;16 million.
Microgeneration Certification Scheme (Linked to PV Performance         Assessment Research)     As part of the promotion of UK PV implementation via the Low Carbon       Buildings Programme and       the Microgeneration Feed-In Tariff, the Government required a       certification scheme for installers to       be established.
The Microgeneration Certification Scheme was first       developed by BRE Global and       launched in 2006.
Information from the analysis of the Domestic Field       Trial data was used in the       definition of requirements for high-quality installations under this       scheme, based on the best       practice guides produced in that project.
The MCS continues to be operated       for all PV installations       claiming the Feed-In Tariff, where both products and installers must be       MCS accredited.
Performance Monitoring (Linked to Performance Monitoring Research)     Although PV systems are low maintenance and easy to operate, it is       important that suitable       performance monitoring is carried out in order to minimise any loss of       energy output due to       operational issues.
That monitoring should be appropriate for the size of       system and the risk of       energy loss.
Given the range of system size and user type, including       domestic systems, it is       important to have sufficient assistance to make an informed decision.
Northumbria has contributed       to the promotion of lifetime monitoring for PV systems at an appropriate       level for the application via       the updated European PV system monitoring guidelines, which were published       in 2009 and are       freely available to both system providers and users on the EC Joint       Research Centre's Institute for       Energy website.
The delivery system has also been designed for ease of       update as the technology       develops.
At the end of 2009, the results were also provided as input to       the relevant working group       (TC82, WG3) of the International Electrotechnical Commission who are       responsible for the       international standards relating to PV components and systems The next       edition of the PV system       monitoring standard is due in 2014.
It is difficult to quantify the       economic effect of system       monitoring, but the installed capacity of PV in the UK has the capability       to provide over 1,700 GWh       of electricity per year (on average), so even the prevention of a small       percentage of losses in the       system would have a substantial economic value.
Energy Output (Linked to Performance Monitoring Research)     Decisions on the balance of energy related measures to be taken in       building design and the       relative merits of these measures require a realistic estimate of the       energy output of a PV system       for typical UK conditions and in relation to system designs.
The results       of Northumbria's       performance analysis for a range of installed UK systems was influential       in the increase in       assumed system output from 800 to 850 kWh/kWp for standard UK average       generation in the       Standard Assessment Procedure (SAP) currently used by Department of Energy       and Climate       Change (DECC) to assess and compare the energy and environmental       performance of buildings.
