     All three versions of the Index - UK, European and World - are in       widespread use among policymakers seeking to develop and assess regional       economic strategies.
Background to impact       In 2000, Huggins established a consultancy, Robert Huggins Associates, to       commercialise his research and to introduce more products and services.
The UK Competitiveness Index was updated at various points in time, with       each update made available through a publicly available report and       accompanying spreadsheets.
Huggins, with Izushi then developed models to       examine regional competitiveness from an international perspective.
In       2002, the results of one project were formulated as the World         Knowledge Competitiveness Index, with the underlying model designed       as an integrated and overall benchmark of the knowledge capacity,       capability and sustainability regions across the globe, and the extent to       which this knowledge is translated into economic value and transferred       into the wealth of the citizens of these regions.
As with the UK level       index, this tool has also been further developed, refined and expanded,       with each new version made publicly available through a report and       accompanying spreadsheets.
The third model developed by Robert Huggins       Associates focused on examining the competitiveness of Europe's regions       and nations.
This led to the establishment of the European         Competitiveness Index, whereby competitiveness is defined as the       capability of an economy to maintain increasing standards of living for       those who participate in it by attracting and maintaining firms with       stable or rising market shares in an activity.
Impact on UK and international policymaking       Since 2008, the research has been disseminated to a policymaker audience       principally through reports containing the concepts, methodologies and       metrics of the UK Competitiveness Index, European         Competitiveness Index and World Knowledge Competitiveness Index.
During this period, the reports have been downloaded from a bespoke       website (www.cforic.org) 50,722 times (as of 25th October       2013).
The research has also been disseminated via the media, reaching a       wide range of audiences, including regional, national and supranational       (principally European Commission) policymakers.
For instance, the Financial         Times published significant articles in 2008 (3 September) and 2010       (19 April).
Other dissemination has occurred through presentations of the       research to policymaker audiences, notably the Global Competitiveness       Forum in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia (January, 2009), attended by policymakers       and industry representatives.
In the UK, the research - especially that disseminated through the UK         Competitiveness Index - has transformed the way a large number of       regional and local authorities: (1) assess the economic performance of the       places within their jurisdiction; (2) develop strategies and targets to       improve the economic performance of these places; and (3) market and       promote these places, particularly with regard to the attraction of       investment.
This is evidenced by the fact that since 2008 the research has       appeared in the policy documentation of at least 80 regional or local       authorities (or stakeholder partnerships) in the UK.
For example, in 2009,       authorities in Manchester adopted the research as a key means of       developing a new strategic enterprise framework for the city, in       particular for establishing a rationale for focusing intervention on a       particular range of activities [1].
In York, the York Economic Partnership       (YEP), involving the local authority and other stakeholders, utilised the       research in their 2011 documentation outlining the future economic       strategy for the city.
In particular, YEP used the research to provide a       better understanding of the performance of the city and the strategic       actions required to facilitate improvement [2].
This led to YEP developing       what they termed a `new approach' to strategic development involving       multiple organisations from across the city-region.
The influence of the research has permeated across both urban and rural       places.
For example, Somerset County Council utilised the researchers'       work within their own 2010 commissioned documentation relating       specifically to the economic competitiveness of the local authority area       [3].
This resulted in concrete recommendations being proposed as to how       the local public sector can best support improvements to economic       competitiveness in Somerset.
Also in 2008, the research became an integral       feature of the impact analysis of the European Social Fund Objective One       Programme for Cornwall and the Isles of Scilly, with it acting as an       important assessment measure of the extent to which funding impacted on       the region's underlying economic performance [4].
As a result, a number of       recommendations were established, including one that addressed the low       participation in the knowledge economy through investments in Convergence       Programmes.
Within the UK, the research has also influenced national level       policymaking.
In 2010, the UK Commission for Employment and Skills (UKCES)       reviewed the research team's work on regional competitiveness       differentials to better understand the geography of UK competitiveness,       and the associated implications in terms of developing a policy agenda to       raise employment and skill levels in the UK [5].
In March 2011, the UK       government announced the establishment of a &#163;100m Growth and Innovation       Fund to boost investment in skills and training as means of directly       addressing the competitiveness issues raised by the UKCES.
The research - principally that disseminated through the World         Knowledge Competitiveness Index and the European Competitiveness         Index - has had an international policy impact.
In 2010, the       European Commission designed and published its first EU Regional       Competitiveness Index.
This EC-led work drew significantly on the concepts       and methodologies originally developed by the researchers, as highlighted       by significant references to their work in the Commission's publication       [6].
Similarly, policymakers in overseas locations have incorporated the       research into their deliberations and actions.
For instance, city       authorities in Grand Rapids, USA utilised the concepts and measures       relating to `knowledge competitiveness' to provide a fuller understanding       of the economic evolution of the city and its future prospects (2008) [7].
Other examples of international policy impact can also be cited.
In 2008,       the city of Helsinki drew upon the research to formulate a vision for the       city, which resulted in activities to increase internationalisation and       integration into the global economy [8].
In Ireland, the national       development agency - Forf&#225;s - integrated the methodology and measures       provided by the European Competitiveness Index within a comprehensive       competitiveness benchmarking framework [9].
At the international level, the research has influenced agendas beyond       regional and local development.
In 2009, the work of the researchers       formed part of the deliberations of the International Institute for       Sustainable Development - a not-for-profit policy research institute - in       their formulation of a `responsible competitiveness' agenda [10].
In       addition, Huggins was asked in 2011 to join a team advising the General       Secretariat of the Executive Council of Abu Dhabi on the development of       methodologies for examining the competitiveness of the emirate in relation       to innovation.
This led to the creation of `The Competitiveness Office of       Abu Dhabi' by the Department for Economic Development in Abu Dhabi.
Huggins has also advised the Competitiveness Office on developing a       `Regional Competitiveness Index for Abu Dhabi'.
Since 2008, Huggins has acted as an advisor or consultant on       competitiveness issues to the following organisations: East of England       Development Agency (2008); One North East (North East England Development       Agency) (2009); Greater Merseyside Partnership (2009); UK Government       Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs (2010/11); British       Chambers of Commerce (2012); Regional Australia Institute (2012); and       Chambers of Commerce in Colombia (2012).
