     SNA Europe is an international company and one of the world's oldest       continuous producers of hand tools.
It employs approximately 2,500 people       in over 20 countries across the world.
The company produces a wide range       of metal cutting and hand tools for its numerous clients in the       machine-building industry, buildings construction, automotive industry,       green sectors and agriculture.
Its market presence spans from Santiago       (Chile) to Auckland (New Zealand).
The research undertaken by the Unit (1998-2012), in close collaboration       with SNA Europe, has resulted in the development of new tooth design for       metal cutting tools (2003), new coating techniques (2008) and new       production technologies (2009).
The products underpinned by the Unit's       research are marketed and sold internationally and include well-known       retailers such as B&amp;Q, Homebase, Catalogue, Screwfix, RS, Farnell, as       well as specialised shops.
Testimony from SNA Europe states:     "The design and performance of a range of metal cutting tools         alongside with the technology of their manufacturing have been         significantly improved as the outcome of the Unit's research.
Investigations carried out at Northumbria University on improving the         design, coatings and manufacture process of metal cutting tools was         profoundly beneficial for the commercial activity of the company,         increasing selling revenue across Europe and especially in South America         and Far East and resulting in further strengthening company's position         in the metal cutting tools market."
The products impacted by the underpinning research from the Unit are the       bimetal bandsaw and carbide bandsaw blades.
These include the KT- and       KS-series (made in China) and the PQ-, the new PF-, TSS- and TSQ-series       (made in Bramley, UK).
These products cater for the "difficult-to-cut"       materials and shapes.
The TSS-series, for example, is a unique and       patented tooth design: a triple chip tooth with rake angle of 10&#176;, ideal       for cutting large difficult and abrasive materials.
SNA Europe has confirmed the following, benefits as a result of the       research.
Since 2008, the impacts include:     1.
140% per annum return on the research investment     This impact was calculated from sales of products for which the Unit's       research has influenced the design, performance and manufacture process.
Other non-tangible benefits include product sales safeguarded, market       position improvement, enhanced company profile, jobs safeguarded and       increased employment.
2.
New sales revenue of &#163;2 million on 800,000 units/annum     This was achieved through the development of new products as a result of       the Unit's research, which led to the introduction of closer process       control of tooth manufacturing and hardening for the critical 1mm cutting       edge (2009).
This maintains tooth geometry and cutting edge, providing a       lower specific cutting energy and a vastly improved tool life.
The research on the single tooth testing of metal saws led to an       industrial version of the method being developed for SNA Europe (2003).
The research showed that it is possible to simulate the function and wear       of a metal saw by testing a single tooth instead of the full saws.
This       has greatly simplified the manufacturing of prototypes as well as the       testing of saws and has led to a much shorter time to market for new       products.
The newly-developed method has been implemented (2009).
The       advantage offered by this new method is the ability to conduct experiments       while eliminating the secondary factors influencing test results.
As a       result, the accuracy of the data is improved.
3.
Reduced manufacturing costs and improved life time (hacksaw blades:         by 12% and 8% respectively; bandsaw blades: by 11% and 9%, respectively)     This impact has been achieved through process optimisation and an       improved manufacturing process, which were underpinned by the Unit's       research.
An example of this is the development and implementation of a       company standard for grinding discs used in the manufacturing of hacksaw       blades (2010).
The reduction in grinding wheel dressing has resulted in an       improved cutting edge surface finish and reduced grinding wheel usage.
Minimising manufacturing consumables has resulted in reduced cost and       process time, i.e.
reduced dressing and wheel replacement times, and       improved productivity.
These improvements resulted in reduction of       manufacturing costs by 12% and 11% for hacksaw and bandsaw respectively,       and improved the life time of these blades by 11% (hacksaw) and 9%       (bandsaw).
Several fundamental processes, such as milling, grinding, and       setting, have been thoroughly investigated and resulted in much improved       products and yield.
4.
Reduced manufacturing time for bandsaw and hacksaw blades by 10%     This impact is due to the research findings from the Unit on the       manufacturing process optimisation techniques which were implemented by       SNA Europe.
The research work focused on the standard of grinding discs as       mentioned in section 4.3 above, has led to reduced manufacturing time of       carbide tipped bandsaws.
Similar work on the grinding and milling process       of bimetal bandsaws has strongly contributed to the reduced manufacturing       time of those products.
The research work methods have been implemented       within the production of hacksaw blades with similar achievements in       manufacturing time reduction.
