     Nature of the Impact: LSE research provided evidence that the       presence of Cajas managers who       were politically appointed and poorly qualified in terms of education and       experience negatively       impacted the performance of the Cajas during the financial crisis (as well       as through the business       cycle).
During this period, the Cajas accounted for half of Spain's       deposits but these savings were       being put at risk by poor lending decisions leading to non-performing       loans.
Other banks with       stronger management remained profitable during the crisis.
This research       explicitly informed       government and international policy to rescue and reform the Spanish       financial system, as       documented below.
A.
Impact on Spain's Legislation: Government legislation in the       form of Royal Decrees in 2010       and 2013 introduced a broad reform of governance practices in the sector.
A substantial       component was what the government called "reinforcement of the competence       and       professionalism" of Cajas managers, including specific requirements in       terms of experience and       education.
No other research, apart from Garicano and Cu&#241;at, has       specifically targeted these       issues.
A personal statement from the Secretary of State in charge of the       reforms confirms that this       research provided the crucial underpinning for the legislation: "The       empirical finding of Cunat and       Garicano that there was a clear link between the quality of the management       of the Cajas and their       bad loan positions contributed to the regulatory move towards the       professionalization and       strengthening of the independence of the Cajas boards" (Secretary of State       for Economic Affairs,       Spain 2009-2011) (6).
The Bank of Spain's Chief Economist elaborates on       this impact (7): "The       paper by Garicano and Cu&#241;at (2) on the performance of Spanish Savings       Banks argues that the       lending practices of these banks during the expansion period previous to       the crisis and the amount       of their non-performing loans during the crisis were more related to the       political and academic       background of the banks' chairmen than either to formal governance       institutions or to the       composition of the board.
Upon its presentation at a conference hosted by       Banco de Espa&#241;a, it       was quite influential and generated interesting debates in political and       academic circles about how       that association should be interpreted and to what extent it had important       implications for the       origins of the crisis and for the regulation of financial institutions.
In       my view, it contributed       significantly to shape discussions in this regard that eventually led to       some changes in the       regulation of this part of the Spanish financial system."
B.
Impact on IMF's diagnosis of Spain's problems and on the subsequent         Memorandum of         Understanding: The IMF's Technical Report (8) issued in June 2012,       just before the MoU that       was signed between Spain and the Troika, included the IMF's analysis of       Spain's financial system.
This motivated the decision to force a restructuring of the Cajas sector,       and contained an explicit       reference to Garicano and Cu&#241;at&#180;s research: "Empirical evidence shows that       SSBs whose       chairman was previously a political appointee and, in many cases, lacking       proper banking       experience, have had significantly worse performance" (footnote to Cunat       and Garicano, 2009 in       IMF, 2012, p10).
Directly following from this analysis, according to the       IMF Spain Desk chief       personal testimony (9), was the contemporaneous Memorandum of       Understanding (10) on       Financial-Sector Policy Conditionality (2012) between Spain and the Troika       (IMF, ECB, EU).
This       contains the following provision in point 23, which is an obligatory       condition for Spain: "The       governance structure of former savings banks and of commercial banks       controlled by them will be       strengthened.
The Spanish authorities will prepare by end-November 2012       legislation clarifying the       role of savings banks in their capacity as shareholders of credit       institutions with a view to       eventually reducing their stakes to non-controlling levels.
Furthermore,       authorities will propose       measures to strengthen fit and proper rules for the governing bodies of       savings banks and to       introduce incompatibility requirements regarding the governing bodies of       the former savings banks       and the commercial banks controlled by them.
Moreover, authorities will       provide by end-November       2012 a roadmap for the eventual listing of banks included in the Stress       Test, which have benefited       from State aid as part of the restructuring process."
C. Initial impact on press and public opinion: The original       `governance of the Cajas study' was,       on the day of its release on 30 October 2009 at the Bank of Spain,       prominently covered (one page)       in EL Pais, Spain's leading daily newspaper (11).
It is important       to note that prior to the study there       was no body of evidence arguing for a link between the financial crisis       and the governance or       human capital of the Cajas.
After the study, Cunat and Garicano produced a       stream of op-eds (12,,       13, 14) in the Spanish press, including several articles in El Pais       and multiple blog postings on       NadaEsGratis (No Free Lunch), edited and founded by Garicano,       insisting on the importance of       governance reforms in order to solve the Cajas problem.
Wider Implications: on-going reform of Spain's savings banks is       central to the defence of Spain's       financial and sovereignty systems.
However, poor management of savings       banks remains a       problem in other parts of Europe.
Indirectly, therefore, but not trivially       or wholly at the margin, the       research reported above has relevance to the financial standing of the       wider Eurozone region.
