     The research has had an impact in four main areas.
First, in       organisational strategic decision-making; second, with regard to       supporting organisational fund raising; third, through engagement with       policy at European, national, and regional levels; and fourth, in support       of individuals.
Organisational strategic decision making       The action research projects provided a foundation for changes in three       main organisations.
Regionally, Fitzgerald provided: "...a major         contributory factor to the Northern TUC strategic decision to appoint an         organising academy employee in the region".
This led to the       employment of a Polish recruitment officer, focusing on workplaces with a       contingent of Polish workers.
This decision: "...not only helped the         TUC engagement with workers in this area but also led to greater direct         engagement by individual trade unions in this key area of workplace         relations".
Wider impact was achieved through providing evidence for       setting up Newcastle City Council community informational hubs [Corrob.
5.2].
This led to contact with the Polish trade union NSZZ Solidarno&#347;&#263; and the       provision of advice and information to support the union's international       strategy, enabling it to collaborate more closely with major UK unions,       such as GMB, TUC and Unison.
This allowed NSZZ Solidarno&#347;&#263; to contribute       more effectively to joint trade union strategies to organise and represent       migrant workers in the UK.
Although impact started in 2007 it continued as       it supported later strategy development in 2008.
As the International       Secretary of NSZZ Solidarno&#347;&#263; states: "...much of our involvement and         success in this area was courtesy of your (Fitzgerald's) vast knowledge,         openness and will to share and help."
[Corrob.
5.1].
Supporting organisational fund raising       The TUC action research assisted in securing new funds for Northern TUC by       supplying the first evidence-based research which was then used to secure       funding from the Regional Development Agency for the employment of a key       worker to support trade union organising strategies.
Alongside this the       research supported a successful application for additional funding from       the Learning and Skills Council to focus provision on English for Speakers       of Other Languages [Corrob.
5.2].
Influence on policy at European, national and regional levels       The European projects led by Fitzgerald have impacted on the European       Federation of Builders and Woodworkers (EFBWW) policy with regard to       proposed changes to the Posting of Workers Directive, which balances       freedom of businesses to provide services with rights of workers who are       temporarily posted abroad.
Specifically, it has supported policy formation       for the Action Programme for 2012-2015 and political demands contained in       the Palermo Manifesto       (http://www.efbww.org/default.asp?index=826&amp;Language=EN)       and enabled more effective lobby of the EC and European Parliament on       behalf of its affiliates with issues relating to migrant workers in the       construction industry [Corrob.
5.4].
Research undertaken by       Fitzgerald and others [3.5] as part of the 28 country study noted in       section 1 informed the European Commission draft enforcement Directive for       the Posting of Workers Directive [Corrob.
5.4, 5.5].
The TUC regional and national projects also impacted on the TUC       nationally assisting with their broad approach with regard to A8 migration       issues and enabling the TUC to develop their relationship with the Polish       trade union NSZZ Solidarno&#347;&#263;.
This supported the development of practical       strategies to organise and represent migrant workers with the formation of       policy in two key programme areas.
Firstly, policy with regard to       organising and recruiting workers from the A8 countries at a workplace       level and secondly, external to the workplace their approaches to       community organising and recruitment.
Regionally the research has influenced policy at the North East Migration       Steering Group.
The research led the Steering group to the view that: "...highly         skilled individuals from Eastern Europe... (could) ...make a significant         contribution to the growth of the (North East) region's economy.
To that         end, the Group..." launched promotional websites in Poland and other       Eastern European Countries following work undertaken between 2006-2008 [Corrob.
5.7].
Support of individuals       The findings of Fitzgerald's research showed that Polish workers were       often subject to poor working conditions and experienced difficult       employment relationships.
In order to improve this situation it was       critical for workers to be aware of and understand their rights as       employees in the UK.
Working with Irwin Mitchell solicitors, Fitzgerald       co-designed and delivered a keynote lecture at two events in Newcastle (28       February 2008) and Leeds (26 June 2008) which launched their advice and       legal help available to Polish workers who have suffered injuries at work.
These events were attended by businesses, senior managers from public       sector agencies and those who had contact with new Polish workers [Corrob.
5.6].
As a result of Fitzgerald's work on economic migration, in 2012 he was       asked by Irwin Mitchell solicitors to be an expert in a successful court       case where a client had catastrophic brain damage.
The issue in the case       related to whether the individual would have remained in the UK or       returned to Lithuania had the accident not occurred.
This affected the       level of compensation received by the client.
The Partner responsible for       the case stated that Fitzgerald's research report: "provided an         evidential basis...this evidence would not have been available from any         other source."
[Corrob.
5.3].
The action research led to early support for a charitable Polish       Association, Pegaz.
Fitzgerald was invited to become Patron and impact       here has facilitated integration of new Polish residents into the local       community and governance structures.
For example, at his own institution       he facilitated the provision of University rooms and IT facilities for a       two-day electrical training course supplied by a Polish business Wilmowski       Training (22/10/11 and 05/11/11) in collaboration with Pegaz.
Here, Polish       language electricians gained City and Guilds qualifications which allowed       them to work as electricians in the UK [Corrob.
5.8].
