     Advances in bisphosphine ligand synthesis carried out at Cardiff       University have enabled industrial scale application of a cost-effective       new process, the Alpha Process, for the production of methyl methacrylate       monomer for acrylic resins and Perspex production.
The economic impact is demonstrated by investment of US$230 million by       Lucite International, part of the Mitsubishi Group, in a new plant in       Singapore which has been producing 120 kilotonnes of MMA per annum since       2008.
This process brings major environmental benefits, as it produces only       environmentally benign waste products and does not rely on the use of       toxic feedstocks, such as hydrogen cyanide and sulphuric acid, commonly       used in alternative processes.
Enabling increased end-user applications and industrial production     The success of the Alpha Process was enabled by a patented process       developed by Cardiff University [3.5] to scale-up Lucite International's       production of the bisphosphine ligand for production of Perspex.
Dr.       Graham Eastham (Senior Research Scientist for ALPHA Technology, Lucite       International) recognised the significance of the Cardiff contribution in       developing "a commercially viable synthetic route to produce the phosphine       ligand...without this early innovation the Alpha process may well not have       become the unqualified success that it is" [5.1].
The key to the process is the remarkable efficiency of the catalyst for       the addition of carbon monoxide to ethylene, which is fast (producing 13       kg of methyl propanoate for 1 g of palladium metal per hour of operation)       and cost efficient with regard to the amount of expensive and rare       palladium metal consumed (10 tonnes of product produced for 1 g of metal       consumed).
The remarkable selectivity and efficiency of the catalyst       allows reliable production under milder reaction conditions, which has a       significant beneficial impact on operating costs, safety and energy       efficiency.
Lucite International estimates that the Alpha process reduces       costs by 30-40% compared to the established acetone-cyanohydrin (ACH)       process, the mainstay of US and European MMA production, which has       remained largely unchanged since the 1930s.
The Alpha process has removed constraints on plant size allowing       significantly improved operating economies.
As a result of the industrial       viability of the process, Lucite invested US$230 Million in 2008 in a       manufacturing plant in Singapore to produce 120 kilotonnes of MMA per       annum [5.2].
The plant has been running at 100% capacity to date, and       accounts for around 3% of global MMA production.
Based on the success of       the Singapore plant, Mitsubishi Group signed a Letter of Intent with Saudi       Basic Industries Corporation, with the tender to issue in 2013, to build       the largest MMA plant in the world, costing US$500 million and producing       250 kilotonnes annually (around 6% of global production) [5.3].
The Alpha Process also produces purer MMA, which increases end-user       applications.
Lucite Perspex is in demand for high margin applications       such as screens for mobile phones, televisions and computer monitors,       since Alpha process Perspex offers maximum light transmission without       disturbing surface hot spots.
Growing demand in this area complements       conventional uses, including glazing, signage and lighting, moulding and       extrusion compounds for automotive, medical and optical industries,       surface coatings, emulsion polymers, adhesives, and enamels.
Lucite       International is the world leader in MMA and PMMA production, with around       25-30% of the global market share, which is valued in excess of US$7       Billion annually and projected to show annual growth of 6.5% up to 2017       [5.4].
Environmental benefits     The Alpha process brings environmental benefits compared to conventional       manufacturing technologies, such as the ACH process, which rely on the use       of feedstocks that are highly toxic (hydrogen cyanide) and highly       corrosive (sulfuric acid).
For example, Alpha Process production at the       Lucite Singapore plant produces annual savings of 19 kilotonnes of       hydrogen cyanide and annual savings of 360 kilotonnes of spent acid,       including sulfuric acid and ammonium sulphate, compared to the       conventional ACH route.
A further supply chain benefit of the Alpha Process is that it uses       cheap, relatively non- hazardous and readily available feedstocks (carbon       monoxide, ethylene, formaldehyde and methanol).
The atom-efficiency of the       process also brings waste management benefits, as it means that there are       no toxic wastes or by-products [5.2].
These environmental benefits also have an impact on manufacturing       efficiencies through, for example, the reduced use of solvents and reduced       storage and waste management facilities required at the Singapore and       Saudi facilities.
A purer MMA product also has knock-on benefits for       downstream users and applications industries in minimising requirements       for further purification as well as providing assurance of a dependable       supply of higher quality plastics from readily available feedstocks.
