     The Unit's progressive research into information rights law has resulted       in our researchers writing two definitive practitioner texts on the       subject (2009 and 2011) and has directly benefited two public bodies,       providing them with the tools and training required to bridge the gap       between legislation and operational requirements.
The research, specially       commissioned by the Law Society of England and Wales and derived from       IRRIG's initial engagement with the Department of Constitutional Affairs,       provides comprehensive coverage of best practice in information sharing       and disclosure of environment information in the context of key       regulations and related legislative provisions (source 4).
Engagement with Durham County Council has prompted a change in policy in       the handling and sharing of information and significant re-organisation of       the way in which the authority deals with information requests.
The       authority receives 95 requests per month and obligations apply within the       statutory code of practice relating to training, compliance and accessible       policies and procedures on disclosure.
Durham County Council is a large       unitary authority.
It has 126 Counsellors who are accountable to over       513,000 people in County Durham.
In 2011, the council commissioned Wolf to       deliver bespoke training to key officers within the organisation on the       Environmental Information Regulations 2004 (EIR) and its relationship to       the Freedom of Information Act 2000 (FOIA).
In April 2011, 30 senior       officers across a range of service departments within Durham County       Council received training on the EIR and in particular how service       departments are required to recognise requests for environmental       information so as to ensure compliance with the statutory provisions.
The       training provided knowledge and expertise that allowed the Principal       Information Officer at Durham County Council to develop his own training       sessions as well as frequently asked questions and answers for use by       officers in the service departments.
The Officer produced a revised FOIA       procedures packet clearly establishing processes and policies to deal with       requests which is widely in use by the local authority.
Our research into       best practice procedures facilitated a change in public authority process:     "As a result of the research training I prepared a revised FOIA         Procedures Packet which is now widely used within the authority.
The         training also helped to raise organisational awareness of the EIR and as         a result, the Council consolidated the EIR work within the Information         Management Team so that a consistent and joined up service could be         delivered."
(Evidence Sources 1 and 2).
Engagement with the MMO has, firstly, enabled staff to develop a clear       understanding of its operational practices and obligations with regard to       the legislation concerning information rights.
Second, it has prompted the       MMO to set up a senior level working group to review and develop new       departmental procedures regarding information sharing.
The MMO is a       non-departmental government body.
It has approximately 321 members of       staff.
The MMO is responsible for the sustainable development of the       marine area.
It has statutory responsibilities for fisheries management,       licensing, planning and regulatory enforcement.
The MMO is a relatively       new organisation, established in 2010, and it therefore required training       in information rights law and information sharing, specifically tailored       to its needs, in order to fulfil statutory and regulatory functions.
Our       group met with MMO officers shortly after it was established to discuss       their issues regarding information sharing and disclosure.
This led to       research projects between 2010-13 reviewing its FOIA compliance and       providing research expertise relating to data sharing processes derived       from IRRIG's research into public organisation best practice.
In 2011,       over 80 officers of MMO from throughout the UK received training over       seven days in Bristol and Newcastle (12 training courses were delivered       and a new methodological approach to sharing of information was       addressed).
The MMO commissioned the IRRIG to undertake further research projects in       2012.
The first was to provide a review of the MMO's handling of requests       for information using freedom of information legislation.
The second was       to provide an evaluation of the MMO data handling procedure.
In this       regard the MMO's Litigation Lawyer comments:     "The result of the combined projects was twofold.
In the first         instance the MMO gained a very clear insight into the close relationship         between its operational practices and its obligations under information         sharing legislation.
Second, and more importantly, the process has         resulted in the establishment of a senior level working group to review         MMO policy and procedure.
This work is on-going and it is anticipated         that the relationship with the University will continue to inform and         direct policy and practice."
(Source 3).
In 2013 the MMO has created a new information management team, derived       from IRRIG project work initiatives, to increase the quality of their       customer service as well as to reduce business risk by ensuring       consistency of decision-making on FOIA requests.
The review changes have       recently been mandated for DEFRA approval.
