     National and global reach of the research to build Clinic capacity     Wider dissemination of the research has taken place via consultancy and       conferences.
The Student Law Office (SLO) hosted visits by over 100 law       faculty members from around the world during the review period, providing       free consultancy and sharing expertise to aid the establishment and       development of clinical projects.
It also, from 2008, led the Clinical       Legal Education Organisation, a network of clinical practitioners in the       UK, co-ordinating four conferences and symposia and the redrafting of the       national Clinic Model Standards.
It helped to drive up the amount of free       legal advice work offered by UK universities: the LawWorks Pro Bono Report       2011 shows 61% of all Law Schools in the UK now undertake pro bono work       (up from 46% in 2006).
Northumbria's Law School publishes the International Journal of Clinical       Legal Education bi-annually.
This is the only international peer reviewed       law journal devoted to clinical legal education.
It has organised an       annual international legal education conference for the past 10 years       which has been hosted in Scotland (2004), South Africa (2007), Ireland       (2008), Australia (2005, 2009, 2013), England (2003, 2006, 2010, 2012) and       Spain (2011).
Delegates from more than 50 countries have participated in       these conferences.
Additionally, it has co-hosted clinical legal education       conferences for the Bar Council of India (2012) and in Singapore (2012),       as part of capacity building in South East Asia.
Members of the Clinic       research group have contributed to additional clinic development events in       Japan (2006), Bangladesh (2008), USA (2010), Italy (2011), Croatia (2011),       Poland (2012), Czech Republic (2012) and Ireland (2013).
The Unit's       research interest group has worked with colleagues from Bulgaria, Croatia,       the Czech Republic, Italy, Poland and Spain to recently establish the       European Network of Clinical Legal Education.
As part of a Dutch Government sponsored programme in Uganda, our Clinical       Legal Education research interest group is engaging with the national       legal practice course provider in Kampala to develop clinical legal       education at the core of their curriculum.
The SLO has hosted fact-finding       visits from emerging clinical legal educators and regulators from:       Moldova, Kyrgyzstan, Armenia, Ukraine, Georgia, Malaysia, Czech Republic       (three visits), Croatia, Canada, China, Turkey, Italy, Japan and Kenya       (two visits).
The close ties with the United States have resulted in       visits from academics from City University of New York, New York Law       School, State University of Indianapolis, Yale and Wash U, St Louis.
Impact on the community     The underpinning research has led Northumbria's Law School to offer       clinic at the heart of the curriculum since 1992.
Each year, approximately       170 undergraduate and postgraduate law students have been supervised by 20       members of staff with the support of 2 administrators and 2 trainee       solicitors.
Clients are represented in more than 11 legal practice areas.
As a result, there has been a direct beneficial impact to the community.
From 1 January 2008 to date, the office has dealt with 2,761 new enquiries       from members of the public and businesses, resulting in 1,127 clients       being fully represented recovering over &#163;840,000 for these clients.
Each       year, students and staff provide over 50,000 hours of free legal advice       and representation.
Impact on voluntary community legal services     In the voluntary and community sector, the SLO partners with Shelter, the       homelessness charity, to offer a national advice service to homeless and       at risk clients.
Since 2009, the SLO has provided expert research on       complex problems the Shelter advisers are unable to resolve.
A project       with Newcastle Citizens Advice Bureau developed a new form of training and       accreditation for law students, enabling them to become Gateway Advisers,       dealing with over 6,000 issues in the two years since the start of the       project in 2011.
In collaboration with Age UK, the SLO established an       outreach office to provide an accessible legal service for elderly and       infirm clients.
A partnership with Victim Support set up in 2012 provides       advocacy services for clients in challenging decisions of the Criminal       Injuries Compensation Authority, which the charity could not provide.
Impact on the practice of the legal profession     The Law Clinic Group's research indicated that real world experience is       critical in vocational education.
The SLO works in collaboration with more       than 10 regional law firms on Law School inspired pro bono projects,       delivering benefits to the community as well as encouraging a culture of       free advice in these firms.
Building on this, the SLO with national pro       bono charity LawWorks, launched the LawWorks North East Pro Bono Hub in       2011.
The SLO is at the centre of the Hub, acting as a catalyst and       facilitator for a regional network of law firms to offer free legal advice       to the public and community groups in the North East and Cumbria.
This       successful collaboration has led LawWorks to expand this model to other       regions including the North West and Wales (2012-13).
The Legal Advice       Byker project with leading legal aid firm, Ben Hoare Bell LLP, created a       community outreach programme in 2011.
This is in a deprived area of       Newcastle: students provide immediate legal advice to the public,       supervised by Ben Hoare Bell LLP lawyers.
Over 90 people were helped in       the first year of operation.
Impact on regulators and policy makers     The SLO regularly hosts visits by MPs, Government ministers (including       two Attorneys General and the Solicitor General) and professional       regulators.
This has resulted in membership of the influential       Attorney-General's Pro Bono Committee which co-ordinates National Pro Bono       Week and advises on government pro bono policy.
The integrated clinical       model was recommended by the ACLEC First Report on Legal Education.
In       2009, the school persuaded the Solicitors Regulation Authority to approve       a five-year pilot of a full qualification M Law degree, combining theory,       skills and clinic/workplace training.
This radical new programme, the       first ever full qualification degree in the UK, removes the need for a       training contract, making legal qualification more accessible and       flexible, as recognised in the Legal Education and Training Report (LETR,       2013).
