     Following the publication of our screening paper (Reference 1) Ansley was       invited, along with Hull       and Dickinson, by the Medical Officer at UK Anti-Doping to convene a       therapeutic use exemption       (TUE) consultation committee with the remit to advise UK Sport on their       policies and procedures       relating to the approval of asthma medication in athletes.
Together, the       TUE committee developed       guidelines and a diagnostic algorithm for the TUE process (Sources 1 and       4) that was adopted by       the UK National Anti-Doping Agency and used as the framework for medical       practitioners in the       diagnosis of EIA.
The early studies (References 1 and 2) and work on the TUE committee       highlighted the lack of       access or availability of centres that provided objective       bronchoprovocation testing.
So Ansley and       Robson-Ansley started Sport Asthma (www.sportasthma.co.uk), which is a       consultancy service       that runs out of Northumbria University.
Sport Asthma offers eucapnic       voluntary hyperpnea (EVH)       and allergy testing to athletes and referral service for physicians; EVH       is the bronchoprovocation       test recommended by the International Olympic Committee due to its high       sensitivity and       specificity.
Sport Asthma is a UK Sport recommended testing centre in       England       (http://www.ukad.org.uk/support-personnel/asthma/)       and is endorsed by Allergy UK (email from       Clinical Director of Allergy UK, 30/04/2009) (Source 6).
Sport Asthma has       tested nearly 100       symptomatic athletes from various sports (swimming, athletics, cricket,       rugby and football) and to       date Sport Asthma has identified 27 athletes misdiagnosed with EIA who       were using asthma       medication unnecessarily.
The interpretation of the results provided in       our reports to medical       practitioners has guided subsequent treatment and management of athletes       with exercise-induced       respiratory symptoms (Source 3).
Sport Asthma has worked closely with two regional professional football       teams (Newcastle United       Football Club and Sunderland Association Football Club) to implement a       screening programme for       all their players.
This has been very successful and through this       programme with 49 asymptomatic       players screened so far, and 17 (34%) players have been diagnosed with EIA       and are now       receiving appropriate treatment (Source 3).
The treatment efficacy of a       correct diagnosis is       currently being assessed in a study that evaluates the effective use of       inhaler technique by athletes       who use asthma medication.
The consultancy work with professional athletes has generated significant       interest from the media.
Most notable was the involvement in a documentary commissioned by the       British Medical Journal       (BMJ), which explored EIA.
The film is posted on the BMJ website as part       of their continuing       education programme and provides a resource for clinicians       (http://www.bmj.com/multimedia/video/2012/04/25/exercise-induced-asthma).
Other press       exposure included two feature articles in Running Fitness (August 2009 and       May 2010), a national       magazine with a monthly circulation of 34,000, and an article in The       Journal newspaper (11       September 2009), which has a daily readership of over 26,000.
An article       on Sport Asthma that       appeared on the website of an Internet business magazine (https://bdaily.co.uk/opinion/07-10-2011/dr-les-ansley-from-sport-asthma-and-northumbria-university-talks-exercise-induced-asthma/       )       has been picked up by the international community and has over 200       separate Google entries.
In       order to educate the public on lung health Ansley encouraged the MSc       Clinical Exercise       Physiology students to organise a Healthy Lung Awareness Day at the       university.
The students       measured lung function and provided advice and feedback to over 300 staff       and students.
In addition to informing the general public about EIA and allergy in       athletes Ansley and Robson-       Ansley have given invited presentations to clinicians at conferences (e.g.
Royal Society of       Medicine 2012; EAACI Annual Congress, 2013) and workshops (e.g.
EAACI       Asthma Summer       School 2010 and 2012).
In 2009 Ansley and Robson-Ansley obtained funding from Phadia Diagnostics       (&#163;16,000) to look at       allergy in athletes.
The results from this study were published in a       high-ranking journal (Reference       4).
The finding from the study of a 40% prevalence in allergy generated       interest from the Chief       Medical Officer for the British Olympic Team and the team doctor for UK       Athletics.
This has       resulted in the implementation of a Healthy Airways programme for the       Olympic athletes in the lead       up to the London Olympic Games.
The programme aims to identify "at risk"       athletes and develop       appropriate treatment and management plans.
Ansley and Robson-Ansley       formulated the       screening process, which involved Robson-Ansley training up the sport       federations' doctors in       allergy skin-prick testing and Ansley authoring the asthma section in the       Athlete Health Guide that       was given to all the British Olympic track and field athletes prior to the       London Olympic Games.
As part of the Sport Asthma consultancy Ansley designed a novel EVH       testing device that is five       times more cost-effective than the traditional equipment and easily       portable in a briefcase allowing       testing at sports clubs and training facilities, unlike the old method,       which requires testing to be       conducted in a laboratory.
Ansley has sold four EVH devices; to Exeter       University, Liverpool John       Moore's University, St George's University Hospital London and Gloucester       University.
There have       also been enquiries from international institutions in Poland and the US.
Professor Kai-H&#229;ken       Carlsen, the former President of the European Respiratory Society, has       also recommended the       EVH device to the European Respiratory Society Task Force for Asthma in       Exercise.
