     Northumbria's research on Sterne and the Delavals has impacted upon the       Laurence Sterne Trust at Shandy Hall, Coxwold and National Trust property       Seaton Delaval Hall in Northumberland, home of the Delaval family.
In       addition we have worked with the Georgian theatre company HC Productions       in making aspects of our research accessible to our partners' audiences.
Specific benefits to LST and SDH have been in terms of increased footfall,       new visitor narratives and also new resources or access to funding       opportunities.
Laurence Sterne Trust     The relationship with the Laurence Sterne Trust (LST) began in 2009 with       the AHRC Collaborative Doctoral Award and has led to impact in three       related areas: outreach, digital presence and income generation.
In April 2012 Williams contributed to the curation of an exhibition Eliza       Draper: An Absent Presence (April 2012), which included an online         counterpart, drawing on Williams and Terry's research and       work-in-progress on Sterne's literary and epistolary style (JECS 2013; MLR       2014; Plagiarism Allegation).
The exhibition attracted 500 visitors and       the website 6561 page views since its launch in March 2011 (figure as of       31/7/13) (source 1).
Because the museum does not usually attract young       visitors, Williams also designed a schools' outreach programme including a       visit to Shandy Hall, based on the letter-writing aspect of the exhibition       (source 2).
It was developed collaboratively with collections and       education officer, Elinor Camille-Wood and primary school teacher, Fiona       Robinson (Seaview Primary School, Seaham, Co. Durham) and reached three       schools: Seaview (11/7/12); Riverside Community School, Tadcaster,       Yorkshire (09/7/12); and Husthwaite CE School, Yorkshire (17/7/12) (source       1).
These workshops taught schoolchildren about Sterne's distinctive       writing style (JECS 2013).
The children learned about conventions that       structure writing, including pointers and signatures and had the       opportunity to produce their own `eighteenth-century' letters (source 2).
The children's work has since been digitised and exhibited on a blog       linked to the LST webpages: dearsterne.blogspot.co.uk,       launched August 2012.
The outreach workshops enabled the LST to widen engagement in a       particularly hard-to-reach demographic.
Some children in Husthwaite School       had never been to Shandy Hall, despite the school being only four miles       from the museum.
The impact of the workshops in enabling children to       engage with their local heritage is evident from a letter by a child       living in Coxwold itself: `When I walked past your house, I wondered which       room you wrote your books and letters in' (source 3).
The school visits       have been so popular that the LST are now planning annual events with       Seaview and Husthwaite (source 4 and 1).
Moreover, through working with       Northumbria, the LST has adapted its business plan and begun to look       outside of the Yorkshire area to schools (like Seaview) located in the       North East, showing an expansion in the geographical reach of the Trust's       outreach programme (source 1).
Building on the programme's success,       Williams and Camille-Wood also co-designed a digital toolkit, downloadable       from the main exhibition webpage and the Dear Sterne workshop blog,       enabling teachers to reproduce the content of the workshops.
The blog       itself has benefited the LST with expanded online presence and visitor       reach (2433 online visitors as of 31/7/13) (source 1).
Furthermore,       alongside Williams' contribution to increased digital content for the LST       she also instigated a change in image and design.
As a direct result of       her research on Sterne's use of manicules, the curator now uses the       pointing hand as part of the LST brand, employing it to frame exhibitions       and websites (source 5).
Northumbria has been involved in other research-based activities designed       to help the LST raise Sterne's profile during his tercentenary year,       including a theatrical chat show and accompanying lecture delivered by       Williams and HC Productions at Darlington Arts Festival (Caf&#233; Create,       17/05/13).
Recently we cemented our partnership with the LST by working       together on a successful bid (&#163;66,260) to the HLF for a project to       commemorate the tercentenary: `The Good Humour Club' (source 6).
The Good       Humour Club project is based on an eighteenth-century minute book recently       identified in the LST collection, recording the meetings of a gentleman's       club set up to promote laughter and comedy as a means of living a long and       healthy life.
The manuscript sheds light on Sterne's life and work through       recording the lives of a group of people associated with him.
Running from       May 2013-May 2014, the project comprises an exhibition (June       30th-September 2013), a series of comedy nights and educational workshops,       a period dramatisation, and a webapp on Sterne and eighteenth-century       York.
Northumbria's research on Sterne has helped grow the LST's business       capacity as the HLF award constitutes one third of its funding for       2013/14, allowing for an extra member of staff to assist with events       management and the outreach programme (source 1).
Establishing a       residential position for Williams, the project will allow future research       on the club to be co-designed between Williams and the LST.
Northumbria       and LST are already preparing another partnership bid (&#163;125k) to the Nesta       Digital R&amp;D Fund for the Arts, for a digital edition of Tristram       Shandy (source 6).
The project aims to increase the LST's online audience       through using innovative digital visualisation techniques to showcase some       of Tristram Shandy's precursors uncovered in research by Williams and       Terry on Sterne's literary borrowings (Plagiarism 2010; JECS 2013).
A       number of meetings and phone calls have already taken place (meeting at       Shandy Hall, 18/3/13) ahead of submission of the bid, including with       visualisation academic, Marian Dork (meeting at Northumbria University,       21/3/13).
Seaton Delaval Hall     Northumbria's more recent partnership with Seaton Delaval Hall is also       leading to changes in curatorial presentation strategies, outreach plans       and income streams.
Williams and Terry recently uncovered a major cache of letters by John       Cleland, author of the scandalous novel Fanny Hill (RES, 2013), amongst       the Delaval papers in Northumberland Archives.
It reveals for the first       time the Delavals' role as patrons of Cleland.
Further collaborative       research (N&amp;Q, 2013), specifically on the poet Smart, substantiates       the view that the Delavals cultivated literary connections.
These findings       have already been shared with the National Trust through a consultation       with Andrew McLean, Curator of the NT Yorkshire and the North East Region       and Julie Hawthorn, collections manager of SDH (meeting at SDH, 8/10/12).
As a result of this research, SDH is now benefiting from greater       understanding of the literary background of the house, with preparations       currently under way on a workshop for room guides on the `Literary       Delavals' (source 7).
This will be co-designed by Williams and a volunteer       room guide from SDH, Sue Abrams (meeting at Northumbria, 31/5/13) and aims       to change the current visitor narrative so that it recognises the literary       aspects of the Delaval family.
Since August 2012 Northumbria began working with a consortium of partners       (SDH, HC Productions, Newcastle Antiquaries Society and a range of schools       and community groups) around a plan to stage an original       eighteenth-century play accompanied by a range of heritage learning and       participation activities based on research expertise at Northumbria on the       Delavals, literary patronage and eighteenth-century literary culture (RES       2013; N&amp;Q 2013).
We are in the process of re-submitting a bid to the       HLF (ref.
no.
YH-12-06325; &#163;33,200, first submitted 30/1/13) after       receiving constructive feedback.
The research-framed project aims to       improve the business plan of SDH, whilst increasing audience numbers and       footfall through underpinning SDH's outreach and interpretation projects.
Our partnership with Seaton Delaval Hall contributes to the National       Trust's growing awareness of the literary aspects of the Delaval family       and their relevance to future visitor narratives and property       interpretation and also the benefits of strategic alliance with a research       organisation (source 7).
