     The key contribution of the book is the re-assessment of anti-imperialism       as an important opposition movement in US history.
The re-assessment is       explained and illustrated on the website through documentary evidence of       primary material.
The website, however, also demonstrates how conceptual       arguments can be applied in education and how they substantially influence       curriculum.
Schools that have used the website's learning resources based       on the book no longer concede a single narrative approach and instead       teach the history of this period as one of `great debate' rather than of       broad consensus.
The growth of the website as a resource has happened naturally and now       commands over 120,000 page views every year with 65% from the USA, 22%       from the Philippines, 12% from Ireland and the UK and 6% from elsewhere       including among others, Australia, Kazakhstan, Canada, France, and India       (Source 1).
The education community has recognised the value of the website for       adjusting history curricula entirely organically.
A "curricula engineer"       for Social Studies at Delaware Department of Education (responsible for       statewide curricula in 237 schools serving 125,000 students) encouraged       Cullinane to `use Delaware as an example of how your terrific website         is used by students and teachers'.
She pointed out that the website       is employed across the state in a learning unit called "Analyzing       Historical Data" (which is) part of the state curriculum for high school       social studies.'
For this unit, a lesson plan incorporating the Liberty         and Anti-Imperialism website and Cullinane's book are central to       completing Delaware's history program since 2011 (Source 2).
As a result,       the Delaware Department of Education has re-evaluated its history       curricula to include Cullinane's research and thus influenced classroom       teaching in hundreds of schools.
The Delaware Education Department has       also used the site and book specifically to analyse historical data, and       particularly to ensure thousands of students understand how history can be       interpreted.
This analytical skill is seen by the Education Department as       vital to student future employability (Source 2).
The value of the site and book is further evident in the practice of       other school districts who have adopted similar lesson plans from larger       statewide education consortia.
A Connecticut teaching project called       `History is Central' has used the website as a resource for teaching       domestic debates on war (Source 3).
Not only has Cullinane's research       triggered a change in lesson plans across entire US states like Delaware       and Connecticut, but other American school districts are now using the       site in everyday teaching.
In their feedback teachers have commended the       site as a good example of how historical resources should be made       available to students and teachers (Sources 2, 3 and 6).
Consortia, where states pool resources around curricula development, are       one example of how schools and teachers can access his impact work to       employ in their own state teaching plans.
From his Delaware work educators       in other states have taken up his lesson plans etc.
Additionally,       individual teachers from other states, including Maryland, Missouri and       Michigan have utilised the website for the same purpose.
These links       beyond Delaware show the penetration the research has made in state       curricula and the teaching of other school students in the United States       (Sources 3 and 6).
In addition to contributing to a more nuanced view of America's past, the       variety of documents from around the world exhibits a transnational view       of history.
Documents from Filipinos and Boers have helped illustrate this       new perspective and American schools are starting to incorporate this       view.
Cullinane's research has further promoted his new perspective on       anti-imperialism through collaboration with the Lopez Foundation of       Balayan in 2012 and 2013.
This Foundation manages a tourist and heritage       centre in the Philippines with close connections to the school districts       around Manila.
They are currently working on refurbishing Casa Grande, a       regional site for remembering the Philippine War.
Cullinane has worked on       explaining the importance of the Lopez Family to the Philippine revolution       and the former president and trustee of the Foundation, has said of     Cullinane's book, `It gives so much insight to a part of history of         which not much is known.
There is so much more we have learnt in the         chapter of our family'.
Cullinane's effort has provided the Lopez       Foundation with a new avenue for fundraising and collaboration.
Most of       their fundraising work had focused on the Philippines but Cullinane's       contribution has encouraged them to work with American Filipino groups       with similar interests and historical connections (Source 4) As a way to       encourage this mutually beneficial link, Cullinane spent one month at       Harvard University as the William Dearborn Fellow of American History and       introduced New England Filipinos activists (PAMAS) to the Lopez       Foundation.
The former President of the Lopez Foundation said the trip       brought `an awareness to our histories, and an opportunity to do more         research in Boston' on these connections.
Consequently, thanks to       Cullinane's research the Lopez and PAMAS organisations are having a new       fundraising event in Boston that coincides with the city's annual festival       of Filipino independence.
The money raised will go towards the       preservation of Casa Grande (Sources 4 and 5).
