     The application and use of the methods developed in Singer's group are       having an impact on the way in which conservators of fine art and museum       objects can identify materials, authenticate works of art and develop       sensitive and appropriate conservation treatments.
Edvard Munch     The conservation treatments for some of Munch's best known works,       including two versions of `The Scream' (1893, the other is thought to be       from 1910) `Madonna' (1894) and other works, are based on the findings of       Singer's research.
Singer worked directly with the Munch Museum, Oslo and       his research influenced the choice of conservation treatments and enabled       conservators to preserve these important works for public display.
Publicly available evidence for the impact of this work is in a string of       publications by the conservators regarding treatments with references to       the analytical results (see sources 1-5).
Jean-Baptiste Oudry     The method for analysing yellow lake pigments by LC-MS (Perry et al 2011)       was used in the analysis of some organic lake pigments used by       Jean-Baptiste Oudry since the receipt of samples in 2008.
The work on the       materials Oudry used in his painting `Reclining Tiger' was carried out for       the Getty Conservation Institute in Los Angeles and the knowledge       transferred directly to them.
They acknowledge the results from the       Northumbria team in their ongoing publicity regarding the conservation of       Oudry's Menagerie paintings (from 2008 onwards) as these results had an       impact on the way in which the painting has been conserved.
Francis Bacon     Singer's research into Bacon's materials has assisted the authentication       committee of the estate of Francis Bacon to make decisions regarding the       authenticity of some work attributed to him, as well as assisting       conservators in designing treatments for his work.
Evidence for this is       written in reports on the analytical findings of paintings: this was       communicated with the authentication committee.
The research team at Northumbria is conducting ongoing investigation of       many examples of controversial material such as collections of works on       paper and pictures in the Barry Joule collection at the Tate and those       works allegedly produced while Bacon visited relatives in South Africa.
One of these works has recently been re-assessed and authenticated as an       abandoned work by Bacon (in 2011) as a result of the research.
Dr Singer's team also provided expert analysis to Bacon's Estate and the       German Police to determine the origin of a series of pencil sketches which       have been controversially attributed to Bacon (2011 to present).
The       research is having a key impact on the number of works that can be       attributed to Bacon and in turn, the value of those works and Bacon's       historical legacy.
The methods developed in the underpinning research have also supported       conservators, through consultancy, in the identification of problem       materials and their subsequent choice of conservation treatments.
One       important example uses the protein analysis method, developed by Singer       and McGuigan (2007).
The method has been adopted to provide analysis on       important artefacts, including works by Munch discussed above.
Singer's research has contributed to further authentication of key works       in museum collections from earlier periods.
The research has influenced       the production of a BBC series, `Fake or Fortune' (September 2012) where       Singer contributed analytical results in collaboration with The National       Museum of Wales and Tate, concerning works attributed to JMW Turner.
Singer examined the binding media in the painting Beacon Light, the result       of which in the context of art historical analysis came to the conclusion       that this painting could be assigned to Turner for the first time.
