     The impacts of the research for the Camden Town Group in Context       include enhancing cultural life through increased cultural awareness of       national and international audiences (public and specialists); increased       access to, and knowledge of, the art and its context via a multi-platform,       open access facility; and opportunities for public engagement in       developing this and future online art catalogues.
The research has also       impacted on Tate's Digital Strategy and led to the creation of one new       post at the organisation.
Holt's underpinning research contribution chimes       with the development of new perspectives on Edwardian visual culture and       `Edwardianism' in general.
It also taps into, and enhances, current public       interest in a wider appreciation of `heritage', providing scholarly       expertise to underpin both general and specialist access and       understanding.
This project is part of the wider Online Scholarly         Catalogue Initiative (OSCI) collaboration between the Getty       Foundation and the J. Paul Getty Museum, bringing international prestige       and attention to this artistic group and Holt's expertise.
The Tate Camden Town Group in Context website was launched in May       2012 and in the 12 months since then it has received 93,242 page views       from 51 referral sites.
This comprises 28,439 visits with an average       number of pages per visit of 3.12, showing that these are engaged rather       than accidental visits.
Analysis by country demonstrates international as       well as national interest in this resource: UK - 14,387; USA - 5,437; and       France - 1,422.
Qualitative comments recorded in Tate's Post-Grant       Evaluation report to Getty includes, for example, a note from an Assistant       Professor, Brown University, Providence, Rhode Island: "one of the         most useful features of the site is its scholarly depth (historical         analysis, archival elements...) and readability.
There are few         publications that strike this balance as effectively, and no others that         do so for the Camden Town Group and this time period... students         responded positively to open source material".
Another impact of this project, and one which is directly related to       Holt's research contribution, concerns the active public engagement with       the Camden Town Group, as a result of the deliberate accessibility of the       open access `In Context' website.
Since May 2012, the Tate's curatorial       staff report communications from visitors to the website offering       additional information on the artworks or on related works by members of       the Group, along with suggestions for material that might be included in       the future.
This demonstrates how the website elicited user generated       content.
This project, underpinned by Holt's research, expertise and networks of       specialists in the field (formed in part through her editorial position in       `Visual Culture in Britain'), has directly led to other Camden Town Group       projects, as well as influencing the wider practice of online art       cataloguing.
For instance, a new `Focus' gallery exhibition at Tate       Britain of `Drawings by the Camden Town Group' (November 2011 - May 2012)       provided a further opportunity for specialists and the wider public to see       these works and to raise awareness of the group and its artistic approach       in its Edwardian London context.
The practice of providing a continuing       online access to the art after the physical exhibition was taken down       links all visitors to the Camden Town Group in Context webpages       (see http://www.tate.org.uk/art/artworks/gilman-study-for-leeds-market-t00143)       bringing the contextual information and links to an international       audience.
Holt's research approach and the software underpinning it are being used       to produce a new `In Focus' series of mini-collection research projects,       which as Tate's final report on the completion of the CTG project to Getty       outlines, they intend to expand over the next three years.
In addition to its enhancement of cultural awareness, the project's       success has underscored Tate's commitment to online scholarly publishing       and resulted in the creation of a post of Digital Editor within Tate's       Research Department (2012).
The project has impacted on policy, being instrumental in shaping Tate's       Digital Strategy 2013-2015: "A new model of online publication &#8212; manifest       in the projects The           Camden Town Group in Context ... has transformed collection       research.
Built as extensions of the online collection (Art and Artists)       rather than as `stand-alone' publications, the projects take advantage of       the affordances of the digital medium &#8212; rich interlinking, multimedia,       multiple voices, both linear and nonlinear journeys etc."
In July 2013 Holt contributed to Getty's new social media campaign,       `Getty Voices', an OSCI Facebook discussion focused on usage of the Tate       Camden Town website and designed to make broader US audiences more aware       of OSCI itself.
Tate's Google analytics registered a marked increase in       visits to the website in mid-July as a result.
