     During the Cornerstones of Innovation project (2007-10), English worked       with 43 individual companies to implement his MPPF model.
80% of the       companies identified opportunities through `revealed value' detailed       within a company-specific Cornerstones report.
Reports typically focused       on the interrelationships of a particular company's unique assets and how       these might be utilised most effectively, leading to new IP, new       applications and new markets for a company's technologies, new ways to       exploit company know how and better ways to engage customers.
The       application of English's MPPF approach as part of design-led       problem-solving has to date been applied to over 50 (mostly UK based)       organisations to reveal new product, service and business opportunities.
These organisations range from original equipment manufacturers in       consumer electronics, pharmaceuticals, oil and gas, automotive,       filtration, cosmetics, air conditioning, medical and sports equipment; to       technology companies operating in fields including satellite GPS,       renewable energy, printable electronics and advanced chemicals.
English       used the MPPF approach to identify and address unsolved challenges in the       exhibition industry, leading to the creation of new intellectual property       and products.
This case study focuses on one specific commercial area &#8212;       the exhibition industry &#8212; where English has applied his MPPF research.
Eve Products Ltd was created in 2003 and is based in Skipton, Yorkshire.
From 2008 to 2013, the company engaged with English's MPPF research.
As a       result of the research, economic impacts include the creation and       sustaining of jobs and increase in business revenue, for both Eve Products       Ltd and a number of associated organisations in the supply chain.
Specifically, English's research underpins five of Eve Products Ltd's       product ranges, under the brand names of, `Twist', `Curve', `Lumos',       `Connect' and `Link'.
English used MPPF to reveal market opportunities and       to model the relationship of valuable product attributes.
His relational       mapping process enabled the creation of intellectual property including       patents and designs (features of shape and configuration).
This IP solves       a number of problems common to the exhibition industry, including; the       tensioning of banners to display a flat graphic; the linking and levelling       of multiple banners; and the controlled retraction of roller banners.
Because these innovations solve problems that other companies do not       address, they provide Eve Products with a unique proposition in the market       place and the IP is therefore described as business critical.
The products are marketed and sold across the world and used by       international organisations at events all over the globe.
Eve Products'       extensive client list includes high-value global-reach organisations,       including Unilever, Ferrari, NHS, Vodafone, BBC, Intel, The Open       University, Mars, Nissan, Harrods, British Airways, The Victoria and       Albert Museum, Audi, The British Army, Barclays, Sainsburys, Channel 4,       SAAB, BAE Systems, Mercedes, Bacardi, EDF Energy, RBS, Hewlett Packard and       the House of Commons.
The products developed through MPPF provided Eve Products Ltd with a       turnover in 2013 of &#163;2m.
The products are founded on intellectual property       developed by English and based on his application of his MPPF approach.
This is evidenced by four nationally and internationally published patents       (Patent Nos.
WO/2011/045069, WO/2012/113556, US/2012/0260547,       GB/2005/2381366), as well as an EU design registration (EU registered       design No.000496476- 0001).
As a result of engaging with MPPF between 2008 and 2013, economic impacts       for Eve Products Ltd include an increase from 10 to 20 jobs and an       increase in turnover from &#163;850K to &#163;2m.
A further 7.5 jobs and &#163;261K sales       p.a.
have been created for three local supply businesses which support Eve       Products Ltd's manufacturing through the provision of `tooling', materials       and other essentials.
These are all directly attributable to English's       application of his MPPF approach to the design improvement of exhibition       products such as the roller banners.
Managing Director of Eve Products Ltd, confirms the impact on the       business: `Dr. English has collaborated closely with us at Eve         Products Ltd since 2008.
Through the application of his multiple         perspective problem framing methods he has generated new innovations and         new IP that underpin the success of the company and currently generate         annual turnover of over &#163;2m [The increased turnover is &#163;1m+].
Patents         developed by Dr. English address several previously unsolved challenges         in the industry, including the tensioning, levelling and linking of         exhibition banners &#8212; he has recently invented the world's first in-line         linking roller banner.
These innovations give Eve Products Ltd a         significant advantage over our competitors and the IP developed by Dr.         English provides the company with a monopoly over their commercial         exploitation.'
`80% of Hardware products sold by Eve products (Twist, Curve,         Connect, Link) incorporates IP developed by Dr. Stuart English.
95% of         components and services used by Eve Products are provided by UK         companies.'
