     The impact arising from Nicholson's research on the Templars, the British       trials and the identification of Templar sites has three main strands:     a) challenging popular misconceptions about the Templars through various       media, including books, contributions to radio and podcasts to benefit       audiences fascinated by the Templars;     b) providing accurate data about the location and operations of the       Templars to benefit individuals, authors, archaeologists, and museum       professionals;     c) enhancing heritage presentation through work with museums and heritage       trusts to benefit these organizations;     In doing so Nicholson has influenced a diverse range of beneficiaries       from Lincolnshire to Spain and the US.
Challenging popular misconceptions about the Templars     In her books which translate her research to a wider audience (e.g.
A         Brief History of the Knights Templar (Constable &amp; Robinson:       2010), interviews (e.g.
with Lisa Grant, Talk Radio Europe, which       broadcasts to c.500,000 English speakers in Spain), podcasts (e.g.
http://www.historyextra.com/podcasts?page=15),       public lectures (e.g.
Amgueddfa Cymru - National Museum Wales in 2009),       and in her online `FAQs on the Crusades', Nicholson has challenged common       misconceptions about the Templars.
Given the resonance of the Templars in       popular culture, her books aimed at a general readership have sold widely       (13,122 between 2010 and June 2012), while her BBC History Magazine       podcast has had c.80,000 downloads.
By identifying and analyzing a much       wider range of written evidence than previously known, her work challenges       and dispels many mistaken beliefs about the Templars.
These include       supposed connections with the Holy Grail, alleged corruption, and the       exclusion of women.
Her critical analysis of these myths has informed       public understanding, while her research is widely cited on non-academic       websites on the Templars (e.g.
http://www.catholic.com/magazine/articles/the-sad-history-of-the-knights-templar;       http://ordo-saint-maurice.webs.com/ontemplarsoftkit.htm).
Responses to Nicholson's books aimed at a general readership include       assessments that her A Brief History of the Knights Templars       (2010) reveals `the complete lack of any connection between the real       Templars and modern Templar groups nor with bunkum originating from grail       myths.'
[5.2], while comments on Goodreads.com on The Knights Templar         on Trial (2009) include `no-one who is serious about understanding       the Templars can afford not to read her books.'
Providing accurate data about the location and operations of the         Templars     In addressing the myths surrounding the Templars and in exploring the       history of the Templars, Nicholson's research has provided accurate data       about the location and operations of the Templars.
In doing so, it has       informed individuals by equipping them with a better understanding of the       nature of the Templars.
For example, members of the US medieval       re-enactment group (146 members), The Beausant Brotherhood, use       Nicholson's research to understand the Templars' equipment.
Comments on       the Brotherhood's Facebook page include statements such as `my kit is       based on research you've done' and `I suspect you will want to go to the       writings of Dr. Helen Nicholson--she is my premier source for research in       the Military Orders.'
[5.3].
In providing accurate data on the Templars,       Nicholson's research has also contributed to the production of cultural       artefacts.
For example, her research has allowed authors and local       historians to reach a better understanding of the Templars, such as       providing Jack Skelton-Wallace with information on Templar personnel at       Templecombe, Somerset.
Her research has equally benefited a multi-media       project, `the Kiwi Knights', developed by two New Zealand musicians.
The       project, which had over 870 followers on Facebook [https://www.facebook.com/pages/The-Kiwi-Knights/124696867553118?fref=ts],       charted their efforts to walk the thirteenth-century route to Jerusalem       used by medieval pilgrims and engage creatively with musical art forms.
Between 2009 and 2010, Nicholson's research insights influenced the Kiwi       Knights' decisions about the route they took, and transformed their       understanding of the Templar properties which they encountered in France       and Germany [5.1].
Enhancements to heritage presentation and practice     Nicholson has influenced heritage presentation and practice by making a       significant contribution to the interpretation of the cultural heritage of       the Templars in Britain.
This has benefited professional practice by       directing the work of county archaeologists across the UK and increasing       their understanding of the Templar sites currently under excavation [5.6].
Her research has equally enhanced how museums present the Templars.
For       example, Nicholson's work on the Templars' estates was used by the       Amgueddfa Cymru &#8212; National Museum Wales to develop an interactive       exhibition on the Crusades in early medieval Wales as part of the museum's       Origins gallery.
There were 62,863 visitors to the gallery during the       exhibition (Sept 2009 - April 2010), and surveys reported that after       attending the exhibition museum visitors wanted to learn more about the       Crusades [5.7].
Nicholson's research has also transformed the work of       individual museum managers by influencing their understanding of the       nature of Templar properties in their locality.
In East Anglia, for       example, Basil Abbot, Manager of the Diss Museum, attests that Nicholson's       research `opened my eyes to a wealth of material and insights on the       Templars.
The research has influenced my practice at the Diss Museum,       including the content and presentation of exhibitions, such as an       exhibition on Freemasonry in 2012, and the associated out-reach material,       such as media articles, plus talks, tours and presentations.'
[5.5]     The impact on cultural heritage is visibly demonstrated in how       Nicholson's work has informed Heritage Lincolnshire's virtual website (http://lincsheritage.org/education/temple_bruer/index.php)       on Temple Bruer, a scheduled monument and one of the best-known Knights       Templar sites remaining in England.
As only limited information remains       for Templar sites in Lincolnshire, Nicholson's research was essential for       interpreting the layout and contents of Temple Bruer and determining the       interpretation put forward by Heritage Lincolnshire in their creation of a       computer- generated reconstruction and animated fly-through of the       preceptory [5.8; 5.4].
Where previously little had been known about the       interior of the building, Nicholson's research on comparable properties       allowed the designers to bring to life the medieval preceptor and contents       of the chapel, and identify the buildings within the Templars' site,       allowing viewers to see what the preceptory may have looked like in the       fourteenth century.
Since June 2011, the Temple Bruer website has had over       2,000 unique page views, and the animated fly-through model has been       adopted for another heritage site.
Images from the reconstruction have       been the focus of work with all Lincolnshire schools as part of Heritage       Lincolnshire's Schools Improvement Service and have also featured in a       series of county and local events (which reached an estimated audience of       over 2,000 in 2012 alone) and local media, including featured articles on       Radio Lincolnshire [5.4].
Heritage Lincolnshire attests that, `The information that she [Nicholson]       was able to share with us regarding the property of the Knights Templar at       the Yorkshire site [Temple Newsam] assisted greatly in the reconstructions       and provided justification for the inclusion of detail at a level that       would otherwise have relied almost entirely on conjecture.
The community       benefit of the project has been considerable' [5.4].
Nicholson's research       has hence directly contributed to the quality of the tourist experience in       Lincolnshire and influenced Heritage Lincolnshire's education and heritage       programme.
