     1.
Curricula development and knowledge transfer:     a. via the GEMMA Masters Degree in Women's &amp; Gender Studies     Hull was one of the founding partners of the GEMMA Programme in 2006.
Staff from Hull played a key role in designing the programme.
The       underpinning research and the undergraduate and postgraduate modules       developed at the University of Hull and informed by that research provided       the model for the core GEMMA module `Feminist Theory: Between Diversity       and Difference'.
Publications arising from research at Hull, especially       the book Theorising Gender, are used as reading material on this       module.
The GEMMA programme was the first MA of its kind and carries high       prestige within the European Union, recognised as a `Masters of       Excellence' and sponsored by the European Commission.
GEMMA is a joint       multinational interdisciplinary programme that provides high quality       academic education and professional competencies for personnel working or       intending to work in the areas of Women's Studies, Gender Studies and       Equal Opportunities across Europe and beyond.
It brings together high       quality academic provision from the humanities, social sciences and health       sciences, making it attractive to students worldwide and offering a wide       span of options and combinations.
GEMMA was the first Erasmus Mundus       Masters in Women's and Gender Studies in Europe, taught by a consortium       formed by 7 European universities, including Hull.
In July 2011, GEMMA was once again selected for funding under the       prestigious Erasmus Mundus brand and distinguished from amongst 177       submitted project proposals as "a pilot project and model in the field of       Women&#180;s Studies and Gender Studies in a European and global perspective"       (see GEMMA website).
Since 2011 Rutgers University in the USA has joined       the consortium as a full partner and seven other North, Central and South       American institutions also have associated themselves with GEMMA &#8212;       Universidad de Buenos Aires, Universidad Estatal de Campinas en Sao Paulo,       Universidad de Chile, Florida International University, Instituto       Tecnol&#243;gico de Santo Domingo, Universidad Nacional de Colombia, and       Universidad Nacional Aut&#243;noma de M&#233;xico.
GEMMA's mission is to train much needed gender experts who will be able       to contribute to greater equality between men and women, taking into       account the intersections of ethnicity, race, class and sexuality and       contributing to citizenship in the broadest sense of the word (see Gender       Studies Tuning Brochure http://www.atgender.eu/index.php/initiativesmenu/tuningbrochure).
GEMMA is unique in the way it brings together approaches to feminism from       all cardinal points in Europe and now the USA.
Created as result of the       concerted efforts of several universities working together within the       European women's and feminist studies academic network ATHENA (now       AtGender) of which Hull is a member, the GEMMA consortium represents the       harmonization of seven different institutions from six European countries       and now an additional North American partner:            University of Granada (coordinator),       University of Bologna,       Central European University (Budapest),       University of Hull,       University of Lodz,       University of Oviedo,       University of Utrecht,       Rutgers, State University of New Jersey (since 2011).
During the assessed period, 271 students have enrolled on the programme       and 193 have graduated.
(The complete set of data on GEMMA students and       graduates from across 7 partner universities is available as testimonial.)
Graduates of GEMMA have achieved prestigious professional positions in       their countries and many have been actively engaged with NGOs.
They have       appreciated the intellectually challenging experience the programme has       offered to them, which one graduate characterizes as `wonderful and       enriching'.
The programme has also inspired them to find innovative ways       of bridging the gap between theory and practice as confirmed by a recent       GEMMA graduate statement       (http://masteres.ugr.es/gemma/pages/actividades/cronicas-personales).
b. via British Council sponsored visits to universities in Chile, India       and Pakistan     Members of the Centre for Gender Studies successfully applied to the       British Council for a project of bilateral cooperation with the University       of Chile.
This bi-lateral cooperation extended from 2002-2005.
Its primary       aim was to reinforce and enrich the postgraduate curricula of the       University of Chile in the area of Gender Studies utilising as a model the       postgraduate modules developed in the University of Hull.
The co-operation       involved extensive visits to Chile by Gonz&#225;lez Arnal who communicated in       lectures and seminars the distinctive features of the research in Gender       Studies undertaken in the University of Hull and explained in pedagogic       terms the structure of the postgraduate provision of Gender Studies in the       University of Hull.
She also provided a wide range of research and       educational material (for example, books and papers authored by members of       the Centre of Gender Studies and module handbooks and handouts).
These       lectures, seminars and the provided educational materials led to the       development of a curriculum for the Master Programme of Studies in Gender       and Culture at the University of Chile which is still running.
Similar       bi-lateral co-operations funded by the British Council during the period       2000-2005 were established with the Haryana Agricultural University       (India) and the University of Peshawar (Pakistan) that led to similar       developments in postgraduate provision including at the latter institution       the founding of a Department of Gender Studies as part of the Institute of       Social Work, Sociology and Gender Studies.
2.
Increase in knowledge and understanding of gendered body identity and       its relation to ethical and social issues of body modification.
This impact has been achieved in two ways.
First, it has been achieved       locally in relation to the non-academic participants of a wide range of       activities organised by the Centre for Gender Studies and the Centre for       Research in Embodied Subjectivity.
As explained in the impact template the       organisation of impact related interdisciplinary conferences, seminars,       and talks has been an essential feature of the approach to impact adopted       by Philosophy at Hull.
During the assessed period, 6 main related       activities have been organised: a conference on Embodiment and       Subjectivity (May 2008), a conference on the Phenomenology of Illness (May       2010), and a series of seminars on Feminism Now (2011/12), Reading the       Vulnerable Body (2010/11), New Directions in Biology (2009/10), Issues of       Transgender and Intersex (2008/9).
All these activities were open access       and attracted a diverse audience ranging from pressure groups concerned       with gender identity, including transgender groups to health care       professionals and artists.
Each one of the two conferences attracted       approximately 50 non-academic participants while each of the seminars had       a regular number of approximately 20 non-academic participants.
Second, this impact has been achieved by the delivery of modules,       throughout the English speaking world, devised with reference to the       research undertaken at Hull.
This concerns primarily the book Theorizing         Gender co-authored by Kathleen Lennon which provides a theoretical       overview of approaches to gender.
It discusses the major theories       concerned with the ways in which we become engendered, and explains and       evaluates naturalist, psychoanalytic, materialist and post-structuralist       accounts.
Theorizing Gender has been the basic textbook for       undergraduate and postgraduate modules on Gender Theory in both the UK and       the US.
It is also the basic textbook for the core module `Feminist       Theory: Between Diversity and Difference' of the GEMMA programme.
