     The focus of this case study is Thought Bubble, a non-profit-making       organisation which runs one of Britain's most important comic festivals       and also houses the British Comics Awards.
The festival has significant       international reach.
In 2012 it had 75 major speakers participating,       including visitors from France, Spain, Brazil, Canada, the USA, Japan and       China, as well as an additional 200 creators selling their comics and       running workshops.
Sponsors include the Arts Council, the University of       Chichester and major international comic distributor Diamond.
Gibson's research has contributed to the development of Thought Bubble's       distinctive approach, most evidently in the foregrounding of       gender-related elements in the programming of its yearly festival.
The       festival started in 2007 as a one-day event attracting around 500 people.
Gibson's body of research on the roles of women and girls in the world of       comics was presented to festival staff, including the festival director in       2008.
The research indicated that a female audience existed for comics to       a much greater extent than previously supposed and that it could be       fostered by changing the tone and marketing of the festival and also by       emphasising women creators in the programming.
The presentation of research led directly to Gibson's organising and       chairing a regular "Women in Comics" panel for the festival from 2009 to       2012 that debated issues of gender and diversity.
This has become an       increasingly important aspect of the festival, attracting major women       comic creators such as Alison Bechdel, Robin Furth and Mary Talbot and       with its audience rising from 60 in its first year to a current 250.
It       has been consistently shaped by Gibson's research findings, which have       been used to form the agendas that are addressed by each of the panels.
Examples of this include a panel on generation and comics, influenced by       Gibson, 2010 (an article which addressed the influences on women creators)       and a panel on the supposed lack of female creators and readers, which       drew upon Gibson 2003a, 2003b, 2010.
The Director of the Thought Bubble       Festival from its inception, confirms that: "Mel's research gave me         considerable impetus to shape the form of the festival by changing the         tone of the marketing and forefronting women creators in the         programming...This led to the start of the Women in Comics panel,         chaired by Mel and to our annual banner used on the website and all         publicity for the festival always featuring/being created by a woman."
Elsewhere the Thought Bubble Director has noted that the "Women in       Comics" panel: "has been a distinctive feature of Thought Bubble"       and that "the celebration of female creators has acted as a         `shop-front' for the festival, showing visitors and guests that this is         a female friendly event" (source: personal correspondence between       the Director of Thought Bubble and Gibson).
Furthermore, Thought Bubble's Assistant Director has confirmed that       Gibson's contributions to the festival programme were: "instrumental in         allowing us to successfully attain (and retain) the necessary (Arts         Council) funding to allow us to both succeed in our initial core aims,         and also to expand and grow as an organisation."
