     The research detailed in Section 2 influenced the development of MISEAL.
The project involves the following institutions: Freie Universit&#228;t Berlin       (Leader-main co-ordinator), Universidad de Buenos Aires (Argentina),       Universidade Estadual de Campinas (Brazil), Universidad Nacional de       Colombia, Universidad Nacional (Costa Rica), Facultad Latinoamericana de       Ciencias Sociales Sede Chile, Facultad Latinoamericana de Ciencias       Sociales Sede Ecuador, Universidad de El Salvador, Universitat Aut&#242;noma de       Barcelona, Facultad Latinoamericana de Ciencias Sociales Sede Guatemala,       University of Hull, Universytet L&#242;dzki (University of Lodz), Universidad       Nacional Aut&#243;noma de M&#233;xico, Universidad Centroamericana (Nicaragua),       Pontificia Universidad Cat&#243;lica del Per&#250;, Facultad Latinoamericana de       Ciencias Sociales (Uruguay).
Period of the grant: 1st January 2012       to the 31st of December 2014.
Value of the grant: &#8364;3.103.830.
The impact has been primarily generated by applying through MISEAL       findings of research undertaken at Hull about (a) factors which can limit       access to HE for `non-traditional' students; (b) good practice which can       be brought to bear to overcome those barriers; and (c) the use of       intersectionality as a tool for the analysis of equal opportunities and       widening participation in the context of HE institutions in Latin America.
MISEAL has already had direct impact on the development of the policies       and practices of the Latin American participant institutions.
It has       brought about improvement in widening participation and it has helped the       development of policies and practices which will improve equal       opportunities in these HE institutions.
It also had an impact on curricula       development in these countries.
More specifically, through MISEAL the research at Hull has fed into: (1)       the construction of intersectional indicators (which measure levels of       exclusion, discrimination and inequality) and principles of the process of       standardization of these indicators across HE institutions in Latin       America; (2) the design of a tool for the application of the standardized       intersectional indicators (which allows for comparative analysis); (3) the       guide and guidelines for workshops that aim at increasing awareness of       social inequality and exclusion in HE institutions in Latin America; and       (4) the strategy for analysis of the regulations and policies of HE       institutions in Latin America which aim at increasing widening       participation and equal opportunities.
(The documents describing (1)-(4)       are already published on the MISEAL website.)
(1) and (2) have already been applied to the collection of statistical       data, regarding the student and staff populations in the participant Latin       American institutions &#8212; following an intersectional model- concerning age,       gender, sexual orientation, disability, socioeconomic background and race.
(Detailed information is provided in the MISEAL website.)
Some of these       statistical data were never collected before (not even by international       bodies or NGOs).
(3) has been informed by pilot workshops in 4 Latin       American HE institutions.
The workshops provided training for students and       members of staff (both academic and administrative) in widening       participation and equal opportunities issues within an intersectional       approach.
The participants used training materials written by the       consortium.
The pilot workshops took place in Colombia, Uruguay, Costa       Rica and Nicaragua.
(4) has been used for the collection and analysis of       relevant university regulations and policies.
Furthermore, the realisation of the importance of the collection of       relevant statistical data and of having a framework of protocols and       policies about widening participation and equal opportunities has led some       of the participant HE institutions to establish administrative and       research units to collect relevant statistical data and introduce relevant       regulations.
For example: the Nicaraguan partner university has created a       university committee (Comite Institucional de Genero (CIG)) which has       overseen the creation of policies for gender equality in the university;       the Peruvian partner university has established an academic unit on gender       research (DIVERGEN) and a centre (VIDICP) which aims at making disability       visible; Ecuador in collaboration with the national degree accreditation       council CEAACES (Consejo de evaluacion, acreditacion y aseguramiento de la       calidad de la education superior) has established gender equality as an       area of research (including the provision of funding for PhD students).
MISEAL has also supported the collaboration between participant HE       institutions in Latin America and governmental and non-governmental bodies       in a number of projects to improve widening participation and equal       opportunities.
For example, the participant HE institution in El Salvador,       under the auspices of MISEAL, has collaborated with the Department of       Social Inclusion of the Presidency of the Republic of Salvador to develop       a `Policy to promote inclusion and participation of disabled people in       HE'.
They also developed a university diploma to promote inclusion of       disabled people in the university.
The Peruvian partner university has       collaborated with the National Council for the Integration of Disabled       People (CONADIS) for the creation of an observatory which promotes and       monitors the integration of disabled people in society.
The HE institutions in Latin America under the auspices of MISEAL have       organized and participated in a large number of events (15 recorded events       in the first 7 months of the project-details available on the MISEAL       website) that have brought together students, members of staff,       representatives of governments and of groups of people who are vulnerable       or non-represented in universities.
In these meetings the results       (statistical analyses and analyses of regulations) obtained by MISEAL have       been shared.
For example: The Uruguayan partner HE institution organised       an event promoting the goals of MISEAL in which 1000 non-academic       potential beneficiaries participated.
The Nicaraguan partner university       organized the event `Foro sobre ejes de desigualdad en la education       superior: propuestas de inclusion desde la unviersidad centroamericana'       the participants of which were students, staff (administrators, senior       staff) and representatives of NGOs and civil society from marginalized       groups (30 participants).
The Universities from Colombia and Ecuador also       organized similar events and they invited representatives of       Afro-descendants collectives, LGBT groups and indigenous groups.
Finally, MISEAL has created a network of experts on intersectionality,       widening participation and equal opportunities.
These experts have       participated in the production and exchange of knowledge in these areas.
Relevant outputs include a number of reports available on the MISEAL       website.
Furthermore, the members of the consortium have participated in       two international conferences in Berlin (2010) and in Brazil (2012) (the       papers from which will be published) and many other international meetings       and conferences which involved external participants (see MISEAL webpage       for information about the events).
The beneficiaries of the project outside UK HE include:     (a) The EU and Latin American HE participant institutions.
(b) Students in the target groups &#8212; indigenous Latin American       populations, students of African origin, women, students with       disabilities, mature students, students from lower socioeconomic       backgrounds.
(c) Academic and administrative staff at the Latin American HE       institutions who benefit from enhanced awareness of widening participation       and are able to participate in the network established to share good       practice.
They have also benefited from the changes in policies that will       promote equal opportunities in the work place.
(d) Governmental bodies and NGOs in LA and Europe.
(e) Other HEs in the region that have become associated with the       participant HE institutions.
The impact described has taken place during the first 18 months of the       project.
The consortium is continuing its work for the attainment of       further objectives, such as the creation of a transnational observatory       for the monitoring and promotion of equality politics in the participating       institutions (and beyond) located in Uruguay and Brazil and the       development of an international collaborative PhD in the area of equality.
The project will finish in December 2014.
