     The results of the research have been successfully translated into       improved patient care in the UK and also changed transfusion policy and       practice internationally.
The impacts are illustrated by the following       examples:     i) Postgraduate education of medical staff and training of       scientific NHS staff has changed on basis of the research findings.
Particularly the use of HPA matched donor platelets for patients with HPA       antibodies is now taught as `best care' and since 2008 it is taught that       intrauterine transfusion should be considered only as last resort for       FMAIT cases.
The research findings have been disseminated at international       educational and committee meetings.
ii) The British Committee for Standards in Haematology guidelines       for transfusion do now stipulate that the use of HPA matched donor       platelets for neonates with HPA antibodies is `best care'7.
The       policy is also adopted in the 2013 Guidelines for the Blood Services         of England, Northern Ireland, Scotland and Wales which regulate the       preparation of blood and platelet products from donors and related patient       services8.
iii) Substantial improvements in HPA antibody detection have been       achieved in the UK and internationally and the research has been       instrumental for nearly all the achievements of an international platelet       immunogenetics Quality Assurance (QA) scheme for 36 service labs9,10.
The scheme has led to a) the development of World Health Organisation       sensitivity and potency standards for HPA antibody detection, b)       standardised reference tests for the HPA antibody detection &#8212;       international WHO-approved references for the detection of HPA-1 and -5       antibodies have been developed at the NIBSC and are currently distributed       worldwide to monitor the sensitivity and specificity of assays to detect       HPA antibodies11, c) consistent improvements in the proficiency       of HPA antibody detection9 and DNA-based HPA typing10       and d) the international adaptation of the HPA nomenclature in routine       clinical practice12.
The latter is supported by a website,       developed and maintained by the Cambridge researchers, together with the       European Bioinformatics Institute12.
The proficiency of the       NHSBT platelet laboratory in the QA scheme ranks between 2008 and 2013       consistently in the upper decile of performance confirming that University       research has brought tangible and long-lasting benefits to NHS patient       care.
Notwithstanding the above achievements, assays for HPA antibody       detection currently used remain expensive (&gt;&#163;1000/sample with about 800       referrals/year).
NHSBT scientists have demonstrated platform feasibility       in 2009 and completed in 2013 the largest ever multi-centre validation       study of recombinant HPA-1 proteins which showed that Cambridge       researchers have succeeded in developing affordable HPA antibody detection       tests for use in NHS service delivery6.
Collaboration between       the University, Sanger Institute and NHSBT has in 2013 resulted in the       successful production of HPA-5/-15 proteins, which means that all       clinically relevant HPAs, but HPA-3 have been produced by recombinant       techniques.
iv) HPA typing: Up until the late nineties in the UK almost no       blood donors had been typed for the clinically relevant HPA groups.
Patients with HPA antibodies therefore received non-matched and clinically       inferior donor platelets.
Tests for high throughput and affordable       HPA-1-15 genotyping and HPA-1a phenotyping4 were developed and       clinically validated in the Cambridge research laboratory and these have       been used over the 2008-13 period by NHSBT to HPA type 90,000       donors.
This effort has resulted in a) the routine provision of       HPA-matched platelets for cancer patients with HPA antibodies (per year       300-400 HLA/HPA matched concentrates are provided), b) Since 2008 "off the       shelf universally matched" HPA-1a/-5b negative donor platelets for the       treatment of neonates with low platelet counts to reduce the risk of       bleeding13, because Cambridge research showed that &gt;90% of       FMAIT cases are caused by HPA-1a/-5b antibodies2.
As a direct       result of the Cambridge research these superior transfusion products have       become available across the country.
The NHSBT platelet laboratory       receives per year ~800 FMAIT referrals and the majority of cases with       counts &lt;20x109/L will have been transfused with the novel       therapy of universally HPA matched donor platelets, which was previously       unavailable.
The University received a &#163;150,000 down payment for a license       of the recombinant HPA-1a antibody to the diagnostic company DiaMed for       use in other countries.
All together translational research has resulted       during the 2008-13 period in sustained improvements in patient care by       better diagnosis and treatment of FMAIT and improved HPA matching of       transfusion products.
This has reduced the use of costly concentrates       because matched platelets survive longer and are clinically superior to       random ones.
As a direct consequence of the research the risk of       life-threatening bleeding has been reduced and patients experience fewer       side effects and in addition a reduced exposure to donor products also       diminishes the risk of serious hazards of transfusion, e.g.
death by       bacteria or HIV, HepB/C transmission.
