     Dixon's research has had a direct and major impact on how patients with a       variety of different common and life threatening conditions are       investigated radiologically throughout the UK and Europe.
The evaluative       frameworks he developed, together with his clinical research, have       informed clinical guidelines.
The resulting changes in clinical practice       have resulted in benefits regarding both health outcomes and       cost-effectiveness.
Impact on Health and Welfare     Outcomes for Patients have Improved &amp; New Diagnostic Technologies       have been Adopted His CT research, in particular his randomised controlled       trial (Ref 3 Section 2) is recognised by the Guidelines as having       contributed to a major change in the way that patients are now       investigated for suspected pulmonary embolus.
Pulmonary angiography and       then ventilation/scintigraphy, a nuclear medicine technique were abandoned       in 2009 in favour of pulmonary CT angiography (1).
Similarly his work is       still influential in the use of CT imaging in patients with acute       abdominal pain (2).
There are now numerous CT-based diagnostic and interventional procedures       in widespread use, whose introduction to clinical practice was pioneered       by Dixon and reported in medical journals.
This includes the biopsy of       retroperitoneal lymph nodes, deep seated paediatric tumours and other       malignant lesions without the need for formal surgery and often under       simple local anaesthesia.
Dixon developed CT drainage procedures that were       initially experimental but are now standard clinical procedures (4,5).
Such help to the surgical community has allowed considerable progress in       transplant, pancreatic and other complex surgery because postoperative       complications can be treated by interventional radiological procedures       (usually CT guided).
Impact on the Economy     The Costs of Treatment or Healthcare has Changed as a Result of       Research-Led Changes in Practice     Dixon's work has also made an important contribution to the health       economics of radiology.
High cost diagnostic tools must be used       appropriately, ideally replacing existing less effective technologies,       rather than being additional.
Dixon's studies, for example those on lumbar       spine MRI, the investigation of auditory canal tumours (acoustic       neurinomas), MRI knee and shoulder problems have all shown that       appropriate and prompt (e.g.
immediately upon hospital admission) use of       high technology can save the patient numerous less effective and       cumulatively expensive investigations and subsequent outpatient       appointments.
This is corroborated by independent health economic analyses       of the strategies pioneered by Dixon.
(3,4)     Impact on Practitioners and Services     Professional Standards, guidelines or training have been influenced by       research     In 2001 Dixon was asked to develop the pan-European Referral Criteria       by the European Commission (3).
This guidance document remains current and       continues to be extensively used by imaging departments around Europe.
Dixon chaired the highly successful Royal College of Radiologists "Making         the best use of the Department of Clinical Radiology: Clinical         Guidelines" (4) originally issued free-of-charge to all general       practitioners and now available online as iRefer (5).
This gives       information on which imaging pathway to follow for different clinical       problems.
The process that was used to create the guidance was accredited       by NHS Evidence-National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence       (NICE) in June 2010 (6).
The UK and European guidelines are greatly influenced by Dixons research       (Ref 1-8, Section 3) in two areas 1) The early evaluation of CT and/or MRI       compared to established imaging strategies in a wide variety of common and       life threatening conditions led to increased appropriate use of these       sophisticated techniques in secondary care.
2) The increased use of CT or       MRI to extend the remit of imaging to assist with diagnosis and treatment       of patients with clinical problems where previous imaging techniques were       unable to make significant contributions.
As evidenced by numerous       citations in the Guidelines, the studies undertaken by Dixon made major       contributions to CT becoming the preferred investigative tool in the       evaluation of: an abdominal mass, the acute abdomen, the adrenal gland,       aortic aneurysms and dissection, appendicitis and large bowel problems,       particularly in the elderly (3,4,5).
Dixon also realised the potential applications of CT technology to       radiotherapy planning and to quantify functional aspects of tissues.
For       example his pioneering work with Professor Ken Miles on perfusion CT was       the proof of concept demonstrating that in vivo clinical imaging could       measure changes dynamically, resulting in this technique being tested as a       potential biomarker in clinical trials in 2010 (7).
Intriguingly the       industrial partners did not originally see the need for such detailed       analysis and thus the software for this technique, pioneered in Cambridge,       was made freely available to the research community and healthcare       systems; it can now be incorporated on most clinical CT and MR systems.
The research collaboration in Cambridge with industry provided extremely       valuable feedback on their prototypes which was essential for both Siemens       and GE leading to significant improvements in their MR and CT machines.
The Government became extremely concerned about cancer waiting times in       2000.
Dixon worked with the Department of Health (DH) to advise on CT       specifications in a national scheme which oversaw the installation of &#163;1.5       billion of CT equipment (personal work with the National Cancer Tsar, Sir       Michael Richards and others in the DH).
When the Government's scheme for       outsourcing MRI services ran into early problems in 2003, the DH again       turned to Dixon to provide leadership and quality control.
The technical       lead for Imaging in the Department of Health states that Dixon was       responsible for implementing increased CT availability and MR for NHS       England (8).
On part-time secondment to the DH (2004-2007) as MR Clinical       Guardian, he helped introduce audit and dual reporting for remote       teleradiological sites to raise standards and ensure a high quality       service from external providers (9).
Dixon showed that the standard of       routine NHS reporting was high but the turnaround time was slow; this led       to increased government funding to allow NHS machines to be used for an       extended working day- the forerunner of the now imminent 7 day working for       Radiology Departments (see letter from the Minister of State for Health),       (10).
High cost diagnostic tools must be used appropriately, ideally replacing       existing less effective technologies, rather than being additional.
Dixon's studies on Lumbar spine MRI, the investigation of auditory canal       tumours (acoustic neurinomas), MRI knee and shoulder problems have all       shown that appropriate and prompt (e.g.
immediately upon hospital       admission) use of high technology can save the patient numerous less       effective investigations and subsequent outpatient appointments.
Dixon's       work has also shown that these novel uses of CT and MRI can save costs for       society.
