     Dauvit Broun has taken a national lead in developing a flexible framework       for teaching History in keeping with the principles of the Scottish       government's `Curriculum for Excellence' and in supporting this through       the provision of resources reflecting the most recent research.1       In 2008 Broun advised the Scottish Qualifications Authority (SQA) on an       overhaul of the Higher (S5) Scottish history papers and contributed to       focus groups on `experiences and outcomes' in Social Studies led by       Learning and Teaching Scotland (now Education Scotland).
In 2008-10 Broun       served as the academic representative for Scottish history on a Schools       Directorate Working Group and in 2011 contributed to a History advisory       group for the `Curriculum for Excellence'.
The latter became a model for       other subjects through its success in drawing on academic and other       outside expertise.
In 2012 Broun worked with the SQA History Development       Officer on proposed mandatory content areas in the History curriculum.
Broun has advocated systematic knowledge transfer to schools.
As Convenor       of the Council of the Scottish History Society (SHS), Broun recruited       academics to write briefings on curricular topics which were disseminated       via the SHS website from 2010, including pieces by Broun, Bowie and Reid       (see &#167;5).
In 2012 the SHS formed a collaborative Google group of teachers       and academics.
Broun presented at a RSE symposium on `The Teaching of       History: a Model for Collaboration' (2/2/13).
He also led a session at the       2012 Scottish Association of Teachers of History (SATH) conference on       integrating academic research into teaching and arranged a 2013 follow-up       session led by Bowie.
Broun's AHRC projects have created links with schools, pupils and       policy-makers.
The Breaking of Britain website includes a       dedicated page for schools (http://www.breakingofbritain.ac.uk/schools/), launched       at the SATH conference on 20 May 2012.
Michael Russell MSP (Cabinet       Secretary for Education and Lifelong Learning) launched the `People of       Medieval Scotland 1093-1314' database on 5 September 2012.
This launch was       attended by pupils from Bishopbriggs Academy and reported by the BBC, STV,       Herald, Scotsman, and thirty local papers.
Between 5       September 2012 and 18 November 2013 the Breaking of Britain site       has had 9,198 visits (5,660 people) and the People of Medieval         Scotland (www.poms.ac.uk) has       seen 63,805 visits (41,372 people).
Most recently, the Paradox           of Medieval Scotland project website was launched on 8       September 2013 by Fiona Hyslop MSP and Cabinet Secretary for Education and       Lifelong Learning.
Broun has presented his research to teachers through a       `New approaches to studying Scotland' HM Inspectorate event (Dundee, Sept       2009), SATH conferences in 2012 and 2013, a 2012 CPD event organised by       Education Scotland and a number of school visits.
He is now using       `Follow-On' AHRC funding with Education Scotland to inform the teaching of       History at the early `Broad General Education' level.
The project will       create `learner journeys' using the POMS database.
In 2012-13 Broun and Bowie developed a series of interactive conferences       and a dedicated website to provide a national platform for collaboration,       in consultation with development officers from Education Scotland and the       SQA.
- `Aiming High in Higher Scottish History' conferences were held at UoG.
Historians, including Broun, Bowie and Reid, presented their research on       Higher Scottish history topics.
The events were promoted to teachers on       GLOW, the Scottish schools' intranet, by Education Scotland.
Widening       access objectives were served by advertising the events through the UoG's       `Top-Up' programme.
Feedback in evaluation forms was overwhelmingly       positive: 94% of teachers rated the December 2012 sessions as `excellent'       and nearly all identified specific research insights that they intended to       take back to the classroom.
The SQA's Development Officer commented that       `the passion and willingness to engage with teachers and learners which is       so evident in the presentations has been truly inspiring and infectious'.
- The Glasgow researchers set up a History in Schools website       to extend the reach of the conferences.
The website introduces the work of       Glasgow historians on curricular topics and disseminates lesson guides,       research papers, videos and podcasts.
The website was launched in December       2012 to positive acclaim: 100% of surveyed teachers indicated their       intention to visit the site.
TES Scotland featured the website in       a print and online article       (University of Glasgow project takes findings 'out of the ivory tower')       and SATH invited Bowie to demonstrate the site at their 2013 conference.
Twitter has been used to invite pupils to use the website resources for       their Higher `extended essays'.
Further examples of the team's collaboration with teachers include the       following (see &#167;5):     - Newman has created a network of teachers called the Scotland and         Slavery Group.
In 2012 he collaborated with Katie Hunter of St.       Thomas of Aquin's High School in Edinburgh to create lesson plans on       transatlantic voyages.
These have been posted on the History in         Schools website along with videos of papers from a 2010 RSE-funded       symposium organised by Newman.
In 2012 he worked with another teacher,       Nelson Mundell, to develop Atlantic Slave Trade active learning exemplars       at the invitation of Education Scotland.
- Bowie presented her research at the 2007 SATH conference to c.150       teachers and contributed an article to the SATH 2011 yearbook, History         Teaching Review.
- Reid has shared his research in a series of downloadable videos created       by Education Scotland (with advice from Broun), available online since       2010.
The activity of the Glasgow researchers supports teachers in fulfilling a       Curriculum for Excellence requirement that all secondary schools teach       Scottish history for national assessments, reflecting the core `experience       and outcome' demanded of Social Studies in Scotland, to `develop [...]       understanding of the history, heritage and culture of Scotland'.2 UoG       research and collaboration were essential to this process.
The former       Chair of the History Advisory Group believes that Broun `provided expert       support to History teachers and SQA staff developing new courses' and that       his work informed the creation of `high quality teaching and learning       resources financed by Learning and Teaching Scotland, now provided online       by Education Scotland.'
The SQA confirms that the Glasgow research team       `has made an outstanding contribution to the ongoing strength of History       teaching and learning in Scottish schools'.
UoG researchers are now       developing new programmes and an interactive website that will extend       these activities to more topics and younger pupils.
1 The Curriculum for Excellence represents a complete reform       of Scottish pedagogy covering ages 3 to 18.
It is oriented around       `experiences' and `outcomes' and embraces `active learning'.
It saw a       phased rollout from 2009.
(Scottish         Government press release).
2 `Curriculum         for Excellence: Social Studies Experiences and Outcomes' (2010)
