     Insights derived from Schwarz's research resulted in preservation of, and       enhanced public access to, formerly neglected African voices, identities       and perspectives central to Sierra Leone's post abolitionist formation.
They played an important role in processes of ongoing community and       national recuperation and reconciliation in the aftermath of civil war.
Archival research in 2011 and 2012 (see above) developed Schwarz's       understanding of the scope, significance and poor condition of sources in       the National Archives of Sierra Leone.
As a result, she and Lovejoy       secured British Library Endangered Archives Major Funding in June 2011 to       digitise a wide range of nineteenth-century sources in the National       Archives.
Schwarz took a lead role in training its archivists,       establishing the foundations for development of local skills and capacity       in the preservation of, and provision of access to, records (many in       imminent danger of irreparable decay).
She organised training on       digitisation for the Public Archives of Sierra Leone's archival team in       Freetown and worked with Senior Government Archivist (Albert Moore) and       Deputy Government Archivist (Alfred Fornah) to meet international       standards of good practice.
This resulted in introduction of a code of       practice for all users of the Archives in May 2012, which has improved       both the security and physical protection of the country's archival       heritage.
Schwarz herself provided training on digitisation and       preservation and devised a bespoke programme of professional training for       Fornah involving visits and placements in Britain (University of       Worcester; the British Library; the Cadbury Research Library, University       of Birmingham; WISE, University of Hull; Hull History Centre) in November       and December 2011 Fornah thereby developed a network of professional       advisers to support his ongoing work in Sierra Leone.
Lovejoy's and Schwarz's British Library-funded work has involved       identifying sources held in international archives and digitally       repatriating thousands of documents and records to the Public Archives of       Sierra Leone, alongside achieving safe storage of the Archives' own,       unique primary sources documenting the population origins of the world's       first post-slave society.
National media coverage of the project in Sierra       Leone led to Schwarz and Lovejoy being contacted by nineteenth century       Liberated African Daniel Coker's descendants, who themselves possessed       family archives, and to subsequent digitisation of records of the Church       Missionary Society.
With the Public Archives and the Department of History at the University       of Sierra Leone, Schwarz and Lovejoy organised a conference in Sierra       Leone in April 2012.
Designed to link past and present, to promote wider       public understanding of Sierra Leone's history in a post-conflict       situation, and to address issues of collective memory of recent and more       distant historical events, speakers and delegates included individuals       from the local heritage sector, archivists and members of the public all       variously engaged in developing understanding of community and family       history.
The conference, including Schwarz's introduction and research       paper on the life histories of Liberated Africans, was streamed live on       national television and radio by the Sierra Leone Broadcasting Company;       public engagement with cutting-edge international academic research &#8212; and       discourse stimulated and informed by it &#8212; thus assumed high profile in an       event directly associated with recent historical events and lived       experience of civil war, and in the week of the country's 51st       anniversary celebrations.
(Schwarz's presentation on the results of her       research on the origins and experiences of Liberated Africans was       subsequently published in the international peer-reviewed journal History         in Africa).
She and Lovejoy were interviewed in the national press       and on national television and radio, with translation into Krio       facilitating widespread public access.
The national newspaper Premier         News featured an editorial commending Schwarz and Lovejoy "for their       work in seeking to understand the country's past, so as to help the       country address the challenges of the present and future".
The conference       was attended by 100 delegates including representatives of Sierra Leone's       Ministry of Tourism and Culture.
It included tours of the Public Archives,       and a closing address delivered by Hon.
Jean Augustine, Fairness       Commissioner for Ontario, reflected Canada's close links with the colony's       late eighteenth century founding.
Schwarz's research during the period also supported educational and civic       twinning between the cities of Hull and Freetown.
During her research at       WISE in 2012, she spoke to diverse stakeholders and policy makers,       including members of the Hull Freetown Society, Hull Black History       Partnership, Hull City Council and co-ordinators of partnerships between       over 30 schools in Hull and Freetown (attended by the descendants of       Liberated Africans).
Public lectures at the Hull History Centre and Hull       Museums in 2012, and at WISE in 2013, raised awareness of the cities'       interrelated histories.
The Hull History Centre lecture attracted an       audience of approximately fifty, including archive and heritage       professionals, members of the Freetown Society and a City Councillor and       former Leader of the Council.
Principal beneficiaries of the impact have been: citizens of Sierra Leone       and its global diaspora (through new information about aspects of their       histories and Sierra Leone's national heritage and, in Sierra Leone,       access to the public and media discourse generated by the research); the       government and people of Sierra Leone (through securing preservation of       nationally significant historical documents, development of the country's       archival expertise and activity supporting national processes of truth and       reconciliation in the aftermath of war); The Public Archives of Sierra       Leone (through the continuing professional development of staff,       development of national policy on the preservation of significant       historical material, the development of international professional       networks and the enhanced availability of, and public access to, archival       material lodged in archives worldwide as well as in Sierra Leone); the       cities of Hull and Freetown (through greater dialogic exchange resulting       in enhanced intercultural and historical understanding and enhanced       sharing of expertise).
Schwarz also shared her expertise on Liberated       Africans with heritage professionals in South Africa in May 2013, with       Schwarz and Dr. Nicholas Evans (WISE) holding discussions at Simonstown       Museum about a possible joint exhibition focusing on Atlantic liberation.
