     The study findings of Abt, Siegler, Akubat, and Castagna (2011) suggest       that coaches and/or athletes will need to adapt training methods depending       on the likely distance that athletes are required to regularly perform.
This knowledge has proved to be valuable throughout the sport science       field, contributing to incremental and cumulative advances in training       methods.
Akubat and Abt (2011) suggest coaches and/or sports scientists will need       to adjust their training load recommendations depending on whether the       athlete is adopting a continuous or intermittent exercise.
The research       findings have implications for the development of injury or overtraining       and should therefore be considered when monitoring player loads.
The       studies in 2012 and 2013 demonstrate the superiority of the iTRIMP method       of monitoring training load with respect to previously established methods       and how an integration of internal and external load could be used more       effectively.
The publication of these papers has generated international interest.
The       research is impacting on practices at the highest level of competition in       English football.
Akubat is currently working directly with three       professional football clubs in the UK (Coventry City FC, Stoke City FC and       Crystal Palace FC) and a professional Rugby Super League team (Hull       Kingston Rovers).
He has also supported a team in Ghana (Red Bull Ghana       FC) who contacted him for help implementing the iTRIMP method.
Workshops       held at Newman University and in conjunction with Bradford Bulls Rugby       League FC that have been run by Akubat have been attended by over 30       coaches from professional football or rugby clubs in the UK, Finland and       the USA.
In addition to this, North American interest is his work has led to the       organisation of a series of webinars, which were run on 2 and 3 July 2013       with Major League Soccer team coaches amongst those in the audience.
Akubat's research in the field and dissemination of this work has had two       major impacts.
Coaches are now educated to a greater degree about training       load and secondly where coaches are in a position to change their       approach, where they have backing and the finances, they are implementing       this new method with their respective squads of players.
For example, the       Sports Science and Athletic Development (Academy) at Stoke City FC       reported that they are in the process of implementing the iTRIMP "to aid       their monitoring process with their academy players" (e-mail dated       31/07/2013).
Furthermore, Academy Sports Science at Coventry City FC has       worked with Akubat for three years and has used the iTRIMP method       throughout its development.
They stated that Akubat's research had       impacted on how coaches and sports scientists at Coventry City FC       "understand the training process in our players and we changed our       training accordingly".
