     Prior to the research being conducted, Muay Thai scoring principles in       the West were based largely       on the model used in boxing, with each round judged as an individual       `event' and the resulting       points totalled and a winner determined.
Myers' research resulted in the       wider application of the       system used in Thailand, where fights are judged holistically as if a       continuous event, rather than a       series of separate events.
Research demonstrated that the later system was       far more consistent       and gave a clear direction to athletes and coaches.
A number of governing       bodies requested       training in this method and have their officials assessed in the Thai       judging system.
These included       the IBMTO, STBA and IMC.
In addition, the research formed part of the       evidence considered by       the Association of Boxing Commissions (ABC) in formulating unified Muay       Thai rules for the United       States of America (presented on 3 August, 2011).
The research of Myers was       the only empirical       study to be used as evidence.
Several seminars and training courses have been delivered by Myers to       judges and athletes       around the United Kingdom, Republic of Ireland, Denmark, Canada and the       USA, as well as on a       range of websites and discussion forums around the world.
The research has       informed policy and       the application of the rules in the UK, Ireland and the USA.
This has       happened specifically by the       officials in those countries receiving focussed training and assessment in       the application of judging       criteria.
More than 50 seminars have been held across the UK and Ireland,       as well as seminars in       Calgary, Canada (18 April 2004), Denmark (30 January 2005; 24 March 2007),       and New Jersey,       USA (1 December 2012).
2,078 coaches, judges and athletes have attended judging seminars held by       Myers across the UK       and Ireland.
Globally, 2,014 individuals have watched the same judging       seminar on the Internet,       and 2,942 have watched another online video with Myers talking through how       to score a fight.
General non-academic articles on scoring written by Myers have been       presented on 24 Muay Thai       related websites around the world.
In addition, academic articles related       to scoring have been       accessed numerous times, for example "The Impact of Crowd Noise on       Officiating in Muay Thai:       Achieving External Validity in an Experimental Setting" has been accessed       1,910 times, and is in       the top 5% of all articles published by the journal (94th percentile;       ranked by attention).
Collaboration between Myers and the IMC has resulted in the development       of a three-phase       course for Irish officials to understand the correct scoring of Muay Thai       as set by the Sports       Authority of Thailand and delivered by Myers, informed by his research on       judging.
Judges are       required to complete the training and pass the assessment.
The situation       is similar in the UK with       all judges working for the IBMTO and STBA being required to train and pass       assessment before       being able to work at events.
These groups officiate on 80% of all events       in the UK.
In addition,       four UK judging assessors are currently being trained by Myers to deliver       judging courses and       assessment.
While many more have taken the assessment, 189 judges have       actually passed and       are qualified to work as a judge in the UK and Ireland.
Officials working       in New Jersey, Canada       and Denmark have also attended seminars, with additional online training       and support provided for       judge educators in the USA.
An IBMTO source stated that the standard of competition and the       understanding of the scoring       system have been "positively improved" by Myers' research and       contributions.
Furthermore, that       through running judging and refereeing courses "the standard of       officiating has been exceptionally       improved".
Myers' work resulted in the formation of the IBMTO.
The       dissemination of research has       also helped the STBA understand the difference between the Thai scoring       system compared to       their own "thus making Muay Thai in Scotland as authentic as possible".
Furthermore, Myers' input       has resulted in a set of scoring and officiating policies that 70 clubs       now adhere to.
A representative of the Canadian MuayThai Council, stated that the       seminars were extremely       informing to those who compete in the sport as well as officials, and       helped promoters to "pass       awareness on the nuances of the sport to the general public informing them       how the sport works       and is scored as well".
Myers research was used in the USA to pass       Professional Muay Thai rules       throughout that country.
Furthermore, the ABC was assisted by Myers' in       its drafting of       recommended unified rules and policies for the sport of Muay Thai.
As the       sport of Muay Thai in       the USA is not as developed and established as in other countries, input       from Myers has helped to       build understanding and acceptance of the sport from regulators and       officials.
