     Three projects produced substantial social benefit by enabling an       expanding network of key participants, organisations and artists to       promote shared reflection on identity and place among increasingly large       numbers of members of the public.
Two projects were based in Swansea and       Glasgow, in areas that were among the most deprived in the UK.
De-Placing Future Memory (2009) [a], brought together an       interdisciplinary group of academics, along with international artists,       musicians and curators, some from conflict areas (Palestine and Iraq).
It       engaged over 600 participants, including a workshop with 200 school       children, and combined artworks, a month-long exhibition, and public       presentations at the Exeter Caf&#233; Scientifique and Phoenix Arts Centre       (refs.
1-4).
The methods explored in this first project were taken forward by Isayev       with artist Webster and musician Wood in Future Memory in Place       (2011) [d].
This involved thousands of people in Swansea, including 2700       pupils from 9 schools (with week-long workshops at each), members of the       Brunswick Refugee and Asylum `drop-in' centre, Gower College (ESL), and       the over-55 Art Group at the Glynn Vivian Gallery (refs.
5, 7-8).
It       included the creation of three public art-works in Swansea: (i) a       sculpture relating to tesserae hospitales, distant friendship       tokens, housed at the National Waterfront Museum (http://bit.ly/1gjmVOW       ) (ref.
9); (ii) a multi-media event, combining a visual installation, new       choral composition and film, 1000 Colours Blue, performed live       with a choir in Swansea City Centre, (http://bit.ly/19u9avB       ); (iii) an exhibition of 800 sent postcards painted by school-children;       the postcards, and the 1000 Colours Blue have been on exhibition       in Swansea galleries and in Glasgow Centre of Contemporary Art.
The third project stemmed from a presentation in Glasgow of the Swansea       project.
This created an opportunity to explore ideas of memory and place       in conjunction with the Red Road Flats community and Glasgow-based artists       and academics (Kay, Phipps, Given and Timmermans) [f].
It engaged about       1000 participants in spring 2013.
It included: (i) archaeological and       sound workshops at St. Martha's Primary School (ref.
10); (ii) story,       photographic and music workshops with local community groups (ref.
11);       (iii) a final event including a live choral performance and a soundscape       created through a 25-storey building (refs.
10-11); (iv) a documentary       film by Khan, still in the production phase; (v) a forthcoming exhibition       at the People's Palace, Glasgow of objects and stories created about them       by school pupils.
These projects have strengthened links between artists, community groups       and organisations, with significant impact going beyond the public events       and workshops just described.
For example, University of Glasgow       archaeologists (e.g.
Given) are designing an ongoing programme of outreach       events, modelled on our workshops.
Art students from Swansea Metropolitan       University who volunteered on our project have set up a community studio       and art space, and are continuing to work with schools we engaged with       (e.g.
St. Helen's Primary School).
We did not aim to explicitly convey       existing knowledge to a broader public but to enable the many participants       to use verbal and artistic means to rethink their ideas about space,       memory and belonging.
In particular, we used distance and abstraction       to promote reflection on highly contested notions in a way that is not       exclusionary, and avoided conflict about ownership of locations and       memories.
Distance from contemporary problems was achieved by highlighting       analogous ancient themes concerning foreignness, mobility and memory.
Archaeological objects such as identity markers (used to create the tesserae         hospitales sculpture), ancient mapping practices based on journeys       rather than territory, and ancient comedies with numerous characters on       the move, served as catalysts for wider discussion and activity.
E.g.
after creating a map based on journey stories rather than territory, which       took up the whole playground, pupils were keen to know, or be associated       with, people coming from somewhere else.
They learnt to accept that       migration is the norm through history and in our own time and that borders       are fluid and constructed.
Regarding abstraction, we developed artistic ways of focusing on       abstract entities that everyone shares such as the colour blue, while also       highlighting the multiplicity of what blue is (this became the 1000         Colours Blue).
The combination of the use of archaeological objects       with creative artistic activity was taken further in Glasgow during the       archaeological site survey at Red Road Flats.
Pupils collected objects       dispersed when the high-rise flats were recently blown down, and, having       worked before with ancient archaeological objects, acted like       archaeologists themselves by creating histories with objects.
These       histories were then translated into colour, by associating specific       colours with specific emotions.
Finally these colours were sung by a       choir, leading to a public performance that projected these voices and       sounds, along with stories by ex-residents of all ages and backgrounds,       from one of the remaining towers.
The 25-storey tower, already stripped       for demolition, was equipped with 10 massive speakers on multiple floors,       creating one of the largest musical instruments ever played, to a       community gathering of 500 people on a very rainy day.
Seeing and hearing       the multiplicity of stories that made Red Road Flats the place that it was       allowed the exposition of multiple narratives and the questioning and       replacement of the dominantly negative and bleak narrative that had       entered public consciousness regarding Red Road (as recently as this year,       the blow down of these `dysfunctional' buildings was widely publicised and       depicted in the leading media networks).
This constituted a unique and       remarkable cultural event with profound social significance for those       involved.
The documentary film of these events by Khan will take this to a       wider audience and further an alternative multiple narrative.
