     Cawood's research has raised awareness of the Liberal Unionist Party at       Westminster.
Lord Lexden, official historian of the Conservative Party,       has used Cawood's work and quotes from it extensively in the article `'All       in the Name' in the House Magazine (1 November 2012), the weekly       magazine of the House of Commons.
In April 2013, Lord Lexden, who is also       editor-in-chief of the Conservative Research Department and archivist of       the Carlton Club, contacted Cawood personally to attest that he regarded       Cawood's recent monograph as the "authoritative account of a political       party which was of immense significance between 1886 and 1912 but still       awaited its historian."
He added, "you have now filled a major gap in       modern British political history.
It certainly made me think more       carefully and deeply than I had ever previously done about the liberal       strand in Conservative Party history.
It is book that will be welcomed by       every Conservative historian.
It has made its mark among Ulster Unionists       too; David Trimble has been loud in its praise."
(e-mail, 31/05/2013)       Cawood's work has also been referred to by the official history journals       of both the Conservative and Liberal Democrat parties.
On publication of his book, The Liberal Unionist Party: A History       in September 2012, Cawood was interviewed by Jon Walker, the chief       political editor of the Birmingham Post and two illustrated, full       page articles on his book and its significance for the current       Conservative-Liberal coalition were published in the Birmingham Post       and the Birmingham Mail on 14 September 2012.
It was reported in Birmingham         Post: "Nobody seems to be celebrating but an important political       anniversary took place this year &#8212; the centenary of the modern       Conservative Party.
It was 100 years ago that the Conservative and Unionist Party was formed.
The full title is now rarely used, but this is the party that David       Cameron leads today.
Modern Tories have good reason to look back fondly on       events of 1912, but their Liberal Democrat partners might not feel the       same way."
In Birmingham Mail the book was described as "a       chilling warning for today's coalition government."
Cawood's book was described by Professor Vernon Bogdanor of University       College London in the Times Literary Supplement on 8 March 2013 as       "acute and penetrating....based on massive research...one of the most       important works on the politics of the late Victorian era to have appeared       in recent years."
It was reviewed by Roland Quinault, senior research       fellow of the Institute of Historical Research in February 2013's History         Today as "clearly written, extensively researched from primary       sources and excellently illustrated... it fills an important gap in the       historiography of late Victorian politics...an excellent study."
Cawood's book was shortlisted for Total Politics Political       History book of the Year, and featured on BBC1's Daily Politics Show       on 4 February 2013.
The book was also placed on the essential reading list for the Cambridge       University Part 1 history tripos (Section B: British political and       constitutional history, paper 6: `British political and constitutional       history since 1867') Matt Cole, head of history at a local sixth form has       said in an email (23 July 2013) `Dr Cawood has maintained a constant       relationship with King Edward VI Sixth Form College for many years, and       through this his research has benefitted both students and staff of King       Edward's.
Dr Cawood has visited the college to address students on his       research, has counseled students individually, and has enhanced the       subject knowledge of teaching staff at King Edward's, most recently       through the conference on Liberalism and Unionism on 10 November 2012,       which I attended and from which I drew immediate insights and resources.'
Politicians and members of the public have attended Cawood's       presentations at conferences both nationally and abroad.
His paper at the       March 2011 conference, `Riding the Tiger: the Liberal Experience of       Coalition' was praised by the London School of Economics chief archivist,       Sue Donnelly, as `liberally illustrated with wonderful cartoons from Punch       and Fun magazines.'
A number of Birmingham City Councillors, members of the general public as       well as Bill Cash, MP for Stone attended this event.
The conference, `The       Liberal Party, Unionism &amp; political culture in late 19th and early       20th century Britain', held at Newman University in November 2012 was       attended by Cash, Lord Lexden and Jon Hemming, MP for Birmingham Yardley,       as well as by academics, members of the public and local political party       members and a number of teachers and students from local schools and       colleges.
Matt Cole, head of history at King Edward VI College,       Stourbridge commented that `the conference was a triumph.'
and a       conference report was posted on the History of Parliament blog.
Janet King of the Bromsgrove Liberal Democrat Association, who attended       the conference emailed on 4 May 2013 to comment, "I personally think that       your book should be required reading for all Liberal Democrats and       particularly those who have aspirations to govern at either county council       or government levels."
In September 2012, Cawood was invited to give a paper at a conference on       `The Home Rule Crisis 1912-1914', the inaugural conference of the "Decade       of Commemoration" held across the Republic of Ireland to mark the       anniversary of the events of 1912-22 and is funded by the Reconciliation       Fund of the Irish Department of Foreign Affairs.
Cawood was also commissioned to write a policy paper and opinion piece       for the leading media and policy briefing organisation, History and         Policy, and these were published on 6 May 2013, the anniversary of       the forming of the current coalition government.
