     Pop Classics has enriched the lives and imaginations of a number       of readers both nationally and internationally, increasing their knowledge       and understanding of the ancient world, ancient literature and of       classical reception studies.
In addition to readers interested in Classics       and Ancient History, the blog attracts many visitors whose primary       interest lies in one of the areas of popular culture covered on the blog,       particularly science fiction and fantasy, and children's literature.
Harrisson also writes for Den of Geek (www.denofgeek.com)       and television review website Doux Reviews (http://www.douxreviews.com);       her author page on that site (http://www.douxreviews.com/p/about-us.html)       directs television fans to her own blog and when reviews of the series Spartacus:         Blood and Sand have been requested, readers have been directed to       Harrisson's reviews of that show on Pop Classics.
The blog receives between 5457 and 17080 visitors per month, depending on       the frequency of posting (statistics recovered 12/07/2013 from       http://www.sitemeter.com/?a=stats&amp;s=s35popclassics&amp;r=36).
The site has 216 subscribers through Feedly.com and 130 Google Followers.
Most posts generate between 2 and 6 or more comments from readers and       announcements of new blog posts on Twitter are often re-tweeted by several       of Harrisson's 789 followers.
The Pop Classics Facebook page has       105 Likes.
New posts are also shared on the page http://rogueclassicism.com/.
In addition to regular readers, particularly popular posts can reach a       very wide audience.
The review of the first episode of ITV's Roman-set       sitcom Plebs received 726 views within the first three weeks,       helped out by 289 viral shares on Facebook.
A discussion of the       relationship between the Buffy the Vampire Slayer episode `I Was       Made to Love You' and the myth of Pygmalion was linked to from       whedonesque.com, a major fan site for followers of Buffy creator Joss       Whedon and his works.
The link was posted by a fan who said, `Still       wondering if that particular episode is a retelling of Pygmalion?
Well you       might want to consider reading this blog post'.
The post in question has       received 6791 views to date (12/07/2013).
The blog enriches readers' imaginations by introducing them to films,       books and television shows with some connection to the ancient world that       they might not have heard of or would not otherwise have sought out, shown       through comments such as `will definitely check them out' (in reference to       The Roman Mysteries).
The works in question are fictionalised       representations of the ancient world but, having read the review, these       readers will be aware of any historical inaccuracies or inconsistencies       and will be able to learn about the ancient world through these popular       representations without misinterpreting those places where the author or       scriptwriter has taken some historical liberties.
Thanks to Harrisson's work on children's literature, Pop Classics       has had an impact on the education of children in schools.
One blog post,       `Top 5 Representations of Pompeii' (http://popclassicsjg.blogspot.co.uk/2012/11/top-5-representations-of-pompeii.html),       was adapted and published in The Journal of Classical Teaching, at       the request of editor Steven Hunt.
Teachers have left comments on the blog       or contacted Harrisson through her Twitter account to express their       intention to use some of the children's books reviewed, particularly       Caroline Lawrence's historical detective series The Roman Mysteries,       in their teaching.
For example, one contact on Twitter, from Norton       Knatchbull School, complimented the blog and said, `Some good stuff here       for my Year 7s.'
Another commenter said,     `Juliette, that was great, I've been toying with the idea of introducing       my Year 7 Latin class to some co-curricular reading and this sounds like       the perfect way of doing it.
I love reading re-tellings or interpretations       of classical texts myself and want to share that with the younger sets at       school.
We're approaching the end of CLC 1 so this sounds as though it       would tie in really nicely.
Keep up the reviews!
It's a great to have       someone rounding up the good and the bad of Classics in popular so the       rest of us an can sit back and enjoy rather than endure.'
Pop Classics also preserves and presents cultural heritage,       introducing readers to aspects of ancient history or pieces of Classical       literature that they were not previously familiar with.
For example,       following a recent blog post on zombies, commenters left comments       stressing how interested they were in the topic and expressing a desire to       read Lucan's Civil War following the post, with one commenter       saying:     `Interesting overview of classical necromancy!
I wonder where the idea       comes from, widespread as you mention, that the dead have knowledge of the       future.
I was familiar with the more famous version &#8212; descending to the       underworld and all &#8212; but not with the idea of raising a zombie to       prophesize [sic] for you.'
