     The Newman Research Centre for the Bible and its Reception was       established by Docherty in 2009.
Its aims are to forge connections between       the academic study of the Jewish and Christian Bible and debates about       contemporary issues facing society, and to educate the wider public on the       ways in which the Bible has influenced European art, music and literature       throughout the centuries.
Docherty collaborated with scholars working in       related fields at other UK Universities to run two public seminar series       in 2009/10 and 2010/11, to which she contributed sessions on the reception       and reworking in later Jewish and Christian tradition of biblical texts       and characters which drew directly on her published research.
The first series included two guided tours of selected paintings held in       the Barber Institute of Fine Art Birmingham which were led by experts in       the field of the Bible and Art.
These tours were open to the public and       free of charge, and they were supported and promoted by the Gallery's then       director, and the by the organisation of the Friends of the Barber       Institute.
They each attracted approximately forty-five participants.
The       Barber Institute houses one of the finest small collections of European       art in the UK, and its mission dovetails neatly with the aims of the       Newman Research Centre for the Bible and its Reception as it was founded:       "to promote the study and encouragement of art and music for the benefit       of the University of Birmingham and the wider public."
This relationship       with the Barber Institute is on-going, and, for instance, undergraduate       students in Theology and History from Newman University are now required       to make presentations every year at both the Barber Institute and a number       of cathedrals throughout the UK on the meaning and social and cultural       significance of paintings, statues and key features of church       architecture.
Other events organised by the Newman Research Centre       included a free public seminar on the use of biblical imagery in       contemporary advertising in December 2010.
In 2012 Docherty made a successful bid to the HEA for a grant to develop       a series of podcasts and accompanying on-line materials which would make       accessible to the non-specialist some of the key insights of contemporary       biblical scholarship.
These have been produced, trialled with groups, and       disseminated in a number of fora, including via an open-access website (http://biblicalstudies.podbean.com/)       from 08/07/2013.
Prior to this, the podcasts were housed on a Newman       University site, and a record kept of access to them:                                Podcast           Accessed (online)           Accessed (downloadable)           Notes accessed (where applicable)                             1           72           6           174                             2           115           10           85                             3           52           0           7                             4           75           3           N/A                             5           24           2           N/A                         Those attending sessions based around the podcasts were invited to       complete anonymously evaluation questionnaires assessing their usefulness;       comments on these forms include the following:" (it)...has made me look at       the Bible in a whole new way...".
An e-mail from a participant received       after the session reads:" I've just listened to Podcast 2 [Source       Criticism] in conjunction with the text and can't believe how different       the 2 authors styles are &#8212; why didn't I notice it before ????
It's amazing       that with a bit of knowledge a whole new Bible opens up!"
Church leaders       in the West Midlands, from both the Church of England and the independent       tradition, were also invited to trial the podcasts and to comment on their       usefulness for engaging lay Christians with bible study in a new way.
A       representative response is provided by the minister of Living Waters       Church, Ludlow (by e-mail on 09/07/2013): "Accessing the biblical studies       content in the form of podcasts has provided me with new avenues into       biblical content for my church congregation.
Firstly the content has       provided simple and transmittable background information as people       approach bible study with a view understanding the original context in       which it was written.
This is true even for members of the community who       know their bible well from a devotional perspective, as the academic       approach is one that few have considered previously.
Secondly the       effectiveness of the podcasts as short, accessible perspectives on       biblical material has made us think about how we can replicate something       of that format for us in our corporate biblical study.
This is       particularly important where work or other commitments make it difficult       to gather people together regularly."
Docherty has provided two contributions for the magazine The Bible in         Transmission, published by the Bible Society of the UK, which aims       to to engage lay Christians with biblical and theological themes relevant       to key ethical and societal issues.
It is distributed free to 19,000       subscribers, mostly Christian church leaders, and is also widely accessed       online.
She is a consultant on the Syneidon Project, whose Director, Dr       Richard Goode, is a Visiting Research Fellow in the Theology Department at       Newman (appointed 2011).
This project aims to make the results of current       critical biblical studies accessible to those outside the academy,       particularly those active in Christian churches, through both a website (http://syneidon.org.uk/) and through       offering talks to parish groups.
