     Docherty's research highlights the need to read the New Testament as an       essentially Jewish text, and also the benefit to New Testament scholarship       of engaging seriously with methodological developments pioneered in the       scholarly field of Jewish Studies.
As Head of Theology and Religious       Education at Newman University since 2005, she has brought this research       to bear on the task of designing the Biblical Studies curriculum for all       the ITE (Primary) students studying at the University, and thereby       impacted on the subject-knowledge base and professional practice of a       significant number of teachers within the West Midlands.
In addition, she       has been responsible since 2000 for developing and teaching the Biblical       Studies component of the Catholic Certificate in Religious Studies (CCRS).
This part time course is taken over two years by both trainee and serving       teachers from across Birmingham and the wider West Midlands region who       wish to develop their subject knowledge in Christianity and apply this       learning to their practice in school.
A total of 325 students have       successfully completed the CCRS at Newman between September 2008 and June       2013, and a further 154 are currently (as at 12/07/2013) enrolled on it.
In 2001/02 Docherty was asked by the Board of Religious Studies of the       Catholic Bishops Conference to act as a reviewer of the curriculum and       course materials for the Biblical Studies units of a new on-line CCRS       course which has been offered throughout the Census period to those       working in Roman Catholic schools and parishes who are unable for       geographical reasons to regularly attend designated CCRS Centres.
In July 2013 a sample of those who had recently completed the CCRS were       contacted as part of an exercise to assess the enduring impact of the       course on the professional practice of former students.
The responses (via       e-mail) were uniformly positive and include the following comments:     "The CCRS was amazing &#8212; it really had an impact on the way I mapped the       provision for RE across the whole school and on the way I prepare       assemblies and liturgies...The course has had a huge impact upon the       children too..." (Headteacher, St John Bosco Primary School, Birmingham).
"Exploring the Bible in detail was particularly interesting, and it has       provided me with a wealth of knowledge which has helped me plan and       deliver my RE lessons.
The CCRS course enabled me to reconsider some of       the approaches I use in RE and how to use a wider range in order to probe       children and develop their understanding of the Bible further."
(KS2       teacher, Rosary Primary School, Birmingham) .
"...I now feel confident in talking to the children about how and why the       Gospel accounts differ."
(RE co-ordinator, unnamed Primary School       Birmingham).
In 2012 Docherty successfully applied for funding from the Bible Society       to offer a funded studentship in "The Use of the Bible in Schools" to       build on her existing work, and to develop and further disseminate it.
This project seeks to provide a new theoretical framework to underpin the       teaching of the Bible in CofE Primary Schools throughout England.
Subsequently, a Higher Education Academy Grant of &#163;5,000 was awarded to       Docherty for a one- year project (start date 01/09/2012) to produce a       series of podcasts and on-line materials to help bridge the gap between       academic biblical studies and the wider public.
These materials were       piloted with Initial Teacher Education (Primary) students at Newman       University in 2012-13.
