     As a result of the Cardiff AIG research outlined in section 2, high       sensitivity, ultra-cold (4 kelvin or       less) THz detection systems are now used in the fields of bio-medical       imaging and bio-molecular       spectroscopy for health science, plasma fusion diagnostics for sustainable       energy, remote       atmospheric sensing, synchrotron and free-electron laser diagnostics and       artwork analysis and       curation.
These instruments all incorporate the enabling technologies       developed for astronomy by       the AIG: detectors and cryogenic systems, band selection filters and       quasi-optical components       described above.
Economic impact: Spin-out     This technology is made available to the global market via an SME       spin-out company, QMCI Ltd*.
QMCI is co-located with the AIG in the Cardiff School of Physics and       Astronomy and is a market       leader in many aspects of THz instrumentation, offering customised THz       systems for many       applications [5.1].
Its close collaboration with the AIG ensures that       technology is adapted swiftly       and appropriately for commercial, civil and governmental users, and that       knowledge transfer and       exchange between academia and industry is rapid.
According to QMCI Managing Director, Dr Richard Wylde [5.2], "Since 2008       the aggregate       business volume transacted by QMCI is in excess of &#163;4 million, of which       more than 80% depends       directly on contributions made by the AIG".
More than 90% of the activity       is exported (30%       Europe; 30% US; 30% Far East).
The company employs five highly skilled       technical staff in Cardiff,       makes use of AIG academic consultants and utilises experienced local       representatives in Japan,       China, and Korea.
The interaction of QMCI with the Atacama Large Millimetre Array         (ALMA) project (2009-2012) is       a good example of the economic spin-out of AIG technology.
ALMA, the       world's largest ground-based       telescope, a 66-antenna facility in Chile, required development of a       special filter to enable       the telescope to make unique solar observations, without saturation of the       sensitive detectors, or       UV damage to underlying optical components.
The specification for this       solar attenuator was very       precise and could not be met by any technique which ALMA scientists had       investigated.
Using their       metal mesh filter capabilities [3.5], AIG academics and QMCI technical       staff designed and       prototyped several devices which were tested on-site and approved by ALMA.
By March 2012,       ninety of these highly specialised devices had been delivered to the       project.
During the same       period QMCI provided AIG anti-reflection coated quartz vacuum windows and       cooled THz       polarisers for more than half of the ALMA receivers, generating &gt;&#163;1M       business.
Gie Han Tan, EU       Front End IPT Manager of the ALMA project states [5.3], "Only with these       innovative, high-quality       components developed and manufactured by QMC Instruments Ltd., the       exceptional sensitivity of       the ALMA sub-millimetre receivers could be fully exploited.
The solar       attenuators provided by       QMCI Ltd to the ALMA Project enable a unique capability" (sic).
Further evidence of economic exploitation through sole-supplier status is       provided by the sale of       AIG polarizers and windows to the HIFI instrument [5.4] and quasi optical       filters to the PACS       instrument [5.5], both on the Herschel Space Observatory.
These       bespoke components were       unavailable through any other source, met full flight quality assurance       specification and generated       sales to QMCI in excess of &#163;0.5M.
Economic impact: third party exploitation     QMCI products are on the market to end users across a range of       industries, building on research       undertaken by the AIG for the Herschel and Planck       satellites [3.2, 3.3], and using the same       research-funded development skills and facilities.
With exclusive access       to AIG technology, QMCI       is a supplier of ultra-high performance cryogenic detector systems.
It is       the only commercial source       of the world's leading THz meta-material and filtering devices [3.5] and       has recently brought to the       market the only commercially available cryogen-free bolometric THz       detector system.
The three examples below illustrate how AIG research, commercialised       through QMCI, has       enabled technological and economic impact.
Fusion diagnostics for JET and ITER: The Joint European       Torus is the largest magnetic       confinement experimental nuclear fusion facility in the world, with the       primary focus on achieving       fusion as the sustainable world energy source.
The International Thermonuclear       Experimental       Reactor project is currently building the world's largest       experimental tokamak nuclear fusion       reactor with the aims to make the long-awaited transition from       experimental studies of plasma       physics to full-scale electricity-producing fusion power plants.
QMCI       supplied AIG bolometric       detector technology to JET and now to ITER, representing, according to       Alan Costley, former Head       of the ITER Diagnostic Section, "a major breakthrough" in the creation of       a powerful diagnostic       technique to enable the "study and understanding of many important       physical phenomena that       occur in the plasmas, some of which limit plasma fusion performance"       [5.6].
The sustained       application of Cardiff research and continued collaboration with the       fusion industry has led to the       incorporation of the same AIG technology on every major tokamak device and       all major next-       generation nuclear fusion reactors around the world: including, within the       REF period, EAST in       China, KSTAR in Korea and a design contract for the future fast-scanning       Michelson       Interferometer for ITER-India.
THz camera: In 2010 the giant Japanese corporation,       NEC commissioned QMCI to provide a filter, based on       unique AIG technology [3.5], in order to reject high       frequency radiation in a THz camera they were developing.
The inclusion of the filter solved the serious issue of ghost       image generation in the device and cleared the way for the       launch of the Soltec THz Imager instrument (see figure)       [5.7].
In 2011 the first successful use of the camera by       rescue workers in fire-scenes was reported and Naoki       Oda, Executive Engineer for NEC states [5.8] that, "This       world leading filter technology is very important for the       success of the THz imager".
The AIG filter technology is now a standard       component (IRV-TF030)       in these cameras, with more than 40 units sold since 2011 at a total       revenue of ~ &#163;1M.
The Soltec THz Imager (IRV-TF083) [5.7].
Product IRV-TF030, built and mounted by the AIG, can be seen as the front copper-coloured element of the camera.
A new generation of detector devices has been developed by the AIG       and has recently been       introduced to the commercial market by QMCI (2012).
These offer       ultra-low noise, single pixel and       array detectors that operate in entirely mechanical cooled systems.
Before       this innovation,       sensitive THz detectors were restricted to single pixel devices cooled by       scarce and expensive       liquid helium, dependent on specialised skills using a process that is       costly, time-consuming and       potentially dangerous.
According to Masa Fukumuro (Sales Manager of       Japanese company       Infrared Limited), "QMCI offers the only commercially available,       cryogen-free THz bolometer       system.
It has had a big effect in Japan, China and also in Asian       countries where supply of liquid       cryogens is a problem in the last two years" [5.9].
Richard Wylde,       Managing Director of QMCI [5.2]       states that, "To date, and in the period September 2012 &#8212; November 2013,       &#163;800k sales of these       systems have been made", and is confident that sales figures will grow       with such a revolutionary       new product range, thus securing future revenue and jobs for this SME.
* Both the AIG and QMCI were formerly at Queen Mary, University       of London; however the       revenue and impact claimed here are as a result of technological research       and developments       made in the last 13 years at Cardiff.
The whole AIG moved institution in       2001 and Queen Mary no       longer hosts an active research group in this field.
