     The impacts during the review period have been achieved by a combination       of events or activities       targeted at specific interest groups and broader public engagement through       lectures and blogs.
The aim of both types of activity has been to draw on the insights of the       research of the group on       ancient medicine or philosophy to promote increased public benefit,       especially by contributing to       public and professional debate about healthcare and the promotion of       physical and psychological       wellbeing, and by making a direct contribution to these objectives.
(2008): `Plants and Knowledge', a conference organised by Wilkins,       focused on the use of plants in       ancient and modern medicine, stressing the importance of locating human       healthcare and the       quest for wellbeing in the context of knowledge and responsible use of the       natural environment.
The conference brought together academic and non-academic delegates       (including       representatives from the Eden Project, the National Trust, the Chelsea       Physic Garden and the       National Science Museum), and attracted over 60 participants including       healthcare specialists.
This has been followed up by continuing contact with the 6,000-strong       British Society of Herbalists,       including a paper by Wilkins to the Herbal History Research Network at       their 2010 London       conference.
(2008): Rocca contributed to a Symposium of high-level legal       practitioners, including the Leader of       the Western Circuit, and medical educators, including a Dean in the       Peninsula College of Medicine       and Dentistry, on whether there should be a `Hippocratic Oath' for       lawyers, paralleling the oath of       professional ethics used by doctors.
Rocca's paper, subsequently published       in a journal volume       based on the Symposium (ref.
6), explained the history and function of the       Hippocratic oath in the       ancient world and its later reception.
A legal participant in the       Symposium comments on the paper:       `It stimulated an informed discussion on whether lawyers should be       expected to make a similar       commitment before embarking on practice.
I though it a valuable and       innovative piece of work' (ref.
1).
Contact has been maintained with legal experts, including Kim       Economides, Dean of Flinders       Law School, Australia, seeking to promote a `Hippocratic oath' for lawyers       as part of a programme       for raising standards of professional ethics in the legal profession.
The       Devon and Somerset Law       Society adopted this oath as part of the graduation ceremony for       solicitors in 2012.
(2010-12).
Building on the results of the `Balance' conference and       workshop (2010, 2011), Wilkins,       supported by MA students, especially Patrick Ussher, undertook two       initiatives to trial the Galenic       lifestyle (based on the idea of `balance' between the six factors outlined       in the section on       `Underpinning Research') as a means of promoting preventive healthcare       under modern       conditions.
One (2012) was a one-week trial in living a Galenic       life-style, followed by 45 people,       with positive results posted on the research group blog (`Ancient       Healthcare and Modern       Wellbeing', ref.
9).
Also Wilkins, working with Ussher, has used the       Galenic six factors as the basis       for five sessions with volunteers in a health charity near Exeter (2012).
A follow-up session during       the visit of the Chair of the Big Lottery, which funded the workshops,       (21/9/12) demonstrated that       the Galenic principles have been disseminated to other volunteers and to       individuals in their care.
`He [Chair of the Big Lottery] was extremely impressed by the innovative       nature of the project' (ref.
3).
These UK-based initiatives have been supplemented by a public lecture       by Wilkins to GPs,       medical historians and others at the Charite medical school in Berlin in       2011.
(2012): Wilkins conducted two sessions on ancient medicine to 45       GCSE History students in a       large Academy (Crediton) near Exeter, underlining the potential benefits       for healthcare of the       Galenic programme.
In partnership with two teachers at the school, plans       are under way for       disseminating materials on the Academy website to all History teachers       based on these sessions.
`Students enjoyed the process a great deal ...
It was particularly       effective in terms of the angle of       delivery: looking at links between ancient and modern medicine ...       discussing health and wellbeing       as a cultural experience both for themselves and Roman citizens', ref.
2)       Wilkins also conducted       two sessions with a patients' group (PenPIG) working with the Exeter       Medical School (ref.
4).
(2013): A joint project is now underway with Paul Dieppe,       Professor of Health and Wellbeing in the       Exeter Medical School, and academics in Psychology and Drama, to test the       usefulness of Galenic       healthcare methods under modern conditions.
The project forms an integral       part of the University's       HASS (Humanities and Social Sciences) strategy, in the Medical Humanities       strand.
This project       has involved four workshops exploring Galenic methods of healthcare with a       well-established user-       involvement focus group, involving different kinds of people (including       Exeter medical students and       older patients with chronic conditions).
This qualitative data was       captured and analysed and this       contributed to the design of a questionnaire, which was also informed by       advice from the Exeter       10,000 steering committee.
In April 2013, the questionnaire was launched       as a pilot within the       Medical School, and then launched on-line and disseminated via the Exeter       10,000 data base,       inviting people from across Devon to respond.
It was also launched within       the University, inviting       staff and students to answer questions on health and wellbeing based on       Galenic principles.
The       questionnaire was active for 2 months, with 633 people providing       information.
This covered the full       range of factors seen as important by Galen, including food and drink,       physical activity, sleep,       mental state, home and work environment.
The results give a rich and       informative picture of       current behaviour and attitudes of people in Devon, the areas they see as       problematic and the       improvements in life-style and management of health they would like to       make.
The results of the       survey have been analysed in a paper co-authored by scholars involved in       the project for       submission to the International Journal of Wellbeing (copy available).
An       extension of this work is       planned to build on the evidence obtained so far with a view to developing       and testing a novel type       of complex intervention, designed to take forward the use of Galenic       principles in modern       communities; the next step is an application for funding for a PhD on this       topic, with co-supervision       in Classics and the Medical School.
This project has taken the exploration of the usefulness of Galenic       principles at Exeter to a new       level, in terms of institutional support, the involvement of medical       experts, and the application of       evidence-based methodology to this question.
The questionnaire, taken on       its own, has brought       the attention of a very wide audience to the potential value of ancient       healthcare methods.
Gill organised an AHRC-funded workshop on Stoic philosophy and       psychotherapy in 2012,       bringing together academics and therapists.
The aim was to build on       existing links between Stoic       philosophical therapy and modern cognitive psychotherapy, by exploring       further ways in which       Stoic ideas could enhance modern approaches to promoting psychological       wellbeing and to bring       these to the attention of a wider audience.
The workshop launched a very       active network of       academics and practitioners, led by Gill and Ussher (now a PhD student).
They have organised a       one-week trial on living a Stoic life, followed by 150 people.
The Stoic       trial generated wide       international interest, including three UK newspaper articles (ref.
7),       and many overseas       comments.
The network has set up a blog (`Stoicism and its modern uses',       ref.
10); this has       already had over 74,000 hits with over 3700 views of the video recording       the Stoic workshop.
A       psychotherapist involved in the collaboration, comments: `The "Stoic Week"       project ... was a huge       success &#8212; its popularity surpassed our expectations.
My own involvement       with Stoicism, and its       integration with modern self-help and psychotherapy, has grown as a result       and I'm certain it's had       a positive wider impact, as demonstrated by the impressive burst of online       and media interest that       followed' (ref.
5).
Further plans include a second week-long trial on living a Stoic life in       Autumn 2013, supported by       an enhanced booklet and audio resources, and a London event on living the       Stoic life today       directed at a broad public (300 people have already registered for this       event).
Funding for these       activities has been secured under the AHRC `Follow-on' funding scheme       (&#163;30K).
These plans have       already generated an article in the Spectator with others expected       in the Huffington Post, Irish         Times, and Toronto Globe and Mail.
These initiatives have been supplemented by public lectures in which Gill       has spoken on the       relevance for modern life of the Stoic idea of happiness: Newcastle       University public lecture series,       `Insights', 2008, 200 people) and a special public lecture in Dublin       (2010, 100 people).
Gill,       together with Prof. Nicky Britten, an expert on preventive medicine in the       Exeter Medical School,       also presented Galenic and Stoic ideas on healthcare and wellbeing at the       University of Exeter       Cornwall campus arts and culture festival (2012, 45 people).
Gill also       spoke on both healthcare       and Stoic psychotherapy at a London public event (Hellenic Centre, 2013,       100 people).
