     Bulb's core activities include graphic design, photography, film       production, editing, web       development, software development, programming, music production, and       outsource and mark-up       print production and media replication.
The majority of their income had       been gained via long-term       relationships with approximately 12 businesses in the public and private       sectors.
Shortly before embarking on the knowledge transfer partnership, Bulb had       undertaken       collaborative software development projects with the market research and       branding industry       sectors.
Building on the new initiatives, a potential area of growth for       Bulb was identified: the       development of interactive and innovative digital products for the market       research and branding       industry.
At the same time as Bulb identified their new strategic       direction, Green and Lilley were       contacting companies to provide sites for their research exploring the       adoption of UCD research       and practice and how organisations develop and attempt to maintain a       creative culture as they       grow.
Contact was made with Bulb and a collaborative research project was       developed.
The involvement of users in the design process was recognised to be both       a market differentiator       and a skill-set that Bulb required.
Indeed, Jim Willis, Managing Director       of Bulb Studios,       commented that the University knowledge base "afforded the businesses         valuable insight and         direction into design processes never used before."
A research       partnership was deemed suitable       to support Bulb's growth and new strategic objective, as it reduced the       business and technical risk       of developing interactive and innovative products by strengthening Bulb's       position as a product       developer through the integration of UCD.
Mr Willis specifically commented       "Dr Green and         Professor Lilley are both active in making considered recommendations         that we are active in         embedding into our systems and culture."
In addition, opportunity       would be provided to Green and       Lilley to study the evolution of the organisation to further develop       understanding of the pressures       that SMEs overcome as they develop.
Three broad areas of impact are attributed to the research conducted as       part of the initial       knowledge transfer project:     1) Adopting a UCD philosophy throughout the organisation and product       development lifecycle       has brought knowledge and expertise in UCD systems development to Bulb       which has       improved the product offer in terms of ease of use, efficiency, user       satisfaction, quality, and       indirectly enabled access to a larger client base.
2) UCD as an intervention has had an impact on management and worker       practice and has       had a positive effect on organisational culture.
3) Knowledge of the many techniques and methods required to support UCD       design across a       wide variety of products has been vital in expanding the company's       portfolio.
One of the products that the knowledge partnership supported soon became       such a strong product       offering that a separate company was developed called CrowdLab Ltd which       produces market       research applications for mobile devices.
This company is now worth       &#163;1.5million and has created       its own research partnership with the School having observed the       successful research partnership       with Bulb.
This project (Partnership in Knowledge Transfer) will support       the next generation of       CrowdLab development and support organisational growth.
Like Bulb,       CrowdLab operate in an       incredibly competitive industry in which speed to market is paramount but       must be accompanied by       human-computer interaction that maximizes the user experience, gained       through thorough UCD       and collaborative research.
In April 2012 it was reported that Bulb had more than doubled its staff       numbers from 8 to 18 whilst       turnover had increased from &#163;700,000 to &#163;1.2m in the three years of the       research collaboration.
Staff numbers are projected to increase to 20 with a turnover of &#163;1.5m by       December 2013.
In       parallel CrowdLab Limited's staff numbers have grown to 9 people, and in       summer 2013 they       opened a US office.
Key players in both companies corroborate that the       research conducted by       Green and Lilley contributed to this success.
'Fanlabs', the pilot product       from Green and Lilley's       work with Bulb, was the central plank of Sharp's international advertising       campaign around the       European Football Championships in 2012, with the product name prominent       in the idents       deployed by Sharp in their sponsorship of ITV's coverage of the       tournament.
Bulb's production, in       collaboration with Green and Lilley, of the trademarked CrowdLab app won       the Innovation Award       at the Leicester Mercury Business Awards 2013.
