     The research described above has directly affected UK and US health       policy, industry, clinical practice and patient health.
Changes to international health policy: The identification       that a level of 7 parts per billion (ppb) was an important cut-off in the       blood levels of metal ions between poor and well functioning hips [4] has       informed clinical guidance disseminated around the world and is currently       used to monitor all MOM patients across the UK.
In 2010, the finding was       adopted by the UK health regulator, the MHRA, and incorporated into their       guidance on the clinical management of patients with MOM hips as the       "action level" above which they recommend further intervention.
These       guidelines, which were the first in the world to specify how to monitor       and treat patients with MOM hips, were disseminated globally in 2010.
The       "action level" has remained unchanged as of late 2013, and is used to       monitor 90,000 patients with MOM hips in the UK [a].
John Skinner chaired       the MHRA's expert advisory panel looking at soft tissue reactions       associated with MOM hip replacements.
The panel's report was disseminated       among patients, GPs and surgeons as well as industry and healthcare       providers.
[b] NICE (the National Institute for Health and Care       Excellence) updated its recommendations for hip replacement surgery in       October 2013, issuing stricter guidelines that rule out the use of most       types of MOM implant in the UK.
The research has also indirectly resulted in a change in the regulation       of all metal-on-metal hip devices in the United States and United Kingdom.
In the US, the problems with MOM hips, including that identified by the       research above, led to a technology overview undertaken by the American       Academy of Orthopaedic Surgeons (AAOS) in 2011 [c].
This led to an FDA       order, in January 2013, requiring manufacturers of MOM total hip       replacement systems to submit premarket approval applications, citing       reports including the MHRA expert advisory panel report [d].
In the United       Kingdom, the MHRA and British Orthopaedic Association have gone further in       setting up the "Beyond Compliance" initiative in May 2013.
This initiative       is intended to improve the rigour of CE marking processes before an       implant is sold, and to provide high-quality surveillance and a       decision-making process to identify failures at the earliest point and       suggest appropriate action.
[e]     Development of new and revised clinical guidance in the UK and abroad:       International health regulatory agencies and professional bodies       (including the FDA and Australian Therapeutic Goods Assocation [f],       American Association of Orthopaedic Surgeons [g], British Hip Society,       Arthritis Research UK) have used the research described above to create       their own recommendations for the 1.5 million patients worldwide that have       MOM hips.
In particular, the research team's long-running analysis of the       mechanism of hip failure has been widely welcomed by, and influential       among, surgeons.
Regulatory bodies including the FDA have produced advice       for surgeons based on the research, particularly the investigations (metal       ion testing and soft tissue imaging) first identified in output [3] [h].
According to Dr J Jacobs, president of the American Academy of Orthopaedic       Surgeons, output [1], above "is an important contribution to our       understanding of the performance of the current generation of large       femoral head metal-on-metal devices."
He added: "it is informative for the       surgeon regarding component positioning."
[i]     Changes to clinical practice and subsequent cost savings:       The sensitivity and specificity analysis of blood metal ions and the MARS       MRI interpretation enabled the MHRA to create clinically usable clinical       management guidelines, as shown by their adoption across the NHS [j].
As a       result, blood metal ion testing and MARS MRI, which were unavailable in       all NHS hospitals in 2006, are now routinely available, and have       revolutionised the management of patients with metal-producing hips, most       of which are metal-on-metal but now also include those with junctions       between two different types of metal.
The MARS MRI protocols have       supported more effective clinical management, by reducing either       unnecessary revision procedures or delays to revision procedures to       prevent irreversible muscle damage.
The reduction in unnecessary revision       procedures alone produces very significant NHS cost savings, since each       surgery costs more than &#163;10,000.
Reducing delays to revision procedures       likewise supports the reduction of productivity losses, not just for the       NHS and the UK economy more broadly, but also for individual patients.
Subsequent impacts on patient health and wellbeing: A       crucial result of the work has been to improve the quality of life of       patients suffering from painful hip replacements.
Patients who experience       an adverse reaction to a MOM hip now have them replaced with a       ceramic-on-ceramic or ceramic-on-polyethlyene implant and the level of       metal ions in the patient's blood slowly falls; after 50 days, the levels       are reduced by half [k].
Moreover, by identifying some of the factors that       can predict if a patient will have problems with a MOM hip, such as hip       size, and the patient's age and sex, the research has led to a reduction       in the number of patients receiving these hips and thus being at risk of       complications.
The National Joint Registry (NJR) monitors all joint       replacement operations in the UK.
Their latest report notes that MOM       stemmed hip replacement and hip resurfacing have virtually ceased, with       fewer than one in one thousand hip replacements performed in 2012 being of       this type [l], having peaked in the UK in 2008 at around 8,000 operations.
The research received widespread media coverage, helping alert patients to       potential problems and symptoms; coverage included features on Newsnight,       the BBC website and in national newspapers including the Daily Telegraph,       Daily Mail and Guardian [m].
Accountability within industry: The LIRC is the first truly       global (22 countries, all continents) retrieval programme for medical       implants: removing 4,700 components from 2,300 patients since 2008.
Industry, patients and surgeons regularly approach the researchers to       provide independent reports.
In August 2010, Johnson &amp; Johnson       subsidiary DePuy issued a global recall for two of its hip replacements       after NJR data showed higher than expected revision rates.
[text removed       for publication].
In May 2013, Johnson &amp; Johnson announced it was       phasing out production of all its MOM hips [o].
Evidence from the research has been used to support patient claims       against the manufacturers of these faulty implants, including one claim       leading to an $8 million pay out to a patient with the DePuy implant.
A       number of other manufacturers have also recalled hips.
Johnson &amp;       Johnson have allocated more than $1 billion, and other health providers       many more billions of dollars, to pay for earlier-than-expected redo hip       operations [p].
The recent work on the taper connection [7] is informing       manufacturers about the best designs to use, and guiding their implant       testing and assessment [q].
Increased public awareness: Charities, regulatory agencies       and professional bodies have used the research to create information         resources for the public and patients.
For example, Arthritis       Research UK's online clinical advice [r], based on the research, is viewed       more than 1,000 a month [s].
ARUK's web statistics show that users stay on       the page for approximately five times longer than the site average,       demonstrating that people are engaging with the content [s].
