     It is estimated that as many as 400,000 people worldwide suffer from       Primary Ciliary Dyskinesia (PCD).
Most affected children and all adults       will develop chronic severe lung infection (bronchiectasis), with 25% of       adults going on to develop respiratory failure leading to premature death.
Patients also suffer from recurrent nasal symptoms and sinusitis, and       approximately half will ultimately require hearing aids due to the       development of conductive hearing loss.
Benefits of early diagnosis       It is now accepted that analysis of ciliary function is the most important       test in the diagnosis of PCD.
These methods have been adopted in the UK       and worldwide for the diagnosis of patients suspected of PCD.
Early diagnosis makes a very significant impact on both short-term and       long-term morbidity and mortality.
The diagnostic methods and diagnostic       algorithm developed by the group have led to a number of phenotypes of PCD       being recognised that would have previously been missed using the old       diagnostic tests, which resulted in an under-diagnosis of around 15%.
The       old tests only identified the phenotypes of PCD which have a normal beat       frequency, whereas all cilia, being dyskinetic, are picked up by       high-speed videomicroscopy analysis.
As well as faster screening of       patient samples this has increased the number of people being diagnosed by       around 20% (3).
First nationally funded diagnostic service for patients with PCD       The group's research was the basis for its leading the successful       application to the National Commissioning Group of the NHS to set up a       National Diagnostic Service for patients with PCD.
In 2006, three highly       specialised diagnostic centres were established in Leicester, London and       Southampton.
This was the first nationally funded diagnostic service for       patients with PCD worldwide.
Around 30 scientists and support staff are       involved in this service, with funding at &#163;2.26 million per annum (1).
Prior to the establishment of these centres, there were problems with the       diagnostic process.
This was due to several factors, including the       landscape of isolated units with a special interest, limited access to       diagnostic equipment, and long waiting times for diagnostic test results.
Since the centres were implemented in 2006, the following improvements       have been made to the diagnosis of PCD patients:            Reduced waiting times for PCD diagnostic testing       More equal access for patients (i.e.
not such a postcode lottery to         the diagnostic service)       Development of standardised processes (with equal access to equipment)         for the diagnostic testing which are audited across the three centres       Coordination and sharing of best practice &#8212; the three centres meet on         a regular basis to compare and refine the PCD Diagnostic Service       Establishment of a database used for capturing data of patients         referred to the diagnostic centres (authored by the group).
Fiona Copeland, chair of the PCD Family Support Group, says: "The       diagnostic service has led to research, development and audit programmes,       which have resulted in a big increase in the understanding of the cell       biology involved in ciliopathy diseases, as well as improving clinical       testing."
(2).
Development of services in other countries       The model has led directly to the development of services for PCD in other       countries.
The diagnostic algorithm has been adopted by the European       Taskforce Recommendations (3) that have been published in the       European Respiratory Journal and also by the PCD groups in the US (4).
Over the last 5 years the group has hosted and trained scientists and       clinicians from China, Singapore, Canada, Australia, Spain, Denmark,       Holland and Italy in high-speed videomicroscopy of ciliary biopsies to       diagnose PCD and to establish national diagnostic centres.
Establishment of a Patient Management Service for children with PCD       Following establishment of the UK National Diagnostic Service many more       patients than suspected were diagnosed with PCD (around 300 since 2006).
Their condition is very different from other chronic diseases such as       cystic fibrosis, and it became obvious that their care was substandard in       many cases.
The group and colleagues from the other National Diagnostic       Centres jointly led a bid to establish a nationally commissioned Patient       Management Service for children with PCD, concentrated at four centres       (Leicester, London, Southampton and Leeds) (5).This again is the       first of its kind worldwide and was signed off by the Secretary of State       in February 2012.
The new clinical management service, with funding of       &#163;1,708,843 per annum on a long-term basis, will transform the management       of children with PCD and reduce the degree of bronchiectasis and       respiratory failure they experience later in life.
Other impact       The group sits on and has co-chaired the medical advisory board of the       Primary Ciliary Dyskinesia Family Support Group and has been instrumental       in the development of their website which offers support for children and       adults with PCD (6).
