     Type 2 diabetes currently accounts for the majority (around 90%) of the       diabetes burden.
A further       10 million individuals are at high risk of progressing to T2DM, identified       through impaired blood       glucose regulation below the threshold for diabetes, and will form the       majority of the diabetes       burden in the future &#8212; the cost to the NHS, already high at 10%, is       projected to increase to 17% by       2035.
Given these trends, the effective prevention and treatment of       diabetes is a stated national       healthcare priority.
Unhealthy lifestyle behaviours account for the vast       majority (80%) of T2DM       cases, so lifestyle interventions play an integral role in prevention and       management strategies.
The Diabetes Research Centre runs the largest portfolio of translational       research for the prevention       and management of type 2 diabetes nationally and, in collaboration with       its NHS partners, has had       a significant impact on how diabetes is targeted in routine clinical care.
Impacting on national and international guidance     NICE guidance: The Unit's work was used to inform NICE through       their Quality Standard for       Diabetes 2011, which states that structured education programmes should be       available for all       individuals with T2DM (A).The Diabetes Research Unit (Khunti is       Chair; Yates and Davies       members) significantly contributed to, and shaped, new NICE Guidance for       the prevention of type       2 diabetes issued in 2012 (B).
The Walking Away programme was       presented as expert testimony       to NICE as part of the new guidance for the prevention of T2DM, and is       listed by NICE as an       example of best practice around the implementation of the new guidance for       the prevention of       T2DM (C).
Department of Health: The DoH continues to recognise the DESMOND       programme as the only       nationally available structured education programme for T2DM (D).
Davies and Khunti are part of       the Vascular Board, which helps inform government policy, including the       Vascular Checks       Programme &#8212; lately the NHS Health Checks Programme.
The impact of the work       around diabetes       management and prevention lead to both academics being invited, by the UK       National Screening       Committee to lead on developing the content and structure of The Handbook       of Vascular Risk       Assessment, Risk Reduction and Risk Management (both the original 2008       version and updated       2012 version).
The handbook is widely used within the Department of Health       (E).
Other: In 2009 Khunti, Davis and Yates significantly contributed       to guidance issued by the South       Asian Health Foundation for diabetes research priorities in British South       Asians (F).
Work around       self-management in T2DM significantly informed the latest edition (2011)       of the prestigious Oxford       Textbook of Endocrinology and Diabetes, co-edited by Davies (G).
International: Walking Away contributed to a widely circulated       collection of examples of       international best practice in the implementation of diabetes prevention       programmes       commissioned by the World Congress on the Prevention of Diabetes and its       Complications; this       document is widely used by policy makers nationally and internationally (H).
Davies and Yates       contributed to an international level expert review, 2012, of the evidence       for nonpharmacological       interventions for the prevention of type 2 diabetes mellitus and this       article has had a significant       impact on diabetes prevention initiatives internationally (I).
Improving patient care and outcomes through DESMOND and Walking           Away     Clinical commissioning groups (CCGs): DESMOND has been implemented       in over half of all CCGs       (formerly PCTs) nationally and has substantially improved the quality and       breadth of treatment       offered to those with T2DM.
It has been found to be highly effective at       improving clinical outcomes       in those with T2DM and microalbuminuria, which occurs when the kidney       leaks small amounts of       protein into the urine (J).
DESMOND is the mostly widely used       structured education programme in       primary care nationally, benefiting thousands of people annually (K).
It has been tailored to diverse       non-English speaking South Asian communities within the UK in order to       increase the reach of the       programme within primary care (L).
The Centre has on-going       collaborations with CCGs nationally       to ensure that prevention and self-management programmes continue to be       commissioned and       improve health care.
International reach: The Centre has supported the translation and       implementation of DESMOND       across large regions of both Ireland and Australia as part of routine       diabetes management       pathways, as well as informed patient education models in the Netherlands       and Denmark.
Walking Away: This prevention programme has generated substantial       national and international       interest and has been commissioned and implemented across diverse primary       care organisations       in England, Gibraltar, Ireland and Australia.
To date, 66 educators have       been trained to deliver the       programme (59 in UK and Ireland, 5 in Australia, and 2 in Gibraltar).
Audit data and interviews with stakeholders have confirmed that the       programme promotes       improved health behaviour in routine clinical care and is widely       appreciated by participants and       healthcare professionals alike.
Walking Away continues to attract new       implementation sites       nationally.
The implementation of the programme has been achieved at a       very low cost; one site       estimated the total cost to be &#163;30 per patient per course (results       presented at the Diabetes UK       professional conference 2011, London).
Notable awards     Davies was awarded a prestigious NIHR Senior Investigator status in 2009       and this was renewed       to the maximum term in 2012.
The implementation of Walking Away in routine care won the Health       Foundation prize for the best       contribution to improvement in science at the 2011 `Delivering better       health services' conference,       Liverpool and was awarded silver at the national Quality In Care (QIC)       Diabetes Awards 2011.
Research around Walking Away led to a rising star award for Yates from       Primary Care Diabetes       Europe, Barcelona, 2012.
