     Background     Postmortem imaging is now a rapidly growing field.
Rutty and Morgan,       together with their collaborators, have helped advance postmortem imaging       to the stage where it has become `routine consideration to confirm cause       of death' (A) and `standard procedure in the forensic examination       of human remains both after a disaster and in individual cases' (B).
Impact on policymakers     Rutty and Morgan as founding members of a Department of Health National       Imaging Board helped produce national guidance documents with the Ministry       of Justice and Royal Colleges of Pathology and Radiology.
Rutty was lead       author of a `vision' document for the introduction of a national PMCT       service (C).
The team's sharing of their research has been the       `driving force' (D) behind the new recommendations.
Rutty and Morgan's research has had a particularly significant influence       in the area of disaster victim identification (DVI).
Lessons learnt from       `Operation Torch' have been published in an official report (E)       which will assist member states of the EC in planning for and responding       to similar incidents.
As a consequence of Torch, Professor Rutty was       awarded a Metropolitan Police Service Assistant Commissioner Commendation       (2009).
In 2010 he was awarded an MBE.
The FiMag system has been presented to the International Red Cross and       Interpol, and similar systems are now being planned in the Netherlands and       Australia.
PMCT is part of the latest working version of Interpol's       general guidance for mass fatality incidents, and the International       Society of Forensic Radiology and Imaging (ISFRI) Disaster Victim       Identification group's positional statement (F).
Rutty represents       the UK at the Interpol Standing Committee on Disaster Victim       Identification and is Vice-Chair (Chair in 2013-4) of ISFRI.
A       representative of Queensland Health Forensic and Scientific Services said:       "One of the many positive aspects of the technology is that it lends       itself to multicentre utilisation and interdepartmental communication."
(B)     Impact on practitioners     Following successful use of PMCT in the 2009 Black Saturday bushfires,       the Australasian Disaster Victim Identification Committee prepared a       business case for service implementation.
They asked for the help of       Professor Rutty for background information, a description of FiMag, and       costing for the purchase of a `BodyTom' mobile scanner, which appears to       `do everything ADVIC would want' (G).
Within the field of DVI, PMCT has a major impact on investigation, such       as identifying component parts of an improvised explosive device or       identification of the dead using odontology or old injuries.
It allows       efficient management of personnel and limited resources.
Offsite       specialists can be involved in disaster response, which has `enormous       cost-benefit yet to be recognised.'
(B).
The Chief Constable,       National Pathology and Disaster Victim Identification Lead says: "Due to       the work at Leicester, contingency plans for mass fatality incidents now       include an option to source mobile CT scanners to enhance operations at       designated mortuaries."
(H)     The research is impacting on police investigations in the UK, and PMCT in       `single death' postmortems is being `monitored with interest' by senior       officers and forensic specialists' (H).
The technology can be a       strong investigative tool in trauma and can also be useful for       re-examination if suspicions arise after a body has been cremated (a       `virtual exhumation').
In September 2012 the group launched the UK's first training course in       PMCT and from 2014, PMCT based teaching will be offered to all medical       students attending the University, the first such initiative in the       country.
Impact on the public     Increasing media profile has disseminated this research to a wider       audience (I).
Demand for a less invasive post-mortem procedure is       expected to grow, particularly in Muslim and Jewish communities, whose       religious and cultural principles oppose invasive autopsies.
The Saad       Foundation was set up by a former police superintendent to provide support       and assistance to the Muslim community in dealing with sudden death       procedures (J).
He used the Leicester team's research on imaging to       help persuade the Charity Commission to grant `registered status'.
The       Coroners' Society, thanks to lobbying from Rutty and other academics,       professionals, and politicians such as Baroness Warsi, is now allowing       imaging as an alternative to intrusive autopsies.
Rutty has been involved       in the training of all Coroners' Officers in West Yorkshire, resulting in       a `change in mindset' among previously resistant practitioners (Saad       Foundation).
Other impact     The group has collaborated with other international groups such as the       Technical Working Group Postmortem Angiography Methods (TWGPAM), an       international cooperation establishing a database for post-mortem       angiography.
Rutty and Morgan united other researchers across the world in       2012 with the first publication outlining a common nomenclature in this       field.
