     The standards were first made publicly available in 2008.
They have       received full endorsement from all medical royal colleges in the UK,       AoMRC, Royal College of Nursing, and professional bodies representing the       allied health professions.
Uptake of the standards until July 2013 is best       summarised by more than 5000 accessions online and the distribution of       4000 paper versions (cumulative data since 2009 from AoMRC, and since 2012       from RCP).
The standards have been widely recommended by the UK       Government, and by professional and statutory bodies; they all believe       national implementation will bring benefits to patient care and safety,       litigation costs, and efficiency of communication; and provide better       evidence for commissioning, audit and research.
As the President of the       Academy of Medical Sciences said [C1]:     "Standardising the way clinical data are collected and handled by all         healthcare professionals will ensure data quality and accessibility for         research and clinical use."
There is evidence of early adopters achieving these benefits.
In 2011 DH       launched the Discharge Summary Implementation Toolkit [C2] for universal       use in England.
This incorporates the record standards and has been       successfully piloted in four NHS Foundation Trusts - Chelsea and       Westminster Hospital; Kent and Medway Hospitals, Newcastle University       Hospitals and South Tees Hospitals - with benefits to efficiency and       patient safety.
The Clinical Director for Information Standards Delivery       at the Health &amp; Social Care Information Centre commented [C3]:     "In my present role, and previous role as Director for Clinical Record         Standards in DH, there has been a considerable challenge to design         systems which can obtain coherent and comparable data on health care         activity directly from clinical records.
The collaborative work with         Professor Williams and the RCP is the foundation of better records for         the NHS and better data for analysis."
There is also evidence of adoption in Europe, where the standards are       recommended for use in the records of patients with sexually transmitted       infections [C4].
In 2012 the DH Information Strategy recommended that the       NHS collect data in standardised form, and referenced our research       including the standards [C5].
The associated impact assessment recommended       actions necessary to achieve wide implementation [C5].
The rapid       acceptance of our work also led DH to commission a Joint Working Group       (JWG), chaired by the National Clinical Director for Informatics, to       explore how to advance standards.
The JWG recommended [C6] that a       self-funded, independent, professional record standards body (PRSB) be       established.
This was accepted by DH and NHS England, and supported by       other important stakeholders, including the Academy of Medical Sciences       and many research charities.
The PRSB is now working closely with NHS       England and the devolved administrations to oversee the development of       further standards, and achieve universal implementation of record       standards across the NHS (www.theprsb.org.uk).
The standards have the explicit support of statutory bodies including the       NHS Litigation Authority [C7] and Audit Commission [C8]; are       recommended by the General Medical Council [C9]; and have been welcomed by       electronic patient record software suppliers, who previously had to rely       on local consultation to define the structure and content of their       products.
The AoMRC has stressed the need for standardised patient-focused       records, and published the standards themselves [C10].
The RCP Commission       on the Future Hospital [C11] and the Mid-Staffordshire Inquiry [C12] also       recommend them.
The NHS Wales Information Service has used the standards in developing       clinical record software since 2009.
A major implementation of the       international `Epic' electronic health record system by Cambridge       University Hospitals is incorporating the standards, and NHS Trusts in       England, particularly those supported by the Technology Fund, stipulate a       requirement to conform to the standards in specifications for clinical       information systems [C13].
To stimulate uptake of the standards and thus impact, Williams has since       2008 given invited talks at educational events hosted by RCP, British       Computer Society, King's Fund, NHS Confederation, Nuffield Trust, Royal       Society of Medicine, Association of British Pharmaceutical Industry and       Intellect (the software suppliers' professional association).
At RCP in       July 2013 the standards were welcomed by senior leaders from healthcare       and academia [C14] including:            Chair of the Expert Advisory Group to the Clinical Practice Research         Datalink, the new English NHS observational data and interventional         research service, who stated:         "they provide a platform for the spread of Electronic Patient           Records, improve patient care and save time for clinicians"        Chair of AoMRC:         "they lay a strong foundation for electronic health records which           will improve not only the patient experience, but also safety and           efficiency"        Director for Clinical Assurance at the Health &amp; Social Care         Information Centre:         "they provide the essential foundation to build an information           landscape that reflects more accurately what is actually happening in           the NHS".
In 2013, the Academy of Medical Sciences endorsed the need for       standardised record keeping to support stratified medicine - a new       therapeutic approach of considerable potential for patients, and       importance to the pharmaceutical industry in the UK [C15]
