     Around 300,000 people have completed the self-assessment tools through       the Diabetes UK website, general practices, road shows, faith centres,       Boots and Tesco pharmacies and PCT-organised screening events.
If T2DM       could be prevented in just 3% of these people as a result, this could       produce a gross saving for the NHS of &#163;40m a year over four years.
Impact on policy     Both tools are now specifically recommended by NICE for identifying those       at high risk of T2DM (Khunti is Chair and Davies is a member of the NICE       guidance group; A,B).
The impact of the work around diabetes prevention led to Khunti and       Davies being invited, by the UK National Screening Committee, to lead on       developing the content and structure of The Handbook of Vascular Risk       Assessment, Risk Reduction and Risk Management (both the original 2008       version and updated 2012 version; C).
Gray authored the section on       risk scores.
The handbook is widely used within the Department of Health       and across the NHS and was also a major contributor to the development of       the Department of Health Best Practice Guidance (2009; D).
Impact on public expenditure     Modelling work by NICE showed that utilising risk scores in a screening       programme is cost-effective and is likely to be cost-saving in those from       black and minority ethnic backgrounds.
Work carried out by the Centre       shows that the cost per case detected is lowered significantly, from &#163;350       to around &#163;200, by incorporating risk scores (E).
Impact on public health in the UK     Clinical commissioning groups: The self-assessment tool is being       used by clinical commissioning groups around the country at screening       events.
It is also used to target people for the NHS Health Check, a       programme to prevent heart disease, stroke, diabetes and kidney disease.
Here it identifies those at high risk, who can then be given support and       lifestyle interventions to reduce their risk and prevent onset of these       conditions.
Healthy Lifestyle roadshows: Diabetes UK has used the       self-assessment tool at local road shows since 2011.
In 2012 (latest       available figures) they carried out 20,911 risk assessments and referred       10,945 visitors, 3,700 of whom were at high risk of having or developing       T2DM in the next 10 years.
In a survey conducted in 2011, of those who       were in these higher risk categories, 69% had been to their general       practice or intend to go.
Recall of the risk factors for T2DM and how to       reduce risk was high among visitors two months after attending the road       show (F).
Evaluation of the use of the self-assessment score within Diabetes UK       activities showed that after being risk assessed: 41% had started to eat       more healthily and a further 44% intended to; 33% had increased their       physical activity levels and a further 43% intended to; and 44% of those       referred to their GP had been to their GP to seek a test.
Bridget Turner       of Diabetes UK says: "The diabetes risk score plays an important part in       encouraging more people to take greater notice of their health and their       lifestyles &#8212; helping to tackle the growing public health challenge of Type       2 diabetes and working towards earlier diagnosis and prevention."
(G).
Community Champions: Diabetes UK has embarked on a programme of       awareness-raising within black and minority ethnic communities by       recruiting 'Community Champions' &#8212; volunteers who are trained to deliver       healthy lifestyle and diabetes awareness messages, through information       stands and talks at community centres, places of worship and at festivals       and events.
Over 100 champions have been trained in London, and the       programme is being rolled out in four other towns across England.
Some       champions have been trained to undertake the risk assessments.
Faith centres: The test has been used with 200 people in three       faith centres in Leicester, by interpreters using iPads.
It is being       adapted for use by non-English speaking Guajarati speakers.
Pharmacies: In conjunction with Diabetes UK the self-assessment       test is available in Boots and Tesco pharmacies: the latter is advertising       the service on buses, taxis, and London Underground carriages; on radio       stations and online; and in shopping centres and on high streets across       the UK In Northern Ireland during Diabetes Week 2011, Diabetes UK ran a       risk assessment event in 11 Boots stores: 140 risk assessments were       carried out, with 25 people referred to their GP.
The Regional Pharmacy       Manager, Boots, said: "We were delighted with the success of our recent       work with Diabetes UK Northern Ireland.
In helping to identify patients       who are at high risk of diabetes, we can work with other healthcare       professionals to ensure an early diagnosis is made and help people reduce       their risk."
(H).
In Wales, the self-assessment score was used in 700 pharmacies as part of       a free health check initiative; the 10-day Diabetes UK Cymru/Community       Pharmacy Wales project 2011.
This project involved an extensive media       campaign.
More than 17,500 people visited their local pharmacy for the       assessment with 1,478 (8.4%) being referred to their GP for a diabetes       test after being found to be at high risk of developing the condition (I).
Online and TV: The test has been available on the Diabetes UK       website since 2011 and is now on the Boots and Tesco websites, free of       charge.
It has been used by over 260,000 people since July 2011.
It was       featured in the Embarrassing Bodies programme (Channel 4, 6 June 2011),       reaching around 2 million viewers.
The automated tool allows for targeted       population-based screening within primary care and is available on the       University's website.
It will soon be available through the Royal College       of General Practitioners website.
International impact     Khunti and Gray are part of the International Diabetes Federation's       PREDICT 2 project which is developing a global risk score to be used in       developing countries.
Gray is currently developing risk scores for use in       Portugal and Spain.
Awards     Davies was awarded a prestigious NIHR Senior Investigator status in 2009       and this was renewed to the maximum term in 2012.
The risk scores were       awarded gold at the national Quality in Care (QIC) Diabetes Awards 2011       for the best early detection/screening initiative, and Gray won the Best       Presentation Prize at the World Congress for the Prevention of Diabetes       2011.
