     At the beginning of 2008 (15 months before the Herschel launch)       the UK Herschel Outreach Group (HOG), chaired by Griffin, was       formed to coordinate a national outreach and PR programme.
It includes       members from all UK SPIRE institutes (Cardiff, Imperial College, UCL-MSSL,       UKATC, STFC-RAL, Sussex), several other UK institutes involved in Herschel       science, and the STFC Science in Society team.
Funding was secured       via two STFC Science in Society grants (&#163;135k; ST/H000453/1 and       ST/J000248/1), covering 2009-2013, including a Cardiff-based half-time Herschel       Outreach Officer (HOO), Dr. Chris North, in post from Oct. 2009, and       additional funding under the Cardiff SPIRE project grants (~&#163;15k) for       outreach expenses.
A state-of-the art infrared camera and two scale       models, 1:10 and 1:4, of the Herschel spacecraft were procured       using &#163;30k from School of Physics and Astronomy internal funds (a 50%       contribution to the 1:4 model was also made by RAL).
These have proved to       be major draws at talks, events and exhibitions.
HOO tasks include acting       as HOG secretary, executing the PR and outreach plans formulated by the       group, preparing press releases in consultation with UKSA, STFC, ESA, and       scientists in over 20 UK institutes, and developing and maintaining the UK       Herschel Outreach website.
A national network of scientists and       engineers from Cardiff and other UK Herschel institutes was also       established to assist with events (schools visits, public talks,       exhibitions, etc.
), several of whom have undergone media and       communications training.
The Herschel outreach programme is led by Cardiff but is a       national activity.
In this case study we focus explicitly on impact       derived from Cardiff-specific activity on the SPIRE instrument and science       programme.
Media exposure: During the REF period, 95 items of media coverage       have publicised the technical and scientific work of the Cardiff team.
This includes articles, referring specifically to Cardiff's involvement,       in UK and foreign newspapers including The Independent, The Sunday         Times, The Daily Telegraph, The Calgary Herald, Asian News         International, The Qatar News Agency, and many more.
Herschel       was designated number 7 in Time Magazine's Inventions of the Year       in 2009 (http://www.time.com/time/specials/packages/completelist/0,29569,1934027,00.html).
Cardiff       staff have made many appearances on BBC TV and radio including the Today         Programme, Science in Action and Radio 5 Live.
A two-part       Radio-4 documentary, The Herschel Space Telescope was first       broadcast in 2009 and followed Matt Griffin and the UK SPIRE team before       and after the launch (http://www.bbc.co.uk/programmes/b00nvt8r).
It has reached over 1.5 million listeners, and was featured as radio pick       of the day by The Guardian, The Daily Telegraph, and The         Times [5.1].
There have been at least 24 BBC News website articles,       by BBC Science Correspondent Jonathan Amos and others, highlighting the       technology and science results (many based on direct collaboration and       contact between the BBC journalists and Cardiff team members, and 11 of       which feature quotes from Cardiff staff).
They were typically accessed       100,000-200,000 times in the first 24 hours.
Jonathan Amos wrote: "As a       journalist, I am constantly looking for a strong narrative and compelling       imagery.
Herschel has consistently provided both since launch.
.
.
The SPIRE group has routinely recognised those pieces of research that       will reach out best to the general public, and have been able to convey       this interest in very engaging terms.
The website (http://herschel.cf.ac.uk/),       also, is a model for how to present sometimes complex findings.
Far       infrared pictures are not very easy to negotiate with a lay eye.
The       website's stepwise approach, using annotation and very clear terms, is a       big help in this respect."
[5.2]     Outreach web site: The UK Herschel outreach website       (http://herschel.cf.ac.uk/) maintained at Cardiff by the HOO, contains       up-to-date Herschel information with images, results, news       stories, press releases, and downloadable material.
It is one of the most       comprehensive websites about Herschel in the world.
Traffic       statistics (on file) show over 100,000 unique visitors since monitoring       began (Aug. 2009) with an increasing trend and peaks when press releases       are issued.
Links from popular sites such as BBC News provide excellent       reach.
Educational resources, and "fun" activities for the casual visitor       can be downloaded, and that section has been visited over 5,000 times.
Materials include classroom activities, posters, self-assemble cardboard       models, and links to other educational resources.
Chromoscope, a       tool to show the sky at multiple wavelengths including Herschel's,       was developed by the HOO and others (http://www.chromoscope.net/;       hosting funded by Cardiff Physics &amp; Astronomy).
Chromoscope is       one of the most popular astronomy tools online (more than 3 million unique       visitors since Nov. 2009), and is used extensively on the Herschel       UK website to display results.
Schools programme: We have developed and implemented a schools       programme with the assistance of teaching professionals.
It consists of       interactive lesson plans, talks, and demonstrations using Herschel       to illustrate several subject areas: multi-wavelength astronomy,       spacecraft engineering, space dust, cosmology, and the solar system.
Resources were initially trialled by several SPIRE team members from       Cardiff and RAL at Monkton Combe School in Feb. 2009, when Cardiff staff,       post-docs and students, delivered a week-long Scientists in Residence       programme at the school.
The programme, for pupils in years 7-13, was       based on the science and technology of the Herschel and Planck       missions, and covered aspects of astronomy from the Solar System to       Cosmology.
The entire week was well received, with 90% giving their       sessions at least 3 out of 5 in terms of amount learnt, and 65% giving a       mark of at least 4.
Sam Chilcott, Monkton Combe science teacher, wrote:       "One of the most fulfilling weeks of my professional career was when the       Cardiff Astronomy team came over to Monkton.
To see the enthusiasm       engendered in the pupils, not only in that week, but in the months and       years afterwards - indeed, they are still talking about it!"
[5.3].
The Herschel Schools Show was developed by science made         simple, an outreach company linked to the School, in collaboration       with the Cardiff SPIRE team.
Aimed at years 7-11 (KS3 and GCSE), It       demonstrates aspects of Herschel science and technology.
First run       in 2007, it was updated to include Herschel scientific results.
The show has been given ~30 times during the REF period, to a total       audience of ~4,000.
Evaluation questionnaires (on file) showed that 87% of       respondents rated the show as very good or excellent.
Instructively, only       25% of them had more than a passing interest in astronomy before seeing       the show [5.4].
This activity was later developed by the HOO into a package that has been       distributed to teachers as part of our teacher Continuing Professional       Development (CPD) programme which he organises.
A series in 2010 across       Wales (Aberystwth, Cardiff, Camarthen, Llantarnum, Wrexham) reached 130       teachers, and sessions at the National Space Centre and Science Learning       Centre, Leicester, have reached 90 teachers.
Feedback from teachers       attending (on file) was excellent with 78% indicating that they would use       the resources in their teaching.
David Grace, secondary school teacher and       PGCE tutor commented that ".
.
the subject matter is generally very       motivating to most pupils across the ability range" [5.5].
With each       secondary school teacher reaching ~100 new pupils each year (based on 1000       pupils per school over 5 school years [5.6]), and with 1.6 - 2 physics       teachers per school [5.7], the total reach of these sessions is over       20,000 pupils per year.
A Cardiff University I&amp;E fund award of &#163;9k was       made in Apr.
2012 for further support of a Welsh schools programme, and       the HOO has developed close links with the University's Schools       Partnership Officer and Community Engagement Team.
Our Herschel       teacher CPD work has helped us to establish a Cardiff role (Gomez Co-I) in       Inspiring Science Education, a European Union project to develop       and deploy science educational resources across Europe.
The &#163;158k Cardiff       allocation will employ Dr. North when the HOO grant terminates in Nov.       2013, in a role that will continue to use Herschel-based material       for a European-wide educational programme.
In addition, a Welsh Government       grant of &#163;73k (Gomez PI) has recently been awarded (Oct. 2013) to bring       our astronomy resources, including Herschel, into Welsh primary       schools.
Public talks, exhibitions and events: During the REF period 75       popular talks on Herschel have been given by Cardiff University       staff at numerous venues in England and Wales, with total audience numbers       in excess of 6,500.
Talks have been very well received and we have a       substantial collection of very complimentary thank-you e-mails and letters       on file.
As an example, in an audience evaluation carried out by the       organisers of an East of England Engineering Science and Technology       Association (EESTA) event in Nov. 2012 at which Matt Griffin spoke, out of       172 responses 136 rated his talk as "excellent" and 32 as "good" [5.8].
Eleven major public events have been organised by the HOO and supported by       Cardiff staff.
Proposals were successful for the Royal Society Summer       Exhibition in both 2009 and 2012.
Visitors numbered around 5,000 in 2009,       and 14,000 in 2012.
Stands at the Big Bang Fair were bid for and       awarded in four successive years (2010-2013), leading to personal       invitations to return each year.
Cardiff funds and staff time were used to       support these events, and the 1:4 scale model was displayed.
Each Big         Bang Fair was attended by around 35,000 people, mostly secondary       school pupils.
In Oct.-Nov. 2010, the 1:4 model was provided for a       temporary astronomy gallery at the National Museum of Wales, Cardiff -       during this period ~20,000 people visited the museum.
In Jan. 2012 another       NMW exhibition included Cardiff staff and Herschel-related       activities; 3000 people visited the museum that day.
Herschel-themed       products are given away as freebies at events and exhibitions, bought from       a combination of internal Cardiff funds (~50%) and from the Cardiff-based       STFC SiS grant (~50%).
In summary, our Herschel research and accompanying PR and       outreach programme have given the public valuable and exciting insights       into science and technology.
Importantly, this extends to enhancing       educational learning and stimulating engagement with STEM subjects in       schools.
With many more scientific discoveries to come from Herschel's       database of observations, the outreach programme will be sustained, and       contacts with educators and the media will be continued.
