     Singapore had virtually no history of independent research into skills       and workforce development.
This was partly due to the large presence of foreign workers in the       country, which represent one       third of the total workforce, a fact which heightens the political       sensitivity of any labour market       research.
The Asian financial crisis of the late 1990s had led to a major       economic review in       Singapore which highlighted the need for strategic nationwide initiative       in the area of skills, training       and vocational education.
So, in 2007, the Singapore Workforce Development Agency (WDA) &#8212; the       organisation set up to       address this need &#8212; sent a delegation of senior officials to Leicester.
The Government body was       attracted by the CLMS's international reputation for high quality research       with direct relevance for       policy-makers and practitioner communities, particularly in the area of       skills, training and workforce       development.
As well as knowing that both Ashton and Sung had advised on       the setting up of the       Singaporean version of Investors in People and the first version of their       national vocational       qualifications framework (similar to NVQs), senior officials had read       Ashton, Green, James and       Sung's book1 and Sung's book5, and they felt there       was potential for collaboration, and a       secondment was discussed.
Following that initial visit, academics built links with the WDA through       a series of trips to Singapore       and, in 2009, Sung was seconded to work for the WDA, drawing on his       research expertise in       national workforce development systems and high performance work       practices.
Sung set up the       Centre for Skills, Performance and Productivity Research (CSPPR) within       the Institute for Adult       Learning (a statutory board under the WDA) in 2011.
Its unique       quasi-governmental position       combines independent research capability with collaboration and policy       influence within       government and the Continuing Education and Training (CET) community.
As       Head of the CSRRP,       Sung has used his understanding of the challenges surrounding workforce       development &#8212; built on       more than 25 years of high quality research at the University of Leicester       &#8212; to establish the new       centre.
He has introduced a whole new dimension of research to Singapore       in terms of new       methodologies, new types of data producing new information possible and a       new set of policy       tools.
The CSPPR has prioritised the creation of strategic alliance and       collaborative research, ensuring       that research matches policy priorities.
Since its inception, CSPPR has       established a full research       programme consisting five large-scale projects and a few smaller ones.
There are now seven local       researchers covering both quantitative and qualitative techniques, all of       whom have been trained       by Sung.
There are ten international academics (all at professorial level)       each of whom collaborate       with CSPPR on specific projects and nurture local researchers remotely and       during their regular       visits to Singapore.
The CSPPR's research is already having a direct impact as illustrated by       these two examples:     (a) A report on the hotel and tourism sector was presented to the       Permanent Secretary of the       Ministry of Manpower who immediately recommended the findings of the       report to be used by the       Singapore Tourist Board (STB), the lead body of productivity improvement       of the tourism industry.
The research team subsequently provided further discussions and support to       STB to identify       additional industry productivity indicators, especially in relation to       greater skills utilisation.
(b) Similarly, the CSPPR completed a report on the private security       industry in Singapore, one of       three "low pay" sectors and a politically sensitive area for the       Government as only Singaporeans       can apply for jobs in this sector.
The CSPPR research team was invited to       provide an       `independent' source of input and a special report to the Ministry of Home       Affairs (MHA) in July       2012 recommended major changes.
These alter the structure of the industry       in order to increase       skills content, job design and productivity.
While the MHA is considering       some of the more       fundamental recommendations (e.g.
competency-based grading system for       security officers), small       recommendations have already led to changes in working and contracting       methodology (e.g.
an       outcome-based bidding system).
The CSPPR steers Singapore policy debates at the national level.
In May       2012, it ran an       international Experts Group under the theme of Globalising Skills &#8212;         the Implications for Singapore         and Beyond.
More than 250 people attended a talk by Professors Brown       and Lauder and the event       hosted `closed-door' discussions with the Ministries of Manpower and       Education, unions and the       WDA.
A book with the same title was published in collaboration with the       Singapore Civil Service       College was published in October 2012.
This event not only led to a       further research project to       create specific data for Singapore, it also created widespread awareness       amongst policy makers       that the `supply' strategy could be undermined by the existence of a       `global skills web', to which       most multi-national corporations have access.
The CSPPR is expected to become the national `depository' of all skills       data relevant to Singapore       by 2015 - Skills Utilisation in Singapore (SU2) measuring job skills,       O*NET mapping for       occupational skills and PIAAC for individual competencies &#8212; all driving       and steering the direction of       skills research in this country.
Three recent developments also prove impact:     (a) The Ministry of Manpower has provided official sanction for CSPPR to       use SU2 data to create a       set of baseline National Skills Indices.
They will act as the basis for       medium and long terms skills       change comparisons for policy purposes;     (b) WDA has asked CSPPR to design and implement a project to assess the       impact of       Employability Skills (ES) training.
ES training is the largest area of       training (taking half of the entire       public training subsidies) in Singapore;     (c) Utilising our econometric modelling skills, CSPPR will launch a pilot       project to create a National       Workforce Development Dashboard in 2013 - a live analytic tool that       combines all training records       (over 2 million), with wage data and labour market time series.
The tool,       if successful, is expected       to support policy makers in the relevant government ministries.
By informing and guiding Government and stakeholder policy on skills,       training and workforce       development, this Leicester initiative impacts on the welfare of       Singaporeans both economically       and societally.
Inequality is a huge issue in Singapore where sections of       the generally affluent       society had little gain in the last 10 years.
For the first time,       Government workforce initiatives to       address this issue are being underpinned by high quality, independent       research, made possible       through University of Leicester expertise.
