     The exhibition, co-curated by Andrews and Daniels, explored an       interactive 2D/3D model for communicating complex knowledge to multiple       audiences.
The Japanese House both advances academic knowledge and       served as a catalogue for the exhibition.
The book has been favourably       reviewed in academic journals and elsewhere.
To date 2,100 copies (210 in       the Museum shop) have been sold and the book was reprinted only nine       months after it was first published.
The exhibition (2011) had more than       12,000 visitors over six months and was accompanied by extensive school       and local community outreach programmes, craft workshops, and curatorial       tours and study days that Andrews participated in.
The school programme       supported QCA Unit 2 `What sort of homes do people live in today?'
and QCA       Unit 22 `A contrasting locality overseas'.
In total 235 children and youth       attended these sessions (8 Primary Schools, 1 Secondary School, 1 Higher       Education College, and 1 Special Education Needs school).
374 people       attended the Adult Education and Learning programme, while 242       participants, both adults and children, attended eleven community outreach       sessions.
Finally 1,478 children and 1,150 adults participated in 125       holiday creative activities.
In total 2,628 people participated in       educational activities, which compares favourably with the 803, 2,402, and       1,045 people who attended the three previous temporary exhibition events.
Between June and August 2011, Laura Haapio-Kirk and Rosanna Blakeley, Msc       students from University of Oxford conducted an audience study of sixty       visitors, who were selected at random.
They were first observed and then       their interactions with the displays and each other were recorded.
They       were interviewed them afterwards.
Some participants were in search of       knowledge (40%), but more were driven by the pleasure of the unexpected       (50%), while a minority sought inspiration for their own homes (10%).
Most       participants were positive about the interactive/immersive aspect of the       exhibition as Natasha, an American in her 30s, put it: `One thing I really       liked was that it was extremely personal: I actually felt like I was in a       Japanese film quite often'.
The study showed that the exhibition was       successful in questioning preconceptions about Japan.
A British woman in       her 70s admitted that because of the war she held anti-Japanese sentiments       but `the display of everyday normal living made me feel that Japanese       people are very similar to us', while two British women in their 20s       expected that Japanese homes were `compartmentalized and ordered' but they       actually `looked messy and normal'.
Of the 1,305 entries left in the       visitors' book only 23 were negative; they complained about the lack of       real furnishings and fittings and the entrance fee.
Other comments       demonstrated that the exhibition had the desired impact.
Typical examples       were: `Fascinating.
Totally different from the stereotypical image.
A real       eye opener', and `Excellent exhibition of contemporary Japanese people's       houses and lives.
Very precise and detailed description of Japanese life.
This contributes a lot to understanding Japan.'
Finally, all Japanese       participants (10% of total visitors) were upbeat.
In the words of a       Japanese man in his 30s living in London: "The exhibition shows Japanese       lifestyle and not the stereotype.
It is really what the Japanese are like       and not just what Westerners think they are like'.
When the exhibition       closed, most objects were given away in a free raffle attended by more       than two hundred people, and Andrews and Daniels are currently       investigating the direct impact of some of these objects inside people's       homes in the UK.
Ethnographic museums in Leiden, Stockholm, and Vancouver       have expressed an interest in hosting the show.
The exhibition had public reach through more than one hundred articles in       popular print media including The Guardian, Japan Times, Telegraph       (`top five exhibitions in London'), Evening Standard, and Time         Out.
The exhibition was reviewed in a range of design and interiors       magazines such as Blue Print (`it certainly succeeds in its       mission to demystify the Japanese home'), ID Magazine, Styles,       and Interiors.
It also featured on various blogs such as The       British Council: `A number of strong similarities emerge in the ways       people behave at home which help the sense of empathy the exhibition tries       to create.
The myth of minimalism is finally debunked.'
Haikugirl: `I       think the exhibition fulfilled its aim completely.
I felt so at home in       the exhibition, and so like I was really in Japan.'
When the exhibition closed most of the objects were given away in a free       raffle.
Daniels and I are currently conducting further research based on       the use and display of these items within their new homes.
The international museum curating and academic community has also       benefited from the challenge to museum orthodoxy in terms of reconsidering       objects and display, interactive activities, and the experimental use of       photography in this environment.
Professor Dr. Akiko Mori, the       anthropologist responsible for the European exhibitions collections at the       National Museum of Ethnology in Osaka, Japan commented that "At Home in       Japan' is a exceptional project that successfully experiments with novel       ways of displaying other cultures, thereby highlighting the complexity and       ambiguity of cross-cultural understanding and questioning deeply ingrained       stereotypes.
She stated that at `At Home in Japan' offers museum       practitioners a new model for facilitating more subjective, immersive       visitor engagements with exhibition displays."
She further commented on       the use of photography stating, "Another unusual and innovative aspect of       the exhibition was its use of life-size photographs of interiors that were       taken by Susan Andrews, a professional photographer who co-curated the       show.
For those of us involved in museum design the following two       techniques were of particular interest: firstly, life-size photographs of       windows that were lit from behind that added a feeling of space and       experience of the larger community and world outside, and, secondly,       life-size photographs to which objects were attached to create a trompe       l'oeil effect.
One of my colleagues here at the museum, Prof. Hiroko       Yokohama, who is an anthropologists working in China, was so impressed by       these techniques that she has consulted Dr. Daniels about how the same       kinds of displays could be produced for an upcoming exhibition about       Chinese homes at our museum, that she is currently preparing...
Finally,       in my view, the exhibition was unique in situating itself at the       intersection between cultural stereotypes, imagination, and actual       everyday lived experiences."
Additionally, the experimental use of Photography in the exhibition and       its challenge to museum orthodoxy led to an invitation to give a       presentation for the annual conference for The Society for         Photographic Education (SPE) in San Fransisco on the Intimacy         and Voyeurism panel: The Public/Private Divide in Photography       (24.3.2012).
Daniels and I discussed our collaborative venture and the       impact of experimental use of photography within the museum environment.
