     The impact of the research can be seen in the enhancement of `cultural       life' and `education' through the creation and evidenced support of new       artistic practices.
The 2 books on Installation art were instrumental in narrating the       importance of Installation art as a form and a critical discourse, at a       time when no such international surveys had been published.
The first book       initiates this important polemic and discusses the history of Installation       art while contrasting it with new works of the time, while the second book       examined Installation art's progression from a marginal discipline to the       centre of the visual arts.
The achievement of this research has been the cementing of Installation       art both as an artform, and, crucially, as part of a curatorial strategy       devised by artists (in collaboration with curators) to control the context       and visibility of their work.
The research gave a visibility and authority       to the discipline that it did not previously have.
It influenced other       scholars, artists, curators, art students, and made Installation art       accessible to a wider public.
Indeed, university courses proliferate today       that teach Installation art, and actively list these books on their       reading lists and course curriculum.
The books were produced in different       language editions (English, French, Turkish) and sold in large numbers.
Section 3 indicates some of the citations in books, conference papers,       scholarly articles and blogs.
Equally, the Irish Museum of Modern Art's       (IMMA) series of booklets explaining key contemporary developments in art       'What is Installation art?'
(2011), draws on and quotes from de       Oliveira/Oxley's works on the subject.
De Oliveira has been invited to give papers at prestigious International       and National conferences, to discuss the development of Installation art       and Curatorial Practice.
These are the direct outcome of the curatorial       projects and publications and include Artist's St di at the       V&amp;A Museum (2002) Installation art (ICA and Whitechapel       Gallery, both 2003) and Treason of Images (Tate Modern, 2004).
De       Oliveira also addresses the work and writing collaborations with different       artists in other symposia such as Words don't come Easy, (at       Kunsthalle Lissabon, Lisbon, 2010), Collaborative Practice,       (Modern Art Oxford, MAO , 2010), Habitus in Habitat II: Other Sides of         Cognition, Zentrum fuer Literatur und Kunstwissenschaft (ZFL),       Berlin School of Mind and Brain, Medizinhistorisches Museum der Charit&#233;,       Berlin, 2010), Tickle your Catastrophe: Imagining Catastrophe in Art,         Architecture and Philosophy (at Vooruit Art Centre/Ghent       University , 2009).
Other publications from this research relate to the development of       writing about art and artists; here, the artist and his/her work is seen       as the inception of the texts, rather than as an outcome, as a starting       point rather than a goal.
The monographic writings, in particular, do not       attempt to draw comparisons with other contemporary artists, instead       building a broader cultural framework and set of references around the       featured artist including critical theory, philosophy, literature and       sociology.
In this way the reader is invited to undertake a wider, more       open-ended reading of the work, in which meaning is often circumstantial       and implicit, rather than explicit.
Here, the texts serve to embed the       artists' work in a different cultural landscape as it moves from criticism       or theoretical engagement towards other references and forms of writing.
This move can be seen in the work by a number of writers linked to       exhibitions at SE8 Gallery, such as Sean Borodale, Jeremy Millar, Ruth       Beale, Tamarin Norwood &amp; Patrick Coyle (Antepress), Richard Dyer,       George Quasha, Katie Guggenheim, Geopolyphonies and Tom Chivers.
The different models of professional curatorial practice developed by de       Oliveira/Oxley through their diverse exhibitions, projects and expanded       writing have resulted in taught Modules for UG Fine Art Degrees at LMU and       de Oliveira's development and leadership of a unique collaborative       master's programme at London Metropolitan University and Whitechapel       Gallery.
The course foregrounds students' professional engagement and       employability through direct partnership with this major exhibiton venue.
http://www.thecass.com/courses/postgraduate/ma-curating-the-contemporary       Students on the 'MA Curating the Contemporary' (MACC) have curated       exhibitions of professional artists such as Jeremy Deller, Lothar Goetz,       Langlands &amp; Bell, among many, with the following partners: The       Government Art Collection (GAC), the Me-Collector's Room/Stiftung       Olbricht, Berlin, the Zabludowicz Collection, and other organisations.
In       September 2013 de Oliveira is collaborating with Berlin-based Researcher       Dr Annette Loeseke and students from the MACC in undertaking a study of       Audience Reception at Whitechapel Gallery.
The impact of this new programme can be seen in the enhanced employment       opportunities for the students which have seen recent graduates take up       curatorial posts at Baltic Centre for Contemporary Art, Whitechapel       Gallery, the Royal Academy, as well as curating numerous independent       exhibitions.
