     There are 2 million people of Welsh descent in North America, many avid       consumers of Welshness, keen to know more of their history.
Jones has been       committed throughout his career to communicating his work to such       audiences.
His insights into the Welsh in North America have:     a) influenced public and professional understanding of the Welsh in North       America by enhancing heritage presentation through a major touring       exhibition, the `Welsh in America', and through accompanying workshops;     b) informed the content and production of programmes and productions on       the Welsh in North America, Australia and South America across traditional       and digital media platforms in the UK.
Enhancing heritage presentation and practice       Building on a long-standing collaboration with the Anthracite Heritage       Museum (Scranton, Pennsylvania), Jones's research was central to the       development of a touring exhibition on the `Welsh in America' (2009-11).
His research informed the overarching interpretive framework of the       exhibition and influenced the main themes explored - the Welsh in       Pennsylvanian coalmining, patterns of emigration, identities - and the       content of the exhibition and accompanying booklet [5.1].
The exhibition       and booklet was organised by the Welsh Government in New York as part of       its remit to showcase the very best that Wales' has to offer and increase       Wales's international profile.
Directed at Welsh societies, libraries,       museums and cultural events, the touring exhibition raised awareness of       the Welsh contribution to America as part of a programme to (a) enhance       heritage tourism, and (b) appeal to people with Welsh ancestry unfamiliar       with their roots who wish to explore their Welsh heritage further [5.2].
Launched in 2009 at the Anthracite Heritage Museum, the `Welsh in       America' exhibition travelled to 8 US states and 16 sites.
These included       the main lobby of Syracuse Hancock International Airport, New York (with a       throughput in excess of 200,000 passengers during the exhibition run       Nov-Dec 2009), the Annual Global Expo 2010 at Houston, Texas, and the 2009       and 2010 annual North American Festival of Wales (NAFOW), the most       important gathering of Welsh-Americans, which attracts 300-700 attendees       [5.2].
The Anthracite Heritage Museum recorded that 4,555 visitors       attended the exhibition between 1.3.2010 and 31.5.2010, while the Welsh       Government distributed 200,000 booklets based on the exhibition [5.2].
Catrin Brace, head of marketing and public relations at the Welsh       Government in New York, attested that `Dr Jones's research was key to       determining the theme and content of the Wales in America       exhibition...which reached audiences across the US and which provided an       accurate and visually attractive account of the role played by the Welsh       in America' and that within the target market there has been `a marked       increase in awareness and knowledge of Wales' following the exhibition       [5.2].
The exhibition underpinned a series of workshops in the US, extending the       reach to a wider audience, through local history and cultural societies       and public lectures in 5 US states between 2010 and 2012 as part of       Women's History Month, the Welsh Heritage programme of the Anthracite       Heritage Museum, and NAFOW 2012.
Writing about Jones's keynote address as       part of the March Charter Day programme at the Anthracite Heritage Museum,       Chester Kulesa, Historic Site Administrator, attested `Dr Jones's       presentation had a profound impact on those in attendance' [5.3].
Feedback       from attendees, including curators, historians and teachers, related how       their understanding had been transformed by Jones's contribution and how       this would inform their professional practice [5.4].
Comments following       Jones's talks at NAFOW 2012 illustrate how others involved in the heritage       sector now present the story of emigration to visitors; for example, as       part the Great Plains Welsh Heritage Project in Wymore, Nebraska or the       Lackawanna Coal Mine Tour, Scranton, Pennsylvania [5.4].
According to the       executive officers of local Welsh history and cultural societies,       including the Great Plains Welsh Heritage Centre and St David's Welsh       Society of Minnesota, these workshops were vital to maintaining these       societies and stimulating local and regional interest in Welsh History       [5.5].
Jones's contribution has equally influenced the curatorial practice of       heritage professionals at the Anthracite Heritage Museum, with Chester       Kulesa stating that Jones's work was `of great importance to the board' as       part of the Museum's `mission to engage the community and tell the story       of the people of the Anthracite Region.'
[5.3] According to Kulesa,       Jones's work with the Museum has raised its US profile, and collaboration       with Jones is now an essential part of the Museum's curatorial and       programmatic stewardship related to the ethnic heritage of Scranton [5.3].
Informing media productions and representations of the Welsh in         America       Jones's insights into the Welsh in America have also had an impact on a       wide-range of media productions, including TV programmes and innovative       digital platforms.
TV and radio programmes to which Jones has advised on       and contributed to include BBC1's The One Show (29 September 2011       - 3.99 million viewers http://www.barb.co.uk/viewing/weekly-top-30?
),       BBC One Wales The Story of Wales (19 March 2012 - 300,000 viewers;       rescreened on BBC2 in October 2012 - 1.46 million viewers; winner of 2       BAFTA Wales awards), S4C's Wedi Saith (23 February, 2011 - 33,000       viewers), Perthyn (11 and 15 May 2011 - 26,000 viewers) and Sam       Hughes: Cowboi Penfro (19 and 26 February 2012 - 27,000 viewers)       and a range of programmes on BBC Radio Wales (e.g.
Histories of Wales,       February 2012) and BBC Radio Cymru (e.g.
Rhaglen Dei Tomos       February 2011).
Jones's contribution has been central to the success of       many these TV and radio projects.
For example, independent TV production       company Unigryw, in seeking to get audiences to `reconsider some of our       ideas and preconceptions about the history of Wales' used Jones's research       to make decisions about which individuals to include in a series on Welsh       historical figures.
Unigryw attested that Jones's work `was pivotal in       S4C's decision to commission [a series of 6] programmes'.
For Unigryw the       series is `of great significance to us creatively and economically', with       Unigryw attesting how Jones's sharing of his research has `had a serious,       positive impact on a SME in Wales.'
[5.6]     To enhance public understanding of the Welsh in America, Jones, in       collaboration with BAFTA award-winning director Colin Thomas, has       developed the content for The Dragon and the Eagle, which will       form the focus for a new online cross-platform virtual book (`vook')       combining video and text [5.8].
The vook makes use of second-screen       technologies to allow users to interact with the content of TV programmes       on another device (tablet or smartphone).
The focus of The Dragon and         the Eagle is to enable the reader to discover the story of the Welsh       in America through a choice of routes: text with illustrations, videos       summarising the content of chapters, primary sources interpreted in the       text, and animated graphics whose maps and timelines illuminate the       written material.
Jones's research has been central to the content       development of The Dragon and the Eagle and is benefiting small       and medium enterprises in the creative industries (e.g.
Gorilla Television       Group) in Wales in developing new ways to communicate Welsh history and       getting audiences to interact with the content [5.8].
Comparable examples of impact outside North America       The importance of Jones's research in generating debate about and       understanding of the Welsh overseas and his standing as an authority on       the history of Welsh overseas is manifest in other contexts.
His research       on the Welsh in Australia informed the BBC One Wales programme Wales         in Australia presented by Huw Edwards (23 July 2013: 172,000       viewers) [5.8], and the 3-part ITV Wales / Foxtel, History Channel       Australia collaboration Royal Wreck of Gold (24 &amp; 30 July       2013: 274,00 viewers), a Welsh language version Trysor Coll Y Royal         Charter appearing on S4C on 17, 24 and 30 July: 28,000 viewers).
In       2010 he was appointed a founding member of Pwyllgor Dathlu 150 (the       Wales-Patagonia 150th anniversary celebrations steering       committee), which is coordinating cultural and educational activity in       advance of the 2015 anniversary of the founding of the Welsh colony in       Patagonia [5.7].
