     The development of marine telemetry technology and associated       underpinning research by the       SMRU in St Andrews has resulted in 3 main areas of impact in the REF       period:     a) Direct economic impact from turnover totalling &#163;5.6 million.
b) Conservation of endangered species such as the Monk Seal and Steller       Sea Lion.
c) Improvements in operational oceanography contributing to weather       forecasting and ocean       prediction with consequent economic benefits.
a) Direct economic impact from tag production     SMRU builds 300-400 telemetry tags per year and has generated a financial       turnover of &#163;5.6M in       the REF period.
This sustains 8 technical staff and engineers and funds       new development work to       maintain the instruments at the leading edge of the fast-moving field of       technology [S2].
Companies in the UK and USA have benefited by developing and supplying       specialised       components for the tags made in St Andrews, with sales totalling &#163;2.03M in       the period 2008-13       [S3].
b) Conservation of species, marine spatial planning and species         management     The instruments have been used by a       total of 44 institutions from 15 countries       world-wide (Fig 2) [S4].
The instruments       are used by national agencies to build       their knowledge of endangered or       threatened species, especially the habitat       they need to sustain themselves.
This       allows judgements to be made about the       regulation of offshore industrial       developments, including fisheries.
Specific       examples include:  Figure 2.
Global distribution of SMRU CTD tag       customers.
Hawaiian monk seal: In 2010-11, the       instruments enabled the compliance       monitoring for the US Navy in its offshore       ranges in the Hawaiian Islands [S5].
It is a       legal requirement that the US Navy shows       that it is not disturbing the highly       endangered Hawaiian monk seal and the instruments have been used to track       monk seals to       determine the extent to which there is overlap between the range over       which seals forage and the       regions in which US Naval exercises take place.
By avoiding areas       frequented by monk seals, the       Navy was able to pursue offshore exercises without harming the species.
Steller Sea Lion: The instruments have been used to       determine the "critical habitat" for Steller sea       lions in the Aleutian Islands to provide the information necessary to       reduce the probability of       negative effects of fishing on the food supply for this endangered       species.
It is a legal requirement       under the US Endangered Species Act to define critical habitat for species       classified as       endangered.
This work was carried out by the US National Marine Fisheries       Service (NMFS) using       SMRU tags.
The resulting Steller sea lion protection measures were set out       in a draft environmental       impact statement by the NMFS in 2013 [S6].
Columbia River Inter Tribal Commission: SMRU tags were used to     track California sea lion     movements to prevent damage to tribal fishing gear and stealing fish from     tribal nets (2013)     (www.critfc.org)     Oregon Dept of Fish and Wildlife: SMRU tags were used to       track movements of Steller sea lions       to assess impact on fishery stocks in multiple states along the Columbia       River (2010)       (www.dfw.state.or.us)     Pacific States Marine Fisheries Commission: SMRU tags were       used to assess the impact of       seal populations on the fisheries industry (2010) (www.psmfc.org)     Pendoley Environmental Marine Conservation Environmental Services:       SMRU tags were       used to track offshore turtles to aid conservation efforts (2011) (www.penv.com.au)     Zoological Society London: SMRU tags were used to monitor       the health of Thames Harbour       seals to gain insight into their diet (2012) (www.zsl.org)     c) Operational oceanography contributing to weather forecasting and         ocean prediction:       Seal-borne instruments that measure conductivity and temperature during       the ascent and descent       portions of an animal's dive can provide information equivalent to that of       ARGO floats or ships.
In       some circumstances &#8212; especially in polar regions where ice cover often       precludes measurement of       oceanographic profiles using conventional methods, seal-borne data are       input to the Global Ocean       Observing System (GOOS).
GOOS is an international backbone for       oceanographic products and       services and is the principle focus for international cooperation in       operational oceanography.
Data from seal-borne instruments are automatically relayed to the World       Meteorological       Organization's Global Telecommunication System       (GTS).
Since 2008, over 300,000 CTD profiles from       seals tagged with SMRU instruments have been       incorporated into the World Ocean Database       providing 56% of all oceanographic CTD profb01les       available for the Southern Ocean south of 60 &#176;S [S7].
According to an independent oceanographic expert in       this area, quantification of the impact of SMRU CTD       tag data on the ECCO ocean model (one of the main       global ocean circulation models) was significant:     "the use of seal data improved significantly (by       up to 30%) the representation of ocean       circulation south of the Antarctic Circumpolar       Current in the seasonally ice covered subpolar       zone, increasing the consistency of the       modelled sea-ice distribution" [S1].
Figure 3.
CTD tag on Southern elephant       seal.
These models are utilised by a variety of marine industries and services,       including shipping (fuel       savings through optimal routing), oil and gas industries- in addition to       meteorological forecasting.
The combined impact of improved weather forecasting on these activities is       naturally very difficult       to quantify.
However, in Australia alone, the commercial value of Global       Ocean Observing Systems       to such industries and services was estimated in 2006 as over A$ 600       million annually [S8].
