     This controversial research elicited numerous responses in the media, for       example, in the Times Higher Education; the Daily Mail, The         Daily Telegraph, The Independent, The Guardian, The         Times and there was a short summary on BBC Radio 4's The News         Quiz!
Impact was there but a more serious challenge was to gain sufficient       impact to reverse the therapeutic turn and defend subject-based education.
The problem was that this defence was proposed at a time when education       was characterised by a debate deficit caused by a diminished concept of       human being.
Therefore, the impact measure set as a result of this       perspective was to engage in public debate through conferences,       salons, seminars and workshops.
Support came from a small research grant of &#163;2000 in 2010-11 by the       Standing Committee for the Education and Training of Teachers (SCETT) to       promote debate between academics, teachers and trade unionists about the       current state of education.
The recognition of the `debate deficit' was also the focus of a National       Teaching Award made to Professor Hayes in 2010 (&#163;10,000).
One aspect of broader engagement was extensive public speaking,       journalism, and blogging by Professor Hayes in City AM, local       papers, the Independent, spiked and the Huffington Post.
A       highlight of this activity was an invitation to speak at the 50th       Doha Debate on the 6 December 2010 to defend the proposition `Education is       worthless without freedom of speech' to a potential audience of 400       million homes.
Examples are given below of the success of conscious, direct intervention       in defence of subject-based education.
(1) Work with the leading think tank, the Institute of Ideas (IoI), which       involved the national co-ordination of the Education Forum, organising its       monthly debates and the production of sessions at the IoI's flagship       annual festival the Battle of Ideas.
The Education Forum is an       influential project bringing together teachers, parents, policy makers,       journalists, writers and consultants to debate educational issues.
Members       contributed to two pamphlets edited by Hayes: A           defence of subject-based education (November 2010) and Towards         a subject-based curriculum (May 2012) Three members also sat on       Department for Education working parties on the subject curriculum during       2011-2013 (Modern Foreign Languages, Geography and Science).
(2) Close involvement with SCETT (a charity established in 1981).
SCETT       is the forum for debate about teacher education for the major       school teacher unions.
Through its constituent members SCETT represents       the interest of 750,000 teachers in supporting initial teacher training       and professional development.
As well as many seminars SCETT holds annual       conferences, of relevance are, the SCETT Annual Conference on 24 November       2010 `In Defence of Teacher Education' and the SCETT Annual Conference on       25 November 2012 `The Knowledge Summit'.
In March 2011 SCETT published a pamphlet with contributions from all       constituent member unions and academics, edited by Hayes, In Defence         of Teacher Education.
The pamphlet defended education as a subject.
As a consequence of the Education Forum activities and the SCETT seminars       and publications, meetings were held with the Minister of State for       Schools in October 2011 (with the Deputy Mayor of London for Education and       Culture and civil servants) and December 2011 specifically to discuss       therapeutic education, the defence of a subject-based curriculum and       teacher education.
Separate meetings were held with the Deputy Major of       London, leading London educationalists and consultants.
(3) The appointment of Hayes to London Mayoral Education Inquiry       (December 2011 - October 2012).
The report was published in October 2012       gaining &#163;20 million pounds of government funding and &#163;4.25 of GLA funding       towards meeting its objectives.
Full details and all documentation are       available on the GLA web site: http://www.london.gov.uk/strategy-policy/mayors-education-inquiry     The funding enabled the London Schools Excellence Fund (2013) to be       created to help implement the recommendations of the report.
The aim of       the fund is `to help students achieve better results through expert       teaching, improved subject knowledge and subject specific learning       methods'.
It will also sponsor an annual conference at which teachers can       debate education.
(4) Discussions with the education charity Real Action in June       2013 developed a plan for the establishment of a national `Free Curriculum       Association' to promote subject-based teaching and learning.
Another element of the defence of the human subject was a focus on       proving that children can easily be taught to read.
The Director of Real         Action (an honorary research fellow of the University), with       Professor Hayes and others, made a successful bid to take the Butterfly       phonics scheme into secondary schools and was awarded a &#163;458,000 grant by       the Education Endowment Foundation.
