     The research has influenced the Welsh Government in taking a more       integrated approach to the development of rural policy.
Ministers and       their advisers are also better able to target policy on specific rural       problems based on the detailed evidence and understanding provided by the       Cardiff team.
Other beneficiaries include a diverse range of policy,       practitioner and community organisations in Wales, the UK and the EU, who       have used Cardiff research findings in rural policy debates.
Pathways to impact     In the early 2000s, the evidence gap in Welsh rural policy was addressed       by the award to a Cardiff-led team (directed by Milbourne and including       Marsden) of the first Wales Rural Observatory (WRO) grant (2003-07, &#163;1.6M,       funded by the Welsh Government).
The team secured continued funding for       the WRO from 2007 to 2013 (&#163;2.45M, Welsh Government and European       Commission).
The WRO has applied Marsden's `rural web' model of integrated       policy development and Milbourne's insights into the nature of rural       poverty to specific research themes requested by the Welsh Government.
Commissioned research projects have investigated inter alia       poverty, housing needs and homelessness, service provision in deep rural       localities, the eco-economy and the impacts of Common Agricultural Policy       (CAP) reform on farm households.
As a result of these activities, the       Cardiff-led team has created Wales' first major evidential resource on       social, economic and environmental change in rural areas, with the Welsh       Government Deputy Minister for Agriculture, Food, Fisheries and European       Programmes stating at a recent WRO conference (22 March 2012, Cardiff) :       "I know from personal experience how valuable the Rural Observatory has       been in increasing our understanding of the needs of rural Wales."
The WRO regularly organises dissemination events for the Welsh Government       and its partner organisations on its findings.
The corpus of research that       it has developed has attracted broad media coverage in Wales, featuring in       the Western Mail, Daily Post, Farmers' Guardian, and on the BBC News       website.
Milbourne and Marsden have also directly disseminated their       research to Ministers, Welsh Assembly Members and other policy-makers       through frequent advice to Welsh and UK Government bodies.
For example       Milbourne's research on rural poverty in Wales resulted in an appointment       to the Welsh Government's Financial Inclusion Steering Group (2009-12) and       an invitation to present evidence to the National Assembly for Wales'       Rural Development Sub-committee Inquiry into Poverty and Deprivation in       Rural Wales (2008).
He was also appointed in 2011 to the Wales Rural       Development Programme Monitoring Committee, which oversees the       implementation of European rural development policy in Wales (2013-20).
Milbourne's research on rural housing and homelessness led to him being       appointed as the academic consultant on the Joseph Rowntree Foundation's       Commission on Rural Housing in Wales (2007-08)5.4, which led to       the establishment by the Welsh Government of a network of Rural Housing       Enablers to tackle rural housing needs across Wales.
Marsden's work on       integrated rural policy development resulted in him being invited to       advise on the development of the new Welsh Future Generations Bill, and       the new Environment and Sustainability Committee inquiry into Sustainable       Land Management.
He was also invited to present research evidence from his       research to the National Assembly for Wales' Rural Development Committee       (RDP) on local and regional agri-food initiatives (2012), the Wales RDP       Committee (2012) and the Welsh Government's CAP Reform Committee (2013).
Impact on policy-making     The Welsh Government's Head of Rural Policy, Terri Thomas, has stated       that "the work of the WRO has made a fundamental contribution to the       development of rural policy within the Welsh Government in a number of       ways.
The reports that have been provided by WRO allow rural policy       officials to.... secure modifications to policy proposals to ensure the       needs of rural areas are properly considered.
"5.1 For example,       the WRO's Deep Rural Localities project (2009) revealed the Welsh       Government and local authorities needed to do more to deal with the       specific problems of isolated communities in rural Wales.
These problems       included lack of broadband provision, an unresponsive public transport       system and poor heating and energy use in rented properties.
In a written       statement on 15.12.09, the Minister for Rural Affairs acknowledged the       importance of the researchers' application of a more integrated approach       to tackling rural problems, stating that "Cabinet...has identified       priority issues including community transport, broadband provision and       wider rural proofing, and agreed to co-operate across portfolios...[The]       findings provide the Government with a sound understanding of issues       affecting deep rural areas and we will now develop a co-ordinated approach       to address them.
"5.2 In a later debate on rural communities       (22.5.12), the First Minister was questioned on the Welsh Government's       subsequent response to the research.
He stated: "If you look at the "Deep       Rural Localities" research, you will see that as a result of that, four       community transport pilot projects were awarded money in order to take       them forward...It has led to the development and expansion of       interventions on ICT... and helped inform home energy efficiency       programmes, and make them more relevant to rural dwellers.
Crucially, it       also raised awareness and understanding of the level, breadth and specific       characteristics of rural poverty enabling WG to take due account of these       factors when developing its Tackling Poverty Programme.
"5.3     Key findings from another WRO research project - on CAP reform and         farm households - have also been influential in shaping the       development of rural policy in Wales.
Evidence from this research was used       by the National Farmers Union in its written evidence to the UK       Parliament's Welsh Select Affairs Committee's Inquiry into Broadband       Services in Wales in May 2011.
In relation to European policy, Terri Thomas states that WRO research       reports were used by the Welsh Government to argue with the European       Commission for a specifically Welsh implementation of the 2007-2013 Rural       Development Plan and in negotiations over the 2014-2020 Plan.
WRO work has       also examined the likely impact of CAP reform on Welsh agriculture,       adopting Marsden's concept of analysis by farm household.
The research       found that some 68 per cent of these households felt vulnerable in some       way to the changes, with 10 per cent contemplating selling up.
Thomas       comments that "the reports from these studies have been invaluable in       forming a picture of how the industry operate at a farm household - as       opposed to farm business - level and helping officials to gauge the impact       of the coming changes and the mitigating actions that are likely to be       most effective.
"5.1     Research projects have also influenced Welsh policy on sustainability,         food and rural development.
Marsden was appointed as Special Advisor       to the Welsh Assembly Sustainable Development Committee, providing advice       on the merger of the three environmental bodies in Wales - Forestry       Commission, Environmental Agency and Countryside Commission for Wales.
His       advocacy of a more integrated approach to land-based policy management led       to the Committee establishing a new merged body Natural Resource Wales       (April, 2013).5.7     The Cardiff team's research on food policy and regulation has       been significant in developing new food policy in Wales and the UK.
The       Chatham House Food Supply project5.8 initiated on the basis of       Marsden's research developed four global food supply scenarios to       understand the effects of food uncertainties on the EU/UK.
The scenarios       ranged from treating high food prices as a `blip' to a permanent crisis in       the world food supply.
The report, co-authored by Marsden, reflected his       research in calling for an integrated approach to securing the supply       chain, building in technological innovation, waste reduction and other       strategies, rather than viewing the agricultural sector in isolation.
The       report received considerable UK media interest and led to a major       international Chatham House conference in October 2008, which was attended       by more than 150 national and international delegates from the food,       financial and government sectors.
The resulting Cabinet Office       investigation of the global food crisis led to the UK Government's       publication in 2008 of Food Matters: Towards a strategy for the 21st         century5.9.
The report acknowledged the uncertain range       of potential future food scenarios and called for a more comprehensive       food policy.
This UK report resulted in the Cardiff team being       commissioned by the Welsh Government to undertake research to support the       development of a `radical' food strategy for Wales, entitled Food for         Wales, Food from Wales 2010-20205.10, which highlighted       the significance of the agri-food sector to economic development policy in       Wales and resulted in the establishment in 2012 of the Welsh Government's       Food Industry Task Group.
Impact on policy debate       Research findings from specific WRO projects have shaped diverse rural policy         debates in Wales, having been used in briefings produced by Children       in Wales, End Child Poverty Network Cymru, Woodland Trust Wales, House of       Lords Research Service, and the Welsh Local Government Association.
In       2008, Milbourne delivered the keynote paper at an EU policy conference on       Combating Poverty and Social Exclusion in Rural Areas in Budapest5.5.
He highlighted the problems of denial among poor rural people and the       difficulties of shaping policy response to the specific difficulties of       rural poverty.
This paper was later cited in a World Health Organisation       (2010) report on Rural Poverty and Health in the WHO European Region5.6       as evidence of the rural impacts of the global economic downturn.
