     M&#246;lnlycke Health Care is a world-leading manufacturer of wound care       products and a major service provider to the healthcare sector.
Its annual       sales have grown rapidly from EUR 770M in Q4 2007 to EUR 1,120M in 2012 of       which approximately 40% derives from its Wound Care Division with the       remainder coming from its Surgical Division.
M&#246;lnlycke Health Care has       sales operations in 30 countries and 7400 employees worldwide.
In wound       care management, the company has recognised (a) the pressing requirement       for the development of rapid and sensitive technologies for portable       medical diagnostics, and (b) that disruptive technologies can arise from       research at the physical/life science interface.
The company's current       estimates suggest that automated platforms for chronic wound diagnosis       will address a global market opportunity of between &#163;1.4bn and &#163;2.8bn by       2017.
In many cases, accurate and rapid diagnosis of wound infection can       inform treatment and guide isolation measures.
Related to this, bacterial       resistance to antibiotics is a public health issue of increasing       significance, and there is growing urgency not only for new treatments,       but also for improved diagnostics of often-lethal infections such as MRSA       (the hospital "super-bug").
Reduced efficacy of antibiotics, and the       increasing emergence of resistant strains, present serious problems for       the healthcare industry generally.
They represent a key target area for       M&#246;lnlycke Health Care across its wound-care operations.
Against the backdrop described above, M&#246;lnlycke has, as a matter of       priority, sought a route to establishing a competitive presence in the       diagnostics market for wound infection to complement and enhance its       sector-leading business in wound-care treatments.
This has now been made       possible as a direct result of underpinning research conducted by the       PHYESTA-led team.
PHYESTA's research on electrochemical impedance       spectroscopy (EIS) has created a particularly attractive and sensitive       detection mode which can be readily incorporated into point-of-care       platforms.
This meets the requirements of M&#246;lnlycke Health Care for a       clinically deployable solution with improved performance over existing       methods, which is compatible with rapid clinical response in infection       control.
Demonstrator experiments have illustrated the performance of the       methodology for specific biomarkers of interest.
The elimination of the       PCR (polymerase chain reaction) amplification step, which forms the basis       of many biomarker assays but usually takes several hours and/or skilled       sample preparation, represents an IP-protected disruptive technology; it       is a key aspect of the attractiveness of PHYESTA's diagnostic       methodologies to M&#246;lnlycke [F1].
The direct detection by EIS of wound-infection biomarkers emerged as       particularly well aligned to M&#246;lnlycke Health Care's core business       interests, and was chosen as the primary focus for discussions between       PHYESTA researchers, their Edinburgh collaborators, and MHC that were       brokered initially by Scottish Enterprise &#8212; Scotland's national economic       development and investment agency.
In August 2011, Scotland's Finance       Minister announced the completion of a business partnership with M&#246;lnlycke       Health Care whereby the company has taken an exclusive licence to IP from       the Edinburgh team's research project portfolio and established a new       Scottish subsidiary company: MHC Scotland Ltd.
The subsidiary commenced       operations on 3rd September 2012 and is located in Building 9 BioQuarter,       within Scotland's flagship life science incubator.
The establishment of MHC Scotland, and in particular its role in the       fight against MRSA, has generated significant press coverage [S1].
Scottish Enterprise has assisted M&#246;lnlycke Health Care in setting up its       facility at the BioQuarter, culminating in the creation of a new       Diagnostic Division of MHC which is led from its new Edinburgh subsidiary.
The impact in 2011-2013, deriving from the underpinning research, is       primarily on M&#246;lnlycke itself and on the Scottish economy, as evidenced by       (i) the formation of a significant new business venture and (ii) an       alteration of business practice through the adoption of a new technology       and the creation of a new Diagnostic Division.
As of 2013, MHC Scotland employs 8 full time staff members.
Expansion is       expected, and while the direct economic and healthcare impacts will occur       only after the current REF period, these developments already establish       substantial impact by changing the business plans of a major multinational       company.
Indeed, M&#246;lnlycke's primary reason for starting inward investment       to the UK has been to exploit the results of the PHYESTA-led Edinburgh       research team.
In a recent press statement [S2] the CEO of M&#246;lnlycke       Health Care comments "We are delighted to be expanding our         capabilities and product offering in close collaboration with Scottish         Enterprise and the University of Edinburgh.
This initiative marks our         entry into the diagnostic market.
We are very proud to be extending our         offering of efficient infection control and prevention solutions that         make life easier and safer for health care professionals and patients."
Formation of MHC Scotland also represents the first (and so far only)       international inward investment to the BioQuarter which is an important       part of Scottish Enterprise's delivery plan for economic benefit from the       life sciences.
The Senior Director of Scottish Enterprise, said that [F2]:       "Scotland's life sciences industry contributes over &#163;3 billion a year         to the Scottish economy.
[It is] our role to ensure that this continues         and Scottish Enterprise is committed to encouraging more ambitious life         sciences companies at all stages of development, from new spin-out firms         to major international corporations to locate at the world-leading         Edinburgh BioQuarter."
