     At a time when obesity affects one in seven children, according to the       NHS, the research resonated with a wide audience of policy-makers and       professional practitioners.
This was due in large part to the results       being broadcast internationally through a robust dissemination strategy,       which included 60 conferences (including the UN) in 16 countries.
For       example, the Sustainable Food Cities conference (2011) had over 500       delegates, including practitioners from 20 UK cities and 15 NGOs.
The       dissemination strategy also involved extensive engagement with influential       national and international media organisations, including BBC, which in       2011 conferred the Radio 4 Food and Farming Award to the Food for Life       Partnership (FFLP) [1], a five-year programme, established by the Soil       Association in 2007, which was heavily influenced by the research.
As       stated by Helen Browning, the Chief Executive of the Soil Association:       "Cardiff University's collation and analysis of international good       practice case studies has helped us to visualise better school food       services, impacting directly on our own programme of school food       transformation through the Food for Life programme" [2].
Funded through a       &#163; 16.9 million grant from the Big Lottery and involving four charities,       the FFLP is the most transformative school food programme in Europe.
It is       currently being implemented in more than 4,300 English schools, reaching       over 500,000 children, and preliminary results show that the initiative       has made a genuine difference, especially as regards the number of primary       school children eating 5-a-day.
Dr. Sonnino's invited participation in the       Soil Associations' Catering Mark Standards Committee since 2011 will       ensure that the Cardiff team's expertise continues to support this       important reform effort in the UK.
In Wales, the research was `very valuable and relevant' to the       government's reform of the national school food policy, Appetite for         Life, according to Jane Hutt, the Welsh Government's Finance       Minister.
[3] Morgan and Sonnino were invited to serve on school food       reform task forces in Wales (2008) and Scotland (2009) and to be part of       the team that designed and wrote the first National Food Strategy for       Wales in 2010 &#8212; a document commissioned by the Welsh Government to make       the national food system more sustainable.
Professional practitioners (in       Carmarthenshire, East Ayrshire, Greenwich and Rome) have used the research       to introduce new criteria into their public contracting processes to       ensure that sustainability criteria are allotted parity of esteem with       more conventional economic criteria - the first step in the transition to       a more sustainable school food system.
[4]     In Scotland, the research was instrumental in translating local good       practice into national policy through the direct participation of Dr.       Sonnino in the task force that designed the national food and drink policy       &#8212; Walking the Talk &#8212; Getting Government Right (2009).
The adviser       on Food Policy from the Food, Drink &amp; Rural Communities Division of       the Scottish Government, Robin Gourlay, wrote, "Morgan and Sonnino's ESRC       funded research continues to be a vitally important touchstone in my work       as it is in many spheres for practitioners involved in sustainable       procurement, community planning, health and education."
[5]     Morgan and Sonnino were invited to address two sessions of the United       Nations, when it convened the Seventeenth Session of its Commission on       Sustainable Development (4-15 May 2009), where member countries and NGOs       assembled to discuss the design and delivery of sustainable food systems.
As a result of these sessions, the researchers were invited to both       Zimbabwe and Kenya to discuss the promotion of food security through       stronger urban-rural linkages.
[6] The UN's World Food Programme (WFP) has       drawn extensively on the research to inform its own creative procurement       programme - Purchase for Progress.
[7] In 2012, WFP bought US$1.1       billion worth of food to feed more than 90 million people.
Furthermore, the research `strongly contributed to the conceiving and       rethinking of programmes such as the Home Grown School Feeding       (HGSF),' according to the WFP, which had formed a partnership with the       Gates Foundation to commission the researchers to deliver a study of HGSF.
[8] This allowed the Cardiff team to engage with policy-makers and       practitioners in low and medium income countries (principally Brazil,       Ghana and South Africa) that were reforming school food systems.
[9]     Findings from this research were discussed in a World Bank Report: Rethinking         School Feeding.
As a result of this, Sonnino was invited to       participate in a high-profile workshop in London (January 2012) on       `building the evidence-base for school feeding policies' - sponsored and       organized by the World Health Organization, the School Food Trust and the       World Bank.
[10]     Based on these impacts and the extensive engagement of the researchers       with policy-makers and practitioners, in 2013 Morgan and Sonnino were       awarded the Economic and Social Research Council's Celebrating Impact         Prize for outstanding impact on public policy.
This is the first       ever award given to an ESRC-funded project of outstanding social impact,       and the competition was extremely strong, with more than 30 applications       received for the public policy category.
The researchers were invited to a       high-profile award ceremony, held in London in May 2013, which received a       wide coverage on a range of scientific and government web sites.
The Prize       has been designed to further enhance the impact of the research; as a       first initiative, it will support Sonnino's travelling to the Negev region       in December 2013 to provide advice on an Israeli-Palestinian collaborative       initiative on procurement and sustainable local development.
