     Building directly on the above research, a well-publicised PHYESTA-IBM       collaboration developed a portfolio of benchmarks for life science       applications of HPC focussing on scalable molecular dynamics methods.
These were developed initially for the first generation of IBM's Blue Gene       supercomputers and subsequently formed the basis of a series of       application demonstrators for life science problems.
The demonstrator       portfolio benchmarked the ability of Blue Gene systems to deliver       enhancements in biomolecular simulation, and showed the accuracy of IBM's       methodology by comparing simulations with a series of experiments on the       liquid state structure of biomolecules including peptides.
This joint work       is recognized by IBM as contributing to sales in its life sciences       business since 2008.
In early 2000, IBM began serious efforts to exploit the transformational       opportunities that HPC, and specifically molecular simulation, then held       for the healthcare industry.
The then General Manager of IBM Life Sciences       noted that it offered "probably the greatest new market opening in IT         that we see on the horizon."
[text removed for publication].
By       2002, IBM had spent over $150 million establishing partnerships and       alliances, alongside $100 million in venture capital investments made to       gain access to cutting-edge technologies via start-up acquisitions.
[text         removed for publication].
IBM's Blue Gene project began with a grand       challenge declaration that the company would create a Petaflop       supercomputer to address major scientific problems, with a particular       focus on life sciences and biomolecular structure prediction.
The       life-sciences part of the project had two main business drivers: (1) to       demonstrate to the pharmaceutical and biomedical sectors that rational       structure prediction and rational design could be achieved via large-scale       simulation methods, with accurate results when tested against       high-resolution experimental data; and (2) to develop new simulation       methods and algorithms for the massively parallel machine architectures       that would be delivered by the Blue Gene hardware.
PHYESTA's contributions directly addressed IBM's requirement to improve       the impact and uptake of high-performance computing in the life sciences,       which was (and still is) seen as a key growth sector for the company.
Our       cutting-edge research and validated measurements were used by the company       as a way to establish customer and in-house confidence in the application       of its HPC product portfolio to high profile problems in life sciences       such as protein structure and function.
To achieve that confidence, IBM       recognized the requirement to develop new computational methods, coupled       with carefully coordinated experimental measurements (which IBM does not       perform in-house).
It recognized PHYESTA researchers as leaders in both       fields and hence partners of choice.
Professor Crain spent 2004 on       sabbatical as a salaried staff member at IBM (TJ Watson Research Center,       Yorktown Heights), and since then he has held a visiting position there       (2005-present).
His work with IBM included extensive neutron diffraction       studies and optical spectroscopic measurements, as well as the       incorporation of direct neutron diffraction structure factor evaluation       from molecular dynamics trajectories.
These advances formed a key part of       definitive benchmarking exercises to test force field and sampling methods       in highly disordered liquids, which demonstrated the capacity of IBM's HPC       products to accurately model aqueous solutions of amino acids, small       peptides and ultimately proteins.
The specific methods developed for       determining diffraction profiles directly from molecular dynamics       trajectories were not only used in the demonstrator portfolio, but also       form part of the data analysis suite in the OpenAtom software package       released in 2009/2010.
OpenAtom is a fine-grained parallel ab initio       molecular dynamics code optimised for Blue Gene and other platforms.
An IBM team leader responsible for Blue Gene applications highlights the       PHYESTA contributions to building the company's life science business,       noting specifically that the interaction has "spawned new         technological and business opportunities in the life sciences" and       that engagement in the early phases of the Blue Gene project has "helped         to drive sales" [F1].
IBM does not disclosed Blue Gene sales figures       to life sciences companies even in aggregate.
(This is unsurprising since       large corporations might easily glean competitor information from such       figures.)
However, since the release of Blue Gene P (the second generation       of machine in the Blue Gene series) in 2008, IBM's overall life science       business, which includes Blue Gene alongside other products and services,       has grown to achieve revenues of one billion dollars annually.
A growing       part of IBM's business model is to perform high-level computational       research on behalf of client companies who lack the relevant expertise to       do so themselves, using Blue Gene and other platforms within IBM.
The       company is now established as a prominent player in the application of IT       infrastructure to healthcare challenges, and operates a stand-alone       computational biology center (CBC) to interface to its life science       business streams.
Beyond the life sciences context, the Blue Gene platform       has become IBM's premier HPC product line and, since 2008, a major       business stream with high profile multi-rack installations at US National       Labs and in Europe, 5 of which hold positions in the top 20 supercomputers       in the world.
PHYESTA's work with IBM has led to improved algorithms for computer       simulation, implementation of replica exchange molecular dynamics on Blue       Gene, the development of scalable molecular dynamics modelling software       implemented on Blue Gene, and new data analysis tools as well as       experimental measurements against which to validate the simulations.
This       has enabled IBM to offer improved HPC solutions to customers in the       business-critical target market of pharmaceuticals and life sciences.
[text         removed for publication].
PHYESTA's role in the enhancement of IBM's       products and services has improved the ability of its client companies in       the life sciences sector to efficiently pursue product discovery and       development.
This represents a significant secondary impact on these       enterprises, and probably also tertiary impact on patient healthcare       (although the latter is mainly prospective at this stage).
Such knock-on       impacts are hard to quantify, but we can give one exemplar of secondary       impact because we were directly involved in it.
Soon after the initial demonstrator portfolio was in place, PHYESTA and       IBM staff set up a joint project with a UK healthcare SME, Mologic.
The       shared goal was to develop a single assay platform for the detection of       cancer biomarkers.
PHYESTA and IBM used computational modelling       approaches, as developed for the demonstrator portfolio, on Blue Gene       hardware, to establish the structural basis behind the complex binding       behaviour observed in one of Mologic's most promising antibody candidates,       greatly refining their understanding of the molecular recognition       mechanism.
According to the supporting statement from Mologic's Chief       Scientific Officer [F2] "we had no way of taking this forward to         challenge, substantiate or refine our hypothesis &#8212; an impasse which was,         to say the least, frustrating, given the commercial importance of the         antibody family in question".
As a result of Mologic's joint work       with PHYESTA and IBM, a single high-fidelity epitope was discovered, and       is now under development by Mologic as a universal single-site hCG assay       with particular applications in cancer screening.
Although not yet at the       stage to impact upon patients, this certainly represents an altered       business strategy for Mologic, in which HPC simulation was introduced to       solve a specific healthcare challenge that had not yielded to traditional       discovery approaches.
This exemplifies the type of uplift in business       practice and technology that IBM Life Sciences is now offering to client       companies across the sector.
The work with Mologic was recently featured       as an outstanding example of industry-academic collaboration in Drug       Discovery World, a leading pharma development title [S1].
Our relationship with IBM has been used in the company's recruitment       information and promotional videos, and has been highlighted by Scotland's       First Minister as an "exemplary University-Industry collaboration"       [S2].
The initial announcement of the joint effort between PHYESTA and IBM       was heavily promoted, particularly in regard to the early phases of the       Blue Gene programme and our work on HIV viral protein fragments       simulations [S3].
The work was featured as one of IBM's "Icons of       Progress" case studies in 2011, and is one of the IBM Centenary exemplars       of University relationships [S4].
This campaign attracted considerable       media attention from the BBC, Yahoo Finance, other news agencies [S5], as       well as a wide range of pharma trade journals where IBM highlighted the       importance of the PHYESTA work to the growth of HPC in the life sciences       sector, focussing specifically on the need for stringent experimental       validation of codes and algorithms as pioneered by PHYESTA [S6].
