     The primary impact has been and continues to be the successful       manufacture and commercialisation with growing worldwide sales of two       innovative photonic products by the company M Squared Lasers Ltd, based in       Glasgow.
[F1] In addition the commercial availability of such       technologically advanced devices through M Squared Lasers Ltd, continues       to have a worldwide secondary impact on user communities, such as those       engaged in applied research.
Particular examples of this latter include       the Defence Science &amp; Technology Laboratory (DSTL) at Porton Down       [F2], the Oil and Gas Sector in general, and Defence R &amp; D Canada       (DRDC).
In order to achieve maximum impact from our work, the University filed       patents in key areas of licensable technology based on such insights prior       to publication through the usual academic routes [S1].
In parallel, the       intellectual property residing within the patent portfolio was widely       promoted through personal contacts.
As a result of these activities M       Squared Lasers Ltd approached the University which led to licensing       agreements for manufacture/commercialisation, accompanied by a continuing       interaction to effectively attain total technology transfer.
The licensing       to M Squared Lasers Ltd in 2008 of the intellectual property /know-how       based on the above identified key research insights has resulted in two       emergent product lines based on our intellectual property (among a total       of five product lines currently on offer by the Company).
These are the       "Firefly-THz" range of Pulsed Tuneable Terahertz Lasers, and the       "Firefly-IR" range of Widely Tuneable Mid &#8212; and Near-IR Pulsed Lasers       [S2].
In the case of the Firefly-IR a hyperspectral imager based on the       licensed intellectual property has also been developed as a complementary       product.
Annual Net Sales for the two Firefly systems in 2012-13 have amounted to       &#163;432K to date; with Net Sales showing an average compounded annual growth       rate over the four years of the licence of 90%/annum.
Overall 50% of       company sales are in North America, with a further 30% in Asia [F1].
The       income to the University from royalties arising from the above       commercialisation activity in 2012-13 was &#163;60K.
The technology transfer activity overall was summed up by the CEO of M       Squared Lasers Ltd in the following statement: "St         Andrews have been instrumental in allowing M Squared to develop this         important new technology and their approach to ensuring "impact" from         their research is in our opinion the gold standard for such activities.
M Squared is highly collaborative and our team has been involved in many         technology transfers from universities but the St Andrew's team's         thorough, collaborative, and energetic approach has been our best         experience in such endeavours."
[F1]     The commercial availability of the Firefly-IR product through M Squared       Lasers Ltd has had significant impact on the research and development work       of the DSTL Detection Department at Porton Down.
Hyperspectral imaging       systems based upon the Firefly-IR laser have been used extensively in       trials for the remote sensing and imaging of hazardous chemicals and       compounds.
As the Principal Scientist, DSTL comments: "The unique         compact OPO design you pioneered has enabled the realisation of a         prototype IR imager for the stand-off detection of chemical warfare         agents."
[F2] This resulted in a further impact advantage for M       Squared Lasers Ltd in that DSTL have placed a number of contracts with       them for the further development and refinement of the laser and the       associated hyperspectral imaging system to a total value of &#163;1.5M.
This work was highlighted at the Centre for Defence Enterprise Showcase       Event held in London on 13th January 2011, leading to a half-page,       illustrated article in the Daily Star [S3] and inclusion on the British       Forces News Channel.
In October-November 2012 field trials were extended       to the USA in a collaboration involving personnel from DSTL, M Squared       Lasers and the US-Army Edgewood Chemical &amp; Biological Center (ECBC);       this work was selected for publication by the SPIE Newsroom Website [S5].
In 2012 M Squared Lasers was ranked eighth by accountants Deloitte in a       list of the UK's 50 fastest-growing technology firms; being placed top in       Scotland.
The Firefly laser range was identified as a key technology in       enabling growth of more than 1600% in the last 5 years [S4].
An additional       impact associated with the licensing of the key research insights has been       to enhance the ability of M Squared Lasers Ltd to access venture capital.
Additional funding of &#163;3.85M for development has been received from the       Business Growth Fund with the role of firefly particularly highlighted: "In         particular, we are looking at new market opportunities in remote         sensing, and will specifically focus on developing our Firefly laser         product, which has a clear application for the security and defence, oil         and gas and food and drink industries."
[S6] In October 2012 the UK       Technology Strategy Board funded two hyper-spectral imaging projects based       on the company's Firefly optical parametric oscillators under a strategy       aimed at promoting innovation in the Oil &amp; Gas Sector.
In a recent development (January 2013), the partnership between M Squared       Lasers Ltd and PHYESTA has been enhanced by the involvement of the       newly-established Fraunhofer Centre for Applied Photonics based in       Glasgow.
This centre offers new opportunities for enhanced technology       transfer activity, in particular with regard to the "Firefly" product       range, through collaborative effort involving all three partners.
As       remarked by the Head of the Fraunhofer Centre: "We are enthusiastic           supporters of this work because of the combination of scientific           excellence, commercial relevance and its potential in addressing real           world problems."
[F3]
