     Population dynamics modelling     Our framework for modelling wildlife population dynamics, as detailed in       section 2, has been applied to inform a range of real-world management       scenarios involving multi-million pound industries, including red deer       (UK), pacific salmon (USA) and the red grouse-hen harrier system (UK).
Buckland was invited to participate in a Royal Society of Edinburgh       inquiry into the future of the Scottish fishing industry; the resulting       report[S3] made a number of recommendations, several of which       have since been implemented.
However, we focus on applications to grey       seals, where our methods form the basis for management of most of the       world's populations.
In the UK, grey seals are a controversial       conservation success story: they were the first mammal given statutory       protection (in 1914) following historical over-harvesting; numbers have       increased substantially and now support a large eco-tourism industry, but       this has also brought conflict with both the fishing and the fish-farming       industries.
Management is led by an independent panel of scientists       convened by NERC, the Special Committee on Seals.
They meet annually and       provide management recommendations, as well as answering specific       questions posed by UK and Scottish government[S4].
Estimates of       population size, trajectory and other management-relevant parameters come       from a population dynamics model developed within CREEM, updated annually       (including throughout 2008-2013) with new survey information.
The other       globally significant population occurs in Eastern Canada; there the       methods developed for UK seals were adapted by members of CREEM to fit the       different population dynamics and survey methods.
These methods are used       by the management agency (Canadian Department of Fisheries and Oceans) for       population assessment, and also to determine sustainable levels of       harvest, should a commercial harvest for this species be re-started.
[S5]     The Deputy Chief Scientific Adviser and Head of Marine Evidence at Defra       writes: "Under the 1970 Conservation of Seals Act, the Natural Environment       Research Council has a statutory obligation to provide the UK government       with `...scientific advice on matters related to the management of seal       populations'.
This advice is provided annually by a panel of experts &#8212; the       Special Committee on Seals.
A major component of the advice is up-to-date       information on the size and distribution of UK seal populations &#8212;       information provided each year by the University of St Andrews Sea Mammal       Research Unit in collaboration with CREEM.
The Bayesian state-space       modelling methods developed by CREEM ... are instrumental in providing an       estimate of total population size from annual survey data.
They represent       the state-of-the art in the field ... Outputs from the models are viewed       with confidence by all stakeholders and in our view are a unique and       integral component of the advice to the Scottish Executive Environment and       Rural Affairs Department (SEERAD) and the Department for Environment Food       and Rural Affairs (Defra).
Overall the advanced population dynamics       modelling methods developed at CREEM have made a very considerable       contribution to Defra's ability to determine the population status of UK       grey seal populations, and to quantify uncertainty in these       determinations.
This has, in turn, contributed to assessing `Favourable       Conservation Status' for important seal populations &#8212; an EU requirement       under the Habitats Directive."
[S1]     State-space models are being used with increasing frequency to       characterise the population dynamics of salmon, delta smelt, and other       fish species in the western United States, and to provide guidance for       assessing the effects of management actions.
Methods developed at St       Andrews have allowed more realistic, and hence more reliable, modelling to       be conducted.
The US Fish and Wildlife Service used our methods in       2008-2010 to develop improved life cycle models for Chinook salmon, and to       assess the effects of management actions (particularly the effects of       water exports, and reductions in these exports) on delta smelt populations[S6].
Monitoring the impact of renewable energy developments     Our spatial modelling (and associated) methods have had particular impact       within the marine renewables industry.
Offshore wind, tidal and wave       energy is intended to produce 20% of UK electricity by 2020.
However, the       development and operation of energy installations has the potential to       impact wild animal populations in the area, and developers are required to       conduct environmental assessments as part of the permitting process, as       well as ongoing monitoring.
We have formulated UK-wide acceptable practice       for survey design and analysis in this area based on work commissioned by       Marine Scotland.
We have also advised government regulators, advisory       bodies, energy development companies and environmental consultants.
We       delivered a half-day workshop to representatives of the windfarm industry       in London in November 2010, developed an EPSRC-funded 4-day workshop on       impact assessment in offshore renewable energy development in June 2011,       attended by 33 individuals, and offered a training workshop in St Andrews       in September 2013, attended by 30 individuals.
Attendees represent       regulators (e.g.
Marine Scotland, JNCC, SNH), conservation bodies (e.g.
RSPB, BTO), consultancy companies and power companies.
The influence of our work on decisions of whether to license offshore       renewable energy developments is indicated in a letter from the Marine       Renewable Energy Programme Manager at Marine Scotland (Scottish Government       body), which states[S2]: `We scrutinise licence applications       for evidence that energy developers ... have provided robust estimates of       abundance of seabirds and/or cetaceans.
Marine Scotland commissioned CREEM       to provide a guidance document on best practice for the design and       analysis of baseline surveys of the distributions of birds and mammals and       subsequent environmental impact assessments ... of marine renewable energy       developments.
As a result, CREEM-based research outputs now form a central       part of the recommended statistical analysis for impact assessment in the       Scottish marine renewables sector.... We consider that the CREEM group is       an authoritative source of advice on marine survey and data analysis in       support of renewable energy developments ....
Robust data analysis is       providing sound foundations for both licensing decisions and for the       definition of impact monitoring programmes.'
Two UK companies use methods, developed in collaboration with us during       2008-2010, for surveying seabirds using high-resolution imagery: HiDef       (who use high-resolution video) and APEM (who use high-resolution stills).
Both companies now routinely use the methods to quantify seabird abundance       in areas proposed for large-scale offshore wind farms.
Thaxter and Burton[S7]       report on the Carmarthen Bay study, designed and analysed by us, and in       which both companies participated, together with WWT Consulting, to       compare and evaluate different survey methodologies.
