     The UK Government had used legislation to embed bilingual practices in       Welsh national life and public administration.
By 2008, the language       regime based on the UK Parliament's Welsh Language Act of 1993 was facing       difficulties in terms of consistency and effectiveness.
The Cardiff       research was key to informing policy changes in four main areas:             Legislative responsibility for the Welsh Language;        Replacement of Language Schemes with a set of new national standards;        Introduction of a Welsh Language Commissioner;        The National Assembly for Wales' own bilingual operation.
M. P. Jones, former Chief Executive of the Welsh Language Board, has       described Williams' research as "absolutely crucial to the reforms which       were undertaken by the Government of Wales in relation to establishing a       new language regime in Wales".
5.6 A. Ff.
Jones, former       Heritage Minister of the Welsh Government (2008-11) stated that "the       research carried out by the Language, Policy Planning Research Unit       [LPPRU] was invaluable in analysing the Welsh Language Act 1993, Welsh       Language Schemes, the Legislative Competence Order process and in looking       at comparative language policy and regulatory bodies in Canada and       Ireland."
5.7     Legislative responsibility     The LPPRU research was critical to two stages of devolving legislative       competence for Welsh language policy from the UK Parliament to the       National Assembly for Wales in 2009.
In 2009 Mac Giolla Chr&#237;ost was       appointed as Specialist Advisor to the Commons Select Committee on Welsh       Affairs, advising in confidence on the Proposed Draft National Assembly       for Wales (Legislative Competence) (Welsh Language) Order 2009 [LCO].
The       UK Parliament Select Committee was charged with deciding whether to       devolve this power.
Mac Giolla Chr&#237;ost drew on his research as       co-investigator on From Act to Action [FRP 1] to draw attention to the       deficiencies of the existing regime and the advantages of devolved       language structures overseas.
He provided the Select Committee with an       initial briefing paper on the LCO, reviewed the evidence submitted by       stakeholders and helped draft sections of its final report, including the       central recommendation which was to devolve legislative competence from       Westminster to the National Assembly 3.4, 5.4.
Meanwhile       Williams also informed the passage of the LCO through a series of briefing       and evidence papers to the National Assembly in early 2009.
As an       individual he discussed language policy issues with Ministers and their       advisers and also as a Member of the Welsh Language Board he briefed       senior civil servants and NAfW Committees providing evidence-based       alternative models and detailed best practice examples based on his       research within other jurisdictions, notably Canada, Ireland, Catalonia       and Finland.
He highlighted From Act to Action's finding that bilingual       service standards were inconsistently applied across Wales.
He argued that       building the necessary capacity to deliver satisfactory standards should       be organised at a Welsh level, following the models of devolved       legislatures abroad.
Replacement of Welsh Language Schemes     Following the devolution of language powers in 2009, Williams continued       to advise the National Assembly.
In invited submissions, he advocated an       overall national standard of bilingual services to the public, citing his       research showing this was a stronger alternative to the inconsistent       system of locally-agreed Welsh Language Schemes.
3.4,5.1 In       the Welsh Language (Wales) Measure 2011, the Welsh Government committed to       a series of National Standards as a replacement for the Language Schemes.
Williams has subsequently informed the thinking of the Minister for       Education and Skills and civil servants on the drafting and implementation       of this transition from Schemes to Standards.
A Language Commissioner for Wales     The 2011 Welsh Language Measure also created the new post of Language       Commissioner.
Again, Williams gave written and oral evidence to the       Assembly referring to his research into the deficiencies of the 1993 Welsh       Language Act.
He also cited several international precedents, including       the effect of language commissioners in Canada, Ontario, New Brunswick and       Ireland.5.3 He argued that a Language Commissioner for Wales       would act as a more robust ombudsman and articulator of Welsh language       rights and expectations.
Drawing on his work on language rights overseas,       Williams also provided expert advice which informed the decision to       include in the 2011 Measure a Tribunal with power to challenge the       Commissioner's decisions.
On April 1, 2012, the new Welsh Language Commissioner replaced much of       the Welsh Language Board, the body responsible for enforcing the previous       language regime established by the 1993 Act.
The Board also held       responsibility for promoting the Welsh language across Wales.
Williams'       international research had shown how regulatory responsibility could best       be guaranteed by the appointment of an independent commissioner, freed       from government intervention, while government was best placed to take on       responsibility for promotional work on language policy.
In his evidence in       2009-10, Williams recommended that the Welsh Government should take       responsibility for promotional activity.
At the end of March 2012, the       Board was abolished and its promotional functions transferred to the Welsh       Government 3.4, 5.3.
The work of the Language Commissioner in       comparative perspective is the focus of an ESRC award for 2012-5 (FRP3).
Operation of the National Assembly     In 2011-2, the National Assembly for Wales reconfigured the functions       governing its own bilingual operations.
Williams was invited to contribute       to the independent review (NAW Report, 2010), while Williams, Mac Giolla       Chr&#237;ost and S. Brooks informed a later stage through providing expert       evidence to the Assembly (NAW Report, 2012).
These interventions were       based on research undertaken in Ireland and Wales (FRP 1), 3.4       demonstrating the advantages of giving a language official status.
5.2,         5.5 The resultant Official Languages Bill, requiring all       departments to treat English and Welsh equally, was passed in October       2012.
The former Heritage Minister, Mr A. Ff.
Jones has described the       Cardiff research as "influential in that it gave us international       perspectives on the establishment of a Language Commissioner."
5.7
