     The underpinning research was motivated by government, cross-industry and       public need for better methods to monitor, manage, protect and publicise       international marine assets, including sensitive habitats with endangered       or threatened species, cultural heritage (in particular associated with       World Heritage Sites) and critical climate-impacted environments.
Sonar       methodologies developed by Bates have provided a cornerstone to meeting       the needs of government regulators while simultaneously providing the       platform for furthering public understanding of the asset importance of       such sites and habitats through a global media effort.
Specifically, the       methods have been used (1) to define the existence, map the extent and       establish the baseline habitat health of new Special Areas of Conservation       and Marine Protection Areas (MPA) in Europe and Central America, (2) to       provide the means to map, monitor and manage submerged heritage sites in       European waters and (3) to record and broadcast to a global audience the       changes in critical Arctic regions.
In addition, (4) financial impact in       the form of three spin-out companies ensuing from engagement efforts have       resulted from the research.
Impact on Policy Directives for the Conservation of Sensitive Marine         Habitats: The underpinning research conducted in the early 2000s by       Bates resulted in commissioned conservation reports for government, for       example on special areas of conservation, and through the development of       new sonar technologies, the adoption of the technologies in mapping       programmes.
Following, Bates acted in an external consultant role for the       definitive EU project for the mapping of European marine habitats &#8212; the MESH Project "Dr         Bates' work has been instrumental in the adoption of sonar-based         technologies for broadscale sea bed surveys into mainstream use....         demonstrating how these products may be applied to policy development         and operational delivery ....has bridged that gap between `standard         research' and operational delivery"     S1.
This ultimately culminated in the adoption of mandatory       procedures developed by Bates and colleagues for benthic habitat survey       based on the sonar methodologies which, in 2009, were adopted by all       principal UK Conservation Organisations (e.g.
Natural England, Joint       Nature Conservancy Council, Scottish Natural Heritage) for conservation       guidelines on habitat mapping that ultimately led to the establishment of       over 107 internationally important sites of Special Areas of Conservation       and Marine Special Protection Areas.
"These techniques have, and will         continue to help in the implementation of the Habitats Directive, and         more recently have been fundamental to the deliberations over MSPAs as         required by the Marine (Scotland) Act and the delivery of commitments in         the Marine Strategy Framework Directive"S2.
The       sonar methods, which provide key data for the management and thus       protection of key designated areas, are now an internationally adopted       practice (e.g.
fisheries protection research conducted for the Smithsonian       Tropical Research Institute, Panama under the Darwin Initiative); they       also provide the stunning visualisation widely used for public       dissemination of the information, for example with internationally       important deep-water coral sites.
Impact on Public Understanding of Marine Cultural Heritage: Since       the early successes of the multibeam programme for habitat evaluation, a       parallel research stream, as discussed in section 2, was developed for its       use in marine cultural heritage sites (wrecks, structures and drowned       palaeo-landscapes) appraisal, monitoring and management.
This led to       research contracts from English Heritage to develop new visualisations and       the mandate to adopt specific protocols for monitoring important submerged       cultural heritage such as the UK Designated and Protected Wrecks under the       Protection of Wrecks Act (1973)S3.
The site-specific       investigations stimulated work on drowned landscapes on the European Shelf       that are under increasing threat from climate impacts and development.
Here, associated research on the submerged Neolithic remains around World       Heritage sites in Orkney and Jersey revealed a lost world that not only       caused widespread academic interest by uncovering new insights into early       human expansion in Northern Europe but which also captured public       imagination through a series of media events.
Invited exhibits, included       the Royal Society 2012 Summer Science Exhibition which saw over 11,000       visitors, made up of an audience of 15% educational, and 85% general       public and mediaS8, with Europe's Lost World 	  web and Facebook pages       receiving over 38,000 unique hits over the exhibit period.
Follow-up related media interest included over 3,360 reporting websites,       477 blog sites and 1630 discussion sites worldwide through 31 July 2013S9,       interviews, as far afield as California and Russia, published articles and       commentary.
This led to the request for the work to be displayed in the       UK's first dedicated Mesolithic to Neolithic hunter-gatherer permanent       exhibit housed in an extension to the museum of Tomb of the Eagles,       Orkney that receives over 10,000 visitors       pa. Media interest has broadened with radio, TV and major articles       published in, amongst others, BBC Focus Magazine (average UK circulation,       65k/month) and National Geographic (average US circulation,       5million/month).
Impact on Public Understanding of Critical (Climate) Environments:       A complementary dimension that developed from the sonar mapping research       was first realised in 2009 with a request from Greenpeace       to join their expedition to northern Greenland to use Bates' techniques to       study the rapidly retreating, marine-terminating glaciers and areas of       sea-ice melt which are habitats to some of our most threatened species,       such as the polar bear.
Significant public and governmental attention       followed during the Copenhagen Summit, 2009, and with articles for       National Geographic (US, Australia and China) and presentations to policy       makers during the 2010 Arctic Frontiers conference.
The interest in this       work continued.
In 2012 the BBC2 /Discovery Channel/ BBC Learning       commissioned two programmes (BBC2         Operation Iceberg) dedicated to the research, specifically       highlighting the sonar and laser scanning advancesS4.
The       programmes were broadcast in the UK in Nov 2012, with an audience in       excess of 3.5 million and viewing numbers at 50% above slot averagesS4.
Subsequently, it has been broadcast to international audiences through the       Discovery Channel, an indication of the strong public interest in the       research which also received acclaim by winning the 2012 Royal Television       Society Best Science and Natural History DocumentaryS4.
Economic Impact: Apart from the evident, yet difficult to account,       economic impact resulting from public engagement events as listed above,       the sonar research has been used in commercialisation with the       establishment of the marine survey division of SOI         Ltd, a company dedicated to marine habitat conservation based at the       University of St Andrews (sales of over &#163;800k since incorporation) S7.
In 2008, the novel, high-fidelity acoustic technologies also resulted in       the spin-out company, Advanced Underwater Surveys Ltd (ADUS).
This company's success was demonstrated in 2013 when Deep Ocean UK, a       marine industry leader with turnover in excess of &#163;500Mpa, acquired a 50%       stake in the companyS6.
Finally, the survey methodologies       developed in early tests led one of Bates' students in mid-2011 to       establish GeoSurv Ltd UK, an       independent dedicated marine survey company that posted a first-year       turnover of over &#163;100kS5.
The sonar developments and their adoption across a wide spectrum of       applied marine spheres has had major national and international reach over       the past 10 years, as manifest by increased widespread use of the methods,       and has informed the attitude and awareness to significant global       environmental and heritage issues by both government and the wider public.
Further, the sonar developments have unlocked key information that is       being used to reduce potential harm to environments and heritage sites       with the establishment of Marine Protection Areas and Heritage Protection       Sites, helping to preserve them for future generations.
