     The underpinning research conducted by Professors Katsoulacos and Ulph       influenced changes that both OFT and AdC were making to their penalty       policies.
For OFT it contributed to the formulation of revisions to their       published penalty guidelines, and specifically a proposed increase in       baseline penalty from 10% to 30% of revenue.
For AdC it helped shape the       formulation of the penalty guidelines that they published for the first       time.
Since other major competition authorities-e.g.
the European Commission's       Competition Authority, (DGComp) &#8212; currently use a low 10% penalty, the       arguments and research could convince other authorities to raise their       penalties.
Any major change in policy by organisations such as OFT and AdC       will be subject to vigorous debate and a vast range of often conflicting       advice.
Some of this will arise through internal organisational       discussions as the policy is being developed.
But it can also arise after       the policy has been announced and so is subject to external scrutiny and       comment.
Research can therefore impact on the final policy that is adopted       both by shaping the initial policy formulation that is announced (and       finally agreed) and also by convincing the organisation that there are       robust defences against the arguments that oppose the initial policy that       is proposed.
However since the underpinning research by Professors Katsoulacos and       Ulph was undertaken at the same time as the policy changes were being       considered/proposed, and was published only after the policy was       announced/implemented &#8212; the impact arose as a result of knowledge exchange       activities with both OFT and AdC that was undertaken by Professors       Katsoulacos and Ulph in the course of the research.
Consequently the       supporting documents refer to these engagement activities rather than the       subsequent publications.
The underpinning research conducted by Professors Katsoulacos and Ulph       shaped OFT's decisions in two ways, and through both these channels       identified above.
The first research impact arose through the demonstration that Legal       Uncertainty could not be used as a general argument for keeping penalties       low.
At a meeting in Dec 2010 with OFT's Head of Economics, Professors       Katsoulacos and Ulph presented some early findings from their research on       legal uncertainty and penalties.
The Head of Economics was intrigued by       their result that, while legal uncertainty may sometimes be an       argument for zero penalties, there were other circumstances under which it       might lead to higher penalties [4].
This ran counter to the       prevailing view amongst many legal scholars that legal uncertainty would always       be an argument for low penalties &#8212; a view that had support amongst those       in OFT arguing against the proposal to raise penalties.
The Head of       Economics at OFT thought this work should be presented at greater length       to a wider OFT audience that included other policy analysts involved in       the review of penalty policy.
This presentation took place in January       2011.
In October 2011 OFT published a consultation document on its draft       revised penalty guidance.
Consistent with the research findings of       Professors Katsoulacos and Ulph, OFT announced its intention to raise       penalties.
However, in para 4.7 of the consultation document, it argues       that "genuine uncertainty on the part of the undertaking as to whether         the agreement or conduct constituted an infringement" could be a       mitigating factor in favour of a lower penalty.
This describes precisely       the type of uncertainty under which the research by Professors Katsoulacos       and Ulph suggests that a zero penalty MAY be warranted &#8212; though their       research indicates that further conditions need to be met to warrant a       zero penalty.
And indeed OFT does not propose to automatically reduce       penalties under this type of uncertainty &#8212; it just indicates that it might       do so.
So the policy formulation is precisely that proposed in the       research by Professors Katsoulacos and Ulph.
Evidence that the proposed       policy was shaped by the research findings on the issue of Legal       Uncertainty comes in a letter from OFT's Chief Economist who states that       the January 2011 presentation "was helpful in clarifying our thinking         about the role of legal uncertainty and ultimately helped confirm our         decision to propose higher starting point penalties."
[S1]     The second area of impact came by confirming OFT's decision to propose a       figure of 30% as the appropriate penalty.
The impact came through the       evidence submitted by Professors Katsoulacos and Ulph in January 2012, in       response to OFT's consultation.
In the consultation document OFT provided       no indication as to why 30% was the appropriate figure.
In their evidence       Professors Katsoulacos and Ulph reported on calculations they had       undertaken of what implications flowed from their analysis of optimal       penalties &#8212; work that was subsequently published in an academic paper[3].
The analysis and calculations by Professors Katsoulacos and Ulph showed       that while optimal penalties could be higher than the 30% figure proposed       by OFT, their proposed figure lay within a reasonable range of values.
Evidence that our advice had an impact through confirming OFT's view that       30% was a defensible figure comes from the letter from OFT's Chief       Economist which states "We found this helpful in terms of contributing         to a balanced range of views on our proposals because many of the         submissions were arguing against our proposals to raise the penalty         starting point, whereas in their submission Professors Katsoulacos and         Ulph put forward arguments and calculations that suggested that the         optimal baseline penalty might if anything be somewhat higher than the         30% proposed in our consultation document, in particular for         infringements that suffer from low detection rates."
[S1]     In France, the AdC has never published guidance on how penalties would be       determined.
Research by Professors Katsoulacos and Ulph had an impact on       the internal debates taking place within AdC by demonstrating the value of       reducing certain types of legal uncertainty through publishing guidelines       [4], and by setting out the factors that should be used to determine the       optimal penalties [3].
Although the guidelines are heavily constrained by       the French legal code, nevertheless evidence that our research had such an       impact on AdC's penalty guidelines comes in a letter from AdC's Chief       Economist which states "Discussion on the topic of fine setting was         extremely interesting and timely as the Autorit&#233; was in the middle of a         process to write its own sentencing guidelines (this was ultimately done         in May 2011).
Although our guidelines on the setting of fines for         anticompetitive behaviour were primarily driven by the legal         requirements of the French Code of Commerce and our past case law, all         the discussions that we have had with - among other &#8212; academic         economists (and therefore with Professors Katsoulacos and Ulph) have         greatly influenced our discussions internally and helped thus drafting         our guidelines."
[S2]
