     The impact of this case study was to influence public discourse and to       provoke discussion with       policymakers, economists and the general public about the need for       aggressive monetary easing       and fiscal stimulus in the wake of the financial crisis and recession of       2007-9.
This is a significant       contribution to a major contemporary issue.
The impact took the form of       policy-oriented papers       presented at conferences attended by top monetary policymakers,       dissemination of the research in       a widely read economics blog, and contact with Federal Reserve Bank       presidents and members of       the Federal Reserve Open Market Committee (FOMC).
There is a severe limit on the extent to which specific impact on Central       Bank policy can be       documented.
Central banks rarely cite factors other than economic       conditions when announcing       policy changes.
Evidence of impact is therefore largely indirect: speeches       by top policymakers,       seminars and conferences arranged or attended by them, and the actual       course of policy.
First,       there has been considerable interest within central banks in the adaptive       learning approach to       expectations, used in the underpinning research, and its implications for       policy.
For example, Prof.       Evans co-organized the 2008 "Learning week" workshop at the FRB (Federal       Reserve Bank) St.       Louis, gave a keynote talk at the July 2012 FRB St. Louis Conference on       "Expectations in Dynamic       Macroeconomic Models" and was a visiting scholar during 2008-9 at FRBs St       Louis and Cleveland.
The Bank of Japan commissioned a 2008 article by him on policy in deep       recessions for their       journal Monetary and Economic Studies.
Two regional FRB Presidents       have done important       research using the adaptive learning approach, have supported FRB       workshops and conferences       on its implications for policy, and have been keynote speakers at these       conferences.
[S5].
The underpinning research, and its implications for policy, has been       disseminated to the public,       economists and policymakers in a number of ways.
For the economics       profession, the results have       been summarized in published survey papers.
For the general public an       opinion piece was written       for a newspaper       and made available through the Economist's           View, a widely read economics blog       that aims for dissemination of recent papers, opinion and discussion in       economics.
[S6].
The       Economist's View also discussed and disseminated key parts of the       research of this case study       [S7, S8, S9], including the first         draft of the Stagnation Regime paper.
[Ref.
5].
For research economists and central bank policymakers, a major channel       for dissemination and       advocacy has been presentation of the research of this case study in       Conferences at which senior       policymakers were present, including at the Norges Bank (2009), IMF, Wash       DC (2009), Swiss       National Bank (2009), Erasmus University (2010), Universit&#233; de la       M&#233;diterran&#233;e, Marseille (2011)       and the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis (2012).
[S5].
In addition to       central bank economists,       each conference was attended by one or more senior policymakers: Governor       and Deputy       Governor, Norges Bank; the IMF Chief Economist; Governor, Central Bank of       Cyprus; Deputy       Governor, Sveriges Riksbank; and the Presidents of the Federal Reserve       Banks of San Francisco,       St Louis and Minnesota.
These people are influential or directly       participate in setting monetary       policy.
In addition, Prof. Evans's long-term co-author Seppo Honkapohja is       a Member of the       Governing Board of the Bank of Finland, which participates in ECB policy.
There have been several specific interactions with US monetary       policymakers.
The FOMC, which       sets monetary policy, has followed an aggressive expansionary monetary       policy throughout the       financial crisis and its aftermath, continuing to this day.
This policy       has been more consistently       aggressive than in other countries.
However, members of the FOMC have had       a range of views       about policy, and FOMC votes have not always been unanimous.
The policy       debate was intense in       early 2009 and again in the summer and autumn 2010.
The research of this       case study provided       support for the policies that were followed.
As noted below, several       members of the FOMC were       aware of this research, which provided strong reasons for following       aggressive policies, and which       supported the positions of the Chairman and the majority and against the       position of dissenters.
More specifically, in late 2008, Prof. Evans sent [text removed for       publication] a copy of EGH2008,       and received a reply thanking him for the paper and commenting on its       relevance in the current       circumstances.
[S3].
In March 2009, the authors of EGH2008 were told by a       Federal Reserve       Board economist that he would be presenting their "very nice" paper to       [text removed for       publication].
They were told afterward that the presentation had gone       smoothly and that it was       "good advertising" for their paper and research.
[S4].
In the summer of 2010, the President of the FRB, St Louis, who was viewed       at the time as a       centrist, published a paper "Seven         Faces of `The Peril'" which discussed the possibility that the US       might become enmeshed in Japanese-style deflation.
(The paper included       references to the       research of this case study).
[S8].
In this paper and in the months       thereafter, this President       recommended that low interest rate policies be supplemented by       "quantitative easing" (QE2).
In       September 2010, Prof. Evans wrote and first presented the "stagnation       regime" paper, extending       the earlier model and providing additional support for aggressive monetary       and fiscal policies.
Thispolicy-oriented         paper was disseminated and discussed on the blog Economist's Views.
[S9].
In his [text removed for publication] 2010 speech, [text removed for       publication] suggested that       interest rates might need to be increased to avoid deflation.
On       August 31, the President of FRB       St Louis, in commenting on a post on the Fedwatch         blog, mentioned that Prof. Evans is "one of the         world's experts on the question of the dynamics" lying behind the       Figure that he used in his Seven       Faces paper.
[S8].
Noting this, Prof. Mark Thoma [S2] asked Prof. Evans to       make a video       explaining why adaptive learning theory implies that increasing interest       rates is the wrong policy       when deflation threatens.
This         video was posted on Economists' View on Sept. 1, 2010.
[S7].
According to Prof. Thoma, the video has had over 9,600 views.
[text       removed for publication]       [S10].
[text removed for publication]     The policies of the FOMC have been in line with those recommended in the       research of this case       study.
Aggressive monetary policy has been followed, and the Chairman has       been explicit       concerning the danger posed by deflation [S11(i)], a central focus of this       research.
The Chairman       has also consistently stated that, in the context of longer-run plans for       fiscal stability, short-term       fiscal stimulus and deficit spending is desirable to support the economy.
[S11(ii)].
The policy of       Quantitative Easing can be viewed as a response to inadequate fiscal       stimulus.
These policies       have been highly controversial.
While the Chairman and the majority of the       FOMC had many       reasons for pursuing the policy they followed, the research of this case       study will have been helpful       in providing support for their stance.
