     As mentioned before, monetary policy is an area where different types of       models are heavily used with the results being one input to the policy       decisions.
[S1] Hence, it was only natural that research on monetary       policy and learning got attention in policy circles as evidenced in the       speeches by the Chairman of the Federal Reserve and the President of the       ECB.
[S2].
An indicator is the number of conferences devoted to this       topic, at least 14 of which have been sponsored by central banks including       those by the Federal Reserve St Louis 2006-08 and 2012, European Central       Bank (ECB) 2006, the Central Bank of Chile 2007 and the Bank of Spain       2013.
[S3, S4, S5] It must be recognised that the impact of the       underpinning research is largely indirect.
As discussed in Section 2, the       underpinning research in EHM (2009) [2] and HME (2013) [1] pioneered a       methodological approach that is now increasingly adopted by the economics       profession in addressing a series of issues that are of major concern to       policy makers; these include issues in both monetary and fiscal policy.
In       particular, the underpinning research has contributed to an outgrowth of       research papers that have influenced discussion among policymakers about       the need for aggressive monetary and fiscal policy in the wake of the       recent Great Recession.
The work has also influenced the worldwide       teaching of macro and monetary economics; it is part of the subject matter       taught in leading MPhil/PhD programmes and has created a flow of PhD       students specialising in this broad research area internationally.
[S1,       S6]     Macroeconomic Policy     As background, there has been considerable interest in the adaptive       learning approach as a way of analysing monetary policy in central banks,       e.g.
see ECB         working paper1316.
Since central banks are very secretive about the       way they arrive at policy decisions, the evidence of impact from the       research on learning to policy making is necessarily indirect.
One way to       gauge the impact of this literature is to note that key people involved in       this particular research participate in monetary policy making decisions       in central banks.
This is true for the Presidents and CEOs of the FRBs of       St Louis and San Francisco who participate in discussions of policy       options available to the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC), the key       monetary policy making committee in the US.
The San Francisco FED       President continues to do research on this topic, presenting related work       in the 2012         Learning Workshop in the FRB of St Louis and hosting a conference on       the same topic in 2013 in the San Francisco FED.
The St. Louis FED       President was a keynote speaker at the CDMA conference "Expectations         in Dynamic Macroeconomic Models" in September 2011 at the University       of St Andrews [S3], which initiated the conferences of the same name at       the FRBs in 2012 and 2013.
In addition, Prof. Mitra's long-term co-author       Dr Honkapohja is a Member of the Policy Board of the Bank of Finland,       which participates in ECB policy.
The underpinning research in Section 2 has broadly convinced the       profession that the plausible way to analyse policy changes under bounded       rationality is by using the IH approach.
The methodology has inspired a       range of work in macroeconomic policy issues that in turn have been very       influential in affecting public discourse.
A selection of these issues is       outlined below.
One piece of work has been the effects of fiscal policy on output in       economic models.
Mitra, Evans and Honkapohja (2013) [4, 5], henceforth       MEH, show that increases in output can be significantly higher under       adaptive learning and fall within ranges reported in the empirical       literature.
This work provides support to the fiscal stimulus packages       that have been adopted in various countries in the aftermath of the recent       Great Recession; a striking example is the American Recovery and       Reinvestment Act (ARRA) implemented in the US in February 2009.
In       contrast under the (unrealistic) assumption of RE, the impacts of fiscal       stimulus on output are very low and well outside the range found in       empirical studies; thus under RE, there is little or no support for the       recent aggressive policies.
Mitra has presented [5] at the First         Workshop [S7] of the International Network on Expectational       Coordination (INEXC) in Paris, 2012, which is an initiative supported by       the Institute         for New Economic Thinking.
This work was also presented by Mitra's       co-author as part of a keynote talk at the July 2012 FRB St Louis       Conference on "Expectations in Dynamic Macroeconomic Models as discussed       above, in the presence of the Presidents of the Federal Reserve Banks of       San Francisco and St Louis (and other members in policy circles) [S3].
In the wake of the economic crisis in 2007, central banks have had to       lower their interest rates to almost zero, creating an unprecedented       situation with various uncertainties.
The methodology explained in Section       2 is a very natural modelling approach to analyse these situations and       there are an increasing number of studies using this approach.
One example       is the analysis of problems, that could arise from the economy being stuck       in a deflationary state for a prolonged period of time especially when the       interest rate is at very low levels, and the consequent macroeconomic       policies that might be needed to pull the economy out of this state.
This       was clearly a major concern in the US in the early 2000s which in turn was       partly influenced by the earlier experience of Japan in the 1990s.
"Expectations,         deflation traps and macroeconomic policy" by Evans and Honkapohja       which uses the approach of EHM (2009), received widespread attention in       policy circles including at numerous conferences organised by central       banks, e.g.
by the Swiss         National Bank and Norges         Bank in 2009 and by Erasmus         University in 2010 [S4, S8].
These conferences were attended by       important personalities in central banking circles including Governors of       the Central Banks of Cyprus and Norway and the Deputy Governor of the       Central Bank of Sweden; see also "Seven         Faces of The Peril" by the President of the St Louis FED.
Like MEH       [5], this work has justified the type of aggressive monetary and fiscal       policies that have been adopted in countries since the onset of the Great       Recession.
This is further detailed in the separate case study of Evans       titled "Policy advocacy for economies in deep recessions".
The IH approach in EHM (2009, 2012) [2, 3] has also inspired a related       strand of work on the effects of fiscal stimulus and austerity.
Whether       governments should undertake fiscal stimulus to reduce unemployment or       engage in austerity because of rising concerns about debt is a hotly       debated topic since the advent of the Great Recession.
Historically, some       fiscal consolidations have turned out to be expansionary and MEH [5] show       that the empirical effects of these consolidations are well captured by       the assumption of adaptive learning under the IH approach; in sharp       contrast, the assumption of RE fails to replicate important features       present in the data for these episodes.
"Liquidity         Traps and Expectation Dynamics: Fiscal Stimulus or Fiscal Austerity"       by Benhabib, Evans and Honkapohja (2012) further analyses the global       dynamics of fiscal policies in the New Keynesian model using the IH       approach of EHM when the interest rate is subject to the zero lower bound.
This paper has been presented at the FRB         St Louis workshop in 2012 attended by the Presidents of the FRBs of       San Francisco and St Louis and at the Bank of Spain Workshop in 2013 also       attended by central banking personalities including the Deputy Governor of       the Bank of Spain [S3, S5].
A Board Member of the Bank of Finland has       cited this work in a speech       given in Istanbul in June 2012 [S9].
This work has emphasised the       importance of taking the (zero) lower bound on interest rates into account       when formulating macroeconomic policies.
Graduate Training     Mitra's underpinning research exemplified by the work listed in section 3       has made the learning literature more mainstream in macro and monetary       economics and has impacted the way the subject is taught in MPhil/PhD       programmes in a range of universities worldwide.
Learning topics have been       taught in PhD courses in top institutions like Harvard, Princeton,       Columbia, Cambridge, Oregon and Washington University, St Louis.
Mitra was       invited to teach an MPhil course (S210) on "Learning and Macroeconomic       Policy" at the University of Cambridge in 2008 [S6].
Evans, Honkapohja and       Mitra (2012) [3] has been in the reading list of the second-year PhD       course "Imperfect Knowledge and Macroeconomics" at Harvard University and       EHM (2009) [2] has appeared in the reading lists of courses taught in       institutions like Cambridge, Oregon and University of California Irvine.
[S6] Several PhD students specialising in topics using the learning       approach in macroeconomic policy have graduated from a range of       institutions including the University of Vienna, University of California       Irvine, Columbia and Princeton.
[S1]
