     The research has had an impact on the cultural life of both individuals       and groups.
It has also had       commercial impact increasing economic prosperity in the publishing,       creative and tourism       industries.
Domain 1: English language creative writing       Davies' work, and in particular her approach to the translation of the       Mabinogion,3.1 has made this       medieval Welsh language classic newly accessible, especially as a source       of literary inspiration in       English.
Seren Books has commissioned award-winning authors to reinvent       the original stories in a       series entitled New Stories from the Mabinogion; at the end of       each novel the reader is directed to       Davies' translation for a text of the original story.
According to editor       Penny Thomas, `the series is       certainly indebted to Davies' work in that it has provided author, and       myself, with a reliable and       inspiring translation of the original tales that has been invaluable in       writing our own retellings.'
Direct impact of Davies' translation is acknowledged, for example, in the       novels of Owen Sheers       (White Ravens, 2009), Niall Griffiths (The Dreams of Max and         Ronnie, 2010), Gwyneth Lewis (The         Meat Tree, 2010),5.1 and Cynan Jones, Bird, Blood,         Snow (2012).
Lewis claims that `the translation       has changed what's possible for writers in both Welsh and English in Wales       and beyond', arguing       that `it was impossible for contemporary writers and readers to appreciate       the full impact of these       medieval tales [before Davies' translation] because the available       translations were so out of date.'
The translation has also been the source for children's books such as       Margaret Isaac's Arthur and         the Twrch Trwyth (Apecs Press, 2012; illustrations by Margaret       Jones) for which Davies wrote the       foreword,5.2 and international storyteller Daniel Morden's Tree         of Leaf and Flame (Pont Books,       2012; illustrations by Brett Breckon) which won the Tir na n-Og Award for       2013, an award       presented annually by the Welsh Books Council to the author of the best       book for children and       young people.
Morden claims that Davies' translation `was a constant       reference point throughout       the research and writing process.
My intention was to create a version of       these tales that could be       read out aloud, and had the terse clarity of a performance text.
Davies'       translation, with its       emphasis on the performance aspects of the tales, helped me to do so.'
Domain 2: Heritage management and tourism       Davies' translation has had an impact upon the tourist industry and the       presentation of Wales'       Celtic heritage.
As noted above, her research informed Margaret Isaac's Arthur         and the Twrch         Trwyth (2012), a re-telling of the tale of `How Culhwch won Olwen'       based on Davies' translation       (2007, pp.179-213), together with an associated website       http://www.arthurandthetwrchtrwyth.org.uk/       .
In turn, Isaac has collaborated with the Black       Mountain Centre, the Fforest Fawr Geopark, the Brecon Beacons National       Park and Cwmaman       Council to develop and promote the Twrch Trwyth Trail in greater       Carmarthenshire (the Twrch       Trwyth is the fantastical wild boar hunted across Wales by King Arthur), a       project supported by       Literature Wales and the Welsh Government.
The Cwmaman portion of the       trail was officially       opened in October 2012 in the presence of some 150 people; Davies was an       invited speaker at the       event which included a musical re-enactment of the story by the children       of Ysgol y Bedol, Garnant       (see       http://www.carmarthenshire.gov.uk/English/news/Pages/HistoricAmmanfordRiversideWalklaunched.aspx).5.2       The Twrch Trwyth Trail and similar initiatives will be boosted by the       development of       Davies' mobile app (see below).
Since 2012, Davies has been working closely with the Pembrokeshire-based       SME Writemedia         Partnership (see http://www.writemedia.co.uk/       ), a multi-media agency that delivers projects to a       wide range of clients such as D&#373;r Cymru Welsh Water, Welsh Rugby Union and       the Mary Rose       Trust.5.3 In March 2013, Writemedia, in collaboration       with Davies, was awarded a grant via the       Welsh Government's Digital Tourism Business Framework Programme3.7       to produce a sustainable       Mabinogion Digital Platform which will support tourism objectives in terms       of growth, employment and the footfall of visitors into convergence funded       areas of Wales.
The       total eligible costs of &#163;65,718.00 is matched (47% Claimant contribution)       by Writemedia.
This is       enabling the creation of a Mabinogion web portal and mobile app, providing       users with extracts       from the texts (both in the original and in Davies' translation) together       with geo-locational data to       guide them to designated Mabinogion sites and access resources such as       videos, stories and       anecdotes associated with these locations.
Specific trails and walks are       also being created in       partnership with local tourist authorities, e.g.
the Narberth Trail, the       Rhonabwy Trail, and the Trail       of the Severed Head.
GPS marketing solutions are being provided to assist       visitors with their travel       information, stopovers, food and beverage.
The aim is to introduce the       Mabinogion tales to a new       audience whilst engaging with tourism in Wales so as to enhance the       visitor experience.
Domain 3: Contemporary storytelling       Davies' research on performativity and storytelling has contributed to the       renewal of the practice of       telling the Mabinogion by contemporary practitioners of the art of       storytelling.
In July 2010, Davies       held a session for storytellers on performing the Mabinogion at the Beyond       the Border International       Storytelling Festival (St Donat's, Vale of Glamorgan) and in October 2011       led a weekend workshop       at a Storytelling Retreat in Aberporth, organised by international       storytellers Hugh Lupton and Eric       Maddern (attendance: 20).
A further workshop, entitled Performing the         Mabinogion: A Workshop         for Storytellers, was held at Chapter Arts Centre, Cardiff, in July       2013, attended by 13 participants.
Ninety percent of those who completed a questionnaire (n=10) indicated       that they would use the       information and insights gleaned in the workshop in the future.
All       participants stated that they       would welcome further workshops on the topic and this has been actioned.
These workshops       confirmed and developed the use of Davies' translation by a community of       professional storytellers.
So, for example, Michael Harvey5.4 and Cath Little attended the       July 2013 workshop and will be       collaborating with Davies on planned future projects.
According to Little,       `I have used the       translation in my piece inspired by The Lady of the Well.
The show has       been well received in       venues across England and Wales and was recently performed at the opening       night of the Settle       Storytelling Festival... the translation has really helped me bring the       stories to a wider audience.'
In       addition, Harvey claims that two of the strongest influences on his       ability to seriously begin       performing the Mabinogion were Davies' Crefft y Cyfarwydd together       with her translation of the       tales; he states, `I have been lucky enough to have performed stories from       the Mabinogion       throughout Wales as well as the rest of the UK, Europe and America and the       fact that these       strange yet recognisable landscapes have become real for so many audiences       is in no small part       due to Professor Davies' rigorous and accessible scholarship.'
Domain 4: Commercial sales       The scholarly and popular reach of Davies' OUP translation is reflected in       the global sales of the       book (32,325 total sales since publication) of which 22,767 were in the       period 1st January 2008 to       31st July 2013, comprising 4,909 hardback, 16,596 paperback and       1,262 in electronic format.5.5       This reflects a major commercial success for a translation originally       intended for primarily       academic use.
Davies' publication was translated into Hungarian in 2008       (General Press Kiad&#243;),       ISBN 9789636430559 (current sales 1,186).
The translation has also benefitted the digital publishing community       since its inclusion in 2012 as a       featured book on the commercial website Book Drum,5.6a platform       which offers an original,       multimedia interpretation of international bestsellers.
According to the       Editorial Director, the total       page views for the Book Drum profile of Davies' translation is 10,200.
