     Dr McMullin's published research and UN-commissioned policy reports have       shaped the ideas and opinions of practitioners engaged in designing and       implementing post-conflict DDR programs.
This research also influenced the       adoption and design of new programs and changes to existing programs that       have been reviewed independently as having made a positive difference to       the lives of ex-combatants and their post-conflict communities.
The       impacts discussed in this section are on international organization       practitioners' thinking and coordination, on international DDR programs       and policy, and on ex-combatant access to improved and extended benefits.
Impacts on practitioners' thinking, debate, and coordination     Dr McMullin's published research and policy reports have informed and       stimulated practitioner debate and thinking about DDR program duration,       components, and rationale.
The researcher is listed as one of only three       independent experts consulted in the preparation of a major UN report on       DDR, the 2010 `New Horizon Discussion Report on Second Generation DDR',       and four of the researcher's publications are cited as recommended reading       in the report.
The New Horizon process is designed to articulate a       high-level, forward agenda for UN peacekeeping.
Dr McMullin's research is       also mentioned and cited throughout the Discussion Report, as a source of       information for advice on how to conduct security monitoring during DDR       processes (p.42), how to disarm militias (p.48), and how to structure cash       assistance for ex-combatants (p.49).
[S3]     According to the former Director of the Reintegration, Rehabilitation and       Recovery Section of the UN Mission in Liberia, Dr McMullin's reporting and       research facilitated discussion and review of policy and practice within       the UN Mission of Liberia, because they were `opportunities to discuss and       review our modus operandi' [S1].
He also credited the reports with       being `quite useful in highlighting a new and more practical "hands-on       approach" to reintegration, rehabilitation and recovery of ex-combatants'       and with identifying and analysing elements of this approach in helpful       ways to allow the wider UN system to learn from and model in subsequent       missions, especially concerning post-conflict stabilization of high-risk       security areas and post-conflict management of natural resources [S1].
The 2009 report is singled out for consolidating agreement within the UN       system about the importance of a prominent and sustained DPKO role in       ex-combatant reintegration, which prior to the programs in Liberia had       been mostly the domain of development actors, with DPKO presumed to       `provide security only' and not `do development'.
The 2011 After Action Review on Burundi (IO1) has had an `impact       on thinking and programming not only at DPKO, but also a wider impact for       the UN system' [S2, S4].
It `continues to be discussed at the       senior level of the UN, including at the joint DPKO-UNDP (UN Development       Programme) annual meetings of Senior DDR Managers' and `is singled out for       its comprehensive and effective consultation across the UN system and for       its analysis-driven approach to assessment and evaluation' and for its       `rich history of UN involvement in Burundi that has been used in modelling       subsequent programs'.
`[UNDP] use the report as a model for the kind of       assessment [it seeks] to commission on future projects and programs.'
[S2]       It `helped to ignite discussion between DPKO, UNDP, and the World Bank on       how to improve communication, coordination, and strategy in designing and       delivering reintegration for returning populations (including       ex-combatants) as well as host communities' [S2].
Conventional       wisdom was that World Bank involvement would end after the MDRP, but the       2011 report sketched numerous ways in which the Bank's involvement would       continue to be useful and needed, and articulated avenues of future       cooperation and integration between the UN and World Bank [S2, S4].
Finally, the Burundi report analysed the peacebuilding contributions of       the UN Peacebuilding Commission and Peacebuilding Fund, noting that       because these institutions `were able to commit money to a controversial       process that no other donors were willing to fund, a major obstacle to the       peace negotiations and peace process was removed, which paved the way for       eventual disarmament' of the National Forces of Liberation (FNL) in       Burundi [S2].
The report's focus on these issues has `helped the       UN system to recognize the value added of the PBC and PBF and also the       value of recognizing potential political benefits of providing       reintegration assistance' [S2].
Impacts on international DDR policy and practice     All of the policy reports have structured and stimulated debate within       the UN system about the political dilemmas of DDR programming, the       linkages between DDR and Security Sector Reform, the nature of beneficiary       targeting, and the need for more sustainable, labour-oriented approaches       to reintegration [S1 and S2].
All of these were policy       recommendations that built on the insights of underpinning research       highlighted above.
According to a senior UNDP official, a key policy       impact of the 2011 Burundi report `has been to further convince the UN       system of the need for follow-up livelihood and reintegration support',       which `has assisted UNDP in extending its support programs in Burundi' [S2].
Research on Liberia resulted in similar policy impacts.
The New Horizon       Report on Second Generation DDR, relying `extensively' on Dr McMullin's       research, was instrumental in moving DPKO towards adoption of the       `approaches and programs conceived and utilized in Liberia' and identified       and analysed in the 2007 and 2009 policy reports [S1].
The       research helped to effect a policy shift at senior levels of the UN by       contributing to `widen [UN] understanding of new approaches for assisting       ex-combatants', and `advanced UN-wide understanding of the impacts of new       initiatives from the field' [S1].
Prior to PI's policy reports,       such initiatives were considered `too new' and `too proactive' for a       typical UN peacekeeping mission' [S1].
The 2007 report (IO3) is singled out as providing crucial       guidance for actors in the field about how to proceed in assisting       ex-combatants who had been excluded from original programs because of       donor and implementing actor errors.
It helped to convince UN Headquarters       that this `remaining caseload' of ex-combatants should receive assistance,       and `influenced UNMIL towards undertaking increased efforts at identifying       funding for a final phase of rehabilitation and recovery' in the form of a       $12million program for these ex-combatants concluding in 2009 [S1].
Welfare impacts for ex-combatants and community beneficiaries     Respondents credited the policy reports with identifying key lessons       learned and influencing debate and thinking across the UN system in ways       that promoted the consolidation of security after war in high-risk areas (IO2       and IO3 both recommended the use of careful security monitoring       and targeted aid assistance in communities located in vulnerable security       areas) and that extended livelihood and social welfare benefits to       ex-combatant beneficiaries and their host communities.
The impact of the       reports' policy recommendations, which were themselves highly informed by       the conclusions and data of published research, helped to improve       ex-combatant access to programs (given the impact of the 2007 report on       the adoption and contours of the follow-up program for the `residual       caseload') and helped to improve program provision (given the impacts       attributed to the research in terms of generating debate within the UN       about program duration and contours).
