     Bunn's research, described in section 2, has contributed to (1) enhanced       cultural understanding       across disciplines and international boundaries, (2) enhanced creativity       and society at a micro-level,       (3) economic Impact as a result of knowledge exchange between Kyrgyz and       British       partners, and (4) cultural preservation on the world stage through a       consistent practice of       knowledge exchange between her own research findings and different domains       of textile       knowledge and expertise, linking international practitioners, museums, art       galleries and agencies.
Long-term work as an academic partner with Kyrgyz organization       CACSA/CACSARC, researching       local knowledge, working with local organizations and writing, has       encouraged local practitioners in       developing the visibility of felt production at an international level.
Exhibitions and UK educational       activities have impacted on British public and UK craft practitioners and       links have been       established between UK and Central Asia textile artists and institutions       Financial benefit has been       achieved for visiting artists which will impact on their local       communities.
Long-term support has       encouraged Kyrgyz partners in their bid for Intangible Cultural Heritage       status which they achieved       in December 2012, and which is designed to protect the appropriation of       their cultural property.
The networking opportunities provided by Quilts to Couture (4)       have since been built on and have       enabled Kyrgyz artists to return to the UK to exhibit and sell their work,       which they had never       before been able to do.
There has been an alternating, iterative dynamic       between global and local       audiences and experts, and overall significant change to the lives of       individual women and in       Kyrgyz women's craft initiatives through sustained cultural exposure.
Through her concern with knowledge exchange, Bunn has consistently       generated links between       Kyrgyz and UK organizations, linking different domains of textile       interest, from practitioners to       museums, art galleries and international agencies.
Since the publication       of Nomadic Felts       (November 2010), the author has been invited to lecture on the subject at       international institutions       and conferences, including at the University of Oxford and Washington       Textile Museum.
The       exhibition subsequent to her work in 2011 generated both impact and       further research data,       engaging the British public with the creative arts of the region and       enabling 12 Kyrgyz practitioners       to come to the UK to work with British textile artists and establish       economic links.
Enhanced cultural understanding across disciplines and international         boundaries.
Following       Bunn's initial participation in the UNESCO Steppe Route expedition as an       `expert in felt handicraft'       and her collaboration with the British Museum on the exhibition Striking         Tents (on Kyrgyz felt       textiles), the Museum commissioned Bunn to write an `ethno-history of the       world through felt'       covering all Eurasia felt-making traditions.
This formed her recent volume       Nomadic Felt (2010),       published in the British Museum Press academic series Artistic Traditions       in World Cultures,       Bunn's underpinning research, specifically Nomadic Felts, which as       both a scholarly and publicly       accessible volume, has brought knowledge of this subject to increasingly       wide audiences       (including anthropology, history, textiles and general interest) in the       UK, the USA and across the       world.
From the Kyrgyz perspective it both positioned their work along       other world felt traditions       and profiled it [S1].
The book sold 1,161 copies in the first 18 months of       publication [S5] and has       been favourably reviewed in diverse journals from the Textile Society of       America to the Times       Literary Supplement.
Bunn's experience as a curator, practitioner and       workshop leader (skills built       up during her research), have led to the interactive and collaborative       aspects of her exhibition,       symposium and workshops, which have further extended the impact of her       work to British       audiences [S6].
Enhanced creativity and society at a micro-level.
Bunn and her       close field contacts have       continued to develop their work together from the field period onwards,       and have seen their lives       enriched through their on-going mutual collaborations, as agreed by       participants [S4].
Two field       contacts ultimately secured employment as leading figures in international       agencies (UNIFEM and       CACSA), while several field participants secured international invitations       and subsequent       employment in Kyrgyzstan as trainers.
This widening, ongoing network       enhances and regenerates       the benefits of collaboration, influencing further developments in both       individual lives and more       broadly in Kyrgyz women's craft initiatives.
It is necessary to mention       the specificity of this impact,       because the domestic, low-profile aspect of many women's work in       Kyrgyzstan and Central Asia,       and the informal networks through which impact upon their work and lives       are disseminated, do not       necessarily comply with the kinds of more visible, pre-existing agencies       through which impact can       be identified.
To produce evidence for this informal kind of impact would       be to reduce its inherent       social relations to mere data.
However, participants have contributed to       exhibitions and events in       the UK, such as the Queen's Jubilee, since the 2011 exhibition.
Economic Impact as a result of knowledge exchange between Kyrgyz and         British partners.
Bunn's recent research into Kyrgyz fashion (2006-12) parallels her concern       with the impact of       globalization on Kyrgyz domestic textiles and local livelihoods.
An       exhibition in 2011 followed the       initial collaborative research project, From Quilts to Couture,       co-curated with Collins Gallery       (University of Strathclyde) manager and Kyrgyz craft professional [S2].
This revealed the dynamic       nature of developments in Kyrgyz women's textiles since independence.
The       work of 30 Kyrgyz       artists was exhibited, 12 Kyrgyz artists visited the UK at the opening of       the exhibition, participated       in a symposium and workshop during a week.
The artists made &#163;42,000 from       the sale of their work       (for many Kyrgyz, a monthly wage is approximately $100) and attracted an       audience of over 7000       [S2].
Questionnaires and feedback forms to both participants and audiences       reveal a strongly       positive view about the benefits of the exhibition in profiling the work       of Kyrgyz makers, enabling       UK audiences to become cognizant with the work, providing new input to       Kyrgyz practices through       contacts made in the UK, and in financially remunerating participants for       their work [S4].
Cultural preservation on the world stage.
Since this event, the       Kyrgyz shyrdak and ala kiiz felt       textiles have been inscribed as one of four elements on the UNESCO list of       Intangible Cultural       Heritage of Humanity in need of Urgent Safeguarding, 3-7th       December 2-12 [S3].
