     Fowler has succeeded in improving the quality of evidence employed to       enhance public       understandings of Mexico's complex past.
His research on Santa Anna has       influenced current       public discourse in Mexico, by offering a revised interpretation of       Mexico's historical capital that       has presented the country's cultural heritage in a new light,       contributing, in so doing, to Mexico's       processes of commemoration and memorialisation.
The knowledge of       individuals, groups of       individuals, and relevant beneficiary communities of place and interest       has thus been enriched,       resulting in a measurable public questioning of Mexico's "official       history."
In the words of His       Excellency the Mexican Ambassador in the UK, Fowler's work as a historian:       "helps all of us       understand the present and to clarify the past of our country."
(31 May       2012) [S1].
The impact of Fowler's research on Santa Anna was evidenced mainly in the       spheres of Mexican       culture and society, and was articulated through the researcher's active       interaction with a range of       beneficiaries and users outside academia, including those members of the       general public who       attended the state-government-sponsored events that were organized       throughout Mexico, and       which Fowler participated in, between 2008 and 2011, in the build-up to,       and as part of, the       Bicentenary of the War of Independence in 2010.
The user feedback provided       in questionnaires at       the end of several of Fowler's public lectures confirmed that 81.3% of the       161 audience members       who completed the forms agreed that Fowler's research was making Mexicans       revise the way they       viewed Santa Anna and their country's past, and that 71.1% believed that       Fowler's research would       result in changes in the way that history was taught in primary and       secondary schools in Mexico       [S9].
The evidence of impact was most obvious in the wealth of articles,       interviews, and reviews that       Fowler's findings generated in the media (press, radio, TV, and online       blogs), which are listed       below and in turn provide a particularly meaningful and resonant measure       of the extent to which       his research has resulted in a major mind-shift in the manner in which the       Mexican public domain       has come to regard Santa Anna.
Users belonging to the policy-making community such as the deputy and       president of the Special       Support Commission of the Celebrations of the Bicentenary of Independence       and Centenary of the       Revolution of the State Congress of Puebla also interacted with Fowler       during his impact-generating       public engagements, producing documents and statements that embraced the       researcher's revisionist interpretation of this long misrepresented and       misunderstood historical       figure [S6].
Other beneficiaries have included a novelist, author of Santa Anna,         El Lencero y yo.
As&#237; me lo         cont&#243; Antonio L&#243;pez de Santa Anna (Mexico City: SITESA, 2010), in       whose mind "the Mexican       people's understanding of Santa Anna is beginning to change, in no small       measure thanks to       works such as Fowler's biography," [S3], and a playwright, author of Santa         Anna, la tentaci&#243;n del         enga&#241;o, who has gone as far as to state that "Santa Anna of         Mexico is one of many worthy works       that are paving a new road for democratic education in Mexico" [S3].
Both       authors have       acknowledged, moreover, that their creative activities and fictional       portrayals of Santa Anna were       significantly influenced by Fowler's biography.
Santa Anna's descendants,       who did not know of       each other's existence until Fowler put them in touch with each other,       because they were ashamed       to let it be known that they were related to the general, have since       actively participated in public       engagements that have drawn on Fowler's research to vindicate their       ancestor [S4, S5].
As noted       by the descendant of Santa Anna's younger daughter, "Fowler's balanced       account has allowed me       to stand up for my ancestor in public, as his findings and interpretation       of Mexico's past have       started to significantly impact upon the manner in which the educated       population of the country       have come to understand his actions" [S5].
Fowler's interaction with his beneficiary communities of place and       interest in Mexico arose, initially,       organically and without a conscious impact-driven strategy.
His research       on Santa Anna had, in       fact, started to make a cultural impact beyond academia as his findings       were cited, reviewed, and       reported outside academic literature in Mexican national newspapers such       as Cr&#243;nica (26/01/05),       and in a series of TV and radio interviews which culminated in Fowler's       appearance in the TV       documentary film Presidentes mexicanos, shown on the weekly       "Archivo Abierto" programme at       9.00 pm on Canal 11 TV (6/2/2005).
However, it was in 2008, coinciding       with the book launch of       Gobernantes mexicanos3, which took place in the       auditorium of the Fondo de Cultura Econ&#243;mica's       Octavio Paz bookshop in Mexico City (24/11/08), that, building on the       noted earlier interactions,       Fowler's research started to receive significant national coverage in the       media with interviews       featuring in several leading national newspapers and cultural magazines       (e.g., El Universal,       26/11/08 and Metapol&#237;tica, vol.
62 [November-December 2008] [S7]).
The fact that he was one of       three Mexicanist scholars invited to represent British academia at the       State Banquet that was held       in Buckingham Palace on 30 March 2009 in honour of the State visit of       Mexican President Felipe       Calder&#243;n is in itself evidence that his work on Santa Anna and Mexican       presidents was beginning       to have a cultural impact in Mexico.
Having said this, it was throughout 2010, following the publication of       the translation of Santa Anna,       and benefitting from the School of Modern Languages' impact strategy (see       REF3a) that Fowler's       interpretation of the man and his times really started to resonate in the       public domain.
The       publication of Santa Anna, integrated as part of the Mexican state       government-sponsored events       organized to mark the Bicentenary of Mexico's independence from Spain, was       carefully planned by       the author, publishers, and his allocated St-Andrews-based impact-team, in       order to maximise the       impact, making the most of the general interest in memorializing Mexico's       past that was generated       by the 2010 celebrations.
Fowler gave a series of public lectures in high       profile cultural locations,       namely, the Cultural Centre IVEC (Veracruz), the Anthropology Museum of       Xalapa, the State       Congress of Puebla, the Universidad Iberoamericana in Puebla, and the       Sal&#243;n de Actos of the       UNAM (Mexico City).
The book presentations and lectures were covered in       the media (press and       radio) and generated widespread interest on the internet, inspiring       several blogs as well as the       creation of a Santa         Anna Facebook page and group       [S8].
By the time Fowler returned to Mexico in       November 2011 to give a further series of nine public lectures in Mexico       City, Morelia, Zamora, and       San Luis Potos&#237;, it was clear that his research was reshaping the       Mexicans' understanding of       Santa Anna's historical role.
As may be appreciated from the newspaper       headlines that appeared       in 2010 and 2011, Fowler's view that Santa Anna was not the villain he had       been made out to be       resonated in the public domain, featuring prominently in an extensive       range of regional and       national newspapers: "Historian rehabilitates the image of Santa Anna," (Plumas         libres, 18/10/10);       "Santa Anna did not sell half of the country, states William Fowler" (E-Consulta.com,       19/10/10);       "Santa Anna was not a traitor: Fowler" (Milenio, 22/10/10); "Santa       Anna was no traitor, states       Scottish Academic Will Fowler in controversial book" (Azteca 21,       22/10/10); "Neither a monster nor       a saint" (Mi espacio libre, 25/10/10); "Interview with British       historian Will Fowler.
Santa Anna: `Was       no angel, but he wasn't a monster'" (Universo.
El peri&#243;dico de los         universitarios, No.
418,       25/10/10); "Santa Anna, synthesis of the political class of the nineteenth       century, says expert"       (Cr&#243;nica, 2610/10).
Two renowned publicists, the one writing for       the cultural magazine       Performance (16/9/10), and the other, in the Z&#243;calo de Saltillo       (8/03/11), influenced by Fowler's       research, declared that the author had succeeded in shining light on one       of the darker periods of       Mexican history and, were inspired to ask whether the time had come for       Mexicans to move       beyond their official history of heroes and villains.
[S7]
