     This impact narrative has inspired a wide variety of local, national and       international audiences to reflect on how and why art is produced, and how       we consume it both financially and intellectually.
It has contributed to       cultural life and education beyond the HEI in which the research took       place thanks to (1) collaboration with interpreters and creators of       cultural capital (2) engagement with school pupils (3) public lectures and       lecture-recitals.
(1) Collaboration with interpreters and creators of cultural capital:         performing and creating new works     Evans rediscovered a series of song settings to which his research has       drawn new attention and which, with the collaboration of professional       musicians (mezzo-soprano and piano), he has brought to wider audience       attention for the first time.
Charles Koechlin's 1890s settings of       Banville's Rondels include some fine examples of late C19th French       song setting of which only one &#8212; `Le Th&#233;' &#8212; features as part of the common       repertoire.
Evans and the mezzo-soprano (S1) have presented this material       in public concerts and lectures, `A Celebration of French Song' (St       Andrews, 10th April 2013) and `The Night Translated' (Brook       Theatre, Chatham, Kent, 8th May 2013).
They commissioned a       young composer (S2) to set the three remaining Banville poems which       Koechlin neglected to set, thereby completing the song cycle with       challenging contemporary works.
These pieces were premiered at the spring       2013 concerts, at which the composer himself was present for discussion,       and recorded for public consumption on soundcloud, where they have been       heard over 200 times (S2).
Additional concerts in London have taken this       material to an even wider audience, and the composer plans for this new       music to be performed in a series of future concerts in the USA.
In this       way, the project has had an impact on the cultural lives of audiences,       composer and performers by bringing little-known works back into the       spotlight and creating new, original works within a framework of       cross-cultural and transhistoric dialogue.
The project `stretched the       musicianship and performance skills' of the singer, inspiring `a number of       new performance devices' while `cross-discipline discussions' encouraged       new `critical and reflective thinking about programme development' (S1).
As for the composer, this `discourse on interpretation, idiomatic writing       and the visceral physicality of performance', with researcher and       performer, has led to his `first serious, opus-numberable compositions'       and offered new ways of thinking about `the compositional process and the       choice of poetic material' (S2).
Audience feedback (S3) highlighted the       importance of the way in which the academic research was integrated into       these cultural events in order to `contextualise the text and historical       setting in comparison with contemporary society', asking `questions which       have been reiterated by artists to this day', and inspiring the audience       `to listen differently to the programme'.
(2) Engagement with school pupils     Evans ran a cross-curricular project with Scottish Highers pupils of both       French and Music at a local school, Madras College (2 hrs school visit per       week, Sept.-Dec. 2012) involving poetic and musical analysis, translation       and composition, culminating in a concert in the school for 70 younger       pupils as well as guests from the town (Dec. 2012).
The music pupils       studied a wide range of C19th poems and song settings, inspiring them to       work on their own compositions; the texts for these compositions emerged       from Evans' work with the languages pupils, who analysed and translated a       selection of poems which challenged them to go beyond the narrow       requirements of their examination curriculum.
The concert featured       readings by the languages pupils of poetry both in the original language       and translation, and performances by University Music Centre students of       songs set both by major composers and the school pupils themselves.
Feedback from pupils and staff alike attests that this activity is       extremely rewarding for all concerned since, in the terms of the REF       criteria, it creates and interprets cultural capital in such a way that it       enriches and expands the imaginations of everyone involved.
As the       teacher's report states, `this interdisciplinary approach exemplifies the       best modern practice with regard to Curriculum for Excellence, making       links between subjects in a manner which stimulates a life-long interest'       (S4).
(3) Public events: How is aesthetic value constructed?
How do we         consume art?
Evans has delivered a wide range of public lectures on his research into       musico-poetics over the last few years, including `Debussy, Banville and       the Problem with Fixed-Form Poems' at a public event at Gresham College       (London, 2012), available on YouTube (S6) since August 2012, which has       attracted 320 views (by 31 July 2013).
In St Andrews, he has spoken at the       Franco-Scottish Society (2008, 2011, 2012), the University Open       Association (2011), the Music Centre's Summer Organ School lecture series       (2011), and the international poetry festival StAnza (2013).
Furthermore,       in Dec. 2010 Evans also ran a masterclass on French song (Faur&#233;, Berlioz),       in conjunction with the University Music Centre, at which high calibre       professional musicians &#8212; well-known pianist and soprano &#8212; explored       performance issues with an audience comprising members of the public and       students of Evans' final year module `Music in C19th French Poetry'.
The       impact of the research in each case was a greater public understanding of       the powerful social, economic, political, and aesthetic forces which may       be seen to influence the way in which artists compose, and the ways in       which audiences respond to those artworks.
As one audience member (S5)       writes, `Bringing students and townspeople together, as Dr Evans has done       here [...] is a most important and worthwhile exercise', and that these       events are `backed by serious research of the subject [...] and a real       desire to make the subject available to an audience of people of varied       experience and abilities'.
With these three intertwined strands, this impact study established clear       links between original academic research into new corpuses and       methodologies, the wider public, performers and schools, generating new       interest in languages, translation and music education.
The project has       altered the way its beneficiaries perceive poetry, music and song; offered       opportunities for rediscovering music and expanding the repertoire;       allowed for greater dialogue between performers of music and students of       text; built bridges between music and poetry from diverse contexts around       a central intellectual theme; and invited the creation and performance of       new musical works.
