     The Lectura Dantis Andreapolitana series:       Although the Lectura Dantis as a tradition is well-known in Italy,       the LDA will be the first complete series presented in the UK.
Its       impact in terms of reach is therefore not just to bring Dante       research out of the academic world to a wider public, but also to       introduce to a British public a cultural practice well-established in       Italy but almost unknown in the UK.
(The LDA began in 2009, dates of the individual meetings to July 2013       are: 9.10.2009; 12.3.2010; 30.4.2010; 8.10.2010; 11.3.2011; 6.5.2011;       7.10.2011; 25.11.2011; 9.3.2012; 4.5.2012, 16.11.2012; 15.3.2013;       12.4.2013.)
In terms of significance the impact of the LDA has been to       increase awareness and understanding of Dante, and change attitudes       towards his text and ideas related to it.
Questionnaires [corroborating       source &#8212; CS6] for the purpose of gauging impact were only introduced in       the 8th meeting of the LDA (25.11.11).
These directly asked       those in attendance if the lectures had made them think differently about       the significance of Dante.
Responses to this question varied across       meetings but generally between 60% and 80% of those who replied had had       their ideas about Dante changed in some way.
Individual responses testify       to the significant contribution of the series to enriching the cultural       life of St Andrews.
A member of the public who has regularly attended       provided an individual statement about his experience [CS1] in which he       states `Now thanks to the Lectura I have been able to widen and deepen         my understanding of this extraordinary poem'.
Another indicative       comment left on the LDA facebook page [CS10] states: `The riches we         take home each time from these meetings cannot be underestimated.
...
The big surprise is how contemporary with ourselves Dante feels.'
The Website:       An important feature of the lectura tradition is its locality,       reflected in the name of each lectura &#8212; romana, turicensis       etc.
However, since St Andrews is small, and not easily accessible, so       that the audience at the lectures is mainly local (although people have       also travelled from, Edinburgh, Glasgow, Perth, Leeds, Dublin and Belfast)       the website is important to widen access.
We decided early on to video       record all lectures as a strategy to widen access to the series.
Thus       video recordings of the lectures are subsequently made available on the       LDA website in order to reach a worldwide audience.
From September 2011       (when the site began) until the 31st of July 2013 it has been       visited by people from 707 different cities and towns in 68 different       countries worldwide (on all 5 continents) [CS9].
Since there is no general       feedback section on the website, this is primarily evidence of       geographical reach.
The LDA has developed the traditional Lectura Dantis model to       include complementary events alongside the lecture series, bringing       research on different aspects of Dante's work to bear on contemporary       issues and creative activity.
The main activities in the census period       have been:     `The Dante Debate 1 &amp; 2' (22.4.2012 and 29.4.2012).
These       public discussions on topics of perennial interest used Dante's text as a       starting point for consideration of two questions from a variety of       perspectives.
The first discussion was on the nature of sin and evil; the       second on punishment, forgiveness, and redemption.
The format of the       discussion was a presentation first by one of the LDA organisers (RW) of       Dante's view on sin and evil / punishment and redemption &#8212; specifically on       the moral structures of his imagining of hell and of Purgatory, directly       informed by the speaker's current research on this within the LDA.
Against       this backdrop invited speakers gave a short reflection on this from their       perspective, a philosopher, CEO of Sacro (a Community Justice Voluntary       Organisation) / a lawyer working with The Howard League for Penal Reform       Scotland (a Penal Reform charity) / the press officer for Victim Support       Scotland / the Project Manager of Circle (charity working with families of       offenders).
The discussion was then opened up to the public in a question       time format.
The impact of these events was to demonstrate how a 14th       century Italian text dealt with issues which still confront us today,       bringing together a range of speakers and members of the public, with the       research questions on Dante's moral structuring of Hell as the central       starting point of discussion and reflection.
This offered all       participants, speakers and the audience drawn from the public, either an       entirely new perspective on these issues, or advanced their awareness and       understanding of the issues.
Held in Glasgow's largest Art Gallery on two       Sunday afternoons [CS3b] these events reached a wide public audience as       shown in the video recordings of both sessions now on the LDA website       [CS9], and questionnaire returns [CS7].
In questionnaires 66% of       respondents at the first meeting indicated that the sessions had made them       re-think their views on the issues.
One respondent commented `You can         talk back, it was a live debate'.
One of the       speakers, the CEO of SACRO (formerly Deputy Chief Constable of Lothian and       Borders Police) [CS2] commented both on the personal benefit of       participating, `All of this experience enabled me to personally reflect         on my life experience and the role I undertake in civic society, with         much benefit gained by informing and reinforcing the value base from         which I begin', and on the contribution the event made to public       awareness, `There was clearly much reflection and indeed some         repositioning of attitudes among the sizable audience who attended.
One         woman approached me at the conclusion and praised the event for bringing         a measured and reasoned discussion to a topic that is so often         dramatically polarised in the popular media, increasing public anxiety         over evil and its place in our society.'
In addition the Glasgow         Life organisation was a direct beneficiary of this collaboration in       which the LDA organised and provided the event.
The Learning and Access       Curator [CS3] noted that the events met Glasgow Life's social and cultural       objectives, and commented in particular `We at Kelvingrove were         delighted by the quality of the Lectura Dantis events and were impressed         by the number of visitors who attended.
Our visitors engaged in a high         level with the debates and the debates attracted adults of all ages.'
`My Dante'.
In collaboration with Stanza 2012 (Scotland's       International Poetry Festival), the LDA organised a session on 16.3.2012       in St Andrews in which invited speakers and members of the public read and       commented on their preferred passages from Dante.
This collaboration       benefitted the audience in increasing knowledge and appreciation of Dante       `Thank you for "introducing" me to Dante' was one questionnaire       comment [CS8].
The festival director noted the success of the event and in       particular of the expertise of the LDA organisers, commenting [CS4]: `It         is extremely helpful and valuable to us that Dr Robert Wilson and Dr         Claudia Rossignoli, lecturers in the Italian Department, were able to         supply us with quality content for the Festival event in terms of         helping us to maintain a wide historical and cultural breadth to our         programme, and making the often difficult area of classic poetry in         Italian and easily accessible to our audiences'.
Collaborations with the Steven Campbell Trust:       `The eyes have it'.
An exhibition of drawings by Tom Chambers 3rd-24th       of March 2012 in iota &#8212; the gallery of UNLIMITED STUDIOS, 25 Hyndland St       Glasgow.
The drawings, based on the portrait, explore images inspired by       Dante's influence on European literature.
The exhibition is linked with       the LDA through the Stephen Campbell Trust and the collaboration has       influenced the artist's understanding of and ideas about Dante in relation       to his own work.
The LDA contributed a short introduction to Dante given       by Robert Wilson at a private viewing to open the exhibition on 2.3.2012.
`London Print Studio Art workshop' (20-21.7.12) run by the Steven       Campbell Trust and the London Print Studio with the artist Faisal       Abdu'Allah.
Taking parts of Dante's text chosen and presented by the       organisers of the LDA (Rossignoli &amp; Wilson) as a possible starting       point, the young artists attending the workshop produced work using       different photographic techniques.
`Writing into Art workshop' (19.6.13) run by the Steven Campbell       Trust in Kelvingrove Art Gallery, Glasgow, in conjunction with a two day       conference on Ekphrasis at the University of Strathclyde.
At the workshop       Robert Wilson gave a presentation to the young artists attending the       workshop on parts of Dante's text related to the themes of the session.
The impact of the on-going collaboration with the Steven Campbell trust       and Tom Chambers [CS5] in particular, is in bringing Dante's text into a       discussion and reflection on artistic representation, and to wider       questions on the relationship between literature and art.
The reach       therefore is not just in terms of the groups involved, from academic       literary research to working artist, but also in taking an understanding       of a literary text into a different artistic medium.
