     Media coverage of Culpin's English translation and critical edition of       Boniface's Narrative of the Shipwreck of the Eole began even prior       to the publication and launch of the book, in November 2012, having       previously featured in articles in the Daily           Maverick (3/8/11,estimated daily readership 237,000), and the       South African Sunday           Times (14/11/11, estimated weekly readership 3.2 million) [S5].
These articles disseminated interest in the story so that, by the time the       book was launched, Culpin's willingness to engage with the public enabled       the book to have considerable cultural, public and economic impact both in       South Africa and, to a lesser degree, in Scotland.
1.
Impact on Cultural Life     Prior to the launch of the book, Culpin was invited by the French       Institute in South Africa to present the book at the Open Book Festival in       Cape Town as part of the `French Season in South Africa' in September       2012.
He participated in a public discussion at the Fugard Theatre and a       presentation at Belville Library before audiences of about three dozen on       both occasions.
The book launch itself took place at the National Library       in Cape Town on 1/11/2012 before an invited audience of about 200 people       from across South Africa including media, individuals from education, the       arts and the world of libraries and museums (including the Deputy Head of       the NLSA).
At the launch, two professional South African musicians       (guitarist and soprano), performed a selection of the music from       Boniface's Ariettes       not heard since the early 19th century [S6].
In consequence of this       discovery Boniface's music also became the basis of a research project       into `Domestic Music in Cape Town in the 1820s' by the Head of Musicology       at the University of Cape Town'.
The book launch saw the opening of a       major exhibition at the National Library in Cape Town entitled `Boniface       and His World: the Cape and Beyond in the 1820s', sponsored by the NLSA.
Culpin wrote the exhibition guide, and chose the exhibits, including       manuscript letters and original music arranged by Boniface.
In parallel,       the South African Museum organized an exhibition about the French explorer       Fran&#231;ois Le Vaillant, and visitors to each exhibition were directed to the       other, thereby enhancing exposure of the research to the general public.
The Boniface exhibition ran from 1/11/2012 until 31/3/2013, during which       time the Library attracted 14,184 visitors.
The French Consul at Cape Town       writes that Culpin's project `brought about in a masterly way the       rediscovery and promotion of French culture in South Africa [and] made it       possible for a large number of people in South Africa to discover the       French vision of that pre-colonial period, but also to transform their       perception of the French presence at the Cape in the nineteenth century' [S1].
The Deputy National Librarian of the NLSA writes of the book that `It did       not only reveal the literary treasures within in our documentary heritage,       but succeeded in enriching our history', adding that `The translation of       the book into English was a major breakthrough'.
Her letter concludes, `Dr       Culpin has left an indelible mark in the field of research and a sense of       pride in National Library and Information Services'.
The interest       generated by the book launch and exhibition created opportunities to reach       wider audiences in different parts of South Africa.
A second launch of the       book was held at the Cory Library, part of Rhodes University in       Grahamstown, which is the national centre for research into the history of       the Eastern Cape and is located in the area where the events surrounding       the shipwreck of the Eole took place.
In Scotland, an exhibition based on Culpin's research was also mounted in       St Andrews at the Museum of the University of St Andrews (MUSA), organized       jointly with Special Collections at the University Library, situating       Boniface's Narrative in the context of travel writers in the long       18th century.
The exhibition ran from January until March 2013 attracting       3,049 visitors during winter opening times of only 16 hours per week.
In       association with this exhibition, Culpin gave two lectures at MUSA, one to       a combined meeting of the St Andrews and Perth branches of the       Franco-Scottish Society, the other to the general public in a lecture       series organized by MUSA.
2.
Impact on Civic life and Public Discourse     Culpin's extensive research and immersion into South African life allowed       him to capture public interest and reveal the relevance of this story to       modern South Africa, particularly on issues of cultural memory,       reconciliation and social justice.
The book was well received and reviewed       in the regional and national South African press, including The Herald       (estimated readership 256,000), and a full-page article (`Gained in       translation.
Rare account of life at the Cape in the 1800s') in the Cape         Times [S6] (estimated readership 316,000).
In order to extend       the discourse to Afrikaans speakers, Culpin gave a 25 minute interview,       partially in Afrikaans, on the programme `Skrywersen         Boeke' (`Writers and Books') broadcast on 5/12/2012 on Radio Sonder       Grense (RSG), the national Afrikaans station (estimated audience 2       million) [S7].
Culpin also gave the keynote speech launching       Library Week on 19/3/2013 at the NLSA in Pretoria.
The event focused on       the role of libraries in ensuring freedom of information.
Approximately       320 people were present for this event, including diplomats from various       African countries, lawyers specializing in human rights, representatives       from libraries across South Africa, and pupils from local schools.
The       Deputy National Librarian of the NLSA writes that Culpin's work is       important in the context of South Africa's `painful history of oppression       where land was taken from its original inhabitants' [S2].
She adds       that, following the publication of this book, `The Amaxhosa can actually       use this narrative as further proof that their forefathers lived and owned       land in that area on the 1800s'.
Finally, the Chair of the National       English Literary Museum writes `Having been involved in a variety of South       African academic and research networks, and with various institutions, I       can make an unqualified claim: very few scholarly discoveries, and their       elaboration have been brought to a public's attention as widely and       significantly as the Boniface narrative.'
[S3]     The primary significance of the book was felt in South Africa, but in       Scotland it was not without interest.
According to questionnaires filled       in by the audiences attending the talks and visiting the exhibition in St       Andrews (see above), 100% of respondents agreed that they had been made to       think differently about the issues discussed, and for 82% this change was       significant [S8].
The events also attracted an interview with the       Arts Correspondent of BBC Scotland resulting in an item featured in three       radio programmes on Tuesday 12 February 2013, namely: Good Morning       Scotland (BBC Radio Scotland); the John Beattie programme (BBC Radio       Scotland); and Kingdom FM news.
Finally, the project's websites had been       accessed by more than 1500 visitors from 34 countries on every continent       by 31/7/2013 [S9].
Culpin's work also corrected a major error in       existing biographies of Boniface, which suggest that one of the survivors       of the Eole had a child by Boniface's slave, whereas this child was       Boniface's own.
Through these sites Culpin was contacted by the       great-great-great grandson of that child, and has been able to act as a       focal point for passing on genealogical details to other descendants of       the author [S10].
3.
Impact on Education     In 2013 Culpin gave a series of 20 educational talks at a variety of       venues.
The audiences included historical societies (the Cape Town       Bibliophiles and the Van Plettenberg Society), branches of the University       of the Third Age (at George and Plettenberg Bay), the Institut Fran&#231;ais       (in Port Elizabeth and Johannesburg), and Nelson Mandela Metropolitan       University.
In addition, and in part within the schools outreach programme       organized by the National English Literary Museum in Grahamstown, Culpin       addressed pupils at two French Lyc&#233;es (Cape Town and       Johannesburg), two Afrikaans-speaking schools (in Pretoria), one       English-speaking High School, and one Xhosa-speaking High School in a       township (both in Grahamstown).
This opportunity was particularly valuable       because, since the change of government in 1994, history teaching in High       Schools has focused on the apartheid years.
Colonial history has only       recently returned to the syllabus and teachers were therefore grateful for       input in this field.
According to the Chair of the National English       Literary Museum in South Africa: `Historical manuscripts, no matter how       important, are difficult to publicize and disseminate.
The time that Prof.       Culpin has spent in South Africa has been immeasurably important in this       regard.
Accompanied by the Museum's education/outreach officer, he visited       one of the underprivileged schools outside Grahamstown, and spoke to a       large group of learners.
Apart from this occasion Prof. Culpin has spoken       to six other schools.
These are diverse in their constituencies, ranging       from the most established and best known South African schools, to some in       emerging areas.
A conservative estimate would be that he addressed [...]       about 1500 South African learners between the ages of 13 and 18.
Given the       limited readership of an academic article, this public - especially in a       context in which redress is so significant - suggests a considerable and       unique endeavour on Prof. Culpin's part.'
[S3]     4.
Economic Impact     Proceeds of the book sales go to the NLSA, and the Deputy National       Librarian writes: `The bookshops and the general public have shown great       interest.
We continue to receive orders from [...] as far as Netherlands.
Arrangements are underway to sell the book online.'
[S2].
Economic       impact has also been achieved through the promotion of tourism in the       Eastern Cape since, after 18 months of research, Culpin was able to       identify the site where the Eole was shipwrecked, at Sandy Point.
Subsequently, in conjunction with the Wavecrest Hotel (which overlooks the       spot where the shipwreck occurred), he obtained permission from the       Provincial Government of the Eastern Cape to erect a commemorative       monument at the site.
This was unveiled on 11/6/2013 by the French Consul       at the Cape on behalf of the French Ambassador to South Africa, in the       presence of the Deputy-Head of the NLSA, chiefs of the local Xhosa       community, the Methodist bishop of the Eastern Cape, representatives of       the Department of Parks and Tourism (who are featuring the site in their       international promotional material), and the press, leading to full-page       articles in the Weekend Dispatch (readership 148,000) and The           Witness (readership 171,000) which cover the entire eastern       half of South Africa [S11].
The Wavecrest Hotel now gives       prominence to Culpin's research on its website       and the economic impact is confirmed by the hotel's Assistant Manager who       writes: `When I [...] learned from Dr Culpin that the site of our hotel       [...] was within sight of the spot where the Eole was wrecked I       immediately saw the commercial opportunities that this offered, and was       keen to associate the Wavecrest Hotel with the project' [S4].
He       confirms that officials of the Provincial Government of the Eastern Cape       `also recognized the importance of this project', adding: `We have already       had keen interest shown by guests that have visited, who have [...] read       articles in the newspaper.
These articles have directly translated into       some accommodation bookings already.'
Visitors to the site can enjoy an Eole         on Rocks, the cocktail (named in honour of the wreck) that is now       served at the hotel [S2].
