     The research of Dr Clark and Dr Scanlan has been directly acknowledged       during the current REF impact period by news media, film-makers, artists,       museum curators, and HEI teachers and practitioners.
As such, it       has helped to raise public awareness of the ways in which science and       technocracy shape modern culture; the ways in which `waste' is forgotten       and rationalised out of life via social structural forces; and the ways in       which these affect what, as a society, we value, and what we discard.
Clark and Scanlan's reach has been international, and their media work has       demonstrated how specialist knowledge of the history of waste can inform       contemporary discourses and cultural trends, such as a garbage collection       strike in Canada, or a major exhibition of 18 artists in Delhi, India.
Film and Radio:     As a director of the AHRC Centre for Environmental History, which       undertook research on the history of waste (see section 2), Dr Clark was       contacted to contribute to a television documentary series.
In both       pre-production and in filming, Dr Clark provided expert knowledge on waste       in London, UK, for Trashopolis [S1 and S2], a five-part documentary       series, for Pixcom International (Montreal) and Taxi-Brousse (Paris).
Dr       Clark provided a broad sweep of the history of waste; he addressed the       legacy of Jesse Cooper Dawes, an early advocate of waste management,4       and the history of contemporary waste issues, such as incineration.5       The series was first broadcast in September 2010 on History Television,       Canada, and attracted 500,000 viewers [S1].
History Canada       purchased the rights to repeat the series for six years.
Rights to the       series were subsequently sold to the Smithsonian Network, USA       (aired 6 November 2011), and to Discovery Europe.
The original       series was selected as a realscreen MIPCOM Pick for 2010 and, when       it aired on the Smithsonian Channel, the New York Times reviewed       it as a fascinating new series, especially insightful because of       its historical content (16 November 2011) [S5].
Based on their increasing profile, Clark and Scanlan's research has       subsequently generated interest from other media sources.
Both Clark and       Scanlan were consulted for a two-part television series, The Secret         Life of Rubbish for BBC 4 [S3 and S4].
This documentary series       retold the story of post-Second World War Britain through its relationship       with waste.
Clark provided historical background research on Britain's       relationship with, and management of, waste,3 and Scanlan       provided a filmed socio-cultural commentary on waste, which was based on       his book, On Garbage (cited in the film) [S4].
Broadcast in       November 2012, the series was a timely reminder of Britain's relationship       with its rubbish [S6].
A central facet of Clark's research has involved an examination of waste       management practices, as they became `professionalized' and       `municipalized' in the nineteenth century, and their contribution to a       throwaway consumer society.3 As a result of this research,       Clark was contacted by CBC (Canadian Broadcasting Corporation) to provide       historical insight on waste and its management in light of a garbage       collection strike in Toronto and Windsor.
On 30 July 2009, he gave a       7-minute interview for The Current, a daily news and current       affairs programme, on Canada's national CBC Radio One, which attracts       about 4.3 million listeners each week [S7].
Clark's research on waste       continues to attract media interest.
Similarly, Scanlan provided       historical and sociological insight into the cultural and intellectual       dimensions of waste in an era of mass consumption for an interview on Radio         Student, Ljubljana, Slovenia, on 3 April 2013 [S8].
Artists and Public Exhibitions:     Artists and museum curators who have produced public works for large       audiences acknowledge the inspiration, in particular, of Dr Scanlan's On         Garbage.
A significant chapter of On Garbage examines the       way that some modern art has come to develop an `ecological' critique of       modern society, and the crucial role artists have had in recuperating       waste materials as a means of holding a mirror up to society.
Scanlan's       research influenced the British artist, Michael Landy, for example, in his       exhibition / performance, `Art Bin' (South London Gallery, 29 January &#8212; 14       March 2010).
Writing in The Independent (2 October 2009), Landy       cited Scanlan's On Garbage as inspirational because it         addresses reasons why we find rubbish (which is a by-product of         ourselves) so abhorrent [S9].
Similarly, the reach of Scanlan's work was illustrated in another public       exhibition, titled `Re-claim / Re-cite / Re-cycle', which was held at       Travancore Gallery in Delhi, India in April 2009.
Writing in Verveonline,       the curator of the exhibition of 18 artists began her summary of the       exhibition with a quotation from Scanlan's On Garbage.
She went on       to explain: The concept took shape after a chance reading through John         Scanlan's On Garbage that talks of garbage not just in relation         to street litter but rather terms anything bad as "garbage" &#8212; bad         thought, writing, art, music et cetera; and we recycle these ideas,         thoughts et al.
to arrive at the "NEW"'.
[S10]     Dr Scanlan also advised the Wellcome Institute for the History of       Medicine on an exhibition and programme of public events related to the       theme of `Dirt' (2011).
He was thanked in the exhibition book (V. Smith et       al., Dirt: The Filthy Reality of Everyday Life, published by       Profile books to coincide with the exhibition [`Acknowledgements' and p.       216]).
HEI Teaching and Practice:     Scanlan's research has had further educational impact.
On Garbage,       which has been cited over 120 times across a range of disciplines       concerned with the social dimensions of environmental and ecological       questions, has been used in the period as a key text for thinking about       the nature of waste and sustainability by educators in a range of       disciplines at institutions worldwide (such as the Universities of Exeter,       Texas State and Sheffield) [S11].
