     One of the guiding principles behind RPS was the production of a       record which has value and       recognition beyond the academic sphere, exciting a general interest in the       institution, being used       by genealogists and linguists, in education and in Scots law.
To that end       RPS was designed to be       as accessible as possible to the non-specialist, with an extensive search       facility to allow a wide       range of different uses for the data contained within the parliamentary       record.
The success of this       approach is borne out by the numerical data relating to website traffic.
The site received over       1,997,000 page views from January 2008 to July 2013.
These visits came       from nearly 150,000       different users and represented a wide geographical distribution.
Over 60%       were visits from within       the United Kingdom, over 13% came from the United States, c.5% each from       Australia and       Canada and the remainder from the rest of the world.10 These       figures reflect the interest generated       in the resource in general.
They also indicate the distribution of       information and awareness of the       resource well beyond the UK and beyond the academic community.
The       distribution of use also       signals the special interest in the resource from expatriate Scottish       communities in other parts of       the world and the wealth of genealogical information that it contains.10     This interest from outside the higher education sector is also revealed       by the extensive archive of       queries sent to the Project Manager, Dr Gillian MacIntosh.
These include       inquiries from the new       Scottish Parliament about pre-1707 parliamentary procedure, from       genealogists and family       historians, and from school teachers and librarians.
Along with Alastair       Mann (Stirling), MacIntosh       has also been involved in collaboration with the Scottish Law Commission       in compiling a list of pre-       1707 statutes still in force, used by SLC in drawing up new legislation       (www.rps.ac.uk/static/statutes_inforce.html).
Interest in the resource is also related to its       significance for continuing developments in the constitutional status and       government of Scotland       during the period since early 2008.
Since the launch of RPS it has       been recognised as providing       the historical evidence and underpinning for the discussion of       contemporary developments in the       public sphere.
Coverage of its formal public launch in the Scottish and UK       media reflected this.
On       13 May 2008 The Times reported that the project had "brought       almost five centuries of       parliamentary history into the public domain for the first time".
The         Daily Express in a comment       piece by Kerry Gill described the resource as "superb stuff, not only for       academics and       researchers, but also for the likes of you and me".
Items discussing the       launch of the website and       its significance for public debate and historical awareness were also       carried in The Daily         Telegraph, The Herald, The Courier and The Press and         Journal and on BBC Radio Scotland       news.1     Awareness of the public importance of the project was also shared by       figures in the Scottish       government and parliament.
The formal launch of the RPS website       took place in the parliament       building at Holyrood on 15 May 2008.
It was attended by two former first       ministers, Henry McCleish       MSP and Jack McConnell MSP, by the current deputy first minister, Nicola       Sturgeon MSP, and the       then presiding officer Alex Fergusson MSP.
The Presiding Officer of the       parliament stated of the       website that "it will provide our people with a greater understanding of       their past and the historic       chapters of Scotland's parliamentary life".
The Deputy First Minister       called RPS a "landmark       project", commending the resource for making "publicly available, in an       accessible form, some of       the most important documents in Scotland's history".2 On 19 May       2008 the Scottish Parliament       passed a motion with cross-party support congratulating the project team       on the publication of the       resource and noting its relevance to the current Scottish Parliament and       to contemporary politics.3       The May/June 2008 edition of History Scotland, an illustrated       magazine written by academic       specialists for a general readership, was entirely dedicated to the launch       of RPS, with six specially       commissioned articles on specific parliamentary events and online       publication of historical       resources written by the project team (including MacIntosh and M. Brown).
The special issue had       sales of c.14,000 copies.4     The link between RPS and the present Scottish Parliament has been       maintained since the original       launch of the resource via the Scottish Parliament's official website (www.scottish.parliament.uk).
This provides numerous links to, and information about, the RPS       resource, from, for example, its       frequently asked questions page.5 An interactive timeline, The         Scottish Parliament: Past and         Present, which was authored by the project team (MacIntosh), is       provided as a freely-accessible       learning resource.6 This provides an illustrated history of the       Scottish Parliament, aimed at a non-       specialist audience, which draws on the discoveries of the project to give       a clear and accessible       overview of the institution and of Scottish parliamentary history.
The       timeline links directly to the       RPS website.
A downloadable PDF version of the timeline in       twenty-one pages is also provided.
From July 2013, the Scottish Parliament has been running regular       illustrated excerpts from the       timeline, as part of its `Parliament in History' series on its official       Facebook profile, with entries       linking directly to the relevant legislation found within the RPS       database.7 In addition to partnering       with the present Scottish Parliament's internal education outreach service       on initiatives such as the       above, and in order to promote the use of RPS as a teaching       resource in schools, a stand-alone       educational website has been established by a former member of the project       team, Dr Alastair       Mann, now at the University of Stirling.8     The impact of RPS outwith academia is not only testified by the       widespread level of usage of the       resource mentioned previously.
In March 2013, RPS (specifically a       record contained therein) was       cited in the US Supreme Court in an argument presented by one of the       Court's justices, indicating       the value of making such once-obscure historical records freely available       online to a global       audience.9   	       In order to ensure the continuance in perpetuity of the significant       research underpinning the RPS       resource, an agreement has been reached for the migration of the existing       RPS website and its       core data to the National Records of Scotland (NRS), Scotland's national       archival repository and       the location of the original manuscript records of pre-1707 parliament (www.nrscotland.gov.uk).
It       is expected that this transfer (scheduled for completion by June 2014)       will allow for further       enhancement of the initial research, specifically the integration of the       comprehensive genealogical       and place-name data therein with complementary historical resources       currently provided by the       NRS, such as ScotlandsPeople (www.scotlandspeople.gov.uk),       one of the largest worldwide online       sources of original genealogical information.
