     Philosophers at St Andrews have engaged in a variety of activities which       have interested and       involved the wider community in discussions surrounding the history of       philosophy.
The purpose       has been to draw attention to an aspect of our heritage that is too       frequently hidden from most       people's view, especially here in the UK where philosophy is generally not       taught during the course       of ordinary school education.
When people are introduced to ideas drawn       from the philosophical       tradition, the results can be transformative and empowering.
Issues of       deep yet everyday concern       are given a historical dimension, with the result that people come to       understand their own beliefs,       and the beliefs of others, in new and sometimes surprising ways.
Impact via broadcast media       Media appearances have proved to be particularly effective means to these       ends.
John Haldane       and James Harris have appeared on Melvyn Bragg's BBC Radio 4 programme In         Our Time to       discuss Aquinas (Haldane, 17 September 2009, drawing on research including       [1]), Maimonides       (Haldane, 17 February 2011), Hume (Harris, 6 October 2011, drawing on       research including [4]),       and the ontological argument for the existence of God (Haldane, 27       September 2012).
In Our Time       has a regular audience of around two million listeners [S1].
Each       programme is available as a       downloadable podcast.
Online comments describe the Aquinas programme as "excellent",       "lucid",       and "brilliant", with one person saying "for the first time I         developed a real sense of the relationship         between Platonism and Aristotelianism" [S2], whilst listeners to       Harris on Hume said "after listening         to your programme, I went back and re-read Peirce [on Hume]",       calling the programme       "fascinating" and "a great show" [S3].
In January 2010 Craig       Smith appeared with Antony Giddens       and Naomi Klein on the BBC World Service programme Business Daily       to discuss the economic       and political ideas of Adam Smith (drawing on research including [5]).
No       specific audience figures       are available but the World Service as a whole has a weekly audience of       approximately forty       million [S4].
Impact via print       We have written regularly for non-specialist magazines and newspapers with       large and diverse       readerships.
Haldane writes frequently for The Scotsman, among       other print outlets, and has used       his column to show the relevance to modern questions of philosophers such       as Hume and Thomas       Reid, and of the Scottish Enlightenment more generally (drawing on the       research of Harris and       Smith, e.g.
[3], [4] and [5]).
Haldane's writing in The Scotsman       reliably generates comment.
One       reader on his Hume piece, for example, wrote: "Any more of this stuff         and people will start         regarding The Scotsman as a serious newspaper".
Harris has       written on Hume for The RSA         Journal, the main readership of which is the approx.
25 000 Fellows       of the RSA (motto: 21st       Century Enlightenment), but which is also available to all online.
He has written on Reid for The         Philosopher's Magazine, a magazine intended to bring philosophy to a       popular audience (including       school students), drawing on his [3] and [4].
The Philosopher's         Magazine has a vibrant online       presence, and Haldane has written a blog post there on the Scottish       Enlightenment, described in       the comment thread as "heart-warming" [S5].
Mention should also be       made here of Craig Smith's       book (written with Tom Miers) Democracy and the Fall of the West       (Imprint Academic, 2011).
This       book, which draws in part on Smith's work on Adam Smith and the liberal       tradition, is intended for a       wide, non-specialist audience, and has provoked substantial comment on the       web [e.g., S6, S7].
Impact via personal interactions       We have given several lectures to large non-academic audiences.
2010 was       the tercentenary of       the birth of Reid and 2011 the tercentenary of the birth of Hume, and both       anniversaries were the       occasion of events that drew large public audiences.
In April 2010 Haldane       spoke on Reid at the       Royal Society of Edinburgh.
The lecture is available on YouTube and has       been viewed almost       2000 times [S8].
In May 2011 Harris spoke on Hume to an audience of       approximately 100 at the       Institute for Advanced Study in the Humanities at Edinburgh.
In July 2011       Harris organised a major       international conference on Hume in Edinburgh.
The plenary sessions of the       conference were       open to the public, and a lecture by the Nobel laureate Amartya Sen drew       an audience of close to       1 000.
The conference was reported on in the local media, and Harris       contributed to a Newsnight       Scotland segment on the conference.
The segment is on YouTube and has been       viewed over 700       times [S9].
We have also been invited to speak on themes from the history       of philosophy in a       variety of non-academic settings: Smith has given talks to Loretto High       School (audience c. 40)       and the Dimensional Investment Fund (audience c. 100), whose `company       philosophy' is `markets         work'.
Harris spoke on the Scottish Enlightenment to the 2010 annual       meeting of the Royal Society       of Anaesthetists (audience c. 300).
Smith and Harris organized a session       on the Scottish tradition       of political thought at the 2012 Festival of Politics, part of that year's       Edinburgh Festival.
All 80       tickets were reserved prior to the event.
In all these instances,       researchers are drawing on their       own and their colleague's published research, including the items cited in       section 3, and earlier       publications.
Impact in the art world       We have brought our work in the history of philosophy into dialogue with       contemporary artists with       significant followings.
In April 2010 Haldane organized a 'Festival of       Philosophy' at St Andrews that       featured philosophical and musical exchanges between Roger Scruton and the       composer James       Macmillan.
This event was open to the public, as were Scruton's Gifford       Lectures at St Andrews of       the same year.
These lectures were published as The Face of God in       2012, and the book has       been widely reviewed and commented upon [e.g., S10].
Haldane's intellectual influence has been acknowledged by Turner Prize       shortlisted artist David       Tremlett.
Tremlett made a grid-text piece entitled `Faithful Reason p.       104, 2010', based on       Haldane's text Faithful Reason [S11] He also commissioned Haldane       to write a catalogue essay       for an exhibition `Walls' in Italy (2010) and to deliver a public lecture       in connection with a major       exhibition of his work at the Hamburg Kunstalle (2011).
