     The current economic climate has emphasised the importance of resource       efficiency, which       presents a challenge for manufacturing companies.
The KTP project has       developed a novel       calibration procedure, based on Kent research, that exploits historical       data that were already held       by the Company.
The benefits of the new procedure are fourfold: (i) around       50% more meters can       be calibrated in a given period of time than with the previous method,       leading to increased profits       and more rapid fulfilment of orders; (ii) there are separate environmental       benefits, resulting from       less usage of energy; (iii) for some types of meter, certain secondary       measurements have been       found to be unnecessary and can be eliminated; (iv) the calibration is       more robust, reducing the       number of instruments that need to undergo costly and time-consuming       recalibration [5.1, item 6].
All these are confirmed by the Research and Development Manager of KROHNE       Ltd, who       declares that the "new procedure based on your statistical theory         reduces the overall time and also         improves robustness" and that it "will not only benefit the         Company with thousands of instruments         produced more efficiently but also benefit our local economy and         environment since less energy         will be used in the production" [5.6].
These benefits will       be substantial: for example the Company       anticipates that gross profits will have risen by around &#163;250,000 per       annum by 2015 [5.1, item 10].
The collaboration with KROHNE Ltd built on initial links with the Company       that were established by       X Wang.
Support for building this into a more formal collaboration,       funded through a Knowledge       Transfer Partnership (KTP) in 2011, was provided by the Kent Innovation       and Enterprise unit.
At this stage, the primary impact has been to change the knowledge       and capability of staff       within the Company with regard to the use of historical data and       specialised Bayesian       methodology, so that they themselves can incorporate this more         efficient calibration method into       their manufacturing process.
Previously, such methods were unknown to       staff at KROHNE Ltd.
The impact has been achieved through the KTP by adapting the Bayesian       regression techniques       developed at Kent to the specifics of the calibration problem, by running       many calibrations to       demonstrate the effectiveness of the method in practice, and by supporting       the implementation of       the new calibration method within the Company's core software.
The       adoption of the new       production procedure based on the statistical developed by Kent       statisticians is confirmed by the       Research and Development Manager of KROHNE Ltd, who declares that "this         new procedure has         been tested by our software engineers and it is being implemented in our         core software" [5.6].
The Company has been extremely positive about the benefits of the KTP       throughout the project       (e.g.
[5.2, 5.3, 5.5, 5.6]) and the project has received       consistently high ratings.
The Company itself       rated the project as "high" (the top grade) in terms of "improved         efficiency or productivity" [5.1, item         13] and commented that "The KTP exceeded our           expectations in finding a very effective         mathematical model to meet the Company's need."
[5.1, item 18].
The project was awarded the       highest grade of "Outstanding" by the KTP Grading Panel for its       achievement [5.7]; only around       10% of projects nationally receive this rating.
The Company's commitment to the project is evidenced by the fact that       they have a software       engineer working full time on the implementation.
This requires a full       understanding of the       Bayesian methodology and the Company employed the KTP Associate for an       additional five       months beyond the lifetime of the KTP project to facilitate this.
Part of       the delivery of this       knowledge transfer has been the provision of a comprehensive document       detailing the statistical       methods used, and associated training of the software engineers by the KTP       Associate.
A secondary impact of the KTP has been to change the culture of       KROHNE Ltd, with regard to       the value of fundamental science, particularly industrial mathematics [5.1         item 12].
The Company       now recognises the value of historical data and sees the potential for       exploiting such data       elsewhere in the Company to "improve manufacturing operation and         product quality" [5.1, item 7].
It is also starting to address other issues in relation to historical       data, such as the question of       whether it is best to use all available data, or whether there may be       benefits in discarding some of       the oldest data.
The research undertaken by the University of Kent, with the KTP       Associate, has been presented to       a cross-section of staff at a seminar hosted by KROHNE Ltd [5.4, 5.5].
Bayesian methods were       completely new to the Company, but they have been quick to realise their       potential and describe       the KTP as "significant to the Company's operation for enhancing its         competitiveness of precision         instrumentation manufacturing" [5.1, item 4].
The Company's       2013 plan includes dissemination of       Bayesian statistical principles to Research &amp; Development personnel       and training of calibration       operators.
Thus the impact on the Company was broad as it affected       personnel involved in       research and development, implementation through software development and       practical       calibration.
The KTP Associate has also been involved in regular       discussions with KROHNE       Germany.
A further example of the increased awareness of the value of statistical       methods within       KROHNE Ltd is that a second software engineer is working full time on the       implementation of       another new statistically based procedure into the Company's software; the       KTP Associate also       contributed to development of this procedure.
Summary: Whilst there are various approaches to Bayesian       regression, the methods used here to       address the calibration problem successfully are firmly based in the       nonparametric approach of the       underpinning Kent research outlined in Section 2, which offers great       flexibility in the choice of prior       distribution; the need for this flexibility was apparent from the       historical data.
The impact on the       Company has been to provide a new calibration procedure that utilises       historical data.
The new       procedure reduces waste, lowers manufacturing costs and delivers more       reliable products that       require less re-calibration, and will lead to large increases in profits.
The KTP has provided the       knowledge and capability that the Company is now using to implement the       procedure into its       manufacturing software.
To conclude, this very successful KTP project has changed the practices       and protocols of the KTP       partner through transfer of knowledge and capability.
The Company       anticipates a gross profit       increase of a quarter of a million pounds per annum in three years' time       as a direct consequence of       this KTP project [5.1, item 10].
This acknowledges the       significance of this project which has       already affected many departments of the Company.
