     The research is being used globally as a tool for providing scientific       research and evidence in urban planning.
a. sDNA is being used in China.
Chinese urban planners operate mostly       with intuitive design skills, which are increasingly insufficient for       planning development in a mixed-market land economy.
The attraction of       sDNA to China's army of urban planners is its ability to predict urban       system performance (pedestrian and car movements and relative volumes,       land use demand at different points in the urban grid, land value, and       tantalisingly from our epidemiological studies, urban health outcomes),       all from network geometry.
This offers the prospect of "proofing"       strategic plans at all scales early on in the process of urban planning.
Guoyan Zhou, director of Renew A+P Consulting, Shanghai, said "SDNA is         a great evaluation method for the analysis and decision-making on         different plans in China."
[Error!
Reference source not       found.].
sDNA is being used, for example, by Renew A+P Consultants, Shanghai and       Hefei University of Technology (HUT), Anhui Province, China to evaluate       the spatial design of a major growth corridor in the city of Huainan, part       of a plan to accommodate another 1.2 million people in the city; and by       Tongji University design institute planning consultants to evaluate       accessibility and economic performance of underground parts of cities.
b.
The network approach to urban plan evaluation has been widely       disseminated across China by the Cardiff team via keynote and invited       speeches to large and high profile audiences.
Together with the Space       Syntax team at UCL and the MIT network analysis team, it has triggered new       conversations, expectations and research among the professional and       academic urban planning communities.
On the basis of this research,       Webster has been appointed, for example, to the influential Wuhan Urban       Research Network, a cross-disciplinary expert forum giving strategic       guidance to the economic, social and spatial growth of this city of 10       million.
c. sDNA has been used by consultants BRS (France) and dEp (UK) [1]       to prepare spatial planning policy and an investment plan in one of Paris'       five new towns (150,000 inhabitants).
sDNA helped appraise community       severance resulting from alternative spatial strategies.
Impacts include:       a plan that more efficiently guides spatial development over the plan       period; creation of a 1400km detailed pedestrian network model as a basis       for the severance study (a world first in the sophistication of an       analytical base for pedestrian/walking-oriented urban planning); a       location plan for a new, light, and rapid transit option for this       community as part of the Grand Paris multi-billion Euro regional transport       project.
d. sDNA has been used by Arup [2], in its preparation of a       spatial strategy plan for Wiltshire County Council, with (Westminster       Government) Homes and Community Agency funding.
The action research       involved creating a new methodology for a high resolution pedestrian       network model.
Currently detailed pedestrian networks in UK towns and       cities are not readily available.
The pedestrian model was used for       evidence-based appraisal and evaluation of alternative town development       strategies.
Impacts include: Guiding spatial development with greater       efficiency over the plan period of a market town centre in the UK;       suggesting new strategies that might have otherwise been overlooked (town       extension impact); providing a greater evidence base with a stronger       technical narrative to lower the transaction costs of plan preparation and       adoption; making planning strategies for different towns more consistent       by virtue of a common analytical approach.
e. sDNA is being used in partnership with Cardiff University Medical       School and with the UK Biobank project based at Oxford University to       introduce objectively measured built environment indicators into       analytical epidemiological models and public health debates.
The UK       Biobank is a major national health resource, with the aim of improving the       prevention, diagnosis and treatment of a wide range of serious and       life-threatening illnesses through data on 500,000 people.
Funded by UK       Biobank, sDNA is producing over 100 built environment metrics       (epidemiology-modelling quality) for each of the Biobank's 500,000 cohort       members.
This creates the world's largest and most sophisticated cohort       study for gene-built-environment studies of disease in the community.
As a       result of this work, the sDNA team is working with the Coalition       Government's Chief Planner (at the Department for Communities and Local       Government) and with the Royal Town Planning Institute [3] to       explore new protocols for evidence-based urban planning.
An agreement has       also been reached with the Dean of Medicine at the University of Hong Kong       to apply sDNA to three big public health science cohorts in China.
This       collaboration has now started.
In April 2013 the UK Biobank funding was       supplemented by one of ESRC's Transformative Research grants to conduct       `Urban WHealth modelling' at UK level.
f. sDNA has provided the methodological basis for several major funded       research projects closely linked to policy making agencies, with several       others under discussion.
For example, in July 2013 the Turkish Government       awarded a significant grant to a team based at Gazi University Ankara,       Istanbul City University, Cardiff University and Hong Kong University to       study the optimal timing sequence of residential and retail development by       the municipality of Ankara and Istanbul using sDNA [5].
This       project will help guide the work of Istanbul's powerful new Urban       Transformation development agency as it sets about spatially       re-configuring a massive 75% of the city's fabric.
Istanbul has 14 million       inhabitants and this is the largest ever application of the tool of land       readjustment (temporary expropriation, redevelopment, reorganising       property rights and reallocation pro-rata less a fraction to cover cost of       redevelopment).
g. In 2013, sDNA was presented within a suite of three-level walking       modelling framework by an independent transport planning consultant to a       network with over 300 industry professionals from the UK and Ireland at       the 11th Annual UK Transport Practitioner Meeting, Birmingham       and at the international conference Walk 21, Munich, with 500 delegates       from health, transport and planning professionals who are working       increasingly together throughout the world to deliver more liveable and       successful places.
On both occasion the audience consisting of transport       modellers and other practitioners who work with modellers found the       three-level framework useful as a way of conceptualising different stages       of analysis in a design and planning process.
The audience was very       receptive and appreciative of the framework and of sDNA capacities [Error!
Reference source not found.].
h. Following advice from transport professionals Welsh Government funding       (&#163;5k) has been secured by Cardiff University's Research, Innovation &amp;       Enterprise Services to support market research targeting sustainable       transport professionals which will direct the further development of sDNA       software.
This is not published on website due to the sensitive nature of       these commercial projects.
i. sDNA has been competitively selected to be used by iSolve 2013-14, a       programme developed first at MIT in Boston and then extended to Cambridge       University, this exciting concept has now been successfully developed at       Cardiff University.
iSolve allows entrepreneurial postgraduates and       researchers to work with real inventions in order to determine the best       route for their further commercialisation and impacts [7].
