     This research has translated into impact both via direct interactions       between researchers and user groups, and via more expository publications       based on the primary research, publications which are more accessible to       this audience of non-specialist teachers and their students.
Philosophers       at the University of St Andrews have been supporting philosophy teachers       in Scotland by offering philosophy-specific training activities drawing on       their own research and subject expertise (as listed in &#167;3), which can be       taken up as part of teachers' professional development.
These activities,       under the auspices of a schools engagement programme developed and       coordinated by Dr Lisa Jones since 2008, include:     (i) regular `workshop' events or `masterclasses' for teachers of       philosophy at secondary level (e.g.
those delivering Higher or       Intermediate-2 level Philosophy, or Higher Religious and Moral Education       in schools) and for primary school teachers introducing `philosophical       enquiry' into their classrooms between Foundation Stage/Nursery and Key       Stage 2/P4-6;     (ii) an annual `Study Day for Higher Philosophy students' held in St       Andrews, consisting of a day of lectures/workshops delivered to S5 (year       11-12) students and their teachers from schools all over Scotland       (attracts attendees from up to 20 schools annually &#8212; i.e.
over one quarter       of all schools in Scotland that deliver Higher Philosophy);     (iii) provision since 2008 of a suite of online distance-learning modules       aimed at teachers delivering philosophy at secondary level (S4-S6),       focusing on areas specific to these philosophy syllabi, and to the       Religious and Moral Education (RME) syllabus;     (iv) a one day conference (November 2012), attended by 50 teachers and       educationalists from all over Scotland, highlighting our work of promoting       philosophy within both primary and secondary level education.
(A future       conference event for teachers is also planned, as demand for such events       is ongoing.)
The combination of the conference, masterclasses, Study Days and online       modules in the period 2008-13 has directly benefited the participating       teachers, by contributing to their personal and professional development       in terms of (a) increased confidence in delivering the syllabi in their       classes, (b) improved understanding of specific areas of philosophy, and       of philosophical method, (c) improved understanding of how to conduct       philosophical discussions and enquiries within the classroom, (d) better       awareness of and access to teaching and learning resources, including       colleagues' above-mentioned publications, and (e) enabling formal       registration with the General Teaching Council Scotland as teachers of       philosophy (this requires attainment of 80 credits of philosophy at SCQF       levels 7 &amp; 8).
Materials used in Study Days, masterclasses and in the       online modules have impacted on the design and delivery of the relevant       Higher syllabi in secondary schools, as teachers have adapted the methods       and materials to use in their own classes.
Impact on Teaching and Learning at Secondary-School Level     Mulgan's Understanding Utilitarianism (Acumen, 2007) and       Timmermann's edition/commentary on Kant's Groundwork [&#167;3, (5)]       along with his entry (with O'Neill) on `Kantian Ethics' in the Routledge         Encylopedia of Philosophy have been used within the       distance-learning module `Ethical Issues'.
These more accessible versions       of the primary research outputs have provided teachers with materials that       have improved their critical understanding of the two major moral       approaches at the core of the Ethics syllabi they deliver in their       schools, boosted their confidence in delivering these, and informed their       teaching at the level of lesson plans and content.
Feedback from teachers       has included: `I was teaching the Moral Philosophy Higher unit       concurrently with doing the module and it really improved my own       understanding and the quality of my teaching.'
`I used a lot of       the materials &#8212; my knowledge was extended and I felt more confident       delivering certain aspects of the philosophy course.'
`I found       the module useful in respect to the Advanced Higher Philosophy of       Religion course and used some of the materials within lessons.'
[S4]       To date, 16 teachers from 14 schools (20% of total centres delivering       Philosophy Higher) have received accreditation for this module alone; a       further 7 are enrolled for next academic session.
Mulgan and Timmermann       also participated in a masterclass drawing on their work on Kantian and       Utilitarian ethics (February 2012) for the benefit of 12 attendees, all       teachers delivering the Higher Philosophy syllabus and thus required to       teach &#8212; explain and critically compare &#8212; these two major moral approaches.
Feedback from attendees show that 100% `strongly agreed' that the       masterclass workshop `improved my understanding of ethical theory'       and also `provided me with useful ideas in terms of teaching ethical       theory in my school classes', such as `more use of thought       experiments'.
Similarly, Harris has provided several talks on Hume's       epistemology for the benefit of teachers and school pupils working on the       `Epistemology' unit of the Philosophy Higher (at the Study Day events of       2008-2010; each attended by 100+ pupils and 15+ teachers from schools all       over Scotland).
His `Hume' chapter in the Routledge Companion to       Ethics, and his `Free Will' chapter in the Continuum Companion       to Hume have been used in the distance-learning module `Modern       Philosophy', informing teachers' understanding of Hume's empiricism.
12       teachers from 12 different schools have received accreditation for this       particular module, to date.
One reports: `I have used Kant materials       and will adapt Hume to N5 when I get a chance to teach it!'
`I       would thoroughly recommend it to other RMPS (Science and Religion and       Moral Issues Section of the Higher) and would-be Philosophy teachers.'
Another reports: `Will definitely help in teaching philosophy in school.'
[S4]     In all, the suite of online distance-learning modules developed using       publications based on the research outputs of Harris, Mulgan, and       Timmermann, has been engaged with to date by 28 secondary school teachers       taking anything from 20-80 credits; these 28 teachers represent 23       different Scottish schools &#8212; equal to one-third of all centres presenting       Higher Philosophy, or half of those presenting Intermediate-2.
In total,       1100 SQCF philosophy credits have been earned by teachers via these       modules, and new teachers continue to sign up each year.
The modules are       listed on the Education Scotland webpages, under their `CPD find' facility       [S3 and S6].
The reach of the modules has recently expanded further,       following a new collaboration with EIS, which will see the modules       promoted amongst 65,000 teacher members of this union [S1].
http://www.st-andrews.ac.uk/philosophy/pops/onlinemodules/     Impact on Teaching and Learning at Primary- and Nursery-School Level     Gaut's work on creativity and skill [&#167;3, (6)] has led to the development       of a method for carrying out philosophical enquiry sessions with very       young children, articulated in a textbook Philosophy for Young       Children (by Berys Gaut and Morag Gaut), which sold 880 copies       between publication in August 2011 and 31st July 2013.
The       method was presented to a primary teachers' masterclass held in St Andrews       (April 2011) and primary teachers from 3 schools in Buckhaven (Fife) went       on to use this textbook to carry out philosophical enquiry sessions in       their classrooms as part of the `curriculum for excellence'.
They have       benefitted from the introduction and use of this resource in terms of       increased confidence and improved ability to plan and maintain class       discussions of philosophical concepts and ideas.
One of these teachers,       giving feedback on the success she had doing philosophical enquiries with       her primary pupils in the school [S2], noted that HMI inspectors carrying       out their inspection of her primary school had commented specifically on       the advanced thinking skills of her pupils, which she credits to the       philosophy sessions [corroborated by Colin Davidson of EIS, S1].
The       Gauts' method was presented again at the November one-day conference,       reaching an audience of 19 other primary teachers.
100% gave feedback to       the effect that they would alter their practice in some way as a result of       attending the sessions; one nursery teacher reported that Philosophy `will       now become part of the curriculum at St Andrews nursery', and also       that she intends to seek for philosophy to be promoted into the cluster       schools for the local high school.
An educationalist from Moray House       School of Education, Edinburgh, reported that the conference would inform       his work on course design for primary student teachers [S5].
Following the       one-day conference, the Gaut textbook is now used by staff at Anstruther       Primary School Nursery (Fife), St Andrews Nursery Centre (Fife), Bright       Horizons Nursery (Fife), the Secret Garden Outdoor Nursery (Fife), and       Walton Lane Nursery School (Lancashire).
