     Whatever co-operation between festivals and the academic world there         is today, it exists largely         thanks to this wonderful work, says the Chief Programmer the Doha       Film Institute in Qatar in her       letter (supporting doc.
1).
Our project has been described as       `groundbreaking' by a notable       Australian critic who, in his letter, claimed that it impacts deeply         on the professional work of film         critics, journalists, film festival programmers and managers, art museum         curators, cultural events         organisers, and all manner of councils, boards and funding bodies         involved with the subsidizing of         festivals (doc.
2).
We interact with over 150 festival practitioners       and work closely with over twenty       leading international festivals, whose response to our work has been       particularly encouraging.
We       impact the galaxy of festivals by charting the diversity, by facilitating       dialogues, by foregrounding       the festivals' leverage in the system of transnational film circulation,       and by assisting the under-standing       of their global dynamics.
Iordanova and Frodon use their extensive       international contacts       to take up new initiatives, in particular with prestigious French and       Asian institutions and festivals.
The importance of our work for contemporary festival operations is       evidenced by the wide range of       our global affiliates, by the widespread acceptance of our work, as well       as in the testimonies from       associates (docs.
1 - 5).
The impact of our work so far is manifest both       globally and locally.
GLOBALLY     Facilitating dialogue between practitioners.
From the onset we       worked with practitioners, who       took part in discussions and contributed by writing case studies and       giving interviews highlighting       the specifics of their work to the global community of other festivals.
Major critics and       programmers use our forums to air views on key matters of festival       operation, creating dialogue       and exchange among festivals with distinct agendas and emphases.
As one       influential critic and       film festival consultant writes, I am personally involved as a         consultant with Festival Directors and         Programmers in many parts of the world ... and I can vouch for the fact         that the best informed         professional workers in this field are completely 'tuned in' to this         work ... the Film Festival         Yearbooks ... are eagerly sought out and passed around within the         professional field of festival         organization.
(doc.
2).
The fact that a wide range of practitioners from around the world       contribute to our volumes &#8212; from       Canada, Greece, Italy, Russia, Germany, France, Austria, Serbia, Israel,       Cuba, Chile, Kurdistan,       India, Hong Kong, Singapore, Taiwan, Kazakhstan, Japan, Thailand, Qatar,       Australia, the US, the       UK and elsewhere &#8212; confirms that they see our outputs as a potent       transmitter of new knowledge       that helps deepen understanding of the festival universe.
Reviews of our       work written by festival       practitioners, such as Beijing-based Shelly Kraicer (programmer of the       Vancouver IFF) in Cineaste       (New York, 2012), and the corroborating letter by the editor-in-chief at Cineaste       (doc.
3) have       attested to the fact that festivals eagerly await our assessments, learn       from our views and       implement some of the models that we have publicised, especially as we       present the views of film         festival directors and programmers, whose opinions are not always         honoured within the groves of         academe (doc.
3).
Sought out by beneficiaries.
Monitoring Amazon and our own       web-shop sales, indicates that       most of our books are ordered by and shipped to international festivals.
Books are shipped to       Teluride (Colorado), Berlin, Turkey, Amsterdam etc.
As word of our work       spreads, more and more       users get in touch and get involved; they see us as the most potent node       in the festival circuit.
One       example is the donation of a collection of festival catalogues dating back       to the 1970s by a       Cannes-winning producer (and former Director of the Rotterdam IFF) in       2012: he felt that his       archive would have its best home with us.
Another approach was from the       Deutsche       Kinemathek/Berlinale for a project on film festival catalogues (2013).
Festival stakeholders       frequently seek us out in a consulting capacity: Frodon and Iordanova are       involved with French-based       and international festivals (e.g.
Cannes, Shanghai, La Rochelle,       Berlinale, Locarno, etc.).
In       2011 Iordanova worked with the director of the Paris-based festival       accreditation body FIAPF, on       matters related to policy.
What comes out of this systematic work is the       recognition that the       knowledge base created by researchers is of direct use in planning and       developing further festival       operations (docs.
1 and 5).
Promotion by festivals.
International film festivals &#8212; from       America to Asia &#8212; have not only       embraced our work but also sponsored its promotion.
Members of the team       are regularly invited by       film festivals to present our underpinning research in talks, round       tables, and panel discussions.
Such appearances have been initiated and underwritten by the festivals to       an amount that we       estimate cumulatively at c. &#163;15,000.
Each one of our publications is       launched and sold in the       context of festivals, including special events in conjunction with the       Tromso IFF (Norway 2010),       Jeonju IFF (South Korea 2011), Edinburgh IFF, 2011, Venice (Italy, 2012),       Cinema Ritrovato       (Bologna, Italy 2013), Busan IFF (South Korea, 2011; 2013 &#8212; Busan IFF's       Artistic Director is a       member of our editorial advisory board).
Members of the team are invited       to present in the context       of industry training (e.g.
the Film Festival Summit Amsterdam 2010 and Las       Vegas 2011 or the       Film Festival Academy, New York 2012) (See: http://www.st-andrews.ac.uk/filmstudies/our-involvement/).
WITHIN SCOTLAND Our work started before Scotland's government       adopted the slogan       `Scotland Festival Nation' as a tagline for its cultural policy; yet this       adoption enhanced the       significance of our focus.
Our activities in Scotland influence the work       of several film festivals, as       corroborated by Creative Scotland, who acknowledge our joint work toward       `strengthening the       Edinburgh IFF' and `enhancing understanding in the wider film industry'       (doc.
4).
Iordanova has       served, since 2011, as Trustee of the of the Centre of the Moving Image,       the umbrella company of       the world's oldest continuously running film festival in Edinburgh (EIFF).
Joining the board at a       critical period for the EIFFs fortunes, she helped improve the Board's       grasp of the dynamics of the       global festival scene and of the importance of artistic curation for       future editions.
She led the       search for a new Artistic Director, resulting in the appointment of a       globally acclaimed curator as       artistic director, who writes that our publications and events `have       implications ... that affect the       practice of film festival programming') (doc.
5).
In 2011 we secured       funding that enabled us to       develop the Scottish Film Festivals Studies Network (Seehttp://www.st-andrews.ac.uk/filmstudies/scottish-film-festivals-studies-network-2011-2013/)       and bring together the 60-strong community of       practitioners for events that took place in Edinburgh (November 2011) and       in Venice (September       2012).
Our take on festival policy in Scotland has been publicised by The         Scotsman (e.g.
Iordanova's opinion piece `Think of the Bigger Picture on Film Festivals,       The Scotsman, 23 May       2012, available at http://www.scotsman.com/news/dina-iordanova-think-of-the-bigger-picture-for-film-festivals-1-23103)       and in the context of the policy events at the Edinburgh Festival since       2011.
Creative Scotland, the main arts funding body, recognised our influence on       the international circuit       by funding a special practitioners panel as part of our Venice event       (2012) (doc.
4).
CONCLUSION     The festival project has, from the outset, involved different global       users as part of an integrated       approach to festival study.
Our approach and our outreach activities       allowed us to create a       multitude of frameworks, case studies and resource listings that are       recognised to be of immediate       relevance to both the practical work of festival operations.
Publishing       revenues, grants, and       assistance from festivals generated income streams that ensure work can       continue and become       sustainable (&#163;267,000 total as of October, 2013).
We already act as a       global hub for film festival       studies &#8212; involving academics and practitioners &#8212; and plan to continue       setting the tone within the       community.
The fact that programmers and filmmakers now willingly take       part in our initiatives is a       key indicator of success: it is they who seek to associate with us.
In the       next stage, we expect to       partner up with specific festivals, like those in Busan and Edinburgh, for       the delivery of focused       programmes.
