     Cinema St Andrews examines and foregrounds film heritage as an integral       component of local culture and tourism, which is a fundamental aspect of       impact within our discipline.
Despite the vital role of moving images in       the local and international perception of St Andrews, its significance for       the town and its heritage industry has received little attention.
Through       its underpinning research and outreach activities, the project has       addressed this oversight in three particular ways.
In terms of impact, it       has strategically promoted the value of film locally within the town by:       1. contributing to the cultural heritage of St Andrews and its       international tourist industry, 2. influencing secondary education       pedagogy, and 3. developing film audiences through partnerships with local       venues.
Cultural Heritage     St Andrews (population of 18,000) has both a sizeable university       community (approximately 9,000), and a thriving international tourist       industry, attracting nearly 200,000 visitors annually.
Based in       Martin-Jones's scholarship on the cultural and economic value of cinema       within contemporary Scotland (as described in section 2), the project has       since 2011 re-evaluated and promoted cinema's role in the local tourist       and educational centres.
To carry this out, the project has organised regular, ongoing events for       multiple constituencies.
These include a two-week exhibition based on the       project's research, held at the St Andrews Preservation Trust Museum in       April 2012.
As noted in the letter from the Chairman of St Andrews       Preservation Trust (doc.
5.1), `the museum enjoyed a sizeable increase         in attendance with 835 visitors, which brought in &#163;425', and the       exhibition `brought new materials into the museum's permanent         collection and foregrounded the importance of the museum's often         overlooked cinematic holdings .
.
.
this exciting collaborative project         is proving valuable for the museum's outreach to the St Andrews         community'.
The project mounted a photographic exhibition in October 2012 at the Old       Course Hotel, as part of an ongoing partnership with the annual Alfred       Dunhill international golf tournament.
The exhibition targeted the town's       tourist industry, by showcasing rarely seen images of renowned film stars       on the golf courses of St Andrews.
As the Dunhill's supporting letter       notes (doc.
5.2), along with local and tourist visitors, 168 amateur and       more than 40 professional golfers visited the exhibition and, through       this, `learned of the rich history of celebrity culture in St Andrews;         a culture that we continue to nurture today to the cultural and economic         benefit of the town'.
Based on this success, the Dunhill is       expanding its collaboration with the project to promote, through Getty       Images, its rich photographic collection of film stars on the golf courses       of St Andrews.
As a further means of presenting and preserving the cinematic heritage of       the town, the project has established a new and growing online archive in       2011 (ref.
3.4, 5.6) that curates and contextualises digitised holdings in       partnership with, amongst others, St Andrews Museum (2011), the British       Film Institute (2012) and the Media History Digital Library (2013).
The       online archive includes materials such as photographs, architectural       plans, local interviews, and newspaper clippings, all available open       access, as noted in section 2.
As the editor of local magazine St         Andrews in Focus explains, the project's outreach activities, and in       particular its online archive of local history, has done `a great         service in preserving and promoting the town's film heritage at a time         when St Andrews and Scotland's creative industries are under increasing         threat' (doc.
5.3).
Based upon web traffic analysis (as detailed in       3.4 and 5.6), visits to the website have grown significantly since the       site's launch, from 270 unique visitors in the last quarter of 2011, to a       projected 10,000 visitors in 2013, based on 8,000 unique visitors in the       first eight months of the year.
Surges of web traffic have directly       coincided both with the project's locally staged events and with       international events connected to the project's research (the project's Chariots         of Fire research was the most read material on the website during       the 2012 Olympics).
Secondary Education Pedagogy     The project's outreach has helped shape local educational programmes.
Since 2011, it has partnered with St Leonards secondary school in St       Andrews to develop teaching programmes that deploy the underpinning       research.
The trial programme (which will continue in 2013/14) was       initially adopted across 12 classes as part of St Leonards' International       Baccalaureate in English Language and Literature and has since been       successfully incorporated more broadly across the curriculum.
As a       learning resource in schools, the project provides a model for introducing       and training students to engage critically with local heritage and new       media resources.
The school noted that the `project's focus on local         history has proved a particularly productive way of introducing topics         in film and media to our students'&#8212;a pedagogical approach that has       been particularly useful with overseas students less familiar with the       local culture (doc.
5.4).
Film Exhibition and Audience Development     As Creative Scotland has been actively tracking, film exhibition has       diminished in Scotland to the extent that more than 25% of the region no       longer has active film venues.
Given this context, Cinema St Andrews has       used its research to cultivate local film culture by formalising       collaborative partnerships with societies (for example, Colinsburgh       Community Cinema, since 2012) and by acquiring extensive local footage.
These initiatives resulted in a series of screenings throughout the town       in existing cultural centres (a local theatre and cinema) and       non-theatrical sites (including a church and school), attracting diverse       audiences comprised of long-term local residents, tourists, school       children and university students.
For example in 2013, the project ran a       film season that celebrated the town's rich cinematic heritage by curating       free film shows in historically significant local sites.
These included a       performance of a silent film, with live piano accompaniment, at the Hope       Park and Martyrs Church, attended by more than 150 people &#8212; a large and       diverse audience for a film screening in St Andrews.
The screening       recalled the town's first cinema, which was a converted church used from       1909.
Further screenings included a historical recreation of a programme       from 1964 from the St Andrews Film Society, which at the time was one of       the strongest in the United Kingdom with 1,025 members.
The related Film       Society programmes are one example of the resources digitised and made       accessible through the project's website (ref.
4).
On collaborating on       these commemorative screenings with a variety of sites and local       institutions, the project has worked in the context of the town's changing       cinematic landscape to form and nurture `the personal and         institutional connections that are vital for long-term development and         sustainability' of local cultural initiatives (see Colinsburgh       reference doc.
5.5).
By illuminating the key role of film as a major part of the heritage of       St Andrews in the 20th and 21st centuries, Cinema St       Andrews has made significant progress in fostering a sustainable, local       framework for film culture, which draws on the town's past to create       impact on cultural life in the present.
Where the history of film in St       Andrews had been disconnected from the larger history of the town, Cinema       St Andrews has discovered and made visible the long-standing significance       of film to the international image of St Andrews, as well as the long       history of film events and film culture associated with the town.
In doing       so, the project has created partnerships among several of the town's       cultural, tourist and educational institutions, building a collaborative       network where none had existed before.
Moreover, Cinema St Andrews has       developed film culture in St Andrews through a series of innovative       exhibitions and film screenings, creating impact on cultural life.
