     Since 2000, over 240 LMU architecture students have produced portfolio       schemes from research carried out during 26 field trips to informal       settlements in 6 cities leading to 4 live construction projects and 3       PhDs.
Access and support for this unique research environment has been       provided through collaboration with local NGOs.
The research process is       one of testing resistances and making accommodations to local cultural and       physical variables.
Insights and new knowledge emerge as the work       progresses.
Kachhpura Settlement Upgrading Project (KSUP), Agra (2006 to date)     Collaborating with the Centre for Urban Regional Excellence (CURE) within       the Indian Government (GOI) funded Cross Cutting Agra (CAP) project,       students responded to the overwhelming need of the female inhabitants of       an urban village for sanitation.
In 2007, 4 students installed the first       internal household toilet and washing space.
They established the quality       and method of construction, carried out hygiene awareness workshops in the       schools and established a sustainable maintenance programme.
Subsequently       by revolving the funds a further 200 internal toilets have been produced.
In addition, a DEWATS system to clean waste water was installed.
Cleaned       water is used for irrigation, building work and toilet flushing.
Cooperation with Indian professionals, the Municipal Authority and the       Archaeological Survey of India followed.
DEWATS was recognised as best       practice by the GOI (2013) and the Delhi Centre for Science and       Environment (CSE).
The India Urban Challenge Fund is providing funds for       replication in other cities.
In Agra, the Municipal Authority is       replicating DEWATS on a much bigger scale and is using it as a training       case study.
The KSUP experience has contributed to the Citywide Slum       Upgrading Plan and Strategy aligned to the GOI's Housing for the Urban       Poor Programme.
The project is featured in the Global Monitoring Report       2013 produced by The World Bank (Box 2.6, page 112, Catalysing Citywide       Slum Development in Agra), thus, in turn, the research is having an       outstanding impact in terms of reach and significance on the urban       development policy of India and at the world scale.
This project has also       had a considerable impact on the analysis of buildings and settlements in       informal settlements by Space Syntax Ltd., who have collaborated to test,       on the ground, their mapping of Agra to develop and sensitise their       software programme to cultural as well as physical variables.
Savda Ghewra, Delhi: shared technologies for resettlement upgrading         (2008 to date)     In collaboration with CURE, ARCSR contributed to the process of house       design for a group of poor resettled families.
Julia King's live       sanitation project proposal in Savda Ghewra won a Holcim Award (2012)       starting on site in April 2013.
The Delhi Government is considering       replication of the model in peri-urban communities.
Julia King was       nominated by ICON magazine as one of 50 young people, shaping the future       (August 2013), thus having an outstanding impact in terms of reach and       significance on the urban development policy of Delhi and on the debate on       the role of the architect.
Navi Mumbai Project for Community Classrooms (2008 to date)     Collaborating with Indian NGO ARPHEN, students and local quarry workers       constructed 2 classrooms providing primary education.
As a result of the       classroom construction ARPHEN secured funding for teachers' salaries from       Hindustan Cola, children have a route into state education, adult literacy       and women's sewing classes have begun and the Municipal Corporation have       provided water taps, electricity and street lighting, new pathways and       formalised drainage.
Project shortlisted for the Architect's Journal Small       Projects Award (February 2010).
Kaningo School Project, Freetown, Sierra Leone (2008 to date)     Collaborating with local NGO CESO students, researchers and an emergent,       post civil war community designed and constructed a primary school.
This       process revealed the deep social and physical problems encountered by poor       Freetown residents.
To address a sense of isolation from the city as a       whole, investigations into the architecture of 3 different but spatially       adjacent city neighbourhoods, followed by exhibitions at the British       Council in Freetown (July 2013) and London (part of the London Festival of       Architecture and International Architecture and Design Showcase 2012) have       laid down the basis for a sense of shared spatial identity.
Mitchell presented his paper `The Architect as Detective, Narrator and       Craftsperson' at an international symposium on `Design Tactics and the       Informalized City' at Cornell University in April 2012 indicating       outstanding impact in terms of the reach and significance on the debate on       the role of the architect working in informal cities.
