     Davis's impact on co-operative education and practice has been global and       longstanding, particularly via the Geneva based International Co-operative       Alliance (ICA).
Robby Tulus, a Senior Policy Advisor to the ICA, suggests       that `in the past co-operative leaders and managers were more inclined       towards conventional management models introduced by private stock       companies in maximizing profits, they are currently adopting a much more       value-based management model which put co-operative members as supreme       stakeholders and hence maximizing their welfare as owners rather than       simply the pursuit of profits.'
He, and many others, see this change as       the result of Davis's work.
The initial research led to the trial of an M level DL programme in       co-operative management at Leicester which became the model for four       similar programmes &#8212; two in Africa, one in Europe and one in another in       Canada &#8212; all of which are in operation during the period.
Prior to 2008,       Davis was invited to be one of 16 academics brought together to advise the       United Nations on its global policy towards co-operatives in 2003 by the       UN's Anti-Poverty Unit.
Davis and the ICA Communications Officer were       requested by the panel to draft the section of the Secretary General's       speech to the UN General Assembly for 2004 dealing with UN policy towards       co-operatives.
Davis was also asked to deliver a seminar paper at the UN.
In 2005, the ICA General Assembly in Cartagena, Columbia used the title of       one of Davis's books as the title for their conference (4).
During the period 2008-13 Davis continued to have impact on the sector by       speaking to practitioners, academic dissemination (often in translation),       the operation of the School's `Unit for Membership Based Organizations',       and editing the School-based International Journal of Co-operative         Management.
In August 2008 he was funded by Ford Foundation &amp;       National Co-op Federation of Indonesia to deliver a national seminar at       the USAKTI University Jakarta seminar.
In September 2008 he was funded by       the Malaysian government to do national seminars, one of which including       the Deputy Minister for Co-operatives.
In May 2009 he was funded by the       Co-operative Development Association of Ireland to give a keynote       presentation at their national conference and in June 2009 funded by       University College Cork for a keynote presentation opening their Masters       in Social Economy Management Summer School.
He was funded by the European       Research Institute for Co-operatives and Social Enterprises (Euricse)       based in Trento, Italy, to be a participant at two international seminars       &#8212; one in Italy in 2009 and one in Belgium in 2010 concerning the       establishment and development priorities for Euricse.
In 2009 he was       funded by CUDECOOP (the Uruguayan co-operative federation) to be a speaker       at their national strategy conference and to present two strategy papers       as an advisor to the Uruguayan Co-operative Movements National Executive       and another as advisor to their panel of strategy consultants.
The same       year he was funded by Pellervo (the confederation of Finnish       Co-operatives) to be a guest speaker at their 110th anniversary       celebrations.
The Asian Confederation of Credit Unions Indonesia (membership 42       million) who had awarded Davis the Raiffeisen Medal for his services to       the Asian Credit Union Movement in 2008, invited him to be their key note       close of conference speaker at their 40th Anniversary Conference in 2011.
In the same year he was the jointly funded guest of the Indonesian       Co-operative and Credit Unions Movements and the Charismatic Catholic       Business Men and Women's Association of Indonesia, and gave seminar papers       on Co-operative Value Based Management to Paramadina University, Jakarta;       a public seminar sponsored by the Intellectual Business Community of       Indonesia for CEOs for various sectors; a public seminar attended by 250       delegates organised by the Charismatic Catholic Business Men and Women's       Association of Indonesia; and at the Institute of Management for       Co-operatives, Bandung.
This was followed by a joint seminar of the       leaderships of the Indonesian Credit Union and Co-operative Movements       where it was agreed to publish a translation of Managing the         Co-operative Difference.
The first impression came out later that       year and sold out within 12 months.
In 2012 Davis was invited back to Indonesia sponsored by the government       of Indonesia's Minister for Co-operatives to be a keynote speaker at a       government conference and to give policy advice at two subsequent meetings       to the Minister and to the Head of the Government Training Programme for       Co-operatives and Credit Unions.
The Government Conference also saw the       launch of the second impression of the translated book, followed by       management seminars with officers of two of the biggest Credit Unions in       Sarawak and further presentations at the Institute of Management for       Co-operatives at the invitation of the Head.
Also in 2012 at the invitation of the University of Moncton, Canada,       Davis was asked to be the closing speaker at their Conference using the       title of his book (4), and was invited to deliver the opening paper at a       seminar on Co-operatives organised by the Faculty of Economics, Kasetsart       University, Bangkok, Thailand.
