     Glaucoma affects 70 million people worldwide, of whom seven million are       blind.
It is the       commonest cause of irreversible blindness in the world, and the commonest       neuropathy in the       world.
There are no well-established figures for the number of glaucoma       surgeries which are       carried out globally.
However, based on relatively conservative figures it       is likely that more than 2%       of glaucoma sufferers will require surgery during their lifetime &#8212; that is       around 1.4m individuals.
Our work has improved treatments &#8212; both pharmacological and surgical &#8212; for       these patients,       enabling the surgery to be used more widely and with greater success.
1) Intraoperative application of 5-FU     The use of 5-Fluorouracil (5-FU) to modify the wound healing in glaucoma       surgery was first       investigated in the early 1980s, with the treatment initially consisting       of a series of post-operative       injections.
Our work established that a single intra-operative application       of 5-FU can be used with       the same effect.
The benefits to patients are a reduction in the number of       visits, and reduction in       discomfort or pain from the injections.
There is also a reduced cost,       which has enabled the       treatment to be extended widely, particularly in developing countries.
A       recent Cochrane review       (2009 update) stated that "Clinicians now appear to prefer the         intra-operative application of agents         for the modification of wound healing and routine postoperative         injections of 5-FU are now rarely         used" [a].
Our work is referenced extensively in the European Glaucoma Society's       guidelines on use of 5-FU       in glaucoma surgery, which recommend a five-minute sponge exposure for       intra-operative use [b].
Intra-operative use of 5-FU is also recommended in Asia-Pacific glaucoma       guidelines, which also       specifically reference our work with regard to mode of application and       surgical techniques [c].
2) Improved surgical techniques     Glaucoma surgery has in the past had significant complications, including       soft eye with bleeding       and visual loss, and late infections from thin areas of fluid drainage       associated with the surgery.
Previously, virtually all of these complications would increase with the       use of anticancer agents.
The principles learnt from our earlier cell culture and in vivo       experiments enabled us to establish       how these agents worked as local applications and thus develop the       Moorfields Safer Surgery       System.
This consists of several simple changes to surgical techniques,       and the development of       improved components which dramatically reduced the incidence of       potentially blinding       complications.
The incidence of infection of the drainage area due to       thinning varies from 6% to       20% in three- to five-year follow up.
This is reduced to approximately 0.5       - 1% with the wide area       anticancer treatment technique in the Moorfields system [d].
A review of clinical practice in 2011 stated that: "While         complications are a risk, modern glaucoma         surgery techniques as developed by Khaw and colleagues have greatly         reduced the risk of both         intra- and postoperative complications" [e].
One of the main benefits to the Moorfields Safer Surgery system is that       the techniques described       are relatively inexpensive and can be accessed by most surgeons around the       world including those       from the poorer countries.
This has enabled the system to spread widely,       and it is now the       standard technique used around the globe [f].
We have distributed information about this techniques free online [g],       and the system has reached       all continents.
Khaw has given many invited lectures in the USA, South       America, Africa, India,       South East Asia and Australia to highly receptive audiences, who have in       turn spread the       Moorfields Safe Surgery system.
One surgeon from the All India Institute       of Medical Sciences, who       was trained in our techniques in 2005, now reports that "Currently all         residents and fellows that         pass from our university are trained in the Moorfields Safe Surgery         System...
This system is now         being adopted across all major ophthalmic centres in our country and         also in south east Asia.
The         Moorfields Safe Surgery system has significantly impacted both general         ophthalmologists and         glaucoma specialists, improved the standard of care and also the quality         of life of glaucoma         patients across India" [h].
In addition, Khaw has worked with a UK commercial company, Duckworth       &amp; Kent, to develop a       comprehensive set of instruments which can be used in line with the Safer       Surgery System [i].
The complications of trabeculectomy surgery have improved considerably       since the UK national       survey of trabeculectomy 15 years ago.
Early complications occurred in       46.6% and late       complications in 42.3%.
With the Safer Surgery System and 5-FU there were       no cases of       endophthalmitis, hypotonous maculopathy, retinal detachment or blindness.
Studies around the       world have found similar improved outcomes using our protocols which is of       direct relevance to       many hundreds of thousands of individuals across the world [j].
