 Work on PBDs has been commercialised over the last 13 years through spin-out company Spirogen, which was set up in 2000 with Hartley as one of the founding scientists [a].
Initial funding came from the Bloomsbury Bioseed Fund, and laboratories were established at the UCL Cancer Institute and UCL School of Pharmacy.
As at July 2013, the company has a broad intellectual property base with &gt;40 published patents and patent filings covering the use of PBDs as stand- alone anticancer drugs and as targeted agents.
The company is currently based at the Queen Mary BioEnterprise Innovation Centre, London and has 25 employees [b].
Between 2001 and 2003, the company went through two rounds of funding, and SG2000 was licensed to Ipsen.
This drug successfully completed Phase I Clinical Trials in the UK and US, and results were reported in 2008 [c].
69 Patients were treated in multiple phase I trials, with 15 cases of stable disease and three partial responses of note [d].
In October 2009, Spirogen regained development and commercialisation rights for SG2000 from Ipsen, and entered into an option agreement with Celtic Therapeutics to fund the Phase IIa trials of SG2000 in ovarian cancer, with investment of up to $15m [e].
Phase II trials began in 2010 [f], evaluating the overall response rate of SG2000 in approximately 50 patients with recurrent, resistant or refractory epithelial ovarian, primary peritoneal, or fallopian tube carcinoma.
More recently, significant further inward investment has been obtained by Spirogen with multiple collaborations with pharmaceutical companies in the area of PBD drug conjugates.
In particular, the PBDs are beginning to have an impact in the area of antibody drug conjugates, which is fast emerging as one of the principal approaches in the field of monoclonal antibody cancer therapeutics: January 2011: Announced a research collaboration and license agreement with Genentech, a member of the Roche Group, for the discovery and development of antibody drug conjugates involving Spirogen's proprietary PBD drugs and associated linker technology [g].
March 2012: Celtic Therapeutics formed a new company, ADC Therapeutics, headquartered from Lausanne, Switzerland with a pipeline of ten proprietary ADC oncology development programs, targeting multiple major cancers, including prostate, renal, breast, lung and blood cancers and an initial budget of $50million.2028Celtic Therapeutics is also the majority owner of Spirogen, and ADC Therapeutics' development plan for the ADCs will use well-characterized monoclonal antibodies against these ten antigens for conjugation with best-in-class warhead and linker chemistry based on proprietary pyrrolobenzodiazepines ("PBDs") "payload" technology developed by, and licensed from Spirogen.
Stephen Evans-Freke, Co-Founder and Managing General Partner of Celtic Therapeutics commented in the press release: "We believe that ADCs will represent a significant medical breakthrough in cancer therapy over the coming decade, and that Spirogen's PBDs constitute `best-in-class' ADC warheads.
We anticipate investment of up to $50m into ADC Therapeutics to achieve clinical proof of concept in 2-3 lead oncology programs.
We are committed to fully fund ADC Therapeutics and will raise additional capital if warranted" [h].
April 2012: Began a collaboration with a School of Pharmacy spin-out company, PolyTherics1, to use their ThioBridge technology to conjugate Spirogen's potent PBD cytotoxic agents site- specifically to antibodies and antibody fragments [i].
February 2013: Began a research collaboration with Ablynx to evaluate the potential of a novel anti-cancer drug conjugate combining Spirogen's proprietary cytotoxic drugs, pyrrolobenzodiazepines (PBD), and associated linker technology, with Nanobodies&#174; generated using Ablynx's proprietary technology platform [j].
[text removed for publication].
In late 2013 Spirogen was acquired by Astra-Zeneca for a total of $440million ($200million upfront plus $240million deferred consideration on meeting defined developmental goals/milestones) [k].
