     As a pathway to achieving impact, MacDonald and Shildrick have       disseminated their findings widely to different audiences, engaging with       politicians, policy makers, practitioners and the public (e.g.
they have       made over 50 invited presentations on this research since 2008).
This dissemination, and the reputation of the research, has led to them       being invited to join the advisory committees of charities (e.g.
JRF, Work       Foundation, NE Child Poverty Commission), which has in turn enabled the       researchers' findings to be more effectively communicated to these bodies       and through their user networks.
MacDonald and Shildrick have worked       closely with the University's Press Office, research funders and research       users so as to maximise the reach, accessibility, timeliness and policy/       practice relevance of the research `messages'.
For reasons of space, some examples of how impact has been             achieved are given here in respect of only the most       recent study: Are `cultures of worklessness' passed down the         generations?
(Study 5).
The University Press Office helped the       researchers to gain widespread newspaper coverage (e.g.
Financial         Times, The Independent, The Observer, Daily Record, The Herald).
Their comment piece in The Guardian received 500+ posted replies       within 24 hours.
Social media was also used to generate wide dissemination       and debate beyond academia.
An `infographic' from this study reached over       1 million Twitter users (according to JRF calculations).
There were over       5k hits in one month on MacDonald's blog about this research (the most       successful JRF blog in 2012).
Alongside Studies 1 to 4, Study 5 also       featured in MacDonald and Shildrick's Knowledge Exchange Project       (KEP), funded by the Institute for Local Governance (ILG) and       Middlesbrough Council (MC).
During 2011-12, nearly 400 people from over       100 different North East statutory, voluntary and private sector       organisations attended at least one of seven KEP events in which the       research was used to `bust myths' about poverty and worklessness and where       participants were challenged about how they might use it to help tackle       these problems.
The following are examples of the impact on thinking and             practice that have been achieved: 			     Extensive, staged and separate evaluations of the impact of the KEP       have been undertaken by the researchers and by ILG [see evidence 1 and 2       in respect of all examples, below, related to this KEP].
ILG presented       this KEP to a 2012 seminar of the ESRC's Knowledge Exchange Division as an       `excellent' and `innovative example' of how to foster productive       engagement between local governance institutions and universities.
ILG       concluded that it had led to:       (a) `conceptual' impact that `reframed debates'       (e.g.
one community organisation commented: `it gave front line       organisations, unemployed people themselves and movers and shakers many       questions as well as potential answers...without any doubt at all the       MacDonald/ Shildrick work has become a catalyst for exploding many of the       myths surrounding worklessness');       (b)`changing state' impact: three-quarters of       evaluation respondents said that the research was `useful or very useful       in supporting their work' and were `now thinking and/ or acting       differently' as a consequence.
For instance, it energised social housing,       youth work and community organisations, welfare to work providers, Job       Centre Plus and several council departments towards tackling poverty and       `the low-pay, no-pay cycle' and creating new opportunities and networks to       do this.
For example, Job Centre Plus reported that they were now more       closely attuned to the needs of the short-term unemployed, MC ran       a very successful benefit take-up campaign in one of the research       neighbourhoods and one FE college reflected on their `curriculum...and       reformed support services for students', all as a result of hearing about       the research.
(c) and `instrumental' impact.
Organisations used       the KEP to inform strategic planning, priority setting or decision-making.
The Chief Executive of MC said the research had `major impact on our       understanding of the needs of local citizens' and would `influence the       delivery of services from a number of agencies in the future'.
The research has influenced campaigns to tackle poverty and for a       Living Wage in the North East.
Because of the reputation and impact of the       research, in 2012 MacDonald was invited by Northern TUC to       be a key note speaker (alongside the General Secretary of Unison) at a       conference to educate Trade Union activists (around 70 participated) about       `in-work poverty' and the Living Wage.
The Conference Chair ensured that       research findings were then distributed to all participants and the TUC       Regional Secretary has drawn on the research in several articles he has       written for newspapers.
Consequently, the research had a `very direct       influence' on Northern TUC's 2013 `Public services campaign strategy'       which had `a stronger element on supporting economically excluded and       vulnerable workers', the `evidence and thinking' here being `informed       directly' by the research [evidence 3].
In 2013 the MP for Middlesbrough       launched the `Make Middlesbrough a Living Wage Town'       campaign, directly using MacDonald and Shildrick's research in his opening       speech.
They were then invited to speak at the inaugural meeting, to chief       executives of local companies.
The campaign team regards the research as a       `vital component in shaping public policy', arguing that it `has helped       make a case...to campaign for secure, properly paid jobs with decent terms       and conditions' [evidence 4].
The research has also had impact on practice nationally.
MacDonald was       invited to join the JRF advisory group as an academic expert on the Future         of the UK Labour Market (2010-13).
From this in 2011 he was asked by       the employment and skills provider, Reed in Partnership, to       provide expert `insight and constructive challenge' for their tender to       the DWP to help `families with multiple needs'.
Their bid was successful.
MacDonald's input was acknowledged as `really helpful and valuable' in       `develop[ing] credible and appropriate proposals' to help families towards       employment and, subsequently, in helping Reed in Partnership's approach to       `the delivery [model] of the programme' [evidence 5].
Also in respect of practice with `families with multiple needs',       Shildrick and MacDonald were asked by the Children's Workforce           Development Council (CWDC) to collaborate in the production of       a training manual for practitioners.
This followed a 2011 research       presentation given by Shildrick at the Child Poverty Unit/ DWP.
New case       study material from Study 4 (about `the low-pay, no-pay cycle') was       produced for the manual.
CWDC commented that `it is only as a result of       this inclusion that the resource is of such a high quality, supporting       practitioners in their work with families' [evidence 6].
The research has also informed political debates at UK and EU level:       in 2010 MacDonald was an academic expert witness to a House of           Commons Children, Schools and Families Select Committee Inquiry into           `Young People not in Education, Employment and Training (NEET)'       with his research evidence considered by the outgoing Labour government       and the incoming Coalition [evidence 7].
In 2012, Shildrick was invited to       present research to a House of Commons All-party Working Group on           `In-work Poverty'.
Subsequently, findings about the `low-pay,       no-pay cycle' and disputing the idea of `cultures of worklessness' have       been referred to directly in debates in both Houses of Parliament       [evidence 8].
Baroness Lister commented: `This evidence is going to be       invaluable in fighting the pernicious cut in benefits... it challenges the       conventional wisdom that only those in work are `strivers' and that all       those out of work on benefit are `skivers' [evidence 9].
On the basis of       her active membership of the North East Child Poverty Commission and the       reputation of the research, Shildrick acted as academic advisor to an       `Opinion' piece for the EU's Committee of the Regions that was adopted as       an EU Recommendation on Communication on Child Poverty in       2012 [evidence 10].
