     The research described above underpins the routine use in clinical       practice of tocilizumab for patients with sJIA and RA.
Widespread use of       the drug is reflected by the high levels of sales reported by       manufacturers Roche, who report 496m CHF (&#163;335m) in sales of the drug in       just the first half of 2013 (up 33% on the previous year, due to       increasing demand) [a].
Rheumatoid Arthritis (RA): Our 2002 paper was the first randomised       controlled trial showing that inhibition of IL-6 significantly improved       the signs and symptoms of RA and normalised the acute- phase reactants.
The first phase III study (CHARISMA [b]) built on our work, citing       ref [3] as the proof-of-concept, randomised, controlled, dose escalation       study upon which its design was based.
This trial is in turn cited by all       of the later phase clinical studies that ultimately led to tocilizumab       being approved by the EMA in January 2009 [c] and by the FDA in       January 2010 [d] for use in RA.
NICE approved its use within the       UK in August 2010 [e].
Since this date tocilizumab has been prescribed in every rheumatology       centre in the UK for patients with severe RA.
There is evidence that       tocilizumab halts joint damage, improves function and increases quality of       life [f] and hence allows engagement with employment.
This is       articulated well by one patient with RA treated with tocilizumab,       highlighted in a case study from the National Rheumatoid Arthritis       Society, who was able to return to work as a result [g].
Around 690,000 people (~1% population) in the UK have RA.
At University       College London Hospital (UCLH) around 25% of patients with RA are treated       with a biologic drug, of whom around 10-15% receive tocilizumab (amounting       to around 50 patients) where other biologic treatments have failed.
Extrapolating more widely, this suggests that between 15,000 and 20,000       patients with RA may be being treated with tocilizumab within the UK, and       hundreds of thousands worldwide.
sJIA: The initial basic science work of Prof Woo and the first       early-phase clinical study led by UCL underpinned the large phase III       study by De Benedetti el al published in the NEJM in 2012, to which UCL       was the largest UK contributor.
This seminal phase III study (also known       as the TENDER trial) has ultimately led to tocilizumab being licensed for       use in sJIA by the FDA in May 2013 [h] and by the EMA in June 2013       [i].
It is adopted as treatment for sJIA around the world.
The National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence (NICE)       recommended use of tocilizumab for sJIA in a technology appraisal in       December 2011 [j].
This was based on data presented in abstract       form by De Benedetti et al.
prior to the NEJM publication of the full       article in 2012.
This reflects how compelling the data were and the       potential severity of the condition thus warranting guidelines to be       issued prior to publication of the full article.
The use of tocilizumab for sJIA has also been endorsed by the British       Society of Paediatric and Adolescent Rheumatology (BSAPR) and incorporated       into their national standards of care [k].
Hence this is now in       routine use within clinical practice for sJIA and offers patients with       this severe condition another option in case they do not respond to       standard treatment with methotrexate.
Impact on patients with sJIA treated with tocilizumab: Data from       the national registry of patients being treated with tocilizumab have not       been published yet, but based on the prevalence of JIA and the proportion       of those with sJIA refractory to methotrexate it is likely to run into the       many hundreds.
At Great Ormond Street Hospital and UCLH there are       currently 21 children and adolescent patients being treated with       tocilizumab who would otherwise have had active disease with its potential       problems and most likely would have been on high dose steroids and       suffering the complications of this also.
There is now evidence to demonstrate that tocilizumab halts radiological       structural damage of the joints in patients with sJIA [l].
There       is a direct relationship between prevention of joint damage and       preservation of function.
There is also evidence that tocilizumab restores       normal growth velocity, which is typically impaired in active sJIA [m].
The preservation of joints and hence function coupled with the restoration       of normal growth in children with sJIA being treated with tocilizumab all       point towards less disability in these patients and hence less dependence       on healthcare and social services as they progress into adulthood.
Hence       biologic treatment has transformed the long-term outcome of these patients       as in the pre-biologic era, sJIA was associated with the worst       disabilities and outcomes in adults [n].
This prevention of       disability is more likely to lead to patients being able to engage in       active employment.
This extrapolation is supported by long-term outcome       data showing that adults with childhood onset arthritis are more likely to       be employed if they have good function, which occurs if arthritis is       better controlled during childhood due to prevention of damage to joints [o].
