     Farsides' research has directly informed the development of policy and       practice in relation to both solid-organ donation and transplantation and       the donation and use of human embryos, eggs and sperm and other human       tissue in scientific and clinical settings.
Her empirical and theoretical       work has informed both the high-level principles upon which guidance and       recommendations have been based and the ground-level advice and guidance       offered to practitioners [see Section 5, C1-C6].
Solid-organ donation     In 2008, the Organ Donation Taskforce (ODT) reported on barriers to organ       donation and made recommendations to improve donation rates by 50 per       cent.
In 2013, NHS Blood and Transplant was able to announce that it had       met that target.
Farsides' research on the ethics of donation underpinned       several of the reports and documents that cumulatively resulted in this       improvement C2-C6].
Opt-out     Following their main report, the ODT was charged by the Chief Medical       Officer, Sir Liam Donaldson, to look at the issue of `Opt-out' and       Farsides was asked to chair an ethics sub-group.
The group's report was       seen as decisive in the Taskforce's decision not to support an Opt-out       system for organ donation [C2].
However, the open tone and careful       argument of the report were widely acknowledged even by proponents of the       change, thus allowing the Taskforce to keep communications open with       bodies such as the British Medical Association (BMA) who were campaigning       heavily for an Opt-out system [C2-C6].
Donation after circulatory death     Farsides was the first ethicist appointed to the UK Donation Ethics       Committee which has now published definitive guidance entitled An         Ethical Framework for Controlled Donation after Circulatory Death.
Farsides contributed by developing the substantive ethical content and in       drafting recommendations to make them fit-for-purpose in the clinical       setting.
Her input relied not only on her research into organ donation but       also on her longstanding research on end-of-life care more generally.
This       guidance addresses the specific legal and ethical issues faced by       health-care professionals caring for potential organ donors which were       identified in the original Taskforce report as a key obstacle to       increasing levels of donation.
The 50 per cent increase in donation       required by the ODT and announced in 2013 is in large part due to the       increased willingness and ability of staff to facilitate donation after       circulatory death [C2-C6].
Embryo donation     In 2011 Farsides was appointed as a member of the Nuffield Council on       Bioethics Working Party on Human Bodies in Medicine and Research; amongst       other activities, she was responsible for drafting Chapter 5 of the       report, which set out the substantive ethical framework informing the       recommendations (with Tim Lewes, Cambridge University).
The Council's       report has already influenced key policy-makers, most notably the HFEA,       which cited the influence of the Council's work when raising the level of       payment to egg donors [C1]     Definition of `spare' in the context of embryo donation     To ensure valid consent for the donation of embryos for treatment or       research purposes, the embryo must first be defined as spare in a sense       acceptable to the creating couple.
The research [R4] has led us to an       understanding that certain practices work against this principle.
In turn       these findings have informed subsequent work on the establishment of       robust donation frameworks [R6; C1, C6].
National guidance on consent for donation in the context of           stem-cell research     In 2013, Farsides was asked to Co-Chair a sub-group of SABTO, the       Governmental Advisory Committee on the Safety of Blood Tissues and Organs,       which was writing new national guidance relating to consent in the context       of cell-based advanced therapies.
The group relied heavily on the work       reported from Farsides' Wellcome Trust-funded project `A framework for the       acquisition of embryos for research' [R2, R5, R6] which engaged directly       with stakeholders in the field to attempt to establish a consensus       approach to consent for the donation of embryos in the context of       stem-cell research.
Farsides established the ethical principles informing       the guidance, enabling a workable document which gives due consideration       to risk management, operational feasibility and ethical governance in a       field that is growing in scientific, commercial and, hopefully, clinical       importance [C7].
Good practice in egg, sperm and embryo donation     In 2012, Farsides was appointed to the HFEA's National Donation Strategy       Group charged with investigating obstacles to egg, sperm and embryo       donation and establishing guidance for good practice in clinics.
She has       worked with the Chair, Professor Sheila McClean, to establish the       underlying ethical and legal principles informing the group's work and       collaborated on the production of practical tools to enhance information       provision and consent processes within clinics [C1].
Farsides' normative       and empirical ethics research has allowed the group to provide clearly       argued and evidence-based advice.
