     Pepys's drug discovery intellectual property portfolio, comprising more       than 20 granted patents [a], is held by the UCL spin out company,       Pentraxin Therapeutics Ltd, which he founded in 2001 [b].
The       company, created as a vehicle for commercialisation of the IP, was       initially funded exclusively by loans from UCL totalling more than &#163;1.5       million and has not sought external investment.
It conducts its activities       entirely through its relationship with UCL and its external collaborations       and has no employees.
In 2009 and 2010, Pentraxin licensed two of its drug       programmes to GlaxoSmithKline (GSK) in multi-million pound deals and is       developing them in close collaboration with GSK where several hundred       employees participate at various levels [c, d].
Pentraxin has       repaid all its loans from UCL and is now in profit with substantial       further milestone and royalty payments in prospect if programmes are       successful.
The most advanced programme, aiming to eliminate visceral amyloid       deposits, is the first in class obligate therapeutic partnership of CPHPC,       a small molecule drug, and a mouse monoclonal anti-human SAP antibody       which has been fully humanised by GSK.
The first human patient studies are       now in progress and are progressing very well [d, e].
The       programme has been chosen by GSK as its flagship candidate for potential       adaptive licensing in the process being led by the MIT Centre for       Biomedical Innovation through its New Drug Development Paradigms (NEWDIGS)       initiative.
There is a very strong movement towards streamlining and       improvement of the regulatory licensing pathway for new medicines so that       patients with unmet medical needs get access to novel treatments more       rapidly and more efficiently than at present.
The UCL/Pentraxin/GSK       amyloidosis programme is in the vanguard.
GSK also licensed Pepys's IP covering compounds for treatment of       transthyretin amyloidosis and the programme has passed its initial       developability milestone.
Typical industry costs for a drug development       programme to this stage are &#163;6-8 million.
The discovery and development of CRP inhibitors for myocardial       infarction, stroke, cancer cachexia and inflammatory diseases has been       supported by the MRC and BHF and has received expert guidance from GSK.
Work on SAP depletion by CPHPC for Alzheimer's disease has been supported       at the experimental level by the MRC.
Via the UCLH/UCL BRC, the NIHR is       now funding preparatory work for the first clinical trial of CPHPC in       Alzheimer's disease, with GSK as major participants contributing crucially       to project management, funding and provision of their existing CPHPC       results.
Furthermore GSK have an option to licence CPHPC for this       indication.
The transmission of drug discovery directly from a university into big       pharma is a very rare achievement, particularly across such a broad range       of different programmes.
In 2011, GSK named Professor Pepys as the first       "academic superstar" in its programme to develop long term ongoing       partnerships with academia as part of its drug discovery programme [d,         f].
GSK has changed its R&amp;D model over the last 5 years,       including the creation of the Academic Discovery Partnership Unit and       Discovery Partnerships with Academia.
The aim is to make the company more       productive, agile, and focussed on areas of scientific potential [g].
The Head of the Academic Discovery Partnership Unit at GSK confirmed the       ways in which close working with the UCL team has been important in       progress towards bringing a drug to market:     [Text removed for publication] [d].
