     Lord Norton's research on Parliament, and on the legislative process, was       instrumental in the       decision of the House of Lords to appoint him in 2001 as the founding       Chairman of the Select       Committee on the Constitution.
Under his chairmanship, the committee       produced three major       reports, plus numerous reports on Bills brought before the House, one of       the most significant being       Parliament and the Legislative Process.
His successor as chairman,       Lord Holme of Cheltenham,       described Lord Norton not only as a `hands-on chairman' but a `hands-on       keyboard chairman'       because of his drafting of the committee's reports: Lord Norton undertook       much or all of the writing       himself.
He authored the report on Parliament and the Legislative         Process, the initial draft being       accepted with all but minor amendments.
Lord Norton's extensive, authoritative research on post-legislative       scrutiny, parliamentary       procedures and the legislative process has been cited in numerous other       parliamentary committee       reports.
The impact of Norton's body of research in this field is such       that in 2010 the Commons'       Public Administration Select Committee not only took evidence from him in       one of its inquiries, but       also appointed him a Specialist Adviser to the Committee to assist in       completing its report.
He has       been invited to appear before numerous parliamentary committees to give       evidence,       overwhelmingly in respect of parliamentary processes including       post-legislative scrutiny.
His most       recent appearances (November 2012, March 2013) were before the Procedure       Committee and the       Public Administration Select Committee of the House of Commons to advise       respectively on       reforming the procedure for Private Members' Bills and on reform of the       civil service.
Norton's       production of this body of research also led to him being appointed by the       House of Lords as a       member of various Joint Committees appointed to examine draft Bills.
The Government acknowledged the importance of Norton's 2004 report's       recommendations       regarding post-legislative scrutiny and in response to the report asked       the Law Commission to       review the options.
The Law Commission included the subject in its ninth       programme and began       work in July 2005.
It issued a consultation paper and, following informal       discussions between the       Chairman and Lord Norton, asked Lord Norton to submit a memorandum.
Lord       Norton's       submission developed the recommendations embodied in the Select       Committee's report.
His       submission formed the most substantial part of the Law Commission's report       (No.
302), published       in 2006, the Commission repeating and endorsing his recommendations.
Indeed, its section on       parliamentary post-legislative review merits repetition: `We endorse the       approach of Lord Norton of       Louth' (para.
3.31), `Lord Norton of Louth produced a detailed and       considered argument... We       endorse his approach and summarise his main arguments below' (para.
3.36),       and, in its       conclusion to the section, `Our proposal mirrors that put forward by Lord       Norton in his paper to us       and we can do no better than conclude by adopting Lord Norton's       conclusion..' (para.
3.80, Law       Commission, Post-Legislative Scrutiny, No.302.)
The Government published its response in March 2008, accepting that Acts       should normally be       reviewed three to five years after enactment.
The reviews would be carried       out by the relevant       Government Department, published as Command Papers, and submitted to the       relevant       Departmental Select Committees in the House of Commons.
It would then be       up to the relevant       Select Committee whether it wished to pursue the issue.
The Cabinet Office subsequently produced detailed guidance for       Departments.
The first two Acts       to be reviewed (in 2008) were the Electoral Registration (Northern       Ireland) Act 2005 (Cm 7504)       and the Railways Act 2005 (Cm 7660).
By the conclusion of the Parliament,       seven Acts had been       subject to review.
Post-legislative review is now an established       procedure, accepted and       continued by the Coalition Government and enshrined in the Cabinet         Manual.
The beneficiaries       are both legislators and those who benefit from post legislative scrutiny       &#8212; UK citizens,       administrators, parliament, the civil service, and the judiciary.
The impact of this body of research on the design and implementation of       post-legislative scrutiny       by Parliament was acknowledged in the House of Lords by the then-Deputy       Leader of the House,       Lord Hunt of King's Heath.
The review of Acts by Departments constitutes a       major contribution,       though not quite fulfilling all of the recommendations made by Lord Norton       for post-legislative       scrutiny.
Norton's research on the need for a dedicated parliamentary       committee for post-legislative       scrutiny is being pursued with Government.
The 2012-13 parliamentary       session has       seen some movement in both Houses.
At the start of the session, the House       of Lords established a       committee to undertake post-legislative scrutiny of Acts dealing with       adoption; more are being       appointed in 2013-14.
In the Commons, the Justice Committee initiated an       inquiry into the       Freedom of Information Act following receipt of the post-legislative       review of the Act.
Lord Norton's research on legislative scrutiny has been drawn on not only       by the committees that       invited him to give evidence, but also by others in the course of       examining the legislative practices       and the procedures.
Illustrative examples of his work being cited can be       found in:            House of Commons, Public Administration Committee, Smaller           Government: What do Ministers           do?
Seventh Report of Session 2010-11, HC 530 (March 2011)       House of Lords, Select Committee on the Constitution, Fixed-Term           Parliaments Bill, 8th Report         of Session 2010-11, HL Paper 69 (Dec. 2010)       House of Commons, Select Committee on the Modernisation of the House         of Commons, The           Legislative Process, First Report of Session 2005-06, HC 1097         (Sept. 2006)        Making the Law: The Report of the Hansard Society Commission on the           Legislative Process         (Chairman: The Rt Hon.
Lord Rippon of Hexam), London: The Hansard         Society, 1993
