     Following the results of the trials done in 2003-2004, several       recommendations on postharvest practices were suggested.
It was       established that the use of RPCs to attain better temperature control,       reduce damage and abrasion to the crop, thus reducing its susceptibility       to contract diseases; will result in a reduction on losses on the       postharvest of the tomato crop and an increase of the percentage on the       top price of the crop.
The results also showed a clear benefit on the       investment of shallow, smooth sided, vented trays, compared with the       traditional use of wooden boxes to store the fruit postharves.
The cost of       these trays will pay for itself in between one and two harvests.
These recommendations have resulted in the reduction of losses of the       tomato "Pomme d'amour".
As a consequence this has had an in       important economic benefit to the community of subsistence- farmers of       Mauritius.
The cooking tomato "Pomme d'Amour" is considered the       most important crop in the northern part of Mauritius and is an important       part of the traditional diet.
Almost all the crop is grown by small       farmers as a substance for their family, but also an important proportion       is sold to local markets.
Therefore, the direct beneficiaries or       stakeholders are the small subsistence farmers and their families of       northern Mauritius who mainly grow the "Pomme d'amour" tomatoes on       half a hectare or less.
After the implementation of the changes to the postharvest management of       the tomato in 2005-2006, these stakeholders have greatly reduced their       losses and have had a direct relationship on the increase of economic       gain.
This has become very apparent in the last few years; and by 2010,       this reduction of loss has been very similar to what was originally       trialled in 2003-2004.
Around 20% of reduction in losses has been achieved       and there has also been an increase to 60% from 25% on the eventual       percentage of top price.
Nowadays subsistence farmers in Mauritius are experiencing the benefits       in reduction of food loss which in turn has paid for the investment in       RPC's in only one to two harvests.
The increase of marketable tomatoes of       around 2 kg per crate at a mean market price of &#163;1.5-2.0/kg (in 2013 the       mean weekly price varied from &#163;0.7 to 2.7 /kg http://www.areu.mu/apmis/)       compared with the price of the crates of &#163;5.
The impact that this research has had to the postharvest of the crop have       resulted in lower losses and so it has increased the value chain for the       subsistence farmers.
For example in a typical year, where two or three       harvests can be achieved, if a farmer maintains the same area of tomato       production of approximately 0.125 hectares, by using the RPCs there will       be an increase in saleable fruit of around 800kg and an increase in income       of around &#163;1000.
