     The underpinning research has achieved impact of international reach and       significance through the uptake of research findings by governmental       organisations and NGOs.
The originality of Professor Antonopoulos's work       makes his outputs definitive sources of information in the areas of       migrant and cigarette smuggling.
For example, to date his is the most       detailed work into migrant smuggling in Greece.
The applied nature of the       underpinning research, coupled with Professor Antonopoulos's engagement       with organisations, such as the Cross Border Crime Colloquium (www.cross-border-crime.net),       that explicitly seek to translate academic research findings into material       that is beneficial in policy and practice, has facilitated the use of the       underpinning research by a range of user groups.
Furthermore, Professor       Antonopoulos has disseminated his findings in such a way as to ensure that       relevant practitioner groups could gain ready access to his research       findings.
For example, he purposefully attends the European Society of         Criminology conferences annually because he is aware that this is a       conference where both practitioner and academic delegates are well       represented.
A second example is that the European Journal of         Criminology was targeted as a place of publication because Professor       Antonopoulos knew that this is a favoured source of academic research for       many international agencies such as the Greek Police and Europol.
The nature of the impact is twofold in that firstly, findings have       contributed to the development of national and transnational policies on       health, illegal immigration, and markets of organised crime.
Secondly, law       enforcement agencies across Europe have changed their practices in the       light of the research findings.
Contribution to Policy     Research findings have impacted upon transnational governmental policies       to combat illegal immigration.
In 2008, findings from output 2 were used       in a report produced by the Hellenic Migration Policy Institute         (IMEPO), co-funded by the European Union, in order to estimate the       illegal immigrant population in Greece [evidence 1].
This estimate was       used to inform proposals for Albanian governmental policy relating to the       effective and sustainable implementation of Readmission Agreements between       Albania, the EC and concerned third countries [evidence 2]; such       Agreements aimed to facilitate the readmission of unauthorised migrants to       their nation of origin.
Similarly, in 2009, findings from output 1 were       submitted to the Directorate General for Migration Policy and Social         Integration of the Greek Ministry of Internal Affairs in order to       facilitate the strategy for the assisted return and reintegration of       illegal migrants in Greece to their country of origin [evidence 3].
The underpinning research into cigarette smuggling has had a direct       impact on national health policies in different countries.
The findings of       this research have allowed Governmental organisations to assess the demand       for contraband cigarettes, and the resulting health effects of this, under       different policy scenarios.
For example, in 2010/2011, the US government       considered a ban on menthol cigarettes on the grounds of public health.
In       January 2011, the Centre for Regulatory Effectiveness, an       independent US governmental organisation tasked with ensuring that       information used to develop federal regulations is of the highest quality       (www.thecre.com), produced a report       [evidence 4] considering the effects that a ban on menthol cigarettes       would have on demand for contraband cigarettes.
The findings of output 5,       regarding the organisation of illegal tobacco markets, the health risks       posed by their products and the distribution of goods to the US, were       cited extensively in this report and contributed to the recommendation to       the US Food and Drugs Agency that a ban should not be supported.
Findings from the underpinning research have also played a role in       international aims to reduce cigarette smuggling and its effects.
The New       Zealand anti-smoking charity Action on Smoking and Health (ASH; www.ash.org.nz), which lobbies the New       Zealand government, produced a report in June 2010 [evidence 5] which       aimed to tackle the contraband cigarette market in New Zealand and to make       recommendations on the role that New Zealand could play in the       international community to help reduce cigarette smuggling worldwide.
Findings of [output 3] and [output 5] were cited in the ASH report in       order to provide a global picture on illegal markets of cigarette       smuggling and to inform policy recommendations.
Impact to Law Enforcement Practices     From 2006, findings from outputs 2, 3 and 4 were used conjointly by the       Greek Police as part of the process of moving from a reactive style of the       policing of illegal markets towards strategic planning and analysis.
These       research findings were used to inform strategic decisions by police about       which markets to tackle [evidence 6].
Thus, the findings from the       underpinning research have had a direct impact on the practices of Greek       law enforcement agencies by informing their knowledge of illegal markets       which has in turn allowed them to act strategically in combatting them.
Findings from outputs 2, 3 and 4 were also used by EUROPOL (The Hague,       The Netherlands) from 2006 in their training of Criminal Intelligence       Analysts [evidence 7].
These research articles offer real-world case study       examples of the nature and extent of the cigarette and migrant smuggling       markets in Greece.
In conjunction with other sources of evidence, these       findings contribute to the provision of a clear picture of the nature of       these markets across Europe.
Such a picture provides a platform for       educating trainee officers about the nature of criminal markets, as well       as providing scenarios for training exercises.
