     The tools achieved the goals of (a) stimulating public awareness of       fertility risks, (b) making it feasible to integrate measures of quality       of life into fertility care and (c) providing support for patients during       fertility treatment.
Stimulating public awareness of infertility risks     FertiSTAT has been and continues to be used by public health authorities       and in media campaigns in numerous countries to raise awareness about       preventable infertility.
In Belgium, a 2009 media campaign sponsored by the Ministry of Welfare,       Health &amp; Family attracted young people to an interactive website that       distributed information about preventable causes of infertility using       FertiSTAT.
Promotional posters were distributed (to clubs, chemists,       gynaecology offices) with the tag-line "Test your fertility".
In the 6       weeks that followed around 7,500 unique visitors accessed the website and       viewed an average of six pages of fertility information.5.1 In       Japan in 2011, FRaU magazine (circulation 170,000) used FertiSTAT       in a fertility awareness campaign directed at young Japanese career women.
A post-publication seminar for nearly 250 women showed that over 70% of       them were more aware of and concerned about their fertility health and       more than half stated they were now better informed about the behaviours       they should change and when to seek timely medical advice in order to       safeguard their fertility health.5.2 In the UK, Red       magazine (circulation 231,160) listed FertiSTAT as one of the best       e-health tools (November 2011); following publication 1434 women visited       the Cardiff University website, completed the tool online and received       fertility guidance, 26% of whom received guidance about preventable causes       that they could immediately address to safeguard their fertility.
5.3       Similar campaigns have been run in Sweden and Portugal and another is       planned in Canada.
Integration of tools into medical practice and research     FertiQoL is now available in 30 languages on Cardiff University's       website.
Every month approximately 70 unique IP addresses download       FertiQoL from the website.
The tool has been downloaded more than 1,700       times in the past 2 years.
The significance of the FertiQoL tool for fertility professionals is       underlined by the efforts of leading fertility societies to promote the       tool to their members.
The Editors-in-Chief of the two journals serving       the American Society for Reproductive Medicine and the European Society       for Human Reproduction &amp; Embryology agreed to publish simultaneously       the FertiQoL development and validation paper3.3 to ensure       dissemination of the tool to their combined membership of 14,000 persons.
The International Federation of Obstetrics and Gynecology (FIGO), which       has member associations in 125 countries, included FertiQoL in its "FIGO       Infertility ToolBox" which was developed to improve infertility care       pathways in both low and high resource countries.5.4 EMD Serono       Inc distributed FertiQoL to clinicians at two consecutive annual fertility       conferences (2009, 2010) that were attended by around 8,000 fertility       doctors.5.5 The World Health Organisation (Department of       Reproductive Health Research) is also adapting FertiSTAT so that community       health workers in its collaborating centres can use it to address poor       fertility health habits in low resource health settings,5.6 and       recently awarded a work performance package for this work to be started.5.7     The uptake of FertiQoL within the medical community shows an increased       awareness of the importance of quality of life and an expansion in the       range of clinical outcomes regarded as important.
There are now several       published FertiQoL validation studies (in Dutch, Hungarian, Spanish,       Taiwanese), and studies on correlates of fertility quality of life.
Support for patients during fertility treatment     Cardiff University has granted user permission to 150 professionals,       researchers, and clinics internationally who have contacted Boivin's team       about using PRCI.
These clinics, which have a combined patient population       of many thousands, include the Shady Grove Fertility Group (USA) which has       adopted PRCI in its 18 clinics (6,000 cycles of treatment per year); this       group's service evaluation has shown that PRCI has benefited patients and       staff.5.8 Merck Serono is offering the PRCI tool on its patient       support site.5.9     Contribution to policy     In February 2011 Boivin presented results of her research showing poor       fertility knowledge among Japanese people to Y&#363;ko Obuchi, Minister of       State for Social Affairs and Gender Equality, whose responsibility it is       to address the declining birth rate in Japan.
In June 2012 Boivin's       research showing poor fertility knowledge among Japanese people of       childbearing age led the Japanese national television channel NHK (Japan       Broadcasting Corporation, Nippon H&#333;s&#333; Ky&#333;kai) to broadcast a documentary       featuring Boivin discussing this research.
Boivin's research3.2       was subsequently used to support a recommendation by The Task Force for       Tackling the Crisis of Falling Birth Rate by Dr. Hidekazu Saito, a member       of the Cabinet Office committee, to fund the creation and distribution of       a leaflet to improve fertility knowledge.5.10
