     The impact of this body of research falls within the general area of       parliamentary public engagement, and specifically the ways parliaments       utilise internet-based tools to communicate and engage with the public.
The impact has been two-fold: 1.
It has raised awareness of the contextual       variables of each parliament that have significant relevance to their use       internet-based tools; and 2.
It has helped to develop and disseminate an       understanding of how the internet can be used to communicate and engage       citizens most effectively, whilst accepting the challenges this creates       for parliaments.
In a context where parliaments have been criticised       heavily for being needlessly distant from citizens, and often identified       as key causes of political disengagement, the significance of this       research is particularly great.
It provides a framework through which to       better understand the role played by parliaments, as well as the tools       available to address this issue.
This impact has been both direct, through       advice and evidence given, and indirect through publications, and spans       several countries thereby having considerable reach.
Institutionally, the       impact grew out of a 2007 British Academy and ESRC-funded workshop       Leston-Bandeira co-coordinated with the Oxford Internet Institute.
One of       the primary aims of this event was to bring together the academic and the       practitioner communities, and included the participation of parliamentary       officials from six parliaments.
This was the first occasion on which there       had been discussions between academics and parliamentary officials       regarding the latter's practice in this area.
It led to the publication       online of Parliaments in the Digital Age, which identified some of       the challenges facing parliaments in the utilisation of internet-based       tools.
The body of research of which this publication was a part became       even more visible to the practitioner community during the months of       preparation for the Second World e-Parliament Conference, Brussels,       November 2008.
Leston-Bandeira was invited to represent the academic       community at this key practitioners' gathering, and to present the       findings of the UoA's research into parliamentary use of the internet.
The       2008 World e-Parliament expanded those contacts, not least by building a       closer rapport with practitioners in the Brazilian Chamber of Deputies,       something that has grown significantly since that conference.
Hence, the       Coordinator of the Brazilian Parliament's e-Democracia Program describes       the body of research's impact as `fundamental to the formulation and       implementation of the e-Democracia website' (see section 5, below) This       tool is recognised by practitioners and academics across the world as the       most complex and effective participative tool developed by a parliament.
The close collaboration with this parliament has led more recently to       Leston-Bandeira being invited to deliver a guest lecture and lead a number       of meetings with Chamber staff on participation, parliaments and citizens,       with a strong focus on the internet's role.
At the time of the 2008 World e-Parliament Conference, the Guidelines       on Parliamentary Websites, issued by the Inter-Parliamentary Union,       were under review.
Having presented aspects of the body of research at a       session dedicated to this exercise, the coordinators asked Leston-       Bandeira to submit evidence to this review.
The recognition of the value       of the UoA's research on parliamentary use of the internet led to further       involvement with the review network, which resulted in turn in an       invitation to give a keynote lecture on parliamentary websites at the       Fourth World e-Parliament Conference, Johannesburg, South Africa, October       2010.
The conference was attended by over 400 representatives from more       than 80 different countries.
This presentation was very important in       cementing contacts with parliamentary officials from a wide range of       countries both in Europe and beyond.
The presentation focused on her       research into the challenges that websites present to parliaments, and how       to best overcome these challenges.
The lecture and research was commended       as one of the best presentations in the conference and led many       parliamentary officials, including the Speaker of the Lesotho parliament,       to contact her to discuss their own cases.
As a direct consequence of this presentation, two specific parliaments       (Israeli and Belgian) contacted Leston-Bandeira regarding their policies       on new media.
At the time, the Israeli parliament was undertaking a       comprehensive review of its website and associated new media tools.
As       part of this exercise, the Knesset wished to apply to its own case the       insights gained from the UoA's research.
Together with the main leading       members of his ICT team, the Director General of the Knesset travelled to       Hull for an extensive meeting with Leston-Bandeira to discuss their       policies.
These discussions continued by email, and had direct impact not       merely on the renewal of the Knesset website, but also on their decisions       regarding both the use of social media and the processes underpinning the       management of these tools.
In particular, it led directly to the Knesset's       current focus on the idea of communicating politics issues in non-partisan       ways to the public, rather than merely `informing' the public.
This       approach is evident not merely in their new website and social media, but       also in the re-organisation of their services.
This team from the Israeli       parliament showcased their changes at the recent Fifth World e-Parliament       Conference in Rome, September 2012, with Leston-Bandeira in attendance.
This impact is acknowledged in a letter from the Director General (cited       below, in section 5): for example, `I am confident that, like other       parliaments around the world, the products of your invaluable academic       work will continue to have either a direct or an indirect impact on our       activities here at the Knesset.'
Similarly, the Belgian parliament examined social media with a view to       deciding whether or not to develop its use, and if so, in what way.
Leston-Bandeira had several face-to-face and email discussions with the       leaders of Belgian parliament's ICT team, regarding the UoA's research.
In       May 2011, as hosts of a workshop on Parliaments and the Net for       the European Centre for Parliamentary Research and Documentation (the main       network for parliamentary officials in Europe), the Belgian parliament       asked Leston-Bandeira to present the conclusions of the body of research       as the keynote Guest Opening Talk on `Parliament and Public Engagement'.
Leston-Bandeira was the only academic allowed to participate in this       conference, which was attended by over 80 parliamentary officials from 16       European countries.
Besides extending the research's impact to the Dutch,       Finnish and French parliaments among others, this conference also       reinforced of the UoA's contacts with the UK Houses of Parliament.
This       impacted on the way they started to use social media to engage with the       public, not least through the creation of the Parliamentary tweeter       account, and, quoting the adviser to the IT Department of the Belgium       Parliament (see section 5), `the decision not to take part in any       other social media activities'.
The Special Projects Manager for the UK Parliament's Outreach Service       describes the UoA's research as `an absolutely vital foundation for me to       develop our programme', a view reinforced by numerous reports and select       committee proceedings of the UK Parliament (see section 5 below).
This impact stems from a number of activities:            In July 2011 Leston-Bandeira submitted written evidence to the         Administration Committee on their enquiry into the planned new Visitors         Centre, identifying practice in other parliaments in the area of         parliamentary engagement; In 2012, she was invited to be the only         academic in a practitioners panel on public engagement at the Study of         Parliament Group, to talk about the implications of her research for the         specific constraints that shape parliaments' public engagement; In 2012         she drew on the research when submitting invited written evidence to the         Liaison Committee for their enquiry into Select Committee Powers and         Effectiveness;       In March 2012, she was invited as one out of three academics to a         private meeting between the Backbench Business Committee and the Hansard         Society to discuss the new e-petitions system.
This meeting, and         particularly the advice drawn from the research referred to here,         resulted in the Hansard Society report What next for e-petitions?,         which included recommendations to address some of the current weaknesses         of the e-petitions system;       She was commissioned to develop a project, from April 2012 to January         2013, funded by the Higher Education Academy, in partnership with the         Houses of Parliament's Outreach Service examining ways in which         web-based parliamentary resources can be used more effectively to         support University teaching and research.
This has altered the Service's         use of the website.
Further recognition of the impact of Leston-Bandeira's research at       international level is also evident in the fact that she was invited as an       academic member of the Senior Advisory Committee of the AGORA &#8212; Portal for       Parliamentary Development &#8212; an online platform with a membership spanning       parliaments worldwide that supports the exchange of information and advice       on issues relating to parliamentary assistance, with a strong focus on the       relationship with citizens.
She has also provided direct advice to Global       Partners &amp; Associates (GPA), which supports parliamentary       strengthening in developing parliaments.
This included advice and research       for the Global Report on Parliamentary Representation published in       June 2012 on the main issues affecting today's relationship between       parliaments and citizens, which GPA produced for the       Inter-Parliamentary Union (the main international organisation with       representation of all national parliaments).
