     The substantial non-academic impact of this work lies in three key areas:       i) extensive and persistent public engagement with scientific research,       ii) reduction of animal use in commercial research and iii) commercial       exploitation of our technologies.
Public engagement with scientific research       In 2008, Paul Marks, a journalist with New Scientist, heard about our work       during a talk given by Professor Warwick.
He then contacted the team to       arrange an interview.
A feature article, "Rat-brained robots take their         first step", appeared in New Scientist in August 2008, specifically       highlighting the brain-computer interface work being conducted at       University of Reading.
The magazine's online article, "Rise of the         rat-brained robots" was published on 13 August 2008.
This article       linked to a YouTube video of the robot functioning, and the two versions       of the video have now received in excess of 2.5 million unique views (see,       for example, one version at http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1-0eZytv6Qk).
In 2008, and following the increased public profile of our work, the       Science Museum in London enlisted us to produce a special display devoted       to our research in this area, with our working 'robot' as the highlight.
The display opened on 16 October 2008.
Originally planned as a 3 month       display, it remained for in place 18 months due to high public demand.
The       Science Museum receives more than 2.5 million visitors every year, with       one third of these visitors coming from overseas.
As of 2013, the Science       Museum maintains a series of web pages specifically dedicated to our       brain-computer research1; a resource used by over 250 secondary       schools and colleges as an integral part of their course structure.
Our work also led to a cross-disciplinary collaboration with Bill Gaver,       Professor of Design at Goldsmiths, University of London, who was funded by       EPSRC (EP/E035051/1) to "build new bridges between academic specialism and       public engagement by pushing emotive and accessible formats".
Specifically, the collaboration examined the impact of our brain-computer       research on public perceptions and engagement with science and society.
This work led us to design the `Neuroscope', a device installed at       the Science Museum's Dana Centre in London and at the LABoral Centro de       Arte y Creacion Industrial (Gijon, Spain) in 2008, which enabled public       visualisation of, and interaction with, the complex neuronal activity       exhibited by networks of brain cells.
The results of the collaboration       were also published in the book, Material Beliefs (ISBN 978-1-904158-95-0;       2009)2.
Since 2008, our work has been featured in over 100 different news       articles, including (approximate 2008 circulation figures in brackets): The         Lancet (29,000), The Daily Telegraph (800,000), Daily         Mail (2,300,000), Forbes (900,000) and The Independent       (250,000).
In May 2013, the work was featured as the Medical Research       Council's Brain Picture of the Day 3 and been featured on BBC       News, ITV News, Fox News, CBS (USA), Discovery Channel, National       Geographic Channel, Swiss TV Channel 1, Danish TV Channel 1, and Swedish       TV Channel 1.
Our work on human brain cells at BEL was featured in the       first episode of BBC Radio 4's Frontiers series 4 and reported       on the BBC website 5 and ITN news 6.
Change in business practice - reduction in animal research       Public support for the use of animals in research is declining (down to       66%, from 75% in 2010; http://tinyurl.com/kny3fph)       but their use in research is actually increasing (http://tinyurl.com/pjka9qb       and http://bit.ly/1489LAq).
Our       approach, using functional human brain cells integrated into robotic       systems, has been adopted by GlaxoSmithKline 7 via purchase of       an evaluation licence to use our technology.
This licence permits this       major commercial organisation to assess and adopt the technology in order       examine its application in toxicological testing and the development of       drugs, with the specific long-term aim of reducing the number of animals       used in such studies.
Moreover, the technology is sought after to produce       results that are more directly relevant to the development of products       designed to treat human disorders or modify human       performance.
Taken together, these new directions represent a change in       business practice that has arisen as a direct result of the development of       BCI systems at Reading.
Commercial exploitation of University of Reading intellectual property       Reading researchers have collaborated with GlaxoSmithKline, GW       Pharmaceuticals and UCB Pharmaceuticals to further their Research and       Development programs by using our BCI systems in areas such as: a) the       development of new treatments for drug-resistant epilepsy to the point of       clinical use7, b) identifying mechanisms by which       anti-epileptic drugs act to permit development of next generation       anti-epileptic treatments7 and c) identifying mental       performance enhancing components of natural products7.
We have secured funding of approximately &#163;1.8M 7 from GSK, GW       and UCB to aid drug development research for both anti-epileptic drugs and       cognitive enhancers.
Crucially, the intellectual property associated with       the embodied human brain cell platform belongs to University of Reading       and can be licensed.
The purchase of an evaluation license for this       technology by GSK Pharmaceuticals and GSK Nutrition, in order to determine       the active components ('nutraceuticals') of complex natural product       mixtures, reflects a significant change in business practice by a       multinational organisation7.
