     Bianchini's ideas on the `edgy' qualities of Liverpool and other European       port cities formed the basis in 2003 for a chapter of the successful bid       by Liverpool Culture Company for the title of European Capital of Culture       (ECoC) 2008, for the city of Liverpool.
This chapter (focused on the       international dimension of the Liverpool 2008 cultural programme) outlined       the `Cities on the Edge' (CotE) concept, described above.
In its February       2004 report, the EU Selection Panel for European Capitals of Culture       welcomed the CotE concept as important in strengthening the otherwise       underdeveloped European dimension of the Liverpool bid.
Considering the       importance of European cultural co-operation criteria in determining the       outcome of ECoC bids, it can be concluded that the CotE proposal made a       small but significant contribution to the UK jury's decision to choose       Liverpool as ECoC for 2008, and to the EU Panel's ratification of such       decision.
Liverpool's designation as ECoC had a significant positive       impacts for the city.
The 2008 ECoC programme attracted 9.7 million       additional visits to Liverpool, generating a total of &#163;753.8 million       additional direct visitor spend.
85% of Liverpool residents agreed with       the claim that "the city was a better place to live than before the ECoC       award" (1).
The positive response by the EU Panel was a key factor in Liverpool       Culture Company's decision to implement CotE as a project in the Liverpool       2008 cultural programme.
Bianchini collaborated with Liverpool Culture       Company in the implementation of CotE in an advisory capacity from 2004-       2009.
We must consider the impacts of the CotE project separately from the       wider impact of Liverpool's year as ECoC.
Despite funding and management       difficulties, the CotE team and its partners were successful in several       projects, the definition of which was heavily influenced by Bianchini's       work.
These included two conferences aimed at academics, policy makers and       other professionals: Intercultural Cities and On the         Waterfront; Culture, heritage and regeneration of port cities.
The Rebel         Lectures programme was CotE's key initiative in the field of       dissident thought.
The project was only partially implemented, and       revealed the need for more lead time, better planning, contextualisation       and publicity but achieved a remarkable coup in hosting Roberto Saviano,       the anti-Camorra Neapolitan writer, several months before the film of his       book, Gomorrah, came out in the UK.
The visual arts projects       within CotE were especially successful.
They included the production of       the edgy, high quality, interdisciplinary and highly cost effective Urban         Makers book, the well managed and artistically interesting Cities         on the Edge photography book and exhibition, the under-resourced but       imaginative Interchange exhibition, and the inspiring and       innovative Terminus film.
On the Edge of Passion, a film about football supporters in       Istanbul, Liverpool and Marseilles succeeded in attracting a wider       audience than that normally attending arts events.
For the Likes of Us       was the collective name for arts projects in three of Liverpool's deprived       neighbourhoods.
All projects within For the Likes of Us suffered       from underfunding and poor publicity, although they generally achieved a       good artistic quality.
The key factor for the more successful of these       projects, La Dolce Vita (in the Kirkdale neighbourhood), was the       high quality of research on the artistic concept, and of collaboration and       strategic build-up of audience participation.
CotE projects had a variety       of beneficiaries, ranging from the cultural sector and community       organizations in Liverpool, to individual artists and arts audiences in       the six participating cities, to the academics, policy makers and other       professionals attending the conferences.
A total of just over 158,000       people (according to data supplied by the Liverpool Culture Company)       attended CotE events (the vast majority of whom &#8212; about 120,000 &#8212; watched       the open air screenings of the Terminus film).
Bianchini's co-authored book, Planning for the Intercultural City       (2004) was a key source of inspiration for the joint Council of       Europe/European Commission Intercultural Cities action research project.
The project started in 2008 as a joint initiative of the Council of Europe       and of the European Commission.
Its aim was introduce a new model of       governance and policy in multi- ethnic European cities.
The project       provided examples of good practice, and made recommendations for reforming       policies in areas ranging from education to planning and urban design, the       arts, housing and economic development.
The project also recommended       training and research initiatives to strengthen the intercultural skills       of local policy-makers.
Eleven cities from eleven different European       countries were chosen to take part in the project's pilot programme in       2008.
Nine additional cities joined the project in 2011.
The main       beneficiaries were stakeholders working in the fields of cultural       diversity, community relations, multiculturalism, interculturalism and       anti-racism: local authority officers, politicians, other policy makers,       community activists and representatives, journalists and other       professionals.
(1) Data from Garcia, B. Melville, R. and Cox, T. (2010) Creating an         Impact: Liverpool's experience as European Capital of Culture,       Liverpool: Impacts 08, University of Liverpool and Liverpool John Moores       University.
