     Premature mortality is 2-3 times higher in PWE than the general       population, rising to 9 times higher in people with uncontrolled or poorly       controlled epilepsy.
Up to 50% of PWE who gain control of their seizures       using current medication (and ~35% do not) will lose this control during       the course of their lives as a result of changes in the brain caused by       the seizures.
All existing anti-epileptic medicines cause notable       cognitive, motor and teratogenic adverse effects at therapeutically       effective doses.
As such, there is a substantial unmet clinical need       within the ~50 million PWE worldwide for new, effective and well-tolerated       drug treatments.
Our extensive preclinical research findings that show CBD       and CBDV are well-tolerated and exert significant anti-epileptiform,       anti-seizure and anti-epileptic effects in animal models has directly       triggered the translation of this research into human clinical trials.
Translation to clinical trials: changes to industrial activities       With only ~1 in 1,000 new drug entities reaching the Phase 1 clinical       trial stage, our development of two novel anti-epileptic drugs to       this point is highly significant.
Phase 1 trials alone, which help       determine a drug's safe dosage range, pharmacokinetics and safety profile       in healthy human volunteers take ~1 year to complete and cost on average       &gt;&#163;1 million, and so represent a notable investment by the       pharmaceutical industry on the basis of research conducted by University       of Reading academics [a].
In addition to this investment,       GW Pharmaceuticals now own patents on which Whalley and Stephens are       named as inventors [b].
Phase 1 trials on CBD were originally carried out by GW Pharmaceuticals       in the context of treating multiple sclerosis.
On the basis of the Reading       research with CBD in the context of treating epilepsy, GW Pharmaceuticals       has now invested in a Phase 2 clinical trial of CBD for this new       indication [c,d] This Phase 2 study, which is currently in its       design stage, will include 50 participants and will evaluate the efficacy       of the drug in the treatment of epilepsy.
This change in activity for GW Pharmaceuticals represents a       significant impact which, having been made, commits GW to a substantial       financial and organisational commitment.
Similarly, it is on the basis of original research carried out with CBDV       at Reading that GW Pharmaceuticals began a Phase 1 trial for CBDV in July       2013 (20 participants) [c,e].
Again, this change in activity for GW Pharmaceuticals represents       a significant impact; an indication of the commitment of the company to       this compound is that a Phase 2 trial will immediately follow upon       successful completion of Phase 1.
New drugs with good efficacy in drug-resistant epilepsy will markedly       reduce the number of treatment-resistant patients and offer improved       tolerability with fewer adverse effects.
Taking into account the number of       PWE worldwide, a conservative estimate suggests that millions of lives       will be affected positively if these new treatments progress onwards to       market.
Use in the community: reduction in seizures, benefits to the health of         individuals       In addition to our research findings having the necessary significance to       justify two separate clinical trials, CBD is also already being used now       in the treatment of drug-resistant paediatric epilepsy, where an immediate       and highly significant clinical impact has been demonstrated [f].
The prognosis for children with epilepsies of this type is extremely poor;       they experience dozens of seizures each day, have cognitive disability       before school age, are generally confined to a wheelchair before secondary       school age and around 30% die before reaching adulthood.
Two children in       the US with drug-resistant epilepsy are now receiving CBD on an       open-label, named patient basis and this programme has recently been       further expanded [d].
Initial results of a survey of a 19       paediatric patients with epilepsy taking CBD have now been published: 13       of 19 children had marked improvements in seizure control with the       majority showing an 80% reduction in seizure frequency[f].
The       individual impact upon one of the children receiving CBD from GW       Pharmaceuticals is powerfully illustrated by a message from received from       his mother [g] stating:     "He had had sixty eight seizures the day before he started CBD.
The         day he rode the zip line he had just five, each about 10 seconds long.
Days later he was down to three and then to one.
The day we flew home he         had none.
So thank you -- for giving my 11 year old the chance to ride         the zip line just like any other kid; for making it possible for us to         have fun....and for giving our family some badly-needed hope after         battling epilepsy for the last seven and a half years"     Changes in public awareness of, and perceptions of, cannabinoid usage[h]       Our work has now been featured in The Sunday Telegraph, on BBC       local and national television and radio, in Epilepsy Review Magazine       (a public magazine of the Epilepsy Society), as a featured       interview with Whalley on Epilepsy Action Radio during National       Epilepsy Week 2011, The Washington Post, NBC News and Sky News.
The work also attracted &gt;400 attendees to Dr Whalley's public lecture       entitled "Cannabis: drug of abuse or medicinal use?"
at the       University of Reading, UK, in October 2008.
The work has also generated       numerous invited presentations for Drs Whalley and Stephens, including the       Comprehensive Epilepsy Centre, Langone School of Medicine and New York       University (2013, USA), and the Joint Spanish-Italian Meeting on       Cannabinoid Research (SEIC/IRES), Madrid (2012).
In an area where there is a vast amount of purely anecdotal and       pseudoscientific information in circulation, particularly on individual       web sites and weblogs, this extensive media coverage has made a       significant contribution towards bringing rigorous, peer-reviewed       cannabinoid science to the attention of the public.
