     Digital Classics builds capacity in heritage organisations, enhances       school curricula, establishes       best practice, and develops web infrastructure.
Hestia's experimentation with data visualisation has attracted the       interest of cultural heritage       groups and government agencies who need to present big and often messy       data in ways that       make sense to users while neither reducing complexity nor presenting a       misleading picture.
English Heritage, Ordnance Survey and Hampshire County Council all       participated in the Hestia2       July 2013 workshop on using network visualisations to analyse spatial       relationships in data       records.
Hestia's `outreach' potential in using different web-mapping technologies       for reading texts visually       has been documented in two outreach publications (in Amphora, the       American Philological       Association outreach magazine, and Iris schools magazine).
Results       from using Hestia in a US       public high school in Virginia, as an example of active learning within a       `lab school', were       presented at `Classics in the Modern World: a Democratic Turn?'
at The       Open University in June       2010 (underpinning research item 5).
The school students contributed       highly positive feedback,       reflecting on their own learning and suggesting improvements.
In July 2013       Hestia partnered with       the Classics Charity Iris and the commercial digital pioneers L-P       Archaeology to use Hestia's       resources for teaching ancient history in state schools in Bolton and       London (1).
Hestia has been presented at a number of prestigious international       meetings to establish best       practice and formulate policy in the Digital Humanities:            the European Science Foundation Standing Committee for the           Humanities Strasbourg         workshop on `Research Communities and Research Infrastructures in the         Humanities' (2);       the European FP7-project NeDiMAH work group on evaluating         visualisation methods and tools         in Digital Humanities research and teaching;       the Scholarly Communications and Information Technology (SCIT) Program         in New York,         funded and organised by the Andrew W. Mellon Foundation, setting the         Mellon's future strategy         on funding electronic resources for the dissemination and interpretation         of classical texts.
The GAP project's search mechanism&#8212;the means by which it       automatically `discovers' places in a       text&#8212;has been adopted by the Mellon Foundation-funded Project Bamboo, as       an exemplar text-       mining service for scholars, librarians and information technologists (3).
The GAP project has featured in the media and on a number of influential       blogs (4), attracting       widespread praise for its pedagogical potential.
It was also one of four       examples chosen by Google       to be showcased at its June 2012 Geo Teachers Institute in London.
GAP has       contributed to the       Amicus Brief compiled by digital humanities scholars and law professors       and submitted in support       of the defendants in the Authors Guild vs. HathiTrust case of the US       Southern District Court of       New York (5).
Citing this brief, the trial court ruling found that certain       uses of digitised university       library books to enhance search, scholarship, and access qualify as fair       use, a ruling that       dramatically impacts and enables the future of this work.
Going beyond establishing best practice, Pelagios has been       developing ancient-world web       infrastructure for academic and non-academic data providers alike and has       impact beyond ancient       world data.
For example JISC identifies Pelagios's decentralised, open       annotation approach as a       model for future web practice, featuring it in the policy document       `Preliminary highlights from the       JISC Discovery programme' (6).
This sets out the plan for future       investment in digital infrastructure       projects, as an example of `greater impact through linking'.
The open-data service technology that Pelagios has championed is now the       de facto international       standard for open linked geospatial data concerning the ancient world.
Impact is measured not just       by the growing number of partners whom Pelagios has attracted but also by       the process that each       group undertakes to become a partner: by adopting the Pelagios system,       partner organisations       must change the way they structure their data.
This means that Pelagios's       research has achieved       the impact of transforming the nature of the data held and provided by all       of these organisations,       and the way in which they work and even conceptualise their activity.
In addition to work with the British Library (7) the spectrum of       organisations extends beyond the       academic research community to include: regional and national museums       (e.g.
the Ure Museum,       the British Museum); a national database (Arachne); a private learned       society (Nomisma), a digital       library (Perseus); an aggregator service (CLAROS); the government-funded       Portable Antiquities       Scheme (including meetings with staff from the British Museum and       presentations at the Linked       Ancient World Data Institute seminar series in New York (8)); and an       equally diverse array of       voluntary partners and interest groups (Ports Antiques; Regnum Francorum       Online; SquinchPix;       the open-access Ancient History Encyclopedia (9)).
Pelagios was the       subject of a keynote       presentation at a meeting of Wikipedia in Germany, for bringing together       scholarly research and       public resources (10).
