     Music research with a practical element produces an artefact &#8212; the music       &#8212; that can be       experienced in several ways.
It can be broadcast (implying a wide       audience) and it can be played       (implying a purposeful mode of engagement).
The impact of this research       project traverses both of       these two conduits, each of which has distinctive characteristics in terms       of reach and significance.
One can reach a wide audience, numbering in the thousands, but detailed       feedback about any       effects on that audience is difficult to obtain.
The other has a smaller,       more localised audience, but       produces rich feedback about the significance of that contact for each       individual.
Despite these       varying qualities, when taken together, the impact of this research is an       enhanced awareness of       music production processes &#8212; how contemporary popular music is made &#8212;       which is achieved       through demonstration and explanation.
Broadcast     The music of Middlewood Sessions and Nightports has been broadcast around       the world on       specialist radio shows of varying types (FM, cable, digital, satellite,       online-only) characteristic of       contemporary patterns of music consumption.
A selection includes: East       Village Radio (New York),       Bogaloo Radio (Vienna), Tru Thoughts (London), BLN.FM (Berlin), Basso       Radio (Helsinki), KBCS       91.3 FM (Seattle), BBC Radio 1 and 6 Music (UK), and Sequence FM (France).
Inclusion in the       playlists of radio shows based in particular locales indicates a       geographic reach that, although de-localised       by online music platforms, represents communities far beyond the original       context of       production.
Similarly, affiliation with multinational companies such as       Mercedes-Benz via the Mixed         Tape compilation carries the music far beyond its origins of making.
Broadcasts also provide opportunities for interviews in which the       processes of making, as explored       throughout the research project, can be explained to a wider listenership.
In April 2012, Dutch       national radio show Wicked Jazz Sounds featured an interview with Dr       Slater about the processes       of making the album (following the nomination for Jazz Album of the       Month), reaching a       listenership of c.11,000.
Dr Slater also featured in an extended 20-minute       interview on Rt&#233; Pulse, a       specialist online and FM radio station based in Dublin, which explored       issues of musicianship,       sociality, technical aspects of music production and the complexities of       the contemporary music       industry.
This interview reached an audience of c.13,000 across digital       and FM broadcasts,       representing around 7.8% of the national listenership in Ireland.
Pedagogy     In November 2010, Dr Slater collaborated with Music in the Round (MITR)       to provide a weekend-long       workshop for string players and sound engineers.
MITR promote a       world-class series of       concerts from their home in the Crucible Studio (Sheffield) and run       innovative community       education programmes.
The remit of the collaboration was to give young       players and technicians a       realistic insight into a recording session, while enriching MITR's ongoing       programme of community       education.
The weekend began with a series of improvisations and practical       explorations, which       led onto a day of recording followed by a public performance in the       Crucible Studio.
There were 20       participants aged 14-23 who came from a range of socio-economic       backgrounds (16 musicians       and 4 aspiring sound engineers), plus 3 professional instrumentalists and       one technical specialist       assisting.
This project links with the research described in section 2 in two ways.
First, the musical material of       the Middlewood Sessions project formed the basis of the improvisations and       performance.
Unpicking the components of the music gave participants insight into the       detailed structuring       principles of popular music.
The public performance provided an       opportunity to learn more about       the norms and expectations of popular music performance.
Second, the       improvisation tasks were       based on the processes of collaborative creativity that characterised the       creation of the       Middlewood Sessions album (and that were expounded for an academic       audience in references 5       and 6, section 3).
More than simply replicating the music, participants       played out some of the       strategies of generation, ideation, elaboration and refinement that were       developed during the       making of the album.
Music production processes are often designed to disguise traces of their       presence.
As such, the       recording studio environment is often shrouded in mystery.
Participants in       this project gained       valuable insight into what it is like to perform in relation with       technology; technical participants       gained a detailed understanding of particular technologies and the social       aspects of running a       recording session.
The weekend enacted the technical, social and musical       dimensions at the core       of the underpinning research project.
Detailed feedback was collected by       MITR following the       weekend; extracts included in section 5.
