     During the REF assessment period (2008-2013) nearly 250,000 learning       disabled individuals in England and Wales have benefited from screening       for physical illness that was introduced as a direct result of the Cardiff       research.
Linking Cardiff underpinning research to post-2008 impact     Steps leading to policy change began prior to 2008.
In 2005, the       Disability Rights Commission (DRC) launched a formal enquiry into       inequalities in health and health care for people with learning       disabilities and mental health problems.
Cardiff research evidence was fed       into this enquiry and became part of its report Equal Treatment:         Closing the Gap.5.1, 5.2 The DRC recommended the       introduction of annual health checks for adults with learning disabilities       and influenced the responsible Minister in Wales to allocate funding to       entitle every adult with LD on local authority learning disability       registers to an annual health check as a Directed Enhanced Service.
The       Cardiff Health Check was revised to become the Welsh Health Check and       further work was done with Welsh Assembly Government officials to develop       software so that the health check could be recorded electronically.
The       research was also disseminated to voluntary sector campaigning bodies,       such as Mencap, who were responding to the recognised inequalities in       health of this population (see Mencap 2007, Death by Indifference).
Following initiation of annual health checks in Wales, all individuals       with diagnosed learning disability can benefit from the regular screening.
Wider adoption of the health check model     In September 2008, the NHS and British Medical Association announced       plans for a Directed Enhanced Service to deliver annual funded health       checks for adults with LD across England.
Key evidence, such as from       Mencap, used Cardiff research to support recommendations by an independent       inquiry into access to healthcare for people with learning disabilities.5.3       As in Wales, the health checks format followed Cardiff methods, now known       as the Welsh Health Check.
Impact of health checks across England and Wales     In Wales, the implementation of health checks has been monitored by the       National Public Health Service (now Public Health Wales).5.4 A       series of reports have shown increased take-up.
In 2008- 2009, 4,693 Welsh       adults with LD received health checks, with positive focus group feedback.
"Health checks will generate increased referrals and ... [ ] ...       in the long term, cost benefits are likely through improving quality of       life, improving mental and physical health, and therefore supporting       people to lead more independent and fulfilling lives."
Phil Boulter,         Consultant Nurse at Surrey and Borders Partnership NHS Foundation Trust,         in Eyes on Evidence (March 2012), NHS Evidence/ National Institute for         Health and Clinical Excellence.5.5     In England, the implementation of health checks is being monitored by the       Improving Health and Lives Learning Disabilities Observatory.5.6 Their       latest report showed that 72,782 adults with LD in England received a       health check in 2010-2011.
Extrapolating from Cardiff research, the combined England and Wales       extent means that 78,000 adults are screened annually and nearly 40,000       adults per year will have new health needs identified and treatments       initiated, of whom possibly 3,500 will have had potentially serious       conditions identified.
Over the REF assessment period that amounts to       approximately 250,000 adults with LD having new health needs identified as       a result of the Cardiff research.
International uptake of Cardiff model     Wales was the first country in the world to introduce comprehensive       annual health checking for adults with LD, followed by Australia and       England.
In addition, there has been considerable usage of the Cardiff       Health Check format in New Zealand.
Overall, there has been sustained,       widespread behaviour change among General Practitioners (GPs) who now have       regular contact with people with LD when performing health checks.
"Targeted health checks should be considered to constitute an effective       and important adjustment to the operation of primary health care services       in the UK as required by the Disability Discrimination Acts 1995 and 2005       and the Equality Act 2010.
"5.7     Cost benefits of health checks     The one study that has included a comprehensive assessment of the cost of       health checks concluded that the health care check was relatively cheap       and affordable compared to standard care, and was not associated with       higher health costs for service usage.5.8 Mean care costs for       adults who received standard care only was greater than for the adults who       received the health- check intervention.
The higher costs were due to       differences in unpaid carer support costs.
