     Our research in Classical Receptions contributes to the arts and cultural       sectors in the UK and abroad, providing platforms for practitioners to       explore the relationship between their work and classical texts.
We work       with a range of institutions and media groups, as well as with A-level and       university students across the humanities.
Impacts are clustered in three       areas:            performance and practice impact       cultural impact: the enhancement of the theatre, museums and galleries         sector       teaching          Performance and practice     Our department's history of working with theatre groups goes back before       the current REF cycle.
For example, Hardwick was overseas consultant to       the Australian academic and theatre `Linkage' project (Monash       University/Malthouse Theatre, Melbourne, funded by Australian Research       Council).
In this cycle, Robson's research on Aristophanes led to a 2012-2013       project making a series of 6 audios and 5 videos, `Birth of Comedy',       commissioned by the OU and produced by an external production company [1].
Three of these videos feature two professional actors, acting out three       scenes from Aristophanic comedy translated by Robson; the audios, written       and presented by Robson, include interviews with academics and       practitioners.
The materials are available on open access.
In 2012 Robson       took part in a public discussion at the Witte de With Art Gallery,       Rotterdam with the artist in residence, Alexandre Singh, designed to feed       into Singh's Aristophanes-inspired project, `The Humans', modelled on the       plays of Aristophanes.
This discussion will develop the piece for a       further presentation in Autumn 2013 [2].
Swift's research on the role of the chorus has led to work with the       directors and casts of theatre productions, in particular the National       Theatre's (NT) Antigone, and subsequently to external funding to       develop a play based on fragments of ancient drama.
She features in three       National Theatre YouTube videos introducing ancient theatre, aimed at       schools (17,082, 5,976 and 2,887 views since their launch in January-March       2013) [3].
The Classical Receptions group also engages and influences practitioners       in the creative industries through the e-journal Practitioners' Voices         in Classical Reception Studies (ed.
Dr Jessica Hughes, since 2007).
The journal provides a forum in which theatre directors, designers,       dramaturges, actors, poets, translators and artists involved in the       creative practices that are so crucial to Classical Receptions can discuss       the relationship between their work and the classical texts, themes and       contexts on which they draw.
Artists featured, such as Marian Maguire and       Craig Hamilton, then link to their work for the journal on their websites       [4].
Our view of `practitioners' is a broad one.
King, a Visiting Professor at       the Peninsula Medical School in Truro for the past 6 years, teaches       medical students the history of dissection, helping them to develop a       historical perspective to a practice which is not part of their core       curriculum.
Having published on Classical Receptions in the history of       midwifery, she also works with practising midwives and from 2011 has been       on the steering group of the mostly practitioner-based De Partu       History of Childbirth group, where her role is to act as a bridge between       the practitioner and academic communities.
Cultural impact     Supported by OU media training, the work of the Classical Receptions       group has enhanced the provision of key public institutions within the       creative economy; for example, giving pre-performance talks and working       with museums and galleries to facilitate public understanding of the       classical inheritance of plays, artefacts and broader cultural       institutions.
Swift wrote programme notes (NT Antigone, 2012; English National       Orchestra Medea, 2013), while Robson gave pre-performance talks on       Clouds (2009) and Lysistrata (2011).
King's research led to       her involvement in the exhibition Leonardo da Vinci: Anatomist at       the Queen's Gallery in 2012, which was the most successful exhibition in       the history of the Gallery (148,299 visitors).
King features in the app       (which sold 12,821 copies by the end of July 2013), lecture programme and       audio guide, and the follow-up exhibition at Holyroodhouse [5].
She also       discussed Titian's `Diana and Callisto' as reception in a National Gallery       podcast on the `Metamorphosis' exhibition (2012), supporting this with a       blog post [6].
She discussed the classical history of hysteria in a       concert interval piece for Radio 3 (2012).
Paul worked on the extra       materials for the blu-ray release of Oliver Stone's `Alexander', and King       and Professor Phil Perkins were featured on Radio 4, `In our Time' (2011,       2012, 2013).
Our contributions extend beyond interviews to research-led podcasts for       public consumption.
The Classics Confidential vodcast website (over 50,000       visits), established in 2011 and run by Hughes and Dr Elton Barker,       engages the general public with behind-the-scenes view of the research (or       artistic creation) undertaken by scholars and practitioners from the       classics community both here and abroad [7].
User profiles of the 350+       members of its Facebook group and of the 1800+ Twitter followers indicate       interest from general enthusiasts for Classical Studies from outside the       academy.
In 2010 James developed podcasts from her research on       artificially constructed women from Ovid's Pygmalion to Buffy         the Vampire Slayer; these have had over 90,000 downloads [8].
Teaching     We engage other universities and students with our research as users of       the Classical Receptions in Late Twentieth Century Drama and Poetry in         English Project [9], and through our staffing and hosting the       website for the Classical Reception Studies Network (CRSN),       established by Professor Lorna Hardwick in 2004 [10].
CRSN encourages       collaboration across institutional, national and sector boundaries,       fostering cross-disciplinary exchanges of research and teaching by       promoting rigorous debate about classical reception studies.
At the census       date, CRSN had 57 institutional members and 89 individual members       worldwide; 33 institutional members are outside the UK, including 12 in       the USA, one in Brazil and two in Africa.
Not all are universities; the       USA members include Shaker Heights High School.
Currently King is       co-chair, Bakogianni (2009-present) &#8212; formerly a post-doctoral OU-funded       researcher on Classical Receptions in Drama and Poetry &#8212; is       administrator, and Paul and Hughes (2008-present) lead the teaching and       communications strands respectively.
CRSN's mission includes a commitment to training students from UK       universities.
At least one workshop a year is run for UK postgraduate       students, recently covering teaching Classical Receptions (2012), and       Classical Receptions and the job market (2013).
Alongside a full archive       of a series of open e-seminars and international conferences, the CRSN       website includes materials aimed at those beginning to teach in the field.
Many CS staff address school audiences; Robson's work on Aristophanes has       included speaking to 600 students at the Bryanston summer school (July       2013) on Lysistrata.
CRSN organised panels on teaching classical       reception studies at the 2012 Higher Education Academy conference and at       the 2013 American Philological Association conference.
CRSN tweets (@CRSN_UK; over 600 followers including many general       enthusiasts).
In terms of engaging the widest audience for our research,       CRSN partner universities have priority in the competition for places on       the AHRC-funded training programme for graduate students and ECR       researchers, `Communicating Ancient Greece and Rome', to enable the growth       of collaborative projects with the media, arts/heritage and education       sectors; successful projects are those of Dr Henry Stead (PhD awarded       2011) in 2010-12 and, in 2013-15 those of Dr Laura Swift, PhD student       Iarla Manny and AL/Research Associate of the department Dr Emma Bridges.
