     It is recognised that much of the impact was "causal, [...] diffuse and       non-linear" &#8212; in keeping with the &#167;83 of the HEFCE Panel Criteria       document.
The transitory nature of the audience and consumers and the       nature of the impact pose methodological problems of documentation and       quantification.
After the Fall was a multi-disciplinary theatre project, devised       by the Goethe-Institut to mark the 20th anniversary of the fall       of the Berlin Wall.
The project examined the importance of the historical       and political moment for the development of civic culture in Europe.
The       play `Not Yet' was produced and performed by a UK student company in the       UK and in Germany: in five university and school venues in Yorkshire, and       at the Dresden &amp; Mulheim Theatre Festival (2-10 November 2009).
An       accompanying workshop programme was run, predominantly for audiences of       secondary school pupils.
In the UK (February-March 2009), approximately       400 students (aged 14-21) saw the play and participated in the workshops.
In Germany, approximately 300 German students (aged 11-18) participated in       the workshops.
The opportunity challenged the lived experience and       understanding of the post-Communist society for both German students and       the performers from and audiences in the UK &#8212; facilitated through       near-peer learning experience provided by the workshops and, additionally,       through a screening of the film of the play in Hull City centre by BBC       Humberside on the anniversary of the fall of the Berlin Wall (November       2009).
The interactions had a positive effect on articulating the       uniqueness of the situation and the empirical cognition it brought.
This awareness was further mediated through performances of the play and       the ensuing publications: a keynote speech at the Goethe-Institut to an       international audience (`Not Yet: The Berlin Wall &amp; the Loss of       Biography'), and in the direct application of the play to German language       tuition at A-level, as part of the `Routes to Languages' tuition project       and in a publication for Routledge: respectively, (1) Die Mauer.
Multimedia Resource for students studying AS/A2A level German       (2011), which has at its core the DVD and script of Not Yet.
The       resource pack is now in permanent use by 60 schools in Yorkshire and       Lincolnshire (further details unavailable).
(2) This material has been       included in a book published by Routledge: Catherine Watts (ed).
Living         Languages: An Integrated Approach to Teaching Foreign Languages in         Secondary Schools (Routledge, 2012).
The Staatsschauspiel Theatre in Dresden reflected on the play and       workshops as a "great contribution" to the Festival (Christof Belka.
Staatsschauspiel-Dresden).
Feedback from the schools and colleges was       highly positive as the workshops enabled the students to make connections       between their own lives and the play's themes.
They found them "really       motivating... a great idea, the play helped make sense of a difficult       subject."
and would "really like to do it again in the near future"       (Claudia Schmidt.
Teacher.
Dresden).
Not Yet was published online by the Goethe-Institut (2009) in its       original English and in a German translation by Anselm Heinrich (access       data unavailable).
The play was seen by the Goethe-Institut as a success       in terms of the After The Fall Project and beyond.
The forte of       the project was identified in the complexity of the themes in the play and       in the engagement of the age range at which it was aimed, both in the       performance and in the workshops in schools.
The Goethe-Institut       identified the project as the "major highlight of 2009" and observed that       it was "amazing how this project really took off", stating that they were       "full of admiration for all the work done."
(Wolfgang Winkler.
Goethe-Institut Manchester).
References to and images from the play       featured heavily in the Goethe-Institut Yearbook.
The online publication of the play by the Goethe-Institut influenced the       practice of others.
This is exemplified by the fact that Not Yet       has been used by international groups such as the European Shared Voices       project (2010), the aim of which is to create a stage version that would       represent a common future for all young people in Europe.
