     The impact of this body of work has been far-reaching.
The book on       strategic planning was the first of a series of 17 published by Kogan Page       and the CIPR &#8212; edited by Gregory.
Since 1996, it has been the core text in       strategic planning for the CIPR's professional courses taught in the UK       and overseas, and a recommended text for the CIPR's 57 approved UK       University courses.
It has been translated into 10 different languages,       including Chinese.
A shortened version of the book forms the basis of a       chapter in Europe's best selling edited textbook on public relations       (Tench and Yeomans, 2008).
Professional-body approval denotes that       strategic planning is recognised as a corner-stone of practitioner       competence.
In addition, as President of the CIPR, Gregory led the       Institute to Chartered status with professional development being a       mainstay of the application to the Privy Council.
In recognition of this       work she was awarded the Sir Stephen Tallents medal in 2009 for her       outstanding contribution to the profession, one of only 30 ever recipients       of this honour.
Secondly, following the work done with the Cabinet Office in 2004-2005,       all Whitehall Departments reframed their approach to communication       capability development.
While the original version of Evolve has been       superseded, the most recent iteration (March 2013) was reviewed by Gregory       and returned to the process approach first designed by her in 2005.
The       courses on Strategic Communication and Stakeholder Engagement developed       for the Cabinet Office and delivered by the Centre for PR Research (Leeds       Met) from 2004 became part of the core offering for Government Departments       until it was taken over by the National School for Government on the basis       of cost in 2009.
As a result there has been a notable up-skilling and       upgrading of the communication function in a number of them, for example,       the Departments of Work and Pensions, Health, Transport and Her Majesty's       Revenues and Customs.
A number of Ministries commissioned the Centre to       deliver bespoke sessions for them, including Scottish Office, DEFRA,       Office of the Deputy Prime Minister and Welsh Office.
Gregory, on       attachment to the Cabinet Office in 2012, benchmarked their CPD courses       for academic accreditation which lays the ground for them being part of a       full Masters, with the framework allowing study up to doctoral level.
In 2013, Gregory was appointed by the Cabinet Office as a communication       capability Reviewer of Government Departments and was also one of five       Livechat Panelists (including the Executive Director of Government       Communication) launching the Government Communication Service, the       successor to the Government Communication Network.
Thirdly, the impact of work done for the DH has been extensive.
NHS       Evolve (developed 2005- 2006) provided a web-based capability framework,       purpose built for the NHS and developed from the Cabinet Office research.
An enhancement was research on the specific competencies of senior       communicators which formed the basis of the first paper on communicator       competencies (Gregory, 2008) published in the field's foremost academic       journal.
The research underpinning the DH Best Practice policy document, TCO,       issued to all NHS organisations has been the subject of academic and       practitioner conferences around the world, including in Europe,       Scandinavia, South Africa, Australasia and the World Public Relations       Forum in Stockholm in 2010 where Gregory was a plenary speaker with Klaus       Schwab of the World Economic Forum and Professor Mervyn King.
This       capability research was drawn together in a co- authored book by Gregory       and Willis (2013) which is the world's first on public relations       leadership.
TCO remains the communication policy guide in the NHS and       formed part of the Authorisation process for Clinical Commissioning Groups       in 2013.
Its principles are currently being used by the Trust Development       Authority to assess Trusts aspiring to Foundation status.
The content has       also been adapted for a range of different professional audiences       including communicators from local government and the private sector.
The research underpinned a closed Masters programme in Strategic       Communication for the NHS which ran from 2009 - 2012 (withdrawn since the       changes in the system).
It drew delegates from up to Board level and was       delivered using an innovative co-creation methodology (see Willis &amp;       McKie, 2012).
Three graduates from the programme moved onto the NHS Top       Leaders programme for future CEOs.
The Centre for Public Relations       Research also secured the NHS pilot Graduate Trainee Scheme in       Communication.
The work done to date has led to the Centre being involved in the       development and delivery of on-going Executive development programmes for       UK local authorities and private sector firms, the South African       Government (recently secured in association with the University of       Pretoria as partner), Swedish Institute of Public Relations (Professional       body) and leadership development for the New Zealand professional body.
The impact of the research with the Global Alliance has also been       significant.
The principles behind the Stockholm Accords and Melbourne       Mandate initiatives have been embedded in professional body curricula       across the world, therefore every practitioner who takes a professional       qualification benefits from Gregory's research.
Global Alliance represents       160,000 working practitioners worldwide.
