     The NICE appraisal process depends on evaluations of efficacy and       cost-effectiveness in various       circumstances, and these appraisals are always based in the multiple       technology appraisal       process on the work of independent academic centres such as PenTAG 1,2.
The reports are HTAs       which generally consist of systematic reviews, meta-analyses and health       economic models       combined.
The impact NICE has made since its inauguration is acknowledged       to be partly       attributable to the high quality of the independent academic reports       delivered in tight timescales.
NICE guidelines are now recognised to be of importance throughout the       developed world 3 The       Exeter based PenTAG group has contributed greatly to this process through       its many reports for       NICE and its methodological research.
The specific project (HTA 09/87/01) was commissioned by the NETSCC HTA       programme on       behalf of NICE in November 2009 with the title `The effectiveness and       cost-effectiveness of       donepezil, galantamine, rivastigmine and memantine for the treatment of       Alzheimer's disease       (Review of TA111)'.
The project was to review and update the evidence       presented to NICE in 2004       of how good a number of drugs were for treating Alzheimer's disease.
The       assessment would also       assess whether the reviewed drugs were likely to be considered good value       for money for the       NHS.
The final technology appraisal report, consisting of systematic       reviews, meta-analyses and       mixed treatment comparisons of RCTs (both the new evidence alone and       cumulatively with       previous evidence), systematic reviews of cost-effectiveness evaluations,       critical appraisals of       three manufacturer submissions and a de novo cost-effectiveness model was       submitted in June       2010 and considered by the NICE Appraisal Committee in August 2010 3.
In the previous guidance NICE in 2004 had recommended that donepezil,       galantamine and       rivastigmine could be used for people with moderate Alzheimer's disease       but memantine could       only be used in clinical trials.
The report from PenTAG 4was the key piece of evidence that       informed the decision by NICE's       Appraisal Committee to provide its 2011 guidance, which extended the       availability of donepezil,       galantamine and rivastigmine to people with mild Alzheimer's disease, and       allowed memantine to       be used with those with severe forms of the disease for the first time5.
This guidance was released       in March 2011.
It is mandatory for NHS commissioners to adhere to any       technology appraisal       guidance released.
Data for prescribing in England published on the NHS       Health and Social Care       website indicates that there has been a massive increase in use of these       drugs between 2010, the       year before the 2011 NICE guidance was released, and 2012, the first       complete year after       (although arguably the full extent of the effect on prescribing may not be       seen until the 2013, the       data for which are not yet available).
Between 2010 and 2012 donepezil use       increased by 41%,       rivastigmine by 51% and memantine by 278%, with 3% decrease in use of       galantamine6,7.
Based       on the results of the economic model in our HTA we estimate that there       were 110,000 persons with       "untreated" mild Alzheimer's disease in England and Wales at the time of       the change in guidance       and if these individuals are now prescribed either donepezil or       galantamine or rivastigmine we can       expect on average cognition to be improved by 4% (absolute increase) in       this population and there       to be a cumulative delay in time to admission to long term care of 13,000       person/years.
Similarly       we estimate that there were 103,000 persons with "untreated" severe       Alzheimer's disease in       England and Wales at the time of the change in guidance and if these       individuals are now       prescribed memantine we can expect on average cognition to be improved by       3% (absolute       increase) in this population and there to be a cumulative delay in time to       admission to long term       care of 8,000 person/years, with consequential large financial savings.
The change in decision about recommended drugs was directly attributed by       NICE to change in       the evidence, the key source of which was PenTAG's independent academic       report8,9,10.
The NICE       decision on drugs for Alzheimer's disease thus provides a clear example of       how PenTAG's       research makes an impact on national policy making, and the important       influence of the       independent academic report is always reflected in the NICE appraisal       process.
In addition, NICE       does have great worldwide influence3, so we expect that this       work has had beneficial impacts on       the treatment on patients with Alzheimer's disease throughout the world.
