     1) Public involvement in suicide prevention     This research is highlighted in the new national suicide prevention       strategy for England1 (p.41).
It       took centre stage at a National Experts' Consensus Meeting on Suicide       Prevention in 2011,       where Owens was invited to deliver the opening presentation.
Recommendations from the       meeting fed into a Call to Action, spearheaded jointly by Samaritans and       the Department of       Health, which is driving forward implementation of the national strategy.
This has resulted in a strategic partnership with The Alliance of Suicide       Prevention Charities       (TASC), which appointed Owens as its scientific advisor in 2012 with a       view to collaborating on a       public education programme.
In 2013, agreement was reached with IPC Media       to run a series of       articles in leading magazines to raise awareness and break the taboo       surrounding suicide.
The       first of these appeared in the September 2013 issue of Marie Claire,       using scientific content       provided by the Exeter group.
The Exeter/TASC partnership is now       developing a range of multi-media       materials (including booklets, videos and an interactive web resource)       designed to equip       members of the public with the confidence to talk openly about suicide and       to intervene in a       crisis.
2) Preventing suicides in public places     This work has achieved international reach and made an important       contribution to public safety at       high-risk locations.
England: The Guidance on action to be taken at suicide         hotspots is highlighted in the new       national suicide prevention strategy 1(p.37), and cited in       local strategies nationwide.
There is       good evidence that the processes for identifying and managing high-risk       locations have been       implemented.
For example, in 2009 the NW Public Health Observatory       identified 49 locations that       had been used for two or more suicidal acts.
Signs encouraging suicidal       individuals to call       Samaritans were installed at several of these locations; at one of them,       an average of 2 suicides       per year has been reduced to only 2 suicides in the last 3 years2.
Placing of Samaritans signs       on the Tyne Bridge in December 2007 led to a reduction in the number of       call-outs by police       negotiators to deal with individuals threatening suicide, from 131 in 2007       to 47 in 2008, and 30 in       2009.
Further benefits have been reported there, including improved       information sharing       between police and mental health trusts about high-risk individuals3.
In 2011, an NHS Trust       agreed to increase the height of the parapets around the top floor of a       new multi-storey hospital       car park, after the Guidance was brought to its attention by a       member of the public4.
These       impacts have been acknowledged by NIHR5 (p.16).
Scotland: In 2010 NHS Health Scotland requested permission to       adapt the Guidance for use in       the Scottish context.
It was subsequently instrumental in persuading       Transport Scotland to install       fencing to prevent jumping from the Erskine Bridge.
In the two years prior       to installation (Aug       2011) there were 16 suicides from the bridge; in the two years after       installation this reduced to       only 36.
Northern Ireland: The Guidance was cited in support of       recommendations to improve public       safety at the Langan Weir Bridge in 20127.
Japan: The Guidance was translated into Japanese in 2007.
Two thousand copies were       disseminated to prefectural governments, mental health and welfare centres       and other agencies,       and are believed to have contributed to local suicide prevention       initiatives.
Australia: In 2011 the Government of Australia sought consent to       use the Guidance as the       model for the development of their own, and the authors of the Australian       guidance worked       closely with the Exeter team8a.
The Australian Government has       subsequently committed $12       million funding to capital works to improve safety at identified hotspots8b.
The USA is home to the world's number one suicide site, the Golden       Gate Bridge, estimated to       be responsible for around 24 deaths per year.
Installation of barriers to       prevent individuals from       jumping had been strenuously resisted for many years, but a Physical       Suicide Deterrent System       has now been given the go-ahead.
The English Guidance is cited in       support of the scheme9.
The       $5m design stage is due for completion in 2013.
Safety nets are also being       installed on seven       bridges across Fall Creek Gorge, following the deaths of Cornell       University students.
Again, the       Guidance is cited as a key resource10.
There is strong evidence to suggest that an individual who is prevented       from carrying out a       suicidal plan at one location, e.g.
by the erection of a physical barrier,       is unlikely to seek out       another location or another method of suicide.
