     Research in contemporary women's writing has had specific impact by       contributing to the       continuing personal and professional development of members of the public       and postgraduate       students significantly beyond Leeds Metropolitan University.
They have       engaged directly with this       research in two ways: via the website (the Contemporary Women's Writing       Association website, or       its sister organisation the Postgraduate Contemporary Women's Writing       Network website) or via       public lecture or event.
The new CWWA website provides a resource for those interested in       contemporary women's       writing.
It disseminates research through the promotion of conference       events, the listing of       members' research interests and publications, a resources section (which       includes a bibliography       of work in the field and provides links to other related organisations       with whom we have       established affiliations, such as libraries, arts organisations, creative       writers' groups, feminist       activist groups) and the CWWA book club.
The mailing list can be used by       all members.
The reach       of the website is extensive and international, with members from the       following countries: Australia,       Belgium, Brazil, Canada, China, Finland, France, Hong Kong, India,       Ireland, Israel, Japan, Korea,       Lithuania, Moravia, Netherlands, New Zealand, Philippines, Singapore,       Spain, Sweden, Taiwan,       Tasmania, UK, USA.
A significant number of CWWA members and users of the       website are       academics or postgraduate students, but given the nature of work on       women's writing and       feminism, many beneficiaries are also creative writers, librarians,       feminist activists or work in/with       theatres and other arts organisations.
The number of visits to the site       per month has remained       steady since launch at an average of 1391 per month, with an average of       590 unique visitors per       month, an average of 7482 pages visited and 17493 hits per month.
In the       reported period of May       2011, of the top 25 pages viewed, the members' profiles page-URL is       amongst the most popular,       with 504 views, closely followed by the conferences page-URL (176 views)       and resources/ useful       links page-URL (150).
Of the top 25 search keywords the commonest are       `women', `contemporary',       and `writing'.
To give a specific example of how visitors to the website       benefit from the research of       Watkins and Eagleton, the CWWA book club has material on Doris Lessing's The         Fifth Child and       A. S. Byatt's and Alice Walker's short stories that include discussion       points deriving from their       research on these texts published in outputs 6 and 1 above.
There have       been 72 individual visitors       to the CWWA book club website and 123 visits (ie.
times the site has been       visited).
Research into contemporary women's writing has had impact on PGRs       extending significantly       beyond Leeds Metropolitan University.
Watkins and Eagleton have provided       informal mentoring for       PGR students, opportunities for them to disseminate their own research       (via publication and       conference attendance) and have encouraged them to develop their ideas       about organisation and       leadership for women within academia.
Dr Watkins is one of the organisers       of an AHRC-funded       Collaborative Skills Development programme in contemporary women's       writing, along with       Professor Lucie Armitt (PI, University of Lincoln), Professor Clare Hanson       (University of       Southampton), Dr Nadine Muller and Dr Fiona Tolan (both Liverpool John       Moores University) and       Professor Gina Wisker (University of Brighton) that is open to PGR       students across the UK.
In       addition, CWWA was able to fund travel bursaries for both early career       scholars and (jointly with       PGCWWN) for postgraduate research students to attend the 2012 Taiwan       conference and also       offer a cash prize for the best conference papers delivered by scholars in       both categories.
CWWA has organised and supported a number of conferences and public         lectures.
Dr       Watkins's research on Doris Lessing has resulted in a number of public       events.
In 2007 Leeds       Metropolitan University hosted the Second International Doris Lessing       conference, which was       supported by CWWA and the Doris Lessing Society.
Professor Eagleton, Dr       Watkins and Dr Ridout       were on the organising committee for this event and all gave papers.
The       conference also included       the European premiere of the one-woman play by US actress Hilary Kacser,       `In Pursuit of the       English: Rose', based on Lessing's short novel of the same name, which was       followed by a       discussion between academics in the audience and the actress about       interpreting the text in both       performance and literary criticism.
This event was open to the public.
