     Professor Alison Oram's research has informed, illuminated and challenged       the cultural values and       social assumptions associated with gender and sexuality.
Specifically she       has sought to enhance       the public understanding of the major issues and challenges relating to       gender and sexuality       through engaging and stimulating public discourse on such issues.
She has also been solicited as a commentator on contemporary cultural and       political issues based       on her work on the historical emergence of sexual identities such as       homosexuality and       transgender.
For example, she was interviewed and extensively quoted for       an article on gay       marriage for BBC History Magazine (January 2013), contributed a       two-page review of the film       Albert Nobbs for the Times Higher Education and spoke at a       major History and Policy panel at the       British Library on "Queer Homes, Queer Families" (17 Dec 2012).
Her work on the development and change in the cultural accounts of       lesbian and gay sexuality,       both in the 20th century media and in contemporary public history has also       led to invitations to give       public lectures at both national and regional institutions, including The       National Portrait Gallery,       The Geffrye Museum, the London Metropolitan Archives, Shibden Hall       (Halifax), University College       London (diversity month 2013).
Community groups, including LGBT groups       have also invited her to       speak on her work and discuss it with local people.
This includes Equity       Partnership, Bradford (Feb       2012), and The Grave Passions arts event which was funded by London       Borough of Southwark       which was sold-out and oversubscribed.
Oram's interviews with curators at various case study historic sites has       also increased the mutual       understanding of the context of interpreting under-represented themes in       heritage and has played       a part in their interpretation policies and operational practices.
For       example, her work on historic       houses and sexuality has led to consultation by English Heritage, in the       context of recent       parliamentary legislation (the Single Equalities Act 2010) which requires       public bodies to actively       consider their policies to take account of/not discriminate in relation to       various protected       characteristics, including sexual orientation and gender.
On this basis,       Prof Oram spoke at a staff       seminar at English Heritage's York regional office (Feb 2012) and was an       invited expert to the       same organisation's consultation on under-represented heritage in May       2012.
In sum, Prof Oram's research has contributed to a greater recognition of       diversity among public       and statutory bodies in the heritage industry, and increased understanding       of how themes in       sexuality, family and gender can be presented to public audiences.
Her       work also contributes to       current policy debates through engagement with heritage professionals.
Furthermore her work       contributes to public debates in civil society by appealing and engaging       with both general and       specific audiences.
