     Introduced to wider audiences from 2008 onwards, the success of Beating       Bipolar's content and delivery format has since had major impact upon       national policy and widespread availability of this mental health       intervention.
Additionally, Cardiff University has benefited from further       grant funding to develop and deliver our psycho-educational interventions.
Psycho-education and international adoption of online delivery     Medications are effective for bipolar disorder, a condition suffered by       at least 1% of the UK population, but treatment non-adherence and       psychosocial effects can adversely affect long-term outcomes.
Psycho-education aims to address some of these issues.
Psycho-education is       an evidence-based intervention, offering peer support alongside expert       information and coping strategies for people with bipolar disorder.
Despite being recommended by the 2006 UK NICE (National Institute for       Health and Clinical Excellence) guidelines for Bipolar Disorder,       psycho-education was not readily available to UK NHS patients.
Having       elected for an online format, BEP-C has enabled cheap, rapid, nationwide       adoption of the Beating Bipolar psycho-education package, which the       leading support organization, Bipolar UK, made freely available through       its website in 2010.
Shown by BEP-C research to be both safe and       effective, the Cardiff package has been embraced by NHS services across       Wales.
Additionally, the Cardiff psycho-education package has been adopted       by several Trusts in England (e.g., Leicester, Devon, Oxford, Hereford,       West London, Camden &amp; Islington, Tees Esk and Wear, Brent, Sussex),       three Trusts in Northern Ireland (Northern Health and Social Care Trust,       South Eastern Trust, Belfast Trust), one in Scotland (Forth Valley), and       health providers abroad (e.g., New Zealand, Netherlands, Turkey).
Impact on national policy and industry strategy       To embed psycho-education within the mental health services in Wales, the       BEP-C co-produced information leaflets with NHS Wales that emphasize key       Beating Bipolar messages on how bipolar patients can achieve mood       stability and optimize their own ability to function.
Over 14,000 copies       have been distributed as hard copy or pdf download at the Welsh National       Centre for Mental Health websites (http://www.ncmh.info/bepcymru),       average visits per month = 5,666.
Important components of Cardiff       University's psycho-education research and outputs are now incorporated       into the Welsh Government's Strategy for mental health: Together for         Mental Health.5.1 This is an all-age, cross-Governmental       strategy for mental health and wellbeing in Wales that seeks to improve       outcomes for users of mental health services, their carers and their       families, and the wellbeing and resilience of the wider population.
For example:5.1            Outcome 2 is that "People and communities are more resilient and         better able to deal with the stresses in everyday life and at times of         crisis", and one of the means by which this is to be achieved is         "Cardiff University maternal mental health learning programme module for         Midwives to be used across Wales" in order "to improve resilience of         children and young people".
Outcome 6 is that "People in Wales have the information and support         they need to sustain and improve their mental health and self-manage         mental health problems", and one of the means by which this is to be         achieved is "The National Centre for Mental Health (NCMH) to work         collaboratively with stakeholders" in order to "ensure that people of         all ages are better informed about mental health and mental illness."
Impact on patients       Group psycho-education for bipolar disorder has been shown to be effective       (Colom et al., [2003], Arch Gen Psychiatry, 60, 402-407) by       increasing time to relapse and reducing the number of relapses, the number       of days in hospital and overall symptoms, and by leading to better       treatment adherence.
By making psycho-educational intervention more       readily available to a wider audience, Cardiff's Beating Bipolar programme       benefits both health care workers and patients.
The online programme enables clinicians to provide patients with       information about their diagnosis and treatment, and encourage       self-management skills and techniques to avoid relapse.
It enables       patients to become informed, collaborative partners with clinicians, fully       concordant with treatments.
Having groups of participants at differing       stages of illness provides useful peer learning for people at all stages       of the illness.
Patient discussion, feedback, and commentary on online forums enable       healthcare practitioners to better understand patient behaviours and       responses and to improve training and services.
For example, in response       to feedback from the qualitative aspects of the evaluation in the       underpinning research, the team is developing a simple smartphone       application for mood monitoring in bipolar disorder to complement the       online educational package.
(Prototype app Android and an iPhone/iPod       downloads (at 1 October 2013, downloads = 11,700).
At 1 October 2013, over 14,000 Beating Bipolar online registrations had       been distributed to bipolar patients across the UK.
A detailed qualitative       analysis (Poole et al.
[2012], BMC Psychiatry, 12, 139),       using standard thematic analysis techniques with 20 individuals following       completion of the package showed that users felt benefits in terms of       insight into their illness, health behaviour, personal routines and       attitudes towards medication.
The programme was thought to be most       beneficial for those recently diagnosed because they had most opportunity       to benefit from learning about illness and its management.
Quantitative       feedback from 72 individuals following completion of the programme showed       a very high level of appreciation, with 96% indicating that they would       definitely recommend the intervention to fellow-patients.
A further 1000       individuals have accessed introductory modules through BipolarUK webpages       (http://www.bipolaruk.org.uk/beating-bipolar/)       and continue to progress through the programme.
Attracting additional funding and extended remit       Since the launch of the original Beating Bipolar, the programme's success       has attracted additional funding from the Big Lottery, Welsh Government       and the British Occupational Health Research Foundation (total funding =       &#163;900k).
This has enabled the BEP-C to extend its psycho-educational       resources to include:            Modules and materials for families and carers         (http://www.beatingbipolar.org/families_and_carers/)        Modules and materials that deal specifically with risk in relation to         childbirth and other reproductive events (http://www.beatingbipolar.org/women_and_bipolar/)        Modules and materials that train and help professionals to identify         and manage bipolar disorder and help patients to use our         psycho-education package (e.g., http://www.beatingbipolar.org/perinataltraining/)        A group psycho-education programme (10 sessions, each of 2 hours         duration) that includes interactive exercises and uses embedded modules         from Beating Bipolar (see www.ncmh.info/bepcymru)       A module for bipolar patients, employers and health professionals         about work and employment (http://ncmh.info/our-resources/education-training/)
