     Impacts on health and welfare     1) The research has impacted dramatically on the lives of an estimated       15,000 patients throughout the world who have MODY caused by mutations in       the HNF1A, HNF4A or GCK genes.
Up to 90% of patients with       MODY were previously misdiagnosed with type 1 or 2 diabetes and received       inappropriate treatment.
The team's research has shown that, for patients       with HNF1A or HNF4A mutations, oral hypoglycaemic agents should be the       first pharmacological intervention.
They also showed that patients with GCK       mutations can stop treatment, with no detrimental effect to their glucose       control or long term health.
2) For most patients their genetic diagnosis has led to a complete change       in their treatment such that they no longer rely on daily insulin       injections but can control their blood glucose levels with tablets (HNF1A/4A       MODY) or can stop all treatment (GCK MODY).
This has led to a       marked improvement in patient care and their quality of life.
Patient testimony 1, Mary: "It's so much easier to take tablets each         day rather than having to inject with all the inconvenience and         discomfort"     Patient testimony 2, Margaret: "Even though I take these tablets I         don't feel like a diabetic anymore"     Impacts on public services     3) Sulphonylurea therapy for HNF1A/4A MODY has been adopted       internationally such that more than 10,000 patients worldwide have had       their diabetes therapy changed since this discovery.
4) A genetic testing service for the UK was established in Prof Ellard's       laboratory in 2000 and has continued throughout the REF period.
To October       2013, a total of 2695 UK patients had been confirmed as having MODY.
Patient samples are also referred from clinics worldwide to establish an       accurate molecular diagnosis of MODY.
5) Prof Ellard introduced a European Quality Assessment Scheme that has       run since 2006 under the auspices of the European Molecular Genetics       Quality Network (http://www.emqn.org)       and by 2013, included 43 laboratories from 15 countries in Europe and       Australia.
The scheme tests both genotyping and clinical interpretation,       providing feedback to improve the quality of genetic testing.
Impacts on practitioners     6) This research has impacted on diabetes care through revision to       clinical guidelines (Prof Hattersley led the 2009 ISPAD guidelines for       monogenic diabetes that include MODY) and diagnosis/classification of       diabetes through Prof Hattersley's membership of the WHO Expert Committee.
Prof Ellard led the development of best practice guidelines for molecular       genetic testing in MODY.
Originally published in 2008, these have been       adopted by laboratories throughout Europe via the European Molecular       Genetics Quality Network.
7) The group's website provides information for patients and healthcare       professionals.
The online MODY calculator that predicts an individual's       risk of MODY from their clinical characteristics, family history and       biochemical test results is used by clinicians, scientists and patients       (&gt;6000 hits to October 2013).
It provides a systematic approach to       selecting those patients most likely to benefit from genetic testing, an       approach that is very much lacking for most other genetic tests.
8) The discovery that HNF4A mutations can cause macrosomia and       neonatal hypoglycaemia has led to the inclusion of HNF4A testing       into routine genetic testing for neonatal hypoglycaemia.
This is important       as it highlights a high risk of developing diabetes in adolescence/early       adulthood for these babies.
The risk of macrosomia in future pregnancies       has clinical application in decisions regarding timing and mode of       delivery to avoid obstetric complications for the baby and mother.
Impacts on education and training     9) The researchers recognised that dissemination of the new knowledge       about genetic forms of diabetes was crucial in order to benefit the       maximal number of patients.
An educational initiative to train UK Diabetes       Specialist Nurses to recognise and manage patients with MODY started in       2002 and, to October 2013, 47 nurses have received training about       monogenic diabetes.
The Genetic Diabetes Nurse (GDN) network spans       England, Scotland and Wales and an on-going evaluation indicates that GDNs       have a higher positive pick up rate than patients referred from elsewhere       (245/649, 38% v 726/3364, 22%,p&lt;0.0001) and increased referrals of       family members for genetic testing (157/245 (64%) v       317/733(43%),p&lt;0.0001).
