     Research undertaken directly by Melzer &amp; Galloway generated the first       large scale studies on the human health effects of BPA; one of the most       widely used chemicals in the world.
This research has combined       observational epidemiology with detailed mechanistic studies to provide       enhanced research evidence of the human health effects of BPA.
They showed       that the 25% of the population with the highest exposure to BPA have on       average a 1.5-2 fold increased risk of developing heart disease and that       this is independent of established risk factors such as smoking, blood       lipids or obesity.
This research has yielded the following specific       identifiable impacts.
International policy debate has been stimulated.
Publication of       their 2008 paper in JAMA [1] provoked a large number of policy discussion       documents such that Melzer &amp; Galloway were invited in person to       provide verbal evidence to the FDA Congressional Review of the Safety         of BPA, Washington DC (September 2008).
Policy papers discussing the       results and their impact on legislation and the current advice on       tolerable daily intakes were subsequently published in various countries       including by the US FDA, European Food Standards Agency, (Statement of the       European Food Safety Authority on a Study Associating bisphenol A with       Medical Disorders' (EFSA Journal 2008 838:1-3) [a]), the Advisory       Board of the German Society of Toxicology and Health Canada amongst       others.
EFSA issued further debate in the 2010 paper [b] in EFSA         Journal 2010 8:9 `Scientific opinion on bisphenol A: evaluation of       studies investigating toxicity.
'This review highlighted the need for `additional         longitudinal and mechanistic studies', which Melzer, Galloway and       team have since published [key references 3-6].
International policy has been influenced to restrict the use of       BPA in food contact materials.
For example, in January 2010, US federal       officials at the FDA stated "some concern" about BPA's safety,       particularly for infants and young children.
The case study research       undertaken by Melzer &amp; Galloway [key references 1, 2] was included in       the cited evidence.
Canada declared BPA a toxin and banned it from baby       bottles in 2008, followed by France and Denmark in 2010.
Similar       restrictions have been instituted across various US states.
In July 2012       FDA acknowledged `substantial uncertainties with respect to the overall       interpretation of human health studies and their implications'.
and has       banned BPA from infant feeding containers.
In January 2011, the European       Commission adopted Directive 2011/8/EU, prohibiting the use of BPA in       infant feeding bottles and has instigated a systematic re-evaluation of       research to inform current legislation further.
Public awareness of health risks has been raised through public       debate and critical media reviews [d-j].
There are over 3000 items of       editorial and commentary material discussing this work in the       international peer reviewed literature, international media, newspapers,       specialist scientific and popular press, e.g.
national newspapers such as       The Independent, Times, Daily Mail, New York Times, popular journals e.g.
Marie Claire, Men's Health, Women's Health, National Geographic, Elle, BBC       Food Magazine.
The research featured in a German TV documentary broadcast       to a target audience of &gt;6 million across Europe.
The research also       features in an online popular science blog and podcast from the BBC:       http://www.thenakedscientists.com/HTML/podcasts/show/2010.02.07/;       Feb 7th 'Pollution and plastics'.
Industries have invested in research and development of safer chemical         alternatives.
The 2008 paper [1] is specifically referenced as a       major piece of research influencing global market trends in several major       market research reports, including `BPA- A Global Strategic Business       Report (c).
BPA is the leading end-use segment for the phenol market and drives the       phenol market globally.
Demand for BPA in 2010 was in excess of 2.7       million metric tonnes and, despite the health concerns, this figure is       predicted to continue to rise to 2018 with increased demand driven       especially by markets in the Far East (http://www.prweb.com/releases/bisphenolA_market/phenol_market/prweb10992205.htm).
Nevertheless, earlier       growth estimates have been tempered by global health concerns (BPA 2012       World Market Outlook and Forecast to 2017) leading to a concerted effort       to develop viable, safer, alternatives by the plasticiser industry.
This       has spawned a rise in green chemistry approaches and has led to the       synthesis and testing of alternative monomers, development of systems to       identify endocrine activity in novel materials and promotion of novel       polymerisation techniques to reduce unbound residues in polycarbonate.
