     Conflict management in Iraq's disputed territories     Research by Stansfield on conflict causation and management in Iraq       helped steer the activities of the UN mission tasked with facilitating       negotiations between the Iraqi central government and the Kurdistan       Regional Government (KRG).
In 2008, the FCO recommended Stansfield to act       as a Senior Political Adviser to the UN's Special Representative of the       Secretary General (SRSG) in Iraq &#8212; a position he held throughout 2008 and       which included a three-month stay in Iraq.
During this time, he was tasked       by the SRSG to discuss possible strategies with the Kurdish leadership.
In 2009, Stansfield's research on the disputed territories and Kurdish       political mobilization had a direct input into the drafting of the UN's       recommendations for the resolution of the disputed territories, with the       UN Department of Political Affairs staff utilizing his co-authored book Crisis         in Kirkuk extensively.
Stansfield's research on range of options for       the future status of Kirkuk (inclusion in either Iraq or in Kurdistan;       resolution of Kirkuk's territorial status and its separation the question       of its oil reserves) informed the shaping of the UN Assistance Mission for       Iraq's (UNAMI) report on `Disputed Internal Boundaries in Iraq', published       in 2009, but still under embargo.
Since then, Stansfield's expertise on       Arab-Kurd politics has been noted by the private sector, with him acting       as an adviser to the senior management of Shell on the politics of Kirkuk,       with the Chairman of Shell Iraq noting the importance of Crisis in         Kirkuk (2009) to Shell's deliberations.
Stansfield has also chaired       US Government events on this subject, and briefed research analysts and       ambassadors-designate of the FCO regularly, with his book Iraq       (2008) recommended to FCO staff beginning their work on Iraq as essential       reading, as an ideal way of introducing them to a complex country in a       detached, dispassionate, fashion.
Political mobilization and civil war dynamics in Iraq     Stansfield's research informed guidelines for asylum/human rights       determination process through being cited in the UK Border Agency's `UK       Country of Information Report on the Kurdistan Region as a separate and       independent region of Iraq' in April (http://bit.ly/1fgmu7m),       revised in September 2009, and the Country of Information Report on Iraq       in December 2009.
These reports provide general background information for       officials involved in human rights' claims in the UK.
Stansfield       independently reviewed and made recommendations on the original version of       these documents and when the Office of the Independent Chief Inspector of       UKBA convened a meeting of the Independent Advisory Group on Country       Information on the 19th of May 2009 (http://bit.ly/18GN3eZ),       it was noted in the minutes that `the UKBA had responded positively to         nearly all of the recommendations made by Professor Stansfield       [report Kurdistan Regional Government (KRG) area of Iraq] and had         amended the COI report accordingly'.
Moreover it was noted that `The         group considered Professor Stansfield's report [to be] very helpful         because he set out the information gaps and suggested where further         information was needed.
For this reason the group agreed his report         should be used as an example of best practice for distribution to future         authors'.
Post conflict stabilization and approaches to state building     In response to the sudden downturn of the security situation in Iraq, the       US employed a different strategy (the `surge' strategy) through localising       of security structures in a bid to defeat the threat posed by Al-Qaeda in       Iraq (AQI) and the Shi'a Jaish al-Mahdi.
Stansfield's research       considered how Coalition actions had exacerbated tensions within Iraqi       society rather than resolve them, as reported in the House of Commons       Select Committee on Foreign Affairs Sixth Report of 2005       (http://bit.ly/1bv5U3P).
In high-level meetings, Stansfield presented his       research on the regional mobilization of political communities in Iraq and       the possibility of structuring military forces along regimental lines &#8212;       i.e.
recruiting from localities, finding local solutions to local security       problems.
Following Stansfield's 2007 Chatham House Briefing Paper (http://bit.ly/1gGTXpF)       the research's impact was further extended through discussions held with       senior UK military officials tasked with working alongside US counterparts       on improving security.
Stansfield's 2007 research also impacted upon the       Coalition's 2007/8 `surge' strategy aimed at removing the Al-Qaeda       insurgency threat from Iraq, with him providing analysis and advice       directly to the Director of Intelligence at the Permanent Joint       Headquarters (PJHQ), on strategies to defeat Al-Qaeda in Iraq and further       the Coalition reconciliation effort.
His involvement in this area was       highlighted by an invitation to present a paper on the subject at the Iraq       Inquiry in 2009 (http://bit.ly/1eXG1vV)       and he has since contributed to the writing of UK stabilization doctrine       in events held at the Development, Concepts and Doctrine Centre (DCDC) of       the Ministry of Defence (http://bit.ly/16dD4nx).
Following this engagement       with the military, Stansfield has been asked to join several ad hoc       working groups tasked with advising on the interaction of the UK with       nascent Syrian opposition groups, (evidence: DFID funded project through       Coffey International focused upon the capacity-building of Syrian       opposition groups in the Kurdish north; adviser to Chief Joint Operations       (CJO) Permanent Joint Headquarters).
Stansfield has also won a further       unsolicited USIP/Chatham House award to undertake work on Iraq's foreign       policy formulation, being the one of the first academics to recognise that       at least two foreign policy structures existed in Iraq (Stansfield 2010).
Further impact and benefit     In 2010, Stanfield's research informed policy makers by being cited in a       House of Commons research paper `The Arab uprising' and pointed to the       similarities between the situation in Iraq after the fall of Saddam       Hussein and Libya (http://bit.ly/15aU4o8).
His work on counter-insurgency saw him invited to be a founding member of       the `PJHQ Red-Team', designed to inform the Chief of Defence Staff on       strategic options in Libya.
And, in 2011, regarding the Arab Kurd dispute,       his research was cited in the United States Forces `Iraq' commissioned       report by RAND National Defence Research Institute `Managing Arab-Kurd       Tensions in Northern Iraq After the Withdrawal of U.S.
Troops' aimed at       informing US policy makers on preparations for the withdrawal of US troops       from Iraq.
He has also briefed, in spring 2013, the Defence Select       Committee of Parliament on the subject of Iraq, Syria, and sectarianism.
