     Ashour's research and fieldwork have led to two key areas of impact:       informing policy debate through citations in policy documents and       practice and enhancing public understanding of Islamist issues       through engagement with the media.
In March 2009, Ashour informed policy makers by speaking at two       consultation events organised by the British Foreign and Commonwealth       Office (FCO).
"Promoting Political Freedoms and Deepening Democracy"       and "Common Security Challenges in the Maghreb and the Sahel" were       attended by members of the Cabinet and Home Office and the Department for       International Development.
Following the publication of his book, Ashour       participated in consultation events with the Ditchley Foundation in       February 2010, entitled "Countering Radicalization in Local         Communities"; the Dutch Ministry of Foreign Affairs ("Security         Threats in North Africa", Rabat, May 2010) and the International       Association for the Chiefs of Police ("De-Radicalization Processed and         Programs", Paris, May 2010).
In the US in 2010, Ashour was invited       by the RAND Corporation and Carnegie Endowment to contribute to       consultations with US Government.
These resulted in publications of policy       papers such as De-Radicalizing Islamist Extremists (published by       RAND) which stated that: "the only major work on the subject [collective       de-radicalization] is Omar Ashour's The De-Radicalization of Jihadists."
(p. 188) and Ashour is cited 30 times.
Following this.
Ashour informed       policy debate by being cited six times in the US Counter-terrorism White       Paper on "Protecting the Homeland from Domestic and International         Terrorism Threats Current Multi- Disciplinary Perspectives on Root         Causes, the Role of Ideology, and Programs for Counter- radicalization         and Disengagement" (2010).
As the Arab world began to experience major political transitions, Ashour       was a constant source of advice.
His research was described by United       Nations' ESCWA as "extremely important in tailoring realistic and       context-driven security sector reform recommendations and...serve to       increase the debate among security sector practitioners in the region and       press upon Arab governments the need for reform".
In March 2011, he was a panellist on three separate occasions at the       House of Commons: the first organised by the Committee for Democratic       Libya ("Libya: The Case for Intervention"), the second organised       by the Council for Arab-British Understanding ("The Fall of the         Pharaoh: How will it Impact the United Kingdom's Foreign Policy")       and, lastly, the Henry Jackson Society ("Moral Imperatives and         Strategic Interests &#8212; Western Policy after the Egyptian Revolution").
These were attended by MPs, the media, and NGOs like Amnesty       International, Human Rights Watch, and Medecins Sans Frontieres.
Ashour argued for intervention in Libya, and for engagement with       Islamists and former Islamists in Egypt and Libya.
In the latter area in       particular, he influenced FCO philosophy with regard to post- Jihadists       such as Abd al-Hakim Belhaj, the former head of Tripoli Military Council,       the LIFG, and the leader of al-Watan Party, whom Ashour had interviewed.
In March 2011 he presented a paper to the FCO, entitled "De-Radicalization         and Civil Resistance in Egypt and Libya".
Since FCO representatives       and diplomatic and foreign office staff from 15 countries were present,       Ashour fed into FCO philosophy with regard to former militants and their       future political role in the country.
In May 2011, he was invited by the       United Nations Interregional Crime and Justice Research Institute (UNICRI)       to Lucca, Italy to present to British, European, American and Canadian       senior security officials on "Downstream Interventions: Rehabilitation         and De-radicalization" during a consultation on Policies to         Counter the Appeal of Terrorism.
FCO, Home and EU counter-terrorism       coordinator.
Gilles De Kerchove, and the head of the United Nation's       al-Qaida and Taliban Monitoring Team.
Richard Barrett, and the other       officials were present.
Ashour has been strongly advocating democracy and       ending dictatorship in his country of origin, Egypt.
After the Egyptian       revolution in 2011, he was consulted by both the first Egyptian elected       civilian President in August and September 2012 as well as the National       Security Committee of Egyptian Parliament in March 2012 on security sector       reform and transformation of Islamists from armed to unarmed activism,       with special focus on the Sinai Peninsula.
In July 2012, he was asked by       the British Embassy in Cairo and the FCO to lead a research project on       countering violent extremism in Egypt, with focus on the Sinai.
Between       November 2012 and September 2013, the FCO invited Ashour to a series of       discussions on Islamist transitions and security sector reform in Egypt       and Libya.
The meetings were attended by several senior officials       including, Minister Alastair Burt, the Parliamentary Under Secretary of       State.
Some of the meetings were held under the title of `The Jubilee       Dialogues,' flagship series of debates organized by the FCO bringing       together leading thinkers to discuss some of the major drivers behind       transformation in societies across the world       (https://www.wiltonpark.org.uk/conference/wp1253/#conference_introduction).
On 11 February 2013 the Department for International Development (DFID)       invited Ashour to speak about de- radicalization and the Arab Awakening.
Ashour also gave a lecture on the same topic in the Advanced Command and       Staff Course (ACSC) in Joint Services Command and Staff College.
which was       well-received by military officers from over 20 countries.
This was       organized by the Ministry of Defence on 25 February 2013.
He was also       invited to present his research findings in a roundtable table discussion       with the British Home Secretary, Theresa May on 1 May 2013.
Overall.
the       FCO summarized Dr Ashour's interactions with policy-makers: "an excellent       example of how long-term academic research and a sustained investment in a       relationship between governmental policymakers and academics can reap       benefits in a fluid and changing situation such as that of the `Arab       Spring'."
In addition to informing policy debate, Ashour has raised the level of       public debate and understanding of de-radicalization through his media       engagement.
He was interviewed over 400 times only during 2011/13 by       various media outlets, both in the UK and abroad.
Examples include the BBC       6 O'Clock News; "Impact" on BBC World News with Tim Willcox;       Channel 4 News; BBC News Hour with Lyce Doucet, the 6.30 ITV News; CNN;       Al-Jazeera (both English &amp; Arabic); France 24; Russia Today and       others.
A key theme was the recognition that the opposition movements       bringing about change were inevitably going to include Islamist and       post-Islamist activists who have been de-radicalised, which developed       directly out of Ashour's research.
He has been quoted extensively in       newspapers, including the Guardian (7 times during 2011/12); Financial       Times; Daily Telegraph; Times; Washington Post; Gulf Times; and Al-Ahram       (Egypt).
After the July 2013 coup in Egypt, The Observer ran an article       by Ashour opposing Tony Blair's view on the opposite page that the       military will bring democracy in Egypt and that the West should back the       new regime.
His expert contribution was described by al-Jazeera Network as       "highly valued both by our organization and the audience" and his analysis       of the evolving situation in the Middle East was described as follows:       "widely contributed to educate our [al-Jazeera's] global audience."
He also appeared in the Doha Debates in April 2011, contributing to a       discussion aimed at raising public awareness on whether Arabs, not NATO,       should be dealing with Libya.
The Doha debates openly discuss Middle East       issues and are broadcast by BBC World News eight times a year.
The total       potential global audience for The Debates is over 350 million.
