     A recent Automotive Council report stressed the need to link research     carried out by UK universities to Tier 1 suppliers in the automotive     industry.
It also highlighted a shortage of highly skilled engineers with     knowledge and expertise in boosting systems.
University of Huddersfield     research has helped address such concerns by providing the basis for a major     R&amp;D and training collaboration with the UK arm of a multinational     engineering company.
In 2011 BorgWarner Turbo Systems sought a university partner able to       deliver both collaborative R&amp;D capability and bespoke postgraduate       training.
Representatives met with a number of HEIs to ascertain the       research capabilities that could underpin the company's development of       next-generation systems.
The process included a series of meetings with       Huddersfield, which had an existing relationship with BorgWarner through a       Knowledge Transfer Partnership, to discuss the company's proprietary       R&amp;D requirements.
The breadth of Huddersfield's research in automotive       engineering, as exemplified by the work of Ball, Gu, Mishra et al, proved       pivotal to BorgWarner's decision, and a strategic partnership was       officially established in 2012.
The agreement led to the securing of millions of pounds in regional       funding.
During the negotiation process the Department for Business,       Innovation and Skills (DBIS) announced a call for Regional Growth Fund       (RGF) applications, presenting an opportunity to drive inward investment       from the company's parent firm, BorgWarner US &#8212; which has an annual       turnover of around $7bn &#8212; to expand turbocharger R&amp;D capability within       the UK.
Huddersfield partnered BorgWarner in an application that committed       to the establishment of new R&amp;D facilities alongside the company's       existing factory in Bradford, the development of bespoke training for the       next generation of turbocharger engineers and, most importantly, job       creation and inward investment [a].
The five-year project is valued at       &#163;7.6m, with &#163;2.3m from DBIS and the majority from BorgWarner US.
The       success of the bid was first confirmed in October 2012, with full details       announced in May 2013.
The partnership with Huddersfield, in tandem with the successful securing       of RGF funding, was also a key factor in a decision by Jaguar Land Rover       (JLR) to award a major contract to BorgWarner Turbo Systems.
This brought       further investment to the region and was also fundamental to JLR's       commitment to strengthening the UK economy as a whole.
JLS senior       management saw the R&amp;D capabilities and next-generation training made       possible by BorgWarner's strategic alliance with the University as in       keeping with the company's efforts to enhance and develop the automotive       supply chain in the UK.
Announcing the deal in May 2013, JLR's Purchasing       Director described the eight-year, multi-million-pound agreement to supply       technology for the company's new family of four-cylinder engines as "a       great example of how we want to work in partnership with our supply chain       to develop innovative solutions to support future growth... [and] help the       UK become even more competitive in its investment in innovation that will       make the difference to the growth in the UK economy" [b, c].
The President       and General Manager of BorgWarner Turbo Systems said the deal would "help       to support the local economy with highly skilled engineering and       manufacturing jobs" [b, c, d, e, f]     These significant industry investments in and commitments to the region       have helped raise awareness of its nascent role as a key location in the       automotive supply chain.
In ... 2013 representatives of the Leeds City       Region Local Enterprise Partnership and the UK Trade and Investment       Automotive Investment Organisation, including the former Chairman of Ford       UK, visited the University to discuss its research.
UKTI is working       closely with the Automotive Council to strengthen the sector's supply       chain and attract further inward investment to the UK.
The Advanced       Propulsion Centre, the UK's &#163;1bn new automotive research centre, which is       co-funded by the government and industry, was among the issues discussed.
Leeds City Region LEP requested a case study on the University-BorgWarner       partnership to highlight the growing strategic importance of the       automotive sector in the region [g,h].
