     AAC research at Dundee is user-led with strong connections with clinical       practitioners, end-users and industry.
Waller's invited presentations to clinical practitioners, e.g.
the 22nd       European Academy of Childhood Disability EACD2010 conference and the 2013       British Society of Paediatric Dentistry Conference, reflect impact on       clinical practice.
We have teaching arrangements with special schools and       clinical training departments nationally and internationally.
Waller and       her team teach on the communication modules for medical (first, second,       third levels) and dental (final year) students at Dundee University and       biannually on the national community dentistry training CPD course run by       NHS Education Scotland, training over 250 clinicians since 2006.
We run       clinical workshops in conjunction with the UK national AAC charity,       Communication Matters, and have delivered clinical training to over 150       teachers and therapists since 2008.
In a new initiative with Communication       Matters we have established a forum which brings together researchers,       practitioners and AAC companies in order to reduce the time taken to       transfer technology research into the commercial sphere &#8212; "collaboration       with Dundee's School of Computing has allowed us to develop and enhance       the channels through which research is articulated to clinicians, research       and design technologists employed within the communication technology       (AAC) sector and then end users."
[R1]     The STANDUP and "How was School Today?"
projects, funded by EPSRC and       Digital Economy, have been well received internationally and has resulted       in collaboration with leading special education schools worldwide [R2].
Our work has resulted in schools adopting a narrative approach to       intervention with speech impaired children and we have established a story       telling group in an adult care centre.
Our collaboration with Capability       Scotland has contributed to their two schools being awarded the highest       rating in recent HMI inspection: "Your department's continuing work with       our schools in terms of augmentative and alternative communication       assisted us in achieving the glowing report from Education Scotland in       April 2013 which commended the leadership team at Stanmore House School       for their commitment to the use of up to date technology.
Your input is       also recognised in our services where, for example, augmentative and       alternative communication is used to support interactive customer led       reviews and the development of personal support plans.
By providing the       necessary tools and using a mix of high tech communication aids,       individuals are empowered and supported to take control and make informed       life choices."
[R3]     Working in school has resulted in identifying the need to support       literacy learning for nonspeaking children.
Supported by Capability       Scotland, the PhonicStick&#8482; has been evaluated by clinical departments in       Manchester, Sweden, Ireland and South Africa.
It provides a unique way for       nonspeaking individuals to `play' with sounds and blend them into words.
Capability Scotland funded this fundamental research and "recognise, as       you [Waller] do, that whilst enabling speech to communicate basic needs       and wants is important, true communication is far more complex and       involved.
That is why the Phonic Stick symbolises more than anything else       the benefit of our long partnership.
It goes beyond mere symbols or words       to enable the formation of language and we were therefore proud to sponsor       its development."
[R3] The Dundee City Education Department are supporting       the product development of the PhonicStick&#8482; as a teaching tool because of       its "potential to transform literacy opportunities for some of our most       disadvantaged young people".
[R4]     Waller has established a unique AAC usability review consultancy       comprising adults who use AAC.
Adults with severe physical and speech       impairments volunteer their expertise in using AAC to support the       development and evaluation of assistive technologies, undertaking       commissions from industry to support the engineering of new devices;       clients include top AAC developers.
We have developed innovative methods       for involving people with severe speech and physical disabilities in the       design of assistive technology by adapting techniques to enable       stakeholders of differing ages and abilities to engage in design and have       developed recommendations for ISO design guidelines.
Close links with international AAC developers have resulted in effective       technology transfer.
We work with leading AAC companies (e.g.
DynaVox,       Toby Churchill Limited (TCL), Tobii Technology AB) to commercialise our       IP.
A patent has been registered for the PhonicStick&#174;, a       joystick-controlled phoneme-based word generation tool for children with       language impairments, and the IP licensed to TCL in 2012.
Waller's work on       narrative, licensed to Don Johnston Inc. of Illinois in 1992, has provided       much of the theoretical underpinning to the Improv&#8482; AAC system, released       in 2012.
Don Johnston Inc. state that: "work at University of Dundee is       instrumental in pushing the boundaries of AAC by taking a conversational       discourse approach to supporting aided communication."
[R5]     CONTACT project partner Enkidu Research Inc. merged with DynaVox in 2004.
Conversation modelling and pragmatics techniques developed at Dundee were       commercialised in the InterAACt language framework from DynaVox       Mayer-Johnson of Pittsburgh, the largest AAC company in the world with 395       full-time employees and net sales of over $97 million (fiscal year to June       2012).
Speech generating (i.e.
AAC) products represented approximately 84%       of these sales.
"InterAACt is the exclusive language framework used on all       DynaVox devices.
It allows individuals with significant communication       needs to successfully communicate, develop high-level language skills and       express themselves, in everyday activities."
[R6]     DynaVox products are promoted in the international AAC marketplace       (DynaVox lists 25 countries) and are prescribed extensively by clinicians       (e.g.
speech and language therapists) for their clients.
The InterAACt       framework therefore reaches a wide client base of people who experience       improved AAC support during conversation with others.
Other beneficiaries       are family members, carers and friends of the people who use InterAACt, as       they have more fulfilling conversations with the InterAACt user, and       clinicians and therapists who work with non-speaking and communication       impaired people.
The AAC industry benefits through a significant advance       in augmentative communication technology coming to market.
Concepts from       conversational pragmatics and script-based systems have influenced most       modern AAC systems in the form of re-usable utterances and visual scenes.
[R7]     DynaVox Mayer-Johnson state that: "Dundee is one of a small number of       centers whose ideas have defined the field of AAC as we know it.
Your       ideas have .... greatly improved the lives of tens of thousands of people.
The research done at Dundee has directly generated significant economic       value for many organizations in our industry.
... DynaVox's InterAACt       language framework makes extensive use of techniques developed at the       University of Dundee and which we license from you.
This technology       provides our customers with the opportunity for greater communication       rates while retaining the crucial flexibility and context sensitivity       needed so they can truly say what they want to say."
[R7]     The projects have also experienced national and international news       exposure [R8].
STANDUP has been downloaded more than 1000 times from its       project webpage.
"How was School today...?"
[R9] won the 2010 TES Schools       Award for Outstanding ICT Learning Initiative of the Year for project       partner Capability Scotland (Corseford School): the "How was School       today...?"
project "signalled how assistive technology could really open       up the world of communication to those who use our [Capability Scotland's]       services.
We were particularly delighted that it won the only Scottish       award in the 2010 Times Educational Supplement's Awards for the School and       University."
[R10]
