     The impact of this research has been fourfold.
It has:     A.
Informed directions for professionals in architectural design       relating to designing for predominantly landscape contexts [Corroborating       evidence 5.1 and 5.2]     The design research embedded in `The Shed' has been       internationally disseminated to a professional audience through the       presence of built work, traditional and web-based publication, symposia       and talks, exhibition and invited CPD seminars.
As a direct consequence of       this exposure numerous co-professional enquiries have resulted,       particularly in relation to the roof form and detail, from practices in       the UK, Ireland and The USA.
Evidence of Hutton's design research       sub-themes can be seen in later architectural works such as those at       Scotland's recent `Highland Housing Expo' or a new work by New York based       Briggs Knowles Architecture + Design.
The detail design of `The Shed'       roof/wall junction is also being employed by Platform4 in New York for a       rooftop addition to a Brooklyn city block.
B.
Informed wider society of the critical debate surrounding       appropriate architectural designs for rural contexts [Corroborating       evidence 5.3,4,5,6,7,8]     Following publication online, particularly online via `Britain's Best New       Buildings', and in the popular press under such banner headings as "Q) Is       this an award winning piece of architecture, or a shed?
A) Both" in The         Scotsman 22nd May 2009 and "Barnstorming &#8212; Industrial Unit or       Modernist Masterpiece?
", in Caroline Ednie, Homes &amp; Interiors         Scotland, October 2009 pp82-89, and "In a Shed &#8212; Seeds of a Scottish       Farmhouse" in The New York Times Jan 27th 2011, much follow up       correspondence has been generated centring on the appropriateness or       otherwise of the building's vocabulary.
From this exposure a complex       observation relating to type emerges: critique is positive and favourable       if the viewer assumes `The Shed' is in fact just that &#8212; a utilitarian       agricultural building; critique from the same readers is less favourable       upon discovery that `The Shed' is in fact a residence.
Further research in       how modern architecture is perceived and understood is warranted by these       observations.
What this press and web exposure also elicits is popular       discussion regarding appropriate models of new rural dwelling that might       challenge the suburbanization of the countryside.
The research suggests a       new language and patterns of dwelling as demanded by the Scottish       Government's Architecture Policy disseminated through Architecture and       Design Scotland.
Commissions to the value of &#163;2M for five further       residences, in similarly sensitive sites across Scotland, have resulted in       a maturing vocabulary toward more spatial sophistication and to explore       highly energy-efficient `Passive House' technologies.
Three further       commissioned dwellings have resulted from Planning Authority       recommendations to prospective rural developers to examine Drummond House       &#8212; `The Shed' as an appropriate modern rural archetype.
C. Established benchmark references for guiding planning and       design judgements for sensitive rural locations [Corroborating evidence       5.9 and 5.10]     `The Shed' is cited as an exemplar regarding appropriate design responses       to rural landscapes in the RIAS Information booklet `Why Choose an       Architect' (Ref.
RIAS 2010).
The planning authorities of two district       councils also refer potential developers to the design as an exemplar of       how to approach building in the countryside.
As a result of the design       principles inherent in `The Shed' a grant of &#163;15,000 was secured from the       Scottish Government (2010) to research the optimum approach for       articulating and embedding `Design Coding' for the proposed new highland       town of `Tornagrain'.
This is a pilot project to test mechanisms for       ensuring design quality over time in lengthy and complex development       programmes for several new sustainable communities being proposed in       Scotland.
D. Transcribed rural design research into the broader debate about       architecture in the rural and urban built environment [Corrborating       evidence 5.11 and 5.12]     The benefits extending from the profile of `The Shed' and its       contribution to a new awareness of landscape formed architecture include       Hutton's invitation as a juror informing the selection and procurement of       Kengo Kuma's Landform design for the first outreach of the       V&amp;A's internationally significant collections in Dundee, to wide       critical and public acclaim.
The `landform' ethos also sits as a       key constituent part of the international Landworkers network       (including artists Will McLean and Arthur Watson and architect Juhani       Pallasmaa) sponsored by The Geddes Institute, RIAS and Dundee Contemporary       Arts.
Pallasmaa visited `The Shed' in 2009 during the Landworkers         International Symposium exploring landscape, culture and heritage as       conceptual drivers for ideas across a range of disciplines including art,       literature and architecture.
