     At a Scottish level, Fyfe's review of the Strathclyde Police Witness       Protection Programme was used to inform the decision to establish this       programme at a national level under the authority of the Scottish Crime       and Drug Enforcement Agency (now part of Police Scotland).
It also led to       specific operational reforms relating to the use of temporary       accommodation of protected witnesses, risk assessment processes, and the       type of medium to long term support provided for relocated witnesses.
All       these reforms have benefitted witnesses, the police and the judicial       process throughout the assessment period (2008-13).
Fyfe is also actively       involved in the training and professional development of police officers       in Scotland working in the field of witness protection through his work at       the Scottish Police College where he jointly delivers an input on the CPD       programme on this topic.
From 2011, he has been working with the Witness       Liaison Unit to develop a new performance management approach for witness       protection in Scotland.
(Corroborating source 1).
At a UK level, the research carried out for the Home Office on the       legislative frameworks for witness protection in other jurisdictions       contributed directly to the evidence-base for the UK Government's White       Paper 2004, One Step Ahead: A 21st century         strategy to defeat organised crime, and subsequently the relevant       section of the 2005 Police and Serious Organised Crime Act dealing with       witness protection arrangements at a UK level.
Operational guidance for       working with intimidated witnesses, which was also informed by the       research conducted at Dundee, was published by the Office for Criminal       Justice Reform in 2006.
This guidance provided the basis for the operation       of witness protection arrangements by police and practitioners responsible       for identifying and supporting intimidated witnesses which have       contributed to police practice in this area throughout the 2008 - 2013       assessment period.
(Corroborating source 2).
At an international level, Fyfe's pioneering research on witness       protection has been extensively used by police and judicial organisations.
In 2004 Fyfe's work was used to inform a review of the Victoria Police       Witness protection Scheme in Australia carried out by an Assistant       Commissioner for the Office of Police Integrity.
This review led to       significant changes in the delivery of witness protection by Victoria       Police which have been operational throughout the assessment period       (Corroborating source 3).
In 2006 Fyfe's research was drawn on by the       International Criminal Court in the Hague by the Victims and Witnesses       Unit in the development of a new programme for resettled witnesses.
This       new programme was also operational throughout the assessment period.
In       2007 Fyfe was asked to appear as an expert witness before the Canadian       Government's Standing Committee on Public Safety and National Security for       their inquiry into the reform of witness protection arrangements in Canada       and to give evidence to the Canadian Commission of Inquiry into the       Investigation of the Bombing of Air India Flight 182.
Again, this led to       reforms in the operation of witness protection in Canada that have been       implemented during the assessment period (2008-13).
(Corroborating source       4).
As a result of his research on witness protection, Fyfe is regularly       asked to discuss his research findings in the media, including appearances       with CNN, BBC TV Breakfast News, ITN News, BBC TV Reporting Scotland, BBC       TV Newsnight Scotland, BBC Radio 4 File on Four, and BBC Radio Scotland       Speaking Out, as well as in national newspapers including The         Guardian, The Independent, The Daily Telegraph, The Scotsman and The         Herald.
In 2008 Fyfe was also asked to contribute on the topic of       witness intimidation to the Street Crime Commission led by Cherie Booth QC       and commissioned by Channel 4.
(Corroborating source 5).
