     Pathways to Impact:     Research by academics at the University of Dundee School of Business on       employability skill       acquisition within Finance and Accounting teaching has led to the       development of several outputs,       including: (1) FINESSE (an online software teaching resource); (2) SCAM (a       web based teaching       case study) and (3) practitioner/policy reports relating to the       incorporation of IES competencies and       capabilities within educational programmes.
All three outputs have acted       as vehicles to deliver       wider impact.
These impacts are now discussed in turn.
FINESSE &#8212; Influencing Financial Education Delivery Across the UK     FINESSE has been used by a number of UK universities, including       the University of Aberdeen,       University of Glasgow, Robert Gordon University, University of Essex and       Edinburgh Napier       University.
1593 individuals were registered on, and used, the system       between 2008 and 2013       [5.1].
In a recent letter a Professor who used Finesse while working at       [text removed for publication] between 1998 and 2012, which as an institution accounted for       a third of these       registrations, said:     "I became one of the earlier adopters of Finesse, and over time it         developed into a substantial         and integral part of the [text removed for publication] for both         undergraduate and postgraduate         students...
I believe Finesse gave students a really good insight into         the functioning of capital         markets, and by incorporating transactions costs as well as multiple         currencies in more recent         versions of the programme, it was an excellent tool for students to         learn about and critically         evaluate portfolio theory, the problems of trading too much, the merit         of diversification, and         aspects of the efficient markets theory... Student feedback on Finesse         was consistently         positive."
[5.2]     Having provided a significant part of the funding for the FINESSE       project, the Stewart Ivory       Foundation continued to champion the resultant software as part of an       initiative to publicise       financial education to finance practitioners, before the Foundation itself       was wound-up in 2011.
Since that time the Stewart Ivory organisation has continued to promote       financial awareness       among senior school pupils, independently of any government bodies.
FINESSE also continues to be in annual use at our own institution       where the benefits of real-world       experience are valued by both our current students and by graduates.
For       example, a former       student who is now a fund manager [text removed for publication] said in a       recent letter that       FINESSE offered "an introduction to fund management, aiding in the       decision that I took to seek a       role in financial services" based on fruitful interlinking of concepts and       simulation [5.3].
SCAM &#8212; Improving Professional Practice     ICAS funded the project to develop an audit teaching resource which would       enable university       students to put their technical knowledge of auditing into practice.
On       completion of the project       they published a monograph on the development of SCAM which       promoted use of the resultant       online case study, SCAM [5.4].
A review published in the         British Accounting Review recommended       the book and associated software to those teaching undergraduate auditing       [5.5], and it featured in       the professional and national press (CA Magazine, Accountancy Age, both       Apr.
2007; The Herald,       16 Apr.
2007, [5.6].
Since the publication of the monograph a number of       professional accountants       and auditors have expressed interest in this package and requested access       [5.6].
The package       was used in our institution for a number of years and students have found       this to be helpful in their       future careers: "The audit work that I have done to date has incorporated       various elements of the       SCAM project."
[5.7]     IAESB &#8212; Informing Professional Standards     The third strand of the research is on-going.
The scope of the four       projects, one of which was       undertaken by the team at Dundee University, commissioned by the IAAER and       funded by ACCA       in 2008, was to help the IAESB by "providing evidence on the acceptance,       implementation, and       impact of accounting education standards throughout the world" [5.8].
The       final report from the       project has been published on IAAER's website [5.8] and welcomed by the       IAESB as the research       was "intended to inform the standard setting agenda" [5.9]; the IAESB       press release on the       research (published in April 2011) indicated that recommendations from the       commissioned       research are being used to inform the current revisions of the       International Education Standards to       help the IAESB meet its goal of "establishing and promoting adherence to       high-quality professional       standards."
In the press release, the IAAER President: said "some academic       research is criticized       for its lack of immediate applicability, but these projects provide direct       and timely information that is       useful for the setting of international education standards [5.9].
Similarly, the IAESB Chair, noted:       "The results of the four projects have provided the IAESB with valuable       insight for our standard-       setting work and our current project, revision of the International       Education Standards."
[5.9]     The IES project reported back to IAAER, representatives of the IAESB and       ACCA throughout the       term of the grant and this allowed for a focused exchange of information       with the IES standard       setter [3.5].
The research team were also invited to present at the 11th       World Congress of       Accounting Educators and Researchers in November 2010 in Singapore to an       international       audience of academics, standard setters and policy makers.
