     Pathways to impact     After conducting the research and before the publication of the IASB's       deliberations on whether to       revise the standard, the team gave interim reports to the funders and       disseminated early findings to       several international conferences.
Media interest inspired an interview       with the professional press       (5.1).
Dr Crawford was invited to present preliminary conclusions to ICAS,       and the Financial       Reporting Council (FRC ) invited Dr Crawford to present to an open meeting       of financial statement       preparers and investors as part of its outreach programme examining the       impact of IFRS8 (5.2).
The research was highlighted as one of ICAS's main successes in 2012 in       their annual review (5.3)       and a public comment was made by an IASB staff member that this was the       most impressive       research on IFRS 8 that they had found (5.4).
Informing the practitioner debate and development of the IFRS8           standard     The IASB has just completed a post-implementation review of IFRS8 and       considered the findings       of the University of Dundee's team in order to inform the development of       the IFRS.
This is the first       time the IASB has undertaken a post-implementation review of a standard,       and the first time that       they have explicitly used the results of academic research to inform their       actions in relation to       reviewing and amending standards.
The post-implementation review sought       feedback on whether       the standard was functioning as intended, as well as more practical       information on the challenges       and costs associated with implementing the standard.
Research from the team at the University of Dundee:     - was cited in the staff papers of the IASB meeting held in June 2012,       showing that the IASB       considered our research and that this research informed the       post-implementation review of       the standard (5.7, 5.8);     - was forwarded to the IASB and the FRC by ICAS and by the European       Accounting       Association;     - informed the IASB's review of IFRS8 and was used to: (i) justify       existing international       reporting practice and (ii) frame areas for debate over future       improvements/amendments to       the reporting practice (5.9);     - provided the Financial Reporting Council with key findings that       informed its proposals to the       IASB about amending IFRS8 (5.6);     - underpinned the ICAS's response to the IASB's request for information       on how the       standard was being applied (5.5)     This review of IFRS8 by the IASB based, in part, upon the findings of       research from the team at the       University of Dundee will have consequences for preparers of the financial       statements of publicly       listed companies when determining what information has to be disclosed, as       well as the users who       read listed companies' annual reports (for example: analysts;       institutional investors; regulators;       private investors).
In particular, the findings of three published       articles/reports including a report by       staff at the University of Dundee (3.2) were discussed and summarised for       the IASB (5.8).
Indeed,       approximately 2 of the 28 pages in the summary document for IASB board       members were devoted       to our results.
In the light of this research, the Board were gratified       that the new standard had       resulted in an increase of segmental disclosures among the annual reports       of listed companies.
The IASB staff papers also suggested that the Board initially thought       about including "an additional       disclosure paragraph in IFRS8 requiring a brief description of both the       operating segments that       have been aggregated and the economic indicators that have been assessed       in order to ensure       that operating segments [include parts of a business with] `similar       economic characteristics'".
In       addition, the IASB has indicated that it would provide some clarity in       IFRS8 about the function of       the CODM and some advice about what is meant by entity-wide disclosures.
Some of these       possible changes were recommended in our research report (3.2), among       other publications of the       team, in their research findings.
Thus, the research by staff at the       University of Dundee appeared       to have had an impact in terms of the IASB's current review of IFRS8.
As a       result of this review of       IFRS8, regulation of segmental disclosures provided by listed companies in       a majority of countries       throughout the world was evaluated.
On 18th July 2013 the IASB announced the completion of the       post implementation review of IFRS8       and concluded that "the standard was generally functioning as anticipated"       [5.9].
The final review       document [5.9], shows that our research (3.2) was used, in conjunction       with feedback collected       from the IASB's public consultation and outreach programmes (5.2), to       inform this conclusion.
Specifically, the IASB justified keeping the standard unchanged based on       our post-implementation       review study (5.2).
For example, the IASB noted the positive impacts of       IFRS8 from the academic       evidence documented by Crawford et al., among others, by highlighting that       "when the number of       reported segments did change, the number generally increased"; the costs       of implementing were       low; and preparers, auditor and standard setters supported IFRS8.
Secondly, the IASB noted that       the documented negative impacts of IFRS8 would be investigated further in       the future as "areas for       potential improvement and amendment".
These include, for example: less       support for the standard       from investors; lack of understanding of reconciliations; lack of clarity       as to the concept CODM; and       inconsistency between the management commentary and the IFRS8 disclosures.
Such positive       and negative interpretations draw directly from our IFRS8 research.
