     The impact of McEleavy and Fiorini's work on the protection of children       in private international law may be considered under two headings:     (1) General contribution to promoting understanding and best practice in       the application of core regional and international instruments within the       legal community, at home and abroad; and     (2) Specific contributions to the implementation of legislative       initiatives in domestic law and the resolution of controversial legal       disputes.
General Impact     McEleavy and Fiorini are editors of the International Child Abduction         Database (www.incadat.com) for       the Hague Conference on Private International Law (the only       intergovernmental organisation exclusively focussed on finding solutions       to problems of private international law).
McEleavy and Fiorini prepare       summaries in English and French of key judicial decisions dealing with       cases of international child abduction, as well as detailed legal analysis       commentaries.
INCADAT has helped promote the uniform interpretation of the       Convention amongst the 90 States Parties and has been relied upon by       courts, legal practitioners and scholars across the world.
See:       Corroborating Evidence 5A &amp; 5C.3.
As experts for the TAIEX office of the Directorate-General         Enlargement of the European Commission, McEleavy (since 1999) &amp;       Fiorini (since 2004) have instructed judges from EU candidate countries,       new Member States and neighbouring countries (Albania, Bosnia, Malta,       Poland, Romania, Turkey, Ukraine &#8212; McEleavy; and Albania, Bulgaria,       Croatia, FYROM, Malta, Montenegro, Serbia, Turkey, Ukraine &#8212; Fiorini) on       the role and application of international and regional instruments on the       protection of children.
Both have provided training to judges and       prosecutors on aspects of international child abduction at the behest of       the Russian Federation Central Authority (2011/12) for the       operation of the 1980 Convention (the Ministry of Education and Science),       while Fiorini has given advice to the latter on the Russian implementing       legislation (presently a draft bill).
In 2011 McEleavy's expertise in       child abduction law led to him being invited to join the HELP working       group of the Council of Europe whereby a pilot on-line distance       learning course on human rights law in family matters was created for       European judges.
McEleavy has provided other ad hoc forms of training,       including to: the Senators of the College of Justice, Scotland's most       senior judges, for the Judicial Studies Committee (Edinburgh 2012);       Commonwealth family law judges (Windsor 2010); specialist family law       barristers and solicitors on behalf of his own Chambers, 1 Garden Court       (London, 2006, 2010, 2011) and to the European Law Academy &#8212; ERA (Trier,       2011).
Through these activities McEleavy and Fiorini have not merely       disseminated their research to a diverse specialist audience, but have       assisted in promoting understanding and best practice in the application       of key international and regional instruments which seek to further the       protection of children in private international law.
See: Corroborating       Evidence 5A &amp; 5C.4.
Specific Impacts     In 2009 McEleavy was instructed by the Ministry of Justice to advise on       the implementation of the 1996 Hague Convention on the Protection of       Children into the domestic law of England and Wales.
The advice McEleavy       provided had a direct and crucial impact on the drafting of the associated       statutory instrument, the Parental Responsibility and Measures for the       Protection of Children (International Obligations) (England and Wales and       Northern Ireland) Regulations 2010 (SI 2010/1898).
For example, he       discovered that the failure of the EU to adapt the parallel EU rules in       Council Regulation 2201/2003 for co-existence with the 1996 Hague       Convention, would have led to a partial application of the choice of law       rules in the latter instrument.
This led the Parliamentary draftsman to       extend the scope of application of the choice of law rules in the 2010       Regulations, r. 7.
See:Corroborating Evidence 5C.1.
In 2012 McEleavy was further commissioned by the Ministry of Justice to       draft a Practice Guide for judges and practitioners on the 1996 Hague       Convention.
See: Corroborating Evidence 5C.1.
In late 2012 Fiorini's work on the development of EU family law (ICLQ       2008, 2010) led to her being commissioned by the European Parliament to       draft a briefing paper on how future EU rules on family law, including as       regards children, should be developed.
She twice addressed EP Committees       on this topic in 2013.
Her advice to the government of Montenegro in 2013       assisted in the formulation of Chapters 23 and 24 of the Montenegrin       Action Plan in the context of accession negotiations with the European       Union.
See: Corroborating Evidence 5C.5.
McEleavy's expertise in the protection of children in private       international law, led to him giving evidence to the Irish High Court as       to whether Council Regulation 2201/2003 could apply to cross-border cases       involving the detention of children for the purpose of their receiving       specialist therapeutic treatment.
He subsequently advised the Irish Health       Service Executive in advance of an urgent preliminary ruling application       before the Court of Justice of the European Union (CJEU), and was a member       of the HSE legal team at the oral hearing.
McEleavy's assessment, given in       written and oral evidence to the High Court (January 2012), that Council       Regulation 2201/2003 could apply in cases involving deprivation of       liberty, was ultimately followed by the CJEU (April 2012).
See:       Corroborating Evidence 5C.2.
