     Between commission of the research in 2008 and its publication in 2010,       Raitt gave interim reports       to RCS and disseminated early conclusions in several conference papers on       ILR.
RCS issued       press releases about the research, sparking media interest, including a       radio programme in which       Raitt participated: Rape Investigation, BBC Scotland, presenter       Eamon O'Neill (2009).
Reports       were carried by The Times, Sunday Times, The Scotsman (a       commissioned Opinion see note 3,       below), Scotland on Sunday, The Herald (see note 5, below)       and BBC Scotland.
The research also       attracted some interest from MSPs (e.g.
email exchange with Alison       McInnes) in 2011 after Raitt       gave evidence to the Justice Committee on reform to evidence law and       safeguards for complainers       (13 December 2011) (see note 9, below).
In 2009 the Criminal Justice and       Licensing (Scotland) Bill       introduced a new expansive regime to govern the obligatory disclosure of       evidence by the Crown       Office and Procurator Fiscal Service (COPFS) to defence lawyers, which       struck at the heart of       complainers' privacy interests.
Raitt's work was used by RCS to argue that       the proposed legislation       would be particularly damaging for rape complainers whose personal data,       including medical       records, once disclosed to the defence could become a source of character       evidence for their       cross-examination, without complainers having any opportunity to oppose       disclosure.
These were       the type of circumstances envisaged in Raitt's research as likely to lead       to injustice, the remedy for       which was to entitle complainers to their own legal counsel, ILR, to       oppose or limit access to       records.
The research also articulated the complex competing interests       which it was argued acted       to prevent the prosecutor from safeguarding the rights of complainers.
The       research was used by       RCS to argue that complainers' privacy rights under article 8 of the ECHR       could be seriously       undermined without access to ILR.
During the passage of the Bill, Raitt       produced a Briefing Paper       for RCS, (http://www.rapecrisisscotland.org.uk/publications/resources/:       see note 6, below) based       on the research report, detailing the Bill's negative effects upon rape       complainers.
This Paper was       downloadable from the RCS website and led to Raitt being invited by the       team steering the       legislation through Parliament to meet with them and RCS to discuss her       critique of the proposed       regime (Summer, 2009).
Since the Bill became legislation in 2010, the       issue of disclosure and       privacy rights has continued to attract considerable criticism from some       practitioners and NGOs.
The COPFS responded to concerns over disclosure by publishing a leaflet       intended to allay       complainers' fears (COPFS Policy on Sensitive and Personal Records &#8212;       Information leaflet, May       2011: see note 8, below).
In 2011 the Equality and Human Rights Commission       responded to       disquiet over the effect on privacy rights by sponsoring an international       conference devoted to ILR       for prosecutors, academics and practitioners: Without Fear or Favour:         A Voice for Rape Survivors         in the Criminal Justice System.
Raitt gave a keynote presentation.
Other speakers were: Derek       Ogg QC, Head, National Sex Crimes Unit Scotland; Kate Mulkerrins, Head of       Policy DPP Ireland;       and Prof Lise Gotell, Canada (see note 4, below).
Since 2008 Raitt has       given another 3 keynote       conference papers on ILR and 7 papers at workshops or research seminars       involving prosecutors,       legal and non-legal practitioners, policy-makers and academics.
Raitt's work has led to invitations to participate at policy-making       events organised by the Scottish       Government, including a consultation seminar (October, 2011) on EU       Directive 2011/0129 (COD)       which recommended numerous rights for victims of crime including access to       legal assistance (see       note 7, below).
ILR also featured in the international research programme,       Re-thinking Responses         to Rape, funded by the Scottish Universities Insight Institute       (SUII).
Raitt was a co-applicant for the       SUII programme which had a multi-sector and multi-disciplinary focus, with       contributions from UK       and international participants, including representatives from Canada,       Ireland and Austria which       permit ILR.
Following this programme, in late 2012 RCS established a small       working group       including Raitt and two experienced solicitor-advocates to design a pilot       ILR model suitable for       introduction in Scotland.
The working group finalised its recommendations       in July 2013 and, at the       invitation of Scottish Government, the National Co-ordinator of RCS       submitted the model to       Government for their consideration (see note 10, below).
This development       is particularly       significant as the consultation paper, Making Justice Work for Victims         and Witnesses (Scottish       Government, 2012) attracted responses in support of ILR.
The Victims and       Witnesses Bill       introduced to Parliament in February 2013 provided an opportunity to       legislate on ILR.
In their       Stage 1 Report on the Bill, the Justice Committee of the Scottish       Parliament stated: "...we do       consider this issue [ILR] to be worthy of further consideration and we       therefore ask the Scottish       Government to examine this proposal further with the two organisations       [Faculty of Advocates and       RCS] and others and to report back to the Committee in due course."
http://www.scottish.parliament.uk/S4_JusticeCommittee/Reports/juR-13-07w.pdf:       at para 148 (see       note 9, below).
A subsequent meeting to discuss ILR involving Raitt, RCS,       Scottish Government       and the Crown Office took place on 15 October 2013.
Further meetings are       planned.
Raitt's work for RCS has irrevocably changed the terms of the debate.
There is increasing       recognition within the legal profession and by politicians that the COPFS       position is untenable.
(Justice Scotland Seminar (Glasgow, 2012); Sir Gerald Gordon Seminar       (Edinburgh, 2012) Faculty       of Advocates, evidence to Justice Committee (2013)).
It is notable that at       several public events the       COPFS has felt it necessary to defend its position on ILR and justify the       organisation's view that       prosecutors are capable of supporting complainers (e.g.
presentation by       Ogg QC, and panel       discussion in Without Fear or Favour: A Voice for Rape Survivors in the       Criminal Justice System,       Conference Proceedings; Sir Gerald Gordon Seminar; Scottish Women's Aid,       Carloway Round       Table Seminar, Edinburgh, 2012).
This represents a significant shift in       position: suggestions of ILR       were previously dismissed as fanciful, irrelevant and incompatible with       adversarial proceedings       and a fair trial.
