     The work outlined in this submission has made a contribution to better       understanding of an aspect of police work that has previously been given       little academic attention: police custody in Scotland.
Dissemination to       date has raised the profile of police custody as an arena in which the       opportunity to change lives for the better is possible rather than its       more traditional portrayal as a negative setting that exemplifies failure       in society.
The principal beneficiaries of the impact are detained       persons, as the research identifies how police and healthcare practice       directly affects them whilst highlighting how better risk and stress       management practice for police and healthcare professionals is beneficial       for all parties.
The research provides, for the first time, a       comprehensive insight into the nature of the Scottish custody environment,       its risks and opportunities.
Above all the impact lies in providing       benchmark studies for practice at both national and local level, with       dissemination providing a catalyst for reflection on what constitutes good       practice in this socially important field.
The research described above on nurse-led healthcare in police custody       provided a key, independent knowledge base resource for ACPOS as it       oversaw the amalgamation of eight Scottish police forces into a single       Scottish police service in April 2013.
A senior figure at the new body,       Police Scotland, has expressed the view that the findings of the report       have already served to convince Cabinet Ministers, Scottish government and       police forces of the merits of the pilot approach followed in Tayside       [corroborating evidence 5.2].
The research provides the Scottish Government with knowledge to inform       the means of delivering its stated strategic objectives.
Two of the five       defined objectives are highly relevant to the issue of medical services       provided to people in police custody and highlight the contribution of       this research:     (1) Healthier     Help people to sustain and improve their health, especially in       disadvantaged communities, ensuring better, local and faster access to       health care.
(2) Safer and Stronger     Help local communities to flourish, becoming stronger, safer place to       live, offering improved opportunities and a better quality of life to       sustain and improve their health, especially in disadvantaged communities,       ensuring better, local and faster access to health care.
A high proportion of those who are taken in to police custody are from       social groups with significant health care issues but who also exhibit a       low propensity to access NHS resources via general practitioners in the       first instance.
Academic research on police custody environments is rare       at UK level and almost entirely absent in Scotland hence the studies       described in this document make a key contribution to knowledge about       custody issues.
At a time of severe resource pressures the opportunities for cost savings       that may &#8212; or may not &#8212; arise have been examined by the research and it       will help decision-makers to identify and quantify them against other       potential benefit criteria, such as enhanced human rights, personal       well-being or reduced rates of recidivism.
Impact on the rights of detained persons and the reputational standing of       Scottish police personnel and institutions is being affected through       informing the decision-making process.
Dissemination of findings to an       international policing audience began in November 2012 when Dr Elvins       presented a paper to the annual Nordic Police Research Seminar event in       Tampere, Finland (7-9 November 2012).
The Health and Social Care       Directorate of the Scottish Government has the research report as a       primary resource to inform policy decisions going forward.
Dissemination       of research findings (2013) via the Journal of Forensic Nursing (the       official journal of the International Association of Forensic Nurses)       extends impact to influencing and changing perspectives or practices of a       broader, international audience (both academic and professional).
In the case of independent custody visiting (ICV) the research has       directly contributed to a recent policy change that became law in August       2012 &#8212; namely making ICV a statutory requirement [corroborating evidence       5.1].
During the passage of the Draft Bill through the Scottish Parliament       the Justice Committee was provided with a written submission from the       Director of SIPR Professor Nick Fyfe, in which he outlined how the       decision to include ICV in the requirements of the legislation was       supported by the research conducted by SIPR (Hunter, Fyfe and Elvins,       2010).
The written submission from the Scottish Institute for Policing       Research to the Scottish Parliament Justice Committee inquiry on the       Police and Fire Reform (Scotland) Bill evidences this [corroborating       evidence 5.3].
