     Dunphy was invited by the National Council of Democratic Left Scotland to       disseminate the results       of his and March's research on EL at two workshops in January 2011 and       March 2012.
Drawing on       research undertaken over the period 2010-2012, the two sessions involved       significant participation       by the political leadership of DLS, and focused on negotiating the       complexities of European       political alignments, the advantages of pan-European collaborations, and       the processes by which       new relationships could advance relevant political agendas.
The first, in January 2011, provoked such interest that Dunphy was       invited to organize a second in       May 2012 organised around debate on the article, `Seven Year Itch?
The       European Left Party:       Struggling to transform the European Union'.
Dunphy's brief was to explain       the nature of EL; to       outline the different forms and levels of membership and participation       available to parties and non-party organisations; and to clarify the       vision of the EU to which EL is committed.
DLS is not a political party, but a campaigning political network.
Its       membership is open to       members of various political parties and none and it currently includes in       its ranks members of the       SNP, the Labour Party and the Greens.
At times of European Parliament       elections, its members       can be found campaigning for rival political parties.
For this reason,       full membership of a TNP is       not appropriate for DLS.
Notwithstanding this, DLS was clearly interested       in pursuing contacts in       Europe so as to be better equipped to challenge Euroscepticism at home and       to overcome a sense       of national isolation.
Hence the invitation to Dunphy to disseminate the       research.
EL was the first TNP to introduce the concept of individual membership,       allowing EU citizens to by-pass nationally-based parties and to       participate directly in EL activities.
Until this innovation, all       TNPs had been federations of national parties, in essence.
The concept of       direct individual       membership was seen as an important way of encouraging the emergence of a       European political       consciousness and ultimately a European civil society.
Dunphy explained       that individual       membership has advanced considerably in some countries (for example,       Italy); but stagnated in       others (for example, France).
The UK lies somewhere between these       extremes.
Deep divisions       within EL have frustrated attempts to find a clear role for individual       members.
Key to the DLS National Council's decision-making regarding transnational       political party       participation was consideration of membership distinctions and association       status.
Dunphy       explained the distinction between full and observer membership, and the       concept of external       association.
Full membership is extended to parties that sign up to the EL       manifesto and statutes       and agree to fight European elections on the basis of a common and agreed       platform.
Observer       membership is available to parties and non-party networks that are in       basic sympathy or       agreement with the project but do not commit themselves to a common       electoral platform.
In       addition, EL has developed networks and `friendship circles' on common       themes that allow       `external association' on specific campaigns.
For example, EL-Fem       (feminist issues), and EL-Trade Unions.
Dunphy's work was used to clarify how political organisations in Denmark       and elsewhere had       managed and negotiated such processes and issues.
For example, he       explained how the Danish       Socialist People's Party, which sits with the Greens in the European       Parliament and is a member       of the Green TNP, nevertheless allows its trade unionist wing to       participate through external       association in EL-Trade Unions.
Dunphy explained that full membership was       inappropriate for a       network like DLS; observer membership and external association were both       possibilities with       different levels of involvement; alternatively, DLS could urge its members       to apply for individual       membership of EL, but the research showed that this was ill-defined and       the subject of internal       battles within the TNP.
If individual membership was considered as a       pathway, then the Greens       might offer a more congenial TNP than EL.
Dunphy also presented a full and detailed critique of EL's policies on       European integration, its       manifesto for the 2009 European elections, its attempts to use the       European Citizen's Initiative       (introduced by the Lisbon Treaty) to campaign for change and       transformation of the EU from       within, and its activities and alignment within in the European       Parliament.
As the corroborating letters [corroborating evidence 5.1 and 5.2]       indicate, the dissemination of the       research had a clear and direct impact on policy-making.
As a direct       result of the workshop, the       DLS National Council took a decision to recommend to the September 2012       AGM that DLS       become an observer member of the European Left Party.
A representative       attended a meeting of       EL's Council in Berlin in January 2013 where the application for       membership was approved.
Dunphy and March can thus state that the dissemination of their research       findings had a direct       bearing on a policy decision which has seen the transnational party, the       EL, receive its first ever       UK member-organisation.
