     Learning outcomes from the project were evaluated in a variety of ways,       including standardised       reading attainment tests, criterion-referenced tests of mathematical       problem solving, and       nationally-recognised PIPS assessments (Performance Indicators in Primary       Schools, University of       Durham Centre for Evaluation and Monitoring).
In addition, self-esteem was       measured using       standardised instruments and implementation quality was investigated       through direct observation.
This comprehensive evaluation process provided clear evidence of the       impact of the intervention at       different levels.
Impact at the classroom level: cognitive and non-cognitive gains for         primary school pupils         and improved knowledge and expertise for teachers [see Section 5       below, sources 1,4,7]     During the project, 129 schools, 324 class teachers and 8847 pupils       participated.
Children       benefited from significant learning gains in reading (see paper [vi] in       section 3 above), in       mathematics (paper [iv] above) and in self-esteem (paper [iii] above).
Teachers were up-skilled in       terms of increased knowledge and confidence in the techniques.
In relation       to continuity, since the       project ended, the local authority policy guidelines require that schools       continue to employ peer       tutoring techniques, in light of the research results.
Results were       disseminated to schools,       principally in the form of a newsletter giving the basic details, although       the full papers are available       on request.
Additional workshops and meetings have been held since the end       of the project, with       teachers and head-teachers of primary and secondary schools, to reinforce       the main findings and       encourage wider development of the study ideas.
These have been informed       by lessons learned       about implementation (see paper [vi]).
An example of wider impact on       practitioners is the fact that       Topping was invited by Times Educational Supplement online `Resources Pro'       to be involved in a       section on peer tutoring.
His own section has received over 6000 visits,       with &#8212; significantly &#8212; almost       1500 downloads of practical resources to date.
(TES issues weekly hit       statistics which       could be made available.)
Impact in terms of changes to educational policy and practice       [Section 5 below, sources       2,3,6,7]     The fact that this was an authority-wide trial allowed judgements to be       made about the viability of       rolling out such a programme across a whole district.
Previous evidence       had pointed to problems       with large-scale top-down reforms designed to improve pupil attainment,       with expensive policy       initiatives often having little impact (e.g., Tymms &amp; Merrell, 2007).
However, in this case, there was       evidence of impact at the whole-district level (see paper [v] in section       3).
As a consequence of the       findings, the peer tutoring techniques were built into the Fife       Development Plan and all schools       within Fife have continued to implement tutoring.
This is monitored by the       local authority, with all       schools required to explain how they are continuing to address these       issues.
Since the project, it is       estimated that at least 130 schools, 250 teachers and 6750 pupils       participate in each successive       year, paying attention to the results and recommendations of the project.
Following this work,       Topping was engaged as a private consultant by the Scottish Government on       a related research       project in literacy (details on request) which will lead to changes in       policy as well as practice in all       local authorities in Scotland.
Wider impact upon professional debate and public opinion [Section       5 below, sources 5, 9,10]     The work has attracted significant professional and public attention.
For       example, the National       College for School Leadership in England published a paper summarising the       research and       arranged a `hotseat' webinar between key members of the research team and       99 head teachers       interested in developing similar projects.
This was followed up by an       online discussion with further       interested parties.
There were 823 page views for the hotseat discussion       and the recording on the       website has been downloaded 245 times.
Greater professional and public       understanding of peer       tutoring techniques and their effectiveness has been demonstrated through       feedback at       dissemination and follow-up activities.
The Fife project has been reported       to the whole of Scotland       at a practitioner-oriented Learning and Teaching Scotland conference       (Glasgow, 15-17 April,       2009).
The media have reported the project extensively, focusing on       results and recommendations       and emphasising cost-effectiveness of the method.
In addition to coverage       on at least two       occasions by the Times Educational Supplement, in 2008 and 2011, there has       also been coverage       across the UK and internationally by the Daily Telegraph, the Guardian,       the Sunday Express, the       Daily Herald, the Scotsman, the Sud-Deutsche Zeitung, Radio 5 live and       Scottish Independent       Television.
Many of these reports are available if requested.
