     The `Archive of Reading' is an online resource located at the Scottish       Poetry Library.
It was       developed through the AHRC follow-on grant dedicated to impact generation,       which also funded       workshops with local council libraries in Scotland.
These impact       activities were based on research       items 1 and 2 above.
[Refs 3.1 and 3.2] These report on       experiments combining psychological       testing methods (eye-tracking and interviews) with theoretical       investigation to study the cognitive,       emotive and aesthetic effects of visual-poetic works.
Integrating the       empirical methods of human       experimental psychology with the critical and evaluative methods of the       humanities, the research       showed how cognitive processes associated with text-reading and       image-viewing interacted in       productive or inhibiting ways.
Before dissemination in the form of the       published articles, the results       were shared with the volunteer participants (19 in Dundee; 14 in Kent),       contributing to their       personal development.
[Ref.
5.1] The `Archive of Reading', located       in the SPL, enables visitors to       watch on screen visual representations of the reading process, accompanied       by analysis of       research results.
Workshops were held at the SPL (24.5.11), at DG Arts in       Dumfries (3.6.11) and in       Kilmarnock as part of the Ayrshire Council Imprint Festival (10.11.11)       with creative writers, artists,       teachers and members of the general public, drawing on the research and       its visual presentation in       the Archive itself.
Written feedback includes: `it's inspired me to take       this idea into the classroom'       (primary-school teacher); `I might do the task [a cut-up exercise based on       one of the project       experiments] with my own students' (high-school teacher); 'I will use       these techniques to write       concrete poems' and `I'm going to pursue this creatively through my work'       (artist).
[Ref.
5.9]     The Readers' Project is an innovative on-going digital poetic       art-work by the digital language artist       John Cayley [Ref.
5.2].
It was informed by the research leading to       publication Reference 3.3.
This       research involved an investigation into convergences between the       procedures of experimental       psychology and the innovations of digital poets and artists, carried out       by a psychologist (Fischer),       literary scholars (Roberts, Schaffner and Otty) and digital artists and       poets (John Cayley and       Simon Biggs).
The opening advisers' workshop of the project (May 2009) led       to Cayley responding       to results of pilot eye-tracking experiments.
Cayley describes this work       as `strongly and       productively influenced by Poetry Beyond Text' (supporting       letter), adding that as a result `The         Readers Project ... has now gained significant attention from the       appropriate research community'.
Building on this co-production of research with creative practitioners, a       small grant from the       University of Dundee Humanities Research Fund was used to initiate a       collaboration between       digital media artist Simon Biggs and Computer Programmer Mark Shovman to       create Tower, an       immersive 3D textual environment combining visualisation, speech       recognition and predictive text       algorithms, using the HIVE (Human Interactive Virtual Environment) housed       in the University of       Abertay, Dundee, and unveiled at the project's concluding conference.
[Ref.
5.3]     Impact in the form of creative interventions in the careers and creative       practice of poets and visual       artists was another aspect of the project.
The practice-based research       recorded in References 5.2,       5.3 and 5.5 involved the commissioning of collaborative art works by 44       poets and artists (in       diverse media).
This process advanced creativity by pairing together       poets, artists, sculptors and       printmakers, with an invitation to engage specifically with the aesthetic,       technical and artistic issues       arising from the interaction of visual and poetic forms.
The experience of       collaboration has had       substantial continuing effects on individual creative careers, and on the       specific media and       disciplines concerned.
Those involved include well-established and       distinguished poets (such as       John Burnside, Robin Robertson, Jim Carruth, Thomas A. Clark and Deryn       Rees-Jones) and       artists (such as Will Mclean, David Bellingham), as well as younger and       emerging artists and       poets, and some art students, whose careers and profiles have been       enhanced through the       opportunity to exhibit and to engage in a collective process of creative       research.
The range was       international, including John Cayley, based at Brown University, and Jim       Andrews, a Canadian       media artist.
Discussions of the process of collaborative creation have       included public events:       Helen Douglas with Valerie Gillies (at the opening of the Dundee       exhibition); Deryn Rees-Jones       with Marion Smith; Jim Carruth with Murray Robertson and Michael Waight       (at the Scottish Poetry       Library).
[Ref.
5.4] These events have shown how collaboration has       prompted new insight into       formal and thematic aspects of creative practice (Rees-Jones comments that       the work `extended       my existing poetic compositions into mixed media form').
[Ref.
5.7]       The benefits for the       commissioned artist and writers also included new contacts and additional       opportunities to engage       the public.
The exhibitions attracted good numbers for the venues: 412 at       the Visual Research       Centre in Dundee; c. 500 at the Scottish Poetry Library (14 May - 15 July       2011); 1,389 at the       Moray Arts Centre (9 Aug - 30 Sep 2011), c. 3000 at the Royal Scottish       Academy (12 Nov - 18       Dec 2011).
The role of these exhibitions in enhancing cultural life is       shown in visitor feedback.
[Ref.
5.9] The research contributed substantially to the       connections, profile, subject interest areas       and events programmes of the Scottish Poetry Library, as indicated in       supporting letters.
[Refs         5.6, 5.7 and 5.8]
