     Gunn's creative research has been disseminated to a wide non-academic       audience through books, newspapers, radio, and magazines, leading to an       enhanced public awareness of and engagement with her creative research.
Gunn is passionately committed to communicating her work to a wide and       general audience as well as to the principle that one of the main       functions of literature is to engage with the reading public to stimulate       and nurture the creativity of individuals.
This engagement and impact is       evidenced through her writing, her many interviews in national papers, and       her leadership of the Dundee Literary Festival (DLF).
Her research has       thus achieved significant cultural, economic, and social benefits       nationally and internationally.
[Refs 5.1 and 5.2]     The reach is evidenced by her sales figures of c. 3-10,000 copies       of her novels sold internationally, demonstrating one aspect of the impact       of her work on commercial publishers.
The Big Music sold out its       first print run of 2,000 in premium first edition format, and has to date       (October 2013) sold 2700 hardback, 4700 paperback and 55 ebooks.
[Ref.
5.3] Gunn was interviewed about her work in the national press       including The Scotsman (2012) and the Scottish Review of Books       (2013).
[Refs 5.8 and 5.9] She has organised a number of Writing       Workshops and presentations at literary festivals (from 2006 to 2013,       ongoing), delivered a series of presentations on writing around the UK and       abroad during 2005-2009, and participated in numerous events involving       words and music, art and drama, such as `For A' That' at the Dundee Rep       Theatre (2009), and `LiveWire' at the Dundee Contemporary Arts Centre       (DCA) (2009).
She has broadcast talks and interviews with national radio,       discussing her creative research.
She has also been a guest on the Radio 4       programmes Woman's Hour and Front Row.
She appeared on The         Culture Show (BBC2) in 2012.
These events have attracted a large       general audience which has been benefitted by her writing and her thoughts       about the processes of writing to engage with new cultural understandings       and awareness, and in many cases, individuals have been empowered to       develop their own writing profiles.
Gunn has undertaken readings of her       work in London, Paris, Cologne, and New Zealand.
The significance of Gunn's impact is thus witnessed by the public       recognition of her writing as described above and evidenced by the key       indicators of Impact for the Humanities (see below).
Gunn's research       provides significant economic benefit for her commercial literary       publishers as well as cultural benefit for the readers of her       work.
She organised and presented a series of Literary Salons at the       Dundee Contemporary Arts Centre (DCA) from 2007 to 2013 (ongoing), which       have attracted significant and continued attendance from the local       community.
Entrance is free to the Salons and feedback questionnaires       indicate that once someone has attended a salon they are c. 90% likely to       return.
Gunn has played a key role in creating the new Dundee Literary       Festival (DLF) (from June 2007 to 2013, continuing) which brings together       some of the most significant names in the world of literature, journalism,       philosophy and politics and which provides economic and public benefit       to the community through the enhancement of Dundee as a place for visitors       to participate in enhanced forms of cultural tourism.
The Festival is       sponsored by the international Apex Hotel chain and is supported by local       partners Dundee City Council, Waterstones bookshop, Dundee Contemporary       Arts, The Courier, The List, and Hospitalfield House,       Arbroath.
It consists of workshops, talks, film, theatre, book signings,       music and parties and has been and is a key forum to bring Gunn's research       to a local and national audience.
Gunn has led the DLF, chairing many of       its events and has also read and discussed her research, most recently The         Big Music (2012), at the Festival.
The Festival, attracting an       audience of around 3,000 people, now hosts the award of the       long-established and prestigious Dundee International Book Prize,       introducing its audience to a new and vibrant cultural experience in       Dundee.
Feedback from the events has been overwhelmingly positive       indicating its clear cultural impact.
[Ref.
5.10]     Arising from the intersection of feminist autobiography and generic       experiment in 44 Things, Gunn is an International Editorial       Adviser for MaMSIE (Mapping Maternal Subjectivities, Identities and       Ethics), an international institute of Maternal Studies founded at       Birkbeck University, which has influence on policy-making and cultural and       political research and activity (www.mamsie.org).
She was invited to the position after taking part in the initial       conference in 1997 where she addressed maternity in literature and       `writing as making' as a feminist practice &#8212; using 44 Things as a       `workbook'.
Gunn has participated in on-the-ground `beneficial' practical       activities that `speak' to a wide-ranging audience and generate an       approach to literature and aesthetics that is demystifying, inspiring, and       enabling.
Indicators of Impact: Gunn is a current Judge of the high-profile       Scottish Book of the Year, the World Book Night award and also Chair of       the Dundee International Book Prize.
She has received major national and       international prizes for her own fiction, including the Scottish Book of       the Year, New York Times Notable Book of the Year, and the Sundial       Scottish Arts Council Fiction Book of the Year; all key indicators       of the substantial cultural impact of her creative research and of       its significance in enhancing the public understanding of literature and       the arts generally.
Her novel Rain has had a broad impact within       the creative industries.
It was adapted into a film version by the       award-winning New Zealand director, Christine Jeffs (2003), itself winning       several film awards, including the Special Jury Award of the Asian-Pacific       Film Festival and shown globally, thus bringing a version of her creative       vision to a new and international audience.
Rain was also adapted       as a ballet by the leading Swedish choreographer, Pontus Lidberg.
Gunn has       undertaken numerous invited lectures and readings, including, `Katherine       Mansfield and the Art of Performance', Oxford University (2010); `Fiction       as Art', National Museum of New Zealand, Wellington (2009); `In       Conversation with Jayne Anne Phillips', London Review of Books       Bookshop event, London (2009).
She has given readings at Cologne Literary       Festival (2009), Paris (2010) and London (2010).
The Big Music has       received positive review coverage in all major broadsheets, as well as       radio, festival appearances, interdisciplinary and university events, and       had led to invitation to Melbourne Writers Festival, where Gunn is doing a       solo Big Music event and a Guardian lecture as well as taking part       in a panel on Scottish Literature; also a New Zealand tour and publicity       campaign.
The Big Music is Observer/Guardian Book of the year 2013       and was Fiction and Overall Winner of the New Zealand Post Book       Awards 2013 [Ref.
5.11].
It is appearing on a number of University       reading lists (including University of Glasgow) for the 2013-14 academic       year.
Gunn is on the Board for Creative Scotland Bursary recommendations       and Literature Funding, where her input directly affects policy.
