     Beginning with a focus on particular Scottish cities and towns, the       research has come to have a major impact in enhancing public understanding       of the architectural history of their towns and how this impacts on wider       historical understanding; and changing public discourse about Scotland's       architectural heritage and the implications of this for heritage and       preservation issues today (Section 5.1 and 6).
a. Dundee impact     One initial objective behind the History of Dundee project was `to give       Dundonians their history back', and the research was disseminated through       evening classes, media interviews, lectures to groups (average 15 lectures       annually between 2000 and 2010), and guided walks exploring the city       (average 15-20 annually over the same period) for residents, students,       local societies, visiting academics and others, which for the first time       revealed the survival of parts of the pre-modern burgh.
This process of       engagement/enhancement of understanding is ongoing through the production       of freely available leaflet guides to Dundee's built heritage and the work       of the Dundee Civic Trust and the Dundee Historical Environment Trust, in       both of which McKean was heavily involved (Section 5.7).
The       re-interpretation of the city's past by the History of Dundee project team       has led to the re-presentation of the city's heritage by the City Council       and has contributed indirectly to the current bid for UK City of Culture       (2017), currently under development.
The newspaper group D C Thomson Ltd       purchased copies of Dundee: Renaissance to Enlightenment to gift       to each secondary school in the city.
Its heavy focus on original hitherto       unknown illustrations increased the demand for public lectures.
McKean was       invited to join the medieval Guildry of Dundee in 2009, and became an       Assessor to the Lord Dean of Guild in 2010 (Section 5: 8).
Through this       connection, the Guildry has developed a new policy of engagement with the       city's fabric, beginning with a substantial annual award/prize for the       School of Architecture for work in pursuance of the Guildry agenda.
Public       interest in McKean's identification of buildings apparently lost to       history was such that the first edition of Lost Dundee sold out       and has now been reprinted (Birlinn, 2013).
b. Scotland impact     Urban research into how Glasgow and Edinburgh changed after the       Enlightenment was enhanced by the AHRC grant referred to above.
Scottish       towns had a fundamentally European form until the later eighteenth century       when Scotland became more obviously `north Britain'.
Thus Edinburgh may be       viewed less as `old' and `new' so much as `European' and `British'.
New       conceptualisations of this kind have a profound implication for       understanding the historical development of Scotland.
Work on Edinburgh       and Dundee led, inter alia, to the re-assessment of the       architectural history of Perth along with other little-explored aspects of       the burgh, which culminated in a conference attended by some 500 delegates       and a book (D. Strachan,ed.
Perth: A Place in History, 2011) to       which McKean (and Whatley) contributed substantial chapters and which       became part of Perth's successful bid for city status in 2012.
McKean's       pioneering work in urban history research has led to his appointment to       Historic Scotland Burgh Survey teams dedicated to research the histories       and urban forms of Tain, Whithorn, Wigtown, Galashiels and Fraserburgh       (four books to date, which are used by planners, architects and others as       new developments are instigated, applied for and considered.
In 2006,       MacKean's research reputation and the knowledge he has amassed on       pre-modern Edinburgh led to his appointment as chairman of Edinburgh World       Heritage Trust, a body which is directly involved in influencing national       and local government in the management of this particular world heritage       site; and also contributes to the interpretation of its Outstanding       Universal Values (OUVs) (Section 5: 1, 2, 3 and 5).
This post involved       McKean in regular policy-considering meetings with ministers and senior       officials at national and Edinburgh level, and active participation in the       City Centre Partnership-in particular, selecting the best option for the       renovation of the city's Calton Hill site.
Professor McKean also created a       series of podcasts for the Trust (Section 5: 10).
c. Architectural Impact     The Scottish Chateau opened up new ways of studying our       architecture in a manner that moves from stylistic categorisation to       examining the fabric against the broader historical context.
This is       important within a European context where mock-martial country houses are       common without the necessary predicate (as in Scotland, pre-McKean) of       castles and constant warfare.
This research knowledge led to McKean's appointment as a         founder Councillor of the Scottish Government's Historic Environment       Advisory Council and to chairing its committee on Properties in Care; and       then to the Scottish Committee of the Heritage Lottery Fund (Section 5:2).
HEACS was the heritage `think tank' for the Scottish Government, and most       HEACS reports were partially or wholly accepted by the Government.
McKean       has also been an expert witness at several public enquiries concerning the       interpretation of buildings, their historic value and the appropriateness       of proposed development.
He has made numerous appearances on TV and       organized an annual tour of private historic houses in Angus to study       their building evolution against received wisdom (Section 5:9).
Most       recently, his pathbreaking work on Scottish `castles' (or chateaux)       has led to his election (2011) as president of the Scottish Castles       Association, and as consultant advisor to Historic Scotland's       interpretative unit on the re-interpretation of five major properties       (Section 5: 3 and 4).
d. Beneficiaries     The beneficiaries are both local and national.
In the first case,       residents of Edinburgh, Dundee, Fraserburgh, Perth and the other towns,       with their civic organisations, schools, clubs, and city councils.
In the       second case, national impact has been achieved amongst those more broadly       interested in the nation's heritage (such as the Historic Houses       Association), the national heritage body Historic Scotland, the National       Trust for Scotland and similar organisations, and Scottish Government.
Tourists and visitors are also beneficiaries; by placing Scotland's       historic culture within a European context adds value to its       interpretation.
