     The excitement that Italiane: Biografia del Novecento has       generated in Italy has led to a good deal of attention from the media and       a number of high-profile public events.
A 25-minute television programme (part of the influential and       long-running series Le Storie Diario italiano, hosted by veteran       broadcaster Corrado Augias) was made about the book interspersing       documentary footage with an interview with Willson (Section 5:2).
Broadcast on the state Rai Tre channel on 22 April 2011, it attracted       audience figures of 932,000 viewers (6.19% of audience share).
It is now       available on the internet and by September 2013 over 2,000 people had       viewed it online.
Programmes from this series are frequently used by       schoolteachers as a teaching aid in class.
In January 2012, the Fondazione Nilde Iotti (a research foundation on       `women's issues' based in the Italian national parliament and run by       parliamentarians with academic advisors) organised a very lively debate on       the book in the Parliament Library (Section 5:3).
The invitation stemmed       from the fact that academics participating in the inaugural session of the       foundation the previous year had already referred to issues raised in the       final chapter of Willson's book.
Participants in this public event were,       in addition to the author herself, the well-known journalist Paolo Mieli       (head of RCS Libri, Italy's most important print journalism media group       and former editor of two prominent daily newspapers La Stampa and       the Corriere della Sera), historian Marina d'Amelia, philosopher       and former parliamentary deputy Claudia Mancina and parliamentarian and       former cabinet minister Senator Livia Turco (Section 5.9).
This event       attracted a large audience (despite the considerable size of the room many       people had to be turned away due to fire regulations) and a column was       devoted to it in L'Unit&#224; newspaper the following day (13 January       2012) (Section 5:4).
There were also reports on various websites (e.g.
giulia.globalist.it).
As the L'Unit&#224; report noted, `in the room       there were a number of women, who, due to their political commitment, are       mentioned in the book' and the audience did indeed include a number of       prominent political figures (Section 5: 4).
There was also a panel debate devoted to the book at the Libri Come book       festival held in the Auditorium in Rome in April 2011 in which the book       was discussed by leading journalists Chiara Valentini of the weekly news       magazine L'Espresso and Concetta de Gregorio &#8212; editor of the       national daily L'Unit&#224; &#8212; as well as the actress, writer and       journalist Adele Cambria (Section 5:4).
Willson was also invited to take part in a series of other public debates       on the book.
An initial round in 2011 was organised by a learned society       (the Societ&#224; delle storiche) in Trieste, Padua, Florence and Rome, with       panels of academics and (in Trieste) local politicians from opposite sides       of the political spectrum.
In Trieste, Elisabetta Vezzosi, President of       the Societ&#224; Italiana delle Storiche (Female Historians Society), opened       the debate by emphasising the great importance of the book for the future       writing, teaching and debate on the history of Italian women.
Although the       publisher Laterza was involved in organising the first few debates,       various others followed that were the result of spontaneous invitations       unrelated to the publisher's promotional interests, including a       well-attended day conference in Sassari (Sardinia) in 2011 which was       devoted to this book and two other recent publications in Italian women's       history, as well as debates in 2012 in Bologna, Naples and Lecce.
The       debates were mostly held in universities but venues included a town hall       (Florence) and a public library (Rome) (Section 5:1).
In addition to scholarly reviews in historical journals, the book has       aroused considerable interest in the print media: articles on it have       appeared in major daily newspapers like La Stampa, Il Mattino,         Il Manifesto and L'Unit&#224;.
It has also been featured on a good       number of Italian websites and blogs (e.g.
Il paese delle donne; in       genere; giulia.globalist.it; donnedellarealta.wordpress.com) (Section 5:       5, 6 and 7).
The book has also cropped up more off the beaten track.
In 2011 it was       chosen by a local library in Rubano (Padua) as one of 150 books that       symbolised the 150 years of Italian history since unification.
Book sales have been brisk with about 2,400 sold to date (which is very       good for a scholarly historical work in a country like Italy with a fairly       small reading public and virtually no export market for books) and is now       about to be reprinted (Section 5:1).
Italiane has also had an impact on the higher education teaching       of women's and gender history in Italy.
Universities where the book has       been adopted as a set text include Genoa, Florence, Macerata, Rome (La       Sapienza), Rome (RomaTre), Bologna, Naples (Federico II), Salento, Milan       and Trieste.
`Pathways to impact' have been further fostered by a second project       stemming from, and closely linked to, this one.
Willson's (jointly with       Glasgow University) AHRC-funded interdisciplinary research network `La       Mamma: Interrogating a National Stereotype' further explores some of the       issues raised by Italiane (Section 5:8).
The project, which       explores representations of maternity (both past and present) in Italy and       in the Italian diaspora, includes engagement with Italian politicians,       with the Italian-Scottish community and with the public in both Italy and       the UK.
Two workshops have been held in Scotland as well as a public event       in the Parliament Library in Rome which brought together academics,       politicians and journalists and attracted good attendance from the general       public.
The project has also included a public lecture in Dundee and a       further public lecture in Edinburgh is planned for 2014.
