     The research network, symposia, workshops, exhibitions and dialogues       allowed for the following specific impacts:            increased awareness among educational and art practitioners of recent         feminist thought for educational and art practice; (1, 2, 3, 4, 5)       increased awareness of pedagogical and artistic relations involving         gender, by creators, administrators, educationists and users; (1, 2, 3,         4, 5)       dissemination of a range of strategies for negotiating gender issues,         based on feminist philosophy, prison and community education, philosophy         for children, and art practices.
(1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 7)          Evidence:     There were 26 respondents to a survey on the Engendering Dialogue events       (38% non-academics).
70 % agreed/strongly agreed these events       increased/developed their understanding of the significance of gender in       areas in which they work or practice.
85% of respondents agreed/strongly       agreed these events made them aware of new practices, approaches or       theories relevant to areas of work or practice.
(4)     These figures, allied to responses from several individuals, suggest this       understanding and awareness are leading to concrete changes in practice.
For example, respondents said that the events:            led directly to collaboration between two young artists who as a         result will be taking part in a women's art collective in Leith, July         2013 (4);       had a direct impact on gender related activities among young women in         Dundee: one participant notes the event gave her the confidence to help         establish a University feminist society and to attend a Rape Crisis         Scottish conference on her own; this generated contacts leading to a         Rape Crisis workshop for the Dundee feminist society (4);       had a direct impact on teaching practice, this included one primary         school teacher and a teacher trainer (4).
Many participants testified to the value of cross-generational       networking, contact, and collaboration between theorists and practitioners       (in the arts and across different pedagogical contexts).
The point of this       research and its impact is to facilitate such change by allowing concepts,       problems and practical strategies from feminist philosophy to gain       traction outside academia (80% of survey respondents agreed/strongly       agreed that the events were useful for stimulating/ supporting activities       outside academia).
It thereby contributed to the Scottish Government aim       of raising gender awareness; increased awareness of philosophical       resources around gender; and added to changes in social networks as well       as pedagogical and art practice.
(4, 6)     This development from increases in awareness and understanding to       concrete changes was supported by events bringing artists and       educationists together with researchers at symposia and exhibitions.
The       following groups were brought together in events where new art works,       discussion papers and connections were forged around concepts developed in       the research.
In parallel to a public lecture and symposium on feminism       and the visual arts, an exhibition was organised at the University's       Centrespace gallery (Dundee Contemporary Arts).
A workshop was held to       allow young artists to benefit from contact with more established       practitioners and feminist philosophers.
Artists involved included Eleanor       Morgan, Beth Savage, Hannah Champion, Beth Fisher, Janet McKenzie, Ingrid       Pollard and Gina Wall.
(7)     A panel discussion on art and feminist philosophy with artists (Fisher,       Pollard and Wall) was held in the exhibition space as part of the       symposium; this was open to the public.
Young Scottish artists (Savage and       Champion) produced performance pieces specifically for the project in       direct response to questions posed about bodies and gender by the feminist       philosophy that framed the event.
The workshop and discussions explored       how gender does (and does not) affect art practice.
All the events were       attended by Dr Jones, artists and theorists, including members of a       Dundee-based performance art collective.
(1, 2, 3, 5)     For the work on feminist philosophy and education, a symposium was held       with teachers and individuals involved in teacher training (in the UK,       Ireland and the USA), philosophy for children, teaching within the prison,       and community education.
Key participants were: Kath Jones, leader of       Blooming Minds, on the transformational effects of teaching of philosophy       in primary schools, accompanied by a student teacher involved in the       Blooming Minds project; Amy Shuffleton, Department of Educational       Foundations, University of Wisconsin-Whitewater; Ann Louise Gilligan,       Director, Centre for Progressive Change, Dublin; and Merlyn Riggs, an       Aberdeen-based artist and facilitator working with food to generate       educational interventions, particularly in relation to work with       prostitutes and the police.
A particular focus at the symposium was the       significance of gender in the context of work and education in prisons,       with Jim King, Head of Offender Learning &amp; Skills Services, Scottish       Prison Service, and filmmaker Jonathan Cummins, working with political       prisoners in Northern Ireland.
(1, 2, 3, 5)
