     15% of the Network's members are non-academics.
(1) Its online presence       has enabled the       research to reach this audience.
The network has over 250 members (around       40 non-academics),       and over 130 "followers" of the SRN website get an email when items are       posted to the site.
There       were 31,163 hits on the website during the assessment period (June 2009 &#8212;       July 2013) and there       are nearly 190 members of the Facebook SRN group.
(1, 3, 4).
According to the end-of-project survey, the impact on non-academic       Network members ranges       from general interest to inspiring artistic practice to informing business       relations.
The Network       provides a "home" and reference point for these people.
It has had impact       through increased       creativity and understanding: 40% of survey respondents agreed that the       Network "is useful for       stimulating and/or supporting activities outside academia".
When asked       "what have you gained       from the Network?"
many answered that it had increased their understanding       of Spinoza and the       literature on him.
Some noted they enjoyed the conference podcasts and one       said the Network had       given him/her "motivation to better myself".
(1)     Respondents were asked what direct and indirect impacts the Network had       on their work and       activities outside academia.
Responses included: attending a conference;       buying a book; building       contacts; increasing awareness of resources; reviewing an article;       thinking about film projects;       attending reading groups.
Two members who work in nursing and mental       health commented that       they use Spinoza's thinking to inform their practice.
Three survey       responses are worth quoting:       "The Spinoza Research Network has helped my work with consulting with       business clients and       some public speaking I do"; "Spinoza's thinking is a catalyst for my       creativity"; "The Network has       introduced me to potential reviewers of my work."
The last comment is from       a writer who used the       Network to circulate a draft novel (inspired by Spinoza) for feedback in       2010.
(1, 5)     An artist (Tim Long) and a filmmaker posted work to the Facebook page for       members' comments;       three artists (who are not academics) were subsequently invited to publish       their work in Spinoza       Beyond Philosophy.
Artist Patrick Fontana has used the Network to find       participants for a       collaborative multimedia artwork based on Spinoza's Ethics.
The artwork       will be a sound and       image manual for the Ethics.
It will bring the work to a wide audience in       a novel form which aims to       allow for an additional visual experience of the work.
In these ways, the       Network has created a       space for new cultural works to emerge, provided an audience for existing       artworks, and       contributed to the public understanding of philosophy through creative and       imaginative works.
(1, 5)       To achieve these impacts, the website (www.spinozaresearchnetwork.wordpress.com)       offers       podcasts of conference papers, event listings and resources.
The website       is in blog format and is       "followed" by 7 other blogs, 3 of which are non-academic:            Rizoma Zine, a Mexican online magazine of cultural criticism       The blog of Tony Linde, an Australian artist and writer based in the         UK       A blog promoting understanding of Islam.
Items from the website have been re-posted on other sites and tweeted,       e.g.
by Nigel Warburton, a       public-oriented philosophy writer with 26,000 Twitter followers.
A       Facebook group enables       members to speak to one another and share links and content.
This has been       a success with non-academic       Network members.
(1, 3, 6)     To support and develop this impact and SRN Beth Lord has given public       talks: Spinoza Today,       London 2010 (attendance approx.
100); Philosophy of Education seminar,       Dundee 2009       (attendance approx.
12); Student Philosophy Society, Dundee 2010       (attendance approx.
25);       Sydney Seminar at the State Library of New South Wales, Australia, 2011       (attendance approx.
100).
Each was attended largely by non-academics and attracted new members       to the Network.
Lord also spoke on two radio interviews.
The first, "An Atheist God: the       Paradox of Spinoza" was       broadcast on the Australian Broadcasting Corporation's (ABC) programme       "The Philosophers'       Zone" on 4 June 2011 (8).
It contributed to public discourse about       atheism, faith and science.
The       broadcast generated a spike of visitors to the Network website, with 185       people visiting the site on       6 June 2011 alone (as opposed to 20-30 hits on a normal day), 31 were       directed to it from the ABC       website.
There were a total of 1,479 website visits in June 2011 (600 the       previous month).
The       Canadian Broadcasting Corporation interviewed Lord about Spinoza's life       and thought for its       "Ideas" programme (broadcast 21 November 2012).
This led to around 1000       website visits in the       following four weeks.
(3, 7, 8, 9, 10)
