     Influencing British policy: The initiatives Dr. Robinson subjected       to empirical scrutiny have become the common framework for how services       are delivered across the UK, and are informing the development of services       across Europe.
Notably, three of the seven policy objectives listed in the       2008 Government report Saving Lives, Reducing Harm, Protecting the         Public [5-1] use evidence from Dr. Robinson's research.
For example,       referring to the Home Office funded research on IDVAs and ISVAs on which       Dr. Robinson was the PI, the report commits the Government to support the       national roll-out of IDVAs, ISVAs and MARACs and to double the number of       SDVCs in order "to enable all victims of sexual and domestic violence to       access their services", stating explicitly that they will be guided in       this by the results of the evaluation being carried at that time by Dr.       Robinson [5-1: p. 47].
A few months later the case for developing these       services was further strengthened by the Home Affairs Committee enquiry Domestic         Violence, Forced Marriage and "Honour" Based Violence, which drew       extensively on Dr. Robinson's research, with citations to various of her       studies [5-2: pp 73, 91, 98, and 115-118].
More recently, the Government's Call to End Violence Against Women         and Girls (2010) discusses a platform of interventions (IDVAs,       ISVAs, MARACs) as "effective frontline services" [5- 3: p. 8, 15] and       committed &#163;28m of funding to facilitate their implementation.
To date, the       Government has funded more than 1500 IDVAs and ISVAs posts and MARAC       coordinators to support 266 MARACs across the UK.
Likewise, the Stern       Review (2010) drawing upon Dr. Robinson's research [5-4: p.103, footnote       17] recommended that ISVAs "be seen as an intrinsic part of the way rape       complainants are dealt with" [5.4: pp 22,106,123].
All of these       initiatives are now fully embedded in the British response to domestic and       sexual violence, where as prior to Dr. Robinson's research, they did not       exist.
For example, each year 266 MARACs respond to more than 58,000       high-risk cases of domestic violence with an associated 75,000 children.
Influencing European policy: Dr. Robinson's research has assisted       practitioners across Europe in understanding how to they can work more       effectively in partnership to improve victims' safety.
For example, the       2008 Council of Europe Task Force on Violence Against Women       clearly draws upon the research Robinson conducted in Cardiff and       elsewhere in the UK [5-5: p. 47, 55, 60].
Building on the impact her work       has had before 2008 - for example two keynote speeches at a 2007       international conference in Vienna disseminating her ideas to an audience       of nearly 300 practitioners, policy-makers and academics - she was invited       to participate in two Council of Europe funded DAPHNE III projects on       protecting victims of gender-based violence (Project PROTECT I in 2010 and       PROTECT II, 2011-12).
These multi-country collaborative projects have       necessitated her speaking at high-profile conferences (Vienna in March and       Madrid in May, 2010), opened by government officials (e.g., Federal       Minister for Women and Civil Service), and attended by senior       representatives from agencies across Europe.
Evidence-based training       manuals in 8 European languages have been produced from these       dissemination events, and indicate the important contribution of her       research, particularly on multi-agency approaches to high-risk victims       [5-6: pp.
17-19].
Consequently, Dr. Robinson's research along with her       involvement in the Daphne projects have led to a change in the response       provided to victims of violence in Europe, as MARACs are now operational       in parts of Austria and Finland, with more countries considering       implementation.
The impact of Dr. Robinson's research is also apparent       from her invitation to speak at other European events (not part of the       Daphne projects), such as the CEPOL (the European Police College, which       provides training materials and courses to police in all EU member states)       Presidency conference in Cyprus (July 2012) and Switzerland's National       Domestic Violence Conference (Nov 2012).
In both events Dr. Robinson       delivered keynote addresses on her research into the British response to       domestic and sexual violence.
Consequently, CEPOL has recommended that       MARACs be established in their recently published handbook on domestic       violence [5-7: p. 14] and in Switzerland a new legislative initiative is       being considered by parliament to enable information-sharing for the       purposes of multi-agency management of high-risk domestic violence cases.
Finally, the impact of her research can be observed in the most       significant pan-European policy document to come out on this topic for       decades: the 2011 Convention for Preventing and Combating Violence         Against Women and Domestic Violence [5-8].
This document sets out       obligations for member states which are clearly underpinned by Dr.       Robinson's research on the value of multi-agency approaches (Article 18),       the provision of specialist support to victims of domestic violence       (Article 22), support for victims of sexual violence and SARCs (Article       25) and multi-agency risk management for high risk victims (Article       51).Notably, all of these articles employ the same terminology and make       reference to the main messages produced by Dr. Robinson's research over       the past decade.
Article 51, in particular, could not have been conceived       without information about the efficacy of Cardiff's MARAC model being       widely disseminated via Dr. Robinson's research and speaking engagements.
Developing professional standards, guidelines or training: Dr.       Robinson has been asked to serve as an expert advisor on several national       committees and working groups that have played a key role in shaping       professional practice in both the public and voluntary sector.
Building on       her 2005-07 membership of the Victims of Violence and Abuse Prevention       Programme (VVAPP) Expert Group on Domestic Violence, she served, in 2008,       on the ACPO (Association of Chief Police Officers) Risk Expert Panel which       synthesized evidence (including Dr. Robinson's research in Cardiff) to       develop the common risk assessment tool for use in cases of domestic       violence, now used nationally by British police forces.
Further evidence of Dr. Robinson's impact is provided by her appointment       in 2012 to the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (NICE)       Public Health Programme Development Group [5-9, p.75], charged with       formulating evidence-based guidelines for health practitioners for       preventing domestic violence.
Dr. Robinson's research features prominently       in the evidence statements used in the guidelines to underpin 12 of the 17       recommendations (which went out for public consultation in August       2013)[5-9; see section 5 for details].
She also served as a member of the       Task and Finish Group within the Welsh Government, advising on the       Violence Against Women and Domestic Abuse (Wales) Bill (2012-13).
She       played a key role within this group; for example, as the lead author of a       substantial report that provided recommendations to WG which have clearly       shaped both the scope and content of WG's legislative and policy       priorities.
This report is extensively cited in the Welsh Government White       Paper and specific proposals, such as the need for WG to `place a duty on       relevant devolved public sector bodies to contribute to multiagency fora'       such as MARACs [5-10: p. 21] flow directly from Robinson's research.
In       effect, this involves putting MARACs on statutory footing in Wales.
The       Minister described the Task and Finish Group as `instrumental in       developing the proposals' in the Foreword to the White Paper.
In conclusion, the landscape of service provision for victims of domestic       and sexual violence has changed quite considerably in Wales, the UK and       the EU during the past decade, and the evidence produced by Dr. Robinson's       research has played a key role in these developments.
