     Systematic Reviews and Guidance     Systematic reviews from the COHG have been incorporated into national       guidelines in the UK, US, Australasia, Europe, China and Canada.
This       group is ranked second of the 24 Cochrane Review Groups funded by the       National Institute for Health Research and is recognised internationally       for its productivity, quality and methodological rigor.
The COHG reviews       on oral consequences of cancer therapy have been cited in international       guidelines including the UK Childhood Cancer Guidelines.
Since       dissemination there has been change in 70% of the UK Children Cancer and       Leukaemia Group oncology centres [1].
Partnership working with national guideline development groups (SDCEP,       United Kingdom Children's Cancer Study Group, SIGN, NICE, American Dental       Association, US Centers for Disease Control (CDC)) has resulted in       efficiencies and avoidance of duplication of effort.
This includes the CDC       Community Prevention Guidelines recently endorsed by the US Congress [2].
Guidelines require up-to-date synthesised evidence and for national groups       the COHG agree to undertake or update reviews supporting improvement in       the quality and efficiency of guideline development.
A recent example was       our update to the 2002 fluoride varnish review [ii] for the SIGN.
Clarkson is Director of SDCEP (http://www.sdcep.org.uk/?o=2342).
In Scotland SDCEP guidance is used to improve patient care by all general       dental practices, dental hospitals and education providers.
It is       increasingly being adopted beyond Scotland by national and local       organisations.
The `Prevention and Management of Dental Caries in       Children' Guidance is used as the standard for Childsmile, the Scottish       national public health programme for caries prevention in children and has       been translated into Polish [3], adopted in New Zealand [4], and included       in other UK policy documents.
SDCEP Drug Prescribing Guidance [5] is used in all UK Dental Schools, is       recommended for use in the NHS in Wales and was used by dentists in Wales       as part of the 1000 Lives Plus antimicrobial prescribing audit.
The SDCEP       `Prescribing App', which links directly to the Drug Prescribing Guidance,       has been purchased 3000 times and is rated as a 5 star app by users (https://itunes.apple.com/gb/app/sdcep-dental-prescribing/id509188306).
About 10% of sales have been outwith the UK.
SDCEP `Bisphosphonate       Guidance' [6] is cited as advice in the British National Formulary for       medical practitioners and measurement of its post publication impact       demonstrated a change in dental practitioner behaviour and beliefs       consistent with better management of these patients in primary care and a       reduction in unnecessary referrals to secondary care.
The `Practice       Support Manual' is used by all dental practices in Scotland to demonstrate       quality assurance to Health Boards, NHS Education for Scotland and       Healthcare Improvement Scotland [7].
Research Culture in Primary Care     SDPBRN, of which Clarkson is Director (http://www.sdpbrn.org.uk/index.aspx?o=2369),       has generated a vibrant culture of research including a network of Rapid       Evaluation Practitioners.
This has contributed to Dundee's success in       securing three Health Technology Assessment UK-wide randomised controlled       trials involving 200 dental practices and 4000 patients, to address gaps       in evidence demonstrated by COHG systematic reviews.
TRiaDS has been       commissioned by government to conduct a randomised controlled trial       involving all General Dental Practitioners in Scotland which is aimed at       reducing dental antibiotic prescribing [8].
Policy Change for Patient Safety and Public Wellbeing     Policy change for patient safety resulted from the TRiaDS randomised       controlled trial investigating the value of theoretically-based,       in-practice training for the implementation of best decontamination       practice.
A significant increase in the translation of guidance       recommendations was recorded as a consequence, thus reducing the risk of       healthcare acquired infection.
This training is now embedded in NHS       Education for Scotland's Dental Education Programme and the Health Boards'       dental practice inspection criteria [7].
A policy change with an impact on public wellbeing occurred following the       ERUPT trial, with the introduction of a fee for the provision of fissure       sealants in Scotland [9].
Data from 2008/09 onwards indicate 37,000 claims       representing 120,989 preventive fissure sealants placed per year at a cost       of &#163;930,000 annually.
This represents provision of the most effective       preventive treatment for dental caries in children, previously not       provided.
This treatment has contributed to an increase in Primary Seven       children with no obvious decay in their first permanent molars from 61% in       2007 to 73% in 2013.
SDPBRN has demonstrated the value to government of dental practices       participation in research and in future, SDPBRN research activity will       contribute to the mandatory quality improvement activity for dental       practices in Scotland [10].
The impact of this is not only on the dental       practice team but also for patients who value and recognise the importance       of research.
Currently approximately 80% of eligible patients agree to       participate in University of Dundee led dental research.
