     This work produced by Steele and the Colorectal Screening       Research Unit has contributed centrally to a complex programme that is       currently having a major impact on cancer mortality rates.
Their matched       cohort study utilising the pilot data convincingly demonstrated a       reduction of 27% in deaths from colorectal cancer among those       participating in screening [1], vindicating the assumptions that had been       made at the planning stage.
National screening was developed from the       pilot work and subsequent research led by Steele.
It commenced in       England in 2006, was followed by Scotland and Wales in 2007 and Northern       Ireland in 2010 [2], and is already impacting on national mortality rates.
The impact of the group's research on repeated invitations [3] and on       pre-notification [4] is reflected in demonstrated increases in the overall       uptake of screening and of colonoscopy.
For example, uptake of a first       invitation for prevalence screening was 53%, and for a second and third       invitation was 15% and 12% respectively, with a significant number       proceeding to colonoscopy [3]; pre- notification with a letter (with or       without an accompanying booklet) increased the uptake of screening from       54% to 59% [4].
Mortality figures are expected to continue to improve as       this research, which has been incorporated into the national screening       algorithm, leads to increased uptake and participation.
As a result of the       research into faecal occult blood testing methodology [vi], the screening       algorithm in Scotland has also been changed to incorporate immunological       testing.
However, a study of interval cancers has demonstrated that the       sensitivity of the screening Faecal Occult Blood test is only about 50%       for cancer and that it is less sensitive in women than in men [5].
This       set in train a piece of work funded by the Scottish Government (&#163;130,241)       that demonstrated the utility (improved efficiency, and age- and       gender-specificity) and potential impact of improved faecal testing using       quantitative faecal immunochemical testing as the first line test [6].
A       business case for the introduction of this technology is currently being       developed.
The demonstration pilot achieved similar short term outcomes to previous       randomised trials, indicating that 30 colorectal cancer deaths per million       of the total population per year will be avoided in the first instance.
These figures will certainly continue to improve (a) as the proportion of       the population participating in the screening programme increases; (b)       with the implementation of more accurate testing methodologies such as       immunological faecal occult blood testing (already partially implemented       in Scotland) and the novel proteomics approaches that are currently under       development in Dundee; and (c) as the uptake and impact of lifestyle       interventions identified by the BeWEL study reduces the incidence of       malignant tumours among those participating in screening.
This work       therefore demonstrates that the screening programme prevents around 2,000       UK colorectal cancer deaths each year, and will inevitably prevent many       more in the future.
In addition to informing the decision to introduce a national colorectal       cancer screening programme, the research described here has had a       significant impact on the testing modalities used in the screening       programme and on the method of invitation.
Furthermore, extremely valuable       information has been gathered on the significance of interval cancers.
In       addition, &#163;2m funding has also been made available from the Scottish       Government in order to explore the introduction of flexible sigmoidoscopy       as a primary screening modality, and a randomised evaluation is under       development.
Professor Steele chairs the Steering Group for this       study.
The Screening Programme has attracted major national and international       media attention [7], and has served as a model for the implementation of       similar programmes in a number of other countries (most recently Ireland       [8], with others under development in the Netherlands, Sweden, Croatia,       Slovenia and Taiwan).
The recently published European Guidelines for       Quality Assurance in Colorectal Cancer Screening [9], to which Professor Steele       made a major contribution [10], drew heavily on the experience gained in       Scotland and the rest of the United Kingdom, and is a major influence on       these programmes.
