     Our research has been central to the development of methods for       evaluating the impact of antibiotic policy and the relationship between       hospital prescribing and resistance in Europe; Davey has, for example,       participated in Europe-wide reviews of the issue [1,2].
In Scotland our       work on prescribing indicators and quality improvement has enabled       sustainable evaluation of hospital antibiotic prescribing by hospitals in       all 14 Health Boards; this was accompanied by a demonstrated 43% reduction       in C. difficile infection in Scotland between 2008 and 2011 [3,p7       and 4]     In addition to multiple citations of the main report of the Cochrane       review [iii], its impact is evidenced by the ORION guidelines [iv] arising       from subsequent collaboration with researchers from University College       London and the University of Bristol.
These have been endorsed by       professional societies in the UK, Europe and USA and disseminated at their       meetings [4].
The Cochrane review was quoted in the Scottish Management of       Antimicrobial Resistance Action Plan (http://www.scotland.gov.uk/Publications/2008/03/12153030/0)       and influenced the recommendation for a national organisation to integrate       improvement in antibiotic prescribing with control of healthcare       associated infection.
This resulted in establishment of the Scottish       Antimicrobial Prescribing Group (SAPG) as part of the Scottish Medicines       Consortium (2007) [5].
Research outputs [i-iv] led to Davey being invited to lead the Hospital       Subproject of ESAC from 2003-2010.
From 2006-2010 Davey led the       development and testing in 20 European hospitals of a web based method for       reporting on point prevalence studies of antibiotic use [v].
The ESAC       project continued until 2010 and the ESAC website documents wide       dissemination across Europe.
The 2009 point prevalence survey included 172       hospitals from 25 European countries [6].
In Scotland, hospitals from all       14 Health Boards participated in the 2009 ESAC point prevalence survey,       and this is specifically cited by NHS Boards when discussing the impact       SAPG has had in their area, in the SAPG 2009 Annual Report [7].
As the Representative with Responsibility for International Liaison and       Research for SAPG Davey recommended that the ESAC quality       indicators should be adopted as national targets.
This SAPG recommendation       was included by Scottish Government in 2009 as part of their HEAT (Health,       Efficiency and Access to Treatment) target to reduce the rate of C.         difficile Associated Disease among patients aged 65 and over by at       least 30% by 31 March 2011 [8].
SAPG adapted the ESAC Point Prevalence       Survey method for continuous measurement of compliance with the national       targets for hospital antibiotic use.
A secure, web based system was       created for all acute hospitals in Scotland to report their compliance       with antibiotic policy with monthly prevalence surveys in acute medical       and surgical admission units.
The recommended restrictive antibiotic       policy for reducing C. difficile Associated Disease was based on Davey's       study to identify high risk antibiotics [vi] as well as the Cochrane       review [iii].
The SAPG Report on Progress from 2008-11 cites the       development and measurement of hospital prescribing indicators as being       critical to SAPG's contribution to the 43% reduction in C. difficile       infection seen throughout NHS Scotland by national restriction of       antimicrobials associated with a high risk of C. difficile       infection [3,p7].
SAPG continues to use the hospital antibiotic       prescribing indicators for measurement of antibiotic use and compliance       with policy and produces annual reports [9,10].
The C. difficile       infection HEAT target for 2009-11 has been reviewed by the Healthcare       Acquired Infection Task Force and a new C. difficile infection       target from April 2011 has been set using a `best in class' approach so       that by March 2013 the rate of C. difficile infection in patients       aged 65 and over is 0.39 cases or less per 1000 total occupied bed days in       all NHS boards.
As a result of the impact of this work the University of       Dundee is being funded by Scottish Government's Healthcare Associated       Infection Task Force to work with National Services Scotland on the       development of further quality indicators of hospital antibiotic       prescribing.
Internationally, the Clinical Excellence Commission in       Sydney, Australia invited Davey to be a consultant in February       2013, and has subsequently adapted the ESAC quality indicators for       implementation across New South Wales [11].
