     Peripheral arterial disease is a narrowing of the arteries causing       reduced blood flow.
Symptoms range from leg pain when exercising to severe       foot pain, ulceration and gangrene with significant potential for limb       amputation and affects 10.5m individuals across Europe and North America.
One of the main treatment options replaces the diseased artery with a       synthetic peripheral vascular graft (PVG).
Haemodialysis (HD) is a common treatment for patients with end stage       renal failure.
Over a quarter of a million patients receive haemodialysis       in Europe, increasing at a rate of 5% per year (European Renal Association       &#8212; European Dialysis and Transplant Association Registry 2009).
One method       of establishing access to the patients' circulation required for       hemodialysis is arteriovenous graft (AVG) implantation.
The durability of all prosthetic PVG or AVG are severely limited by the       formation of blood vessel narrowing (stenosis) due to post-procedural       overgrowth of vessel wall cells (intimal hyperplasia).
Forty to 70% of PVG       used below the groin fail within 2 years leading to prolonged hospital       stays, repeated interventions, and amputation.
Sixty to 80% of AVG fail at       one year, resulting in poor dialysis, multiple re-interventions and loss       of dialysis access.
From the research carried out by Stonebridge and Houston, the creation of       vascular devices which engender spiral laminar flow were expected to       improve graft patency and reduce disease progression [REFa].
This led to       the start up of a company to design, market and sell such devices.
Creation of a new bioengineering design company globally marketing         vascular medical devices:     In 2001 Vascular Flow Technologies Ltd was founded by Profs P.       Stonebridge and G Houston, and Dr J Dick.
The aim was to create an       international, innovative medical device company and to explore       non-medical/industrial applications of spiral laminar flow as a platform       technology.
Tayside Flow Technologies Ltd, renamed Vascular Flow       Technologies Ltd (VFT) is currently a SME based in Dundee, Cambridge and       Boston (Mass., USA), employing 15 full-time staff and a further 4       part-time consultants [REFb].
The company has attracted &#163;13.5million of external investment (including       &#163;950k of government and industry grant funding (SMART and SpurPlus)).
Recent investment in 2013 (&#163;1.5million) underpins more rapid penetration       of the US market [REFc].
Out licensing of the core IP within a number of       areas is also in progress.
This will increase the product portfolio and       significantly expand the company's potential market.
Vascular Flow Technologies currently has 2 established vascular graft       product ranges (6mm and 8mm SLF&#8482; peripheral vascular graft and a 6mm SLF&#8482;       arteriovenous vascular access graft) with regulatory approval in Europe       (`CE mark' issued by Intertek) and the USA (`510k substantial equivalence'       issued by the FDA) between 2007 and 2010 (Table) [REFd] 	Table: EU and USA regulatory approval                                Graft           Award           Year                             PV 6mm / 8mm           CE mark           2007/2008                             PV 6mm /8mm           510K           2009                             AV           CE mark/510K           2010                             AV           510K           2010                           Figure: SLF&#8482; graft      The products have been manufactured by an OEM (original equipment       manufacturer); Vascutek, Renfrewshire, Scotland (a Terumo Company) since       2008.
Blank expanded polytetrafluoroethylene (ePTFE) grafts are       post-processed to add a precisely engineered, patented spiral induction       segment to the distal end of the graft (Figure above).
The European Market for Peripheral Vascular Grafts is valued at       $100.2million with growth expected to increase at a compound annual rate       of 7.3%.
The grafts are marketed and distributed from Scotland.
Vascular       Flow Technologies established distribution networks in USA and Europe,       South East Asia, and Japan between 2008 and 2013.
Over 2500 grafts have       been implanted worldwide in 18 countries (Australia, Austria, Belgium,       Czech Republic, Denmark, Germany, Greece, Italy, Netherlands, New Zealand,       Russia, Saudi Arabia, Spain, Switzerland, Thailand, Turkey, UK, and the       USA).
Further regulatory approval has been obtained in France and been       submitted in Japan [REFb, REFc].
Vascular Flow Technologies has also entered into a unique regional       partnership with a multinational vascular devices company, LeMaitre GmbH,       as distributor of Spiral Flow vascular Grafts, initially, in Germany       reinforcing industry recognition and impact of this new technology [REFe].
Sales within the REF period, to the end of 2012, of the graft products       are in excess of &#163;1million [REFc].
Improved patient care:       Published and presented clinical series show Spiral Laminar Flow &#8482; grafts       have increased graft survival leading to reduced re-interventions and       reduced amputations [REFf, REFg].
Patient registry/clinical trials are       ongoing with an EU grant (&#8364;2.6million) being offered to examine the       clinical trends in haemodialysis patients including assessment of the       impact of the VFT graft [REFh].
Other companies have begun to adopt the       underlying principles in their medical device products [REFi].
Vascular Flow Technologies technology, based in the UK with UK       manufactured products, has delivered a significant new platform technology       applicable to medical devices to a global market.
