     Whole Life Consultants Ltd (WLC)     WLC was established as a spin-out company from the University of Dundee       (which owns a 10% share) specifically to commercialise the research       outputs from the CMRU on the recommendation of the industrial steering       committee for EPSRC Grant GR/N01811/01.
Since January 2008, the company       has undertaken work to a value exceeding &#163;1M and currently employs 5       people.
Clients include (i) CITB and, on its behalf, Salford City Council,       7 North East (England) Local Authorities, Lambeth &amp; Wandsworth, Welsh       Assembly Government, Waltham Forest, Fusion 21, EU Skills, (ii) UK       Contractors Group, (iii) Croatian Institute of Bridge and Structural       Engineering, (iv) PPP Centar Zagreb, (v) British Board of Agr&#233;ment, (vi)       Scottish Enterprise, (vii) O'Hare McGovern, (iix) Experian and, on its       behalf, the Olympic Park Legacy Company, (ix) the EU and, on its behalf,       Frederick University (Cyprus), FORSAS (Italy), Romanian Society for       Lifelong Learning, DOCTUM (Spain), (x) 6ix Consulting and, through it,       Scottish Water.
The company has been awarded a major contract by HS2 in       2013 to predict the labour demands and skills gap generated by the HS2       project.
Productivity     In 2008, CITB commissioned WLC to develop a labour forecasting tool to       predict the amount of labour required in each trade on a monthly basis,       given no more than the type of project, its value or floor area and the       start/end dates of construction.
This tool is used throughout the CITB       Skills Academy programme and is recognised by CITB as being unique from a       commercial perspective and providing a leading edge in strategic       discussions with government and industry[7].
During the past 2       years, it has been licensed to the Olympic Park Legacy Company, Salford       City Council, 7 North East of England Local Authorities, Lambeth &amp;       Wandsworth and Waltham Forest, generating contracts worth more than &#163;100k       to CITB.
It is used principally, but not exclusively, in determining the       number of jobs created in unitary authorities as a result of construction       activity[7,8].
Dissemination of the CMRU's underpinning research to industrial       stakeholders has been accomplished through the monograph "More for Less"       published by CIRIA.
It is used currently throughout the construction       industry as a guide to productivity improvement and supports a       productivity training programme delivered by WLC and a lean training       programme delivered by 6ix Consulting Ltd.
These programmes have been       delivered to more than 100 practising professionals, with typically 1 in 4       participants reporting a consequent reduction in costs.
Farrans       Construction estimates &#163;100ks in savings[9] achieved in 2013       through a radical overhaul of its procurement method using WLC's Productivity         Portal.
In 2011, CMRU completed a Knowledge Transfer Partnership with Tayside       Contracts to embed its research in lean thinking across the whole       organisation.
The KTP has been rated "outstanding" by the TSB, having       delivered an increase in turnover of ca &#163;6.8M, cost reductions of       &#163;650k, a threefold increase in profits and an increase in the percentage       of partnering contracts from 25% to more than 45%[10].
The       partnership is a finalist for the best UK KTP Partnership Award.
Whole Life Costing and ILS     The CMRU's research into whole life costing and ILS has had a wider       reach, extending particularly to PPP/PFI contracts executed in Croatia.
Memoranda of Understanding between WLC and the Croatian Institute of       Structures &amp; Bridges and the PPP Centar, respectively, to provide       support for the Croatian PFI programme have led to the engagement of WLC       since 2008 in the formulation of 12 PFI projects in Croatia, 11 of which       have now been implemented successfully[11].
Between 2008 and       2012, WLC supported O'Hare McGovern in the preparation and delivery of 5       successful bids for PFI Schools in Northern Ireland.
It was responsible       subsequently for preparing the optimum Life Cycle Replacement cost       profile.
Sustainability     In 2011, WLC was awarded a &#8364;300,000 Leonardo de Vinci grant to transfer       its expertise in sustainability assessment to 4 European countries.
The       programme is delivering training to 50 professionals so that the results       of the CMRU's research can be adopted in practice across Europe.
Scottish Construction Centre (SCC)     Horner directed the SCC between 2008 and 2009 and took the academic lead       in delivering its &#163;2.7M programme until its successor body (Construction       Scotland) was launched in 2011.
He had initially put together the winning       consortium and written much of the successful bid to Scottish Enterprise       for the Centre and in 2008, he was responsible for winning a supplementary       ERDF grant of &#163;706k for it, using EPSRC funding as part of the matching       component.
Under the SCC banner, the Dundee team administered Workshops on       whole life costing (attracting 61 participants from 42 companies) and lean       thinking (178 participants from 100 companies).
It provided one-to-one       support to 47 companies.
An independent evaluation has estimated that this       work produced an increase in added value of &#163;28.8M, created 250 new jobs       and protected a further 750[12].
