     Shaping the policy and public debates: Direct impact begins with       and is complemented by various contributions to wider debates.
As part of       the process of shaping the policy debate, members of the team have       presented our research in numerous policy-making events to audiences at:       the Department of Business, Innovation and Skills; the Government Equality       Office; Department of Communities and Local Government; the Department of       Work and Pensions; the Chartered Institute for Personnel and Development       (CIPD); and TUC events (e.g.
regional TUC annual conferences) as well as       more specialist events such as the session at the 2012 NHS Confederation       Annual Conference chaired by Sir Keith Pearson.
In terms of shaping broader public debate, there has been in-depth       discussion and evaluation of our findings in the Voice of Russia,       the Guardian, BBC news and, the Financial Times, as well       as coverage in specialist publications and websites.
For example see Equal         Opportunities Review [May 2008], Disability Now [ January,       2009; March, 2013], Edge [February, 2012] (`the UK's most widely       read magazine devoted to leadership and management'), EN [November       2011] (entrepreneurs' magazine), Training Journal [July, 2013], The         HR Director [November 2011] and People Management [November,       2008; June, 2012].
Shaping UK Policy: The impact of this research on UK policy is       best illustrated by its role in allowing the UK to fulfil its       international treaty and convention obligations in respect of people with       disabilities.
Drawing on our research, the team produced the Work Fit         For All report in 2008, which was published by the Equality and       Human Rights Commission, and cited in the EHRC submission under the       International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, a       multilateral treaty adopted by the United Nations General Assembly [5.1]       It is also cited by the EHRC as proof that they are fulfilling their duty       to `work to eliminate prejudice, hatred and hostility' under the UN       Convention of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities [5.2].
The EHRC has       relied extensively on our research to demonstrate that it is fulfilling       its own statutory role in respect of people with disabilities.
For       example, in January 2009, our research was used by the UK minister for       disabled people to defend the EHRC's record on disability rights; while       the Minister conceded "that it has taken time for the EHRC to find its       feet" he states that "a report on the bullying of disabled people in the       workplace is an example of its [i.e.
the EHRC's] valuable work" [5.3].
In       October 2010, the EHRC published their Triennial Review How fair is         Britain?
Equality, Human Rights and Good Relations in 2010.
The       chapter on employment made extensive use of the 2009 report on the FTWS       [3.2] to highlight the problems faced by disabled workers and the       challenges of better policies on disability discrimination [5.4]     The Fair Treatment at Work Survey has played a broader role underpinning       much policy work in this area.
In a letter of support the Principal       Research Officer, Labour Market Directorate, Department for Business,       Innovation and Skills notes that the FTWS has "formed part of the evidence       base collated here across most aspects of labour market policy; on issues       ranging from work-life balance to workplace dispute resolution.
The survey       thus contributes to the conventional wisdom on these issues, which forms a       fundamental part of the policy development process.
For example, the       survey has been used as one measure of the scale and nature of workplace       conflict feeding into recent changes in relation to dispute resolution,       whilst its measures of employee awareness of employment rights have fed       into policy development on flexible working."
[5.10]     The FTWS finding that 19 per cent of employees with disabilities       experience unfair treatment at work (compared to 13 per cent of those       without disabilities) provides one of the UK's Equality Performance       Indicators, used to monitor both the Government's Independent Living       Strategy in England and by a wide range of public bodies - including local       authorities (e.g.
Islington, The Highlands), NHS Trusts (e.g.
Papworth,       Derby and Walsall) and the Welsh Government - to measure improvements in       the treatment people with disabilities receive [5.5].
The same measure is       included in the Equality Measurement Framework developed by the EHRC and       the Government Equality Office.
It also features widely in the       policy-responses of public sector employers to the public-sector equality       duty, who make considerable use of other aspects of our research       demonstrating the considerable reach of this work amongst public-sector       employers, including government departments.
For example, our FTWS       research has led the Welsh Government to make reducing the bullying of       disabled people one of its five equality objectives.
In commenting on the       evidence base for its 2012 document Working for Equality in Wales:         Equality Objectives and Strategic Equality Plan, the Welsh       Government acknowledged that its research was "structured around the       themes used by the Equality and Human Rights Commission (EHRC) in their       Triennial reviews `How Fair is Britain' - which drew directly on our work       (see above) - and that these "reviews provide a comprehensive picture of       the range and type of inequalities experienced by people with protected       characteristics...[and that]...
Using the EHRC reviews as the basis for       our evidence review will allow ongoing comparison of progress on equality       issues between Wales and the rest of the UK."
[5.6, p.106].
Perhaps most significantly, recommendations from analysis of the BWBS       [found in 3.3] informed the 2010 Equality Act.
Our recommendations were       drawn on for those sections concerned with Adjustments "where a provision,       criterion or practice ... puts a disabled person at a substantial       disadvantage" and the Advancement of Equality in the public sector where       non-pay discrimination against disabled employees was shown to be a       particular problem [5.7, section 20 (p.10)] as well as the public sector       equality duty which requires a public authority to have "due regard to the       need to eliminate discrimination, harassment, victimisation and any other       conduct that is prohibited" [5.7, section 149 (p.96)].
Our recommendations       in respect of employer liability for ill-treatment from clients and       customers and the general public - "it makes obvious sense to extend the       employers' liability for harassment (by third parties, including clients       and customers) to this category of employee" [3.3, p.14] - influenced       parts of the Act concerned with `third-party harassment' [5.7, Section 40       (p.23)].
Our research was extensively drawn on in subsequent debates around       changes to the Act.
For example, in its opposition to the proposed 2012       repeal of employer liability for harassment of employees by third parties,       the Disability Charities Consortium makes direct reference to our Fair         treatment at work report [3.2], noting that "According to a survey       by the Department for Business, Innovation and Skills, `the disabled and       those with a long standing condition were 96 per cent more likely to have       employment problems' and `those who were disabled were more than twice as       likely to report bullying and harassment'" [5.8].
Shaping employers' behaviour: In recognition of its role in the       legislation, our research - particularly through our two reports on the       British Workplace Behaviour Survey: Work Fit For All [3.3] and Insight         into Ill-treatment in the Workplace (Fevre et al 2011, Cardiff:       Cardiff School of Social Sciences) - has received considerable attention       from the providers of advice to employers and employees (such as       specialist legal firms) helping employers comply with the law and to       promote better treatment for employees with disabilities more generally.
Our research is also used by trade unions like Unison to advise members on       the best way to negotiate policies which prevent, tackle and deal with       harassment and bullying in the workplace [5.9] For example, Unison uses       our research: to help reach a working definition of harassment and       bullying (p.5); to make the point that disabled employees and employees       with long-term illnesses experience disproportionate negative treatment in       the workplace (p.8); to emphasise the costs to employers of workplace ill       treatment (p.15); and to highlight the need for managers and supervisors       to be trained to detect and handle harassment and bullying (p.21).
