     Our BNP research has helped to hasten the diagnosis of heart failure     There are considerable clinical difficulties involved in diagnosing heart       failure by symptoms alone.
Our early work on BNP published in the Lancet       1993 and in 1997 lead to intense research into the utility of BNP in the       diagnosis of heart failure which has confirmed its accuracy.
As a result,       all current Guidelines including the European Society of Cardiology 2012       Guidelines advocate the measurement of plasma concentrations of BNP in the       diagnosis of chronic heart failure, either in combination with, or as an       alternative to, an electrocardiogram [1,2].
The availability of BNP as a       diagnostic test has important implications.
Firstly, when applied early in       the diagnostic process in patients with suspected cardiac failure, a       negative BNP test can help rule out congestive heart failure and thus       avoid unnecessary tests and referral to clinics.
Secondly, BNP assessment       can hasten the correct diagnosis of heart failure allowing prompt delivery       of evidence based treatment and thereby reduce the morbidity and mortality       associated with heart failure [3].
The inclusion of BNP testing in the       recent 2010 NICE Guidelines [4] will have a major clinical impact [5].
These Guidelines was supported by a 2009 Health Technology Assessment       which showed that BNP testing is cost-effective and that measuring BNP is       the single most useful test to add to the diagnostic process in primary       care [3].
A costing report for implementing the 2010 NICE guidance on BNP       testing to rule out heart failure estimated that there will be a &#163;3.8       million net saving and a 23% reduced risk per patient of being admitted to       hospital within the first six months with the implementation of BNP       testing [5].
Our BNP research has helped to introduce BNP as a biomarker to         identify at-risk patients for clinical trials     We were the first to utilize BNP as a biomarker to identify patients with       left ventricular systolic dysfunction for therapy (angiotensin converting       enzyme inhibitors).
This concept is currently adopted in clinical trials       to identify at risk heart failure patients for study inclusion.
Examples       of trials that used BNP to select patients are the Eplerenone or Placebo       in Addition to Standard Heart Failure Medicines (EMPHASIS-HF) trial and       the ongoing PARADIGM study (Efficacy and Safety of LCZ696 Compared to       Enalapril on Morbidity and Mortality of Patients With Chronic Heart       Failure) [6].
Our BNP research has helped to diagnose HFpEF / diastolic dysfunction     We were also the first to show that BNP was elevated and related to       diastolic filling in patients with isolated diastolic dysfunction.
Half of       patients with heart failure have preserved ejection fraction with similar       morbidity and mortality to heart failure with reduced ejection fraction.
Diagnosis of HFpEF is challenging, especially in patients with multiple       co-morbidities.
The diagnosis of heart failure with reduced ejection       fraction now requires coupling exertional dyspnoea and a normal left       ventricular ejection fraction with objective measures of diastolic       dysfunction such as the measurement of plasma BNP.
This use of BNP is now       recommended by most experts for the diagnosis of HFpEF [7] and as an       inclusion criterion in studies of HFpEF such as the TOPCAT study of       aldosterone antagonist therapy for adults with heart failure and preserved       systolic function [8].
The current NICE Guidelines also recommend BNP       testing in heart failure as "Earlier diagnosis and treatment of associated       conditions (such as hypertension) in patients with HFpEF who are found to       have raised BNP levels is likely to result in a decrease in the number of       these patients needing hospital admission" [3].
Our BNP research has helped in the management of asymptomatic aortic         stenosis     Identification of subgroups of symptomatic patients with aortic stenosis       who may benefit from early surgery is a clinical challenge.
We were the       first to demonstrate elevated plasma BNP in aortic stenosis and this led       to international investigations of the prognostic value of BNP in aortic       stenosis which underpin the latest 2012 European Society of Cardiology       recommendation for BNP testing in asymptomatic severe aortic stenosis to       select patients for aortic valve replacement (Level C, Class IIb       recommendation) [9].
Our BNP research has prompted the development of commercial assays for         BNP     The success of BNP testing in routine clinical settings is attested by       the fact that BNP tests is available on both mainframe laboratory systems       as well as point-of-care analysers.
Tests for measuring BNP are now       offered by all major in vitro diagnostics players including       companies such as Abbott, Alere, Roche, Siemens, OCD and Beckman-Coulter.
In a report on point-of-care diagnostic testing world markets, it was       stated that in terms of `market drivers ranked in order of impact', BNP       testing was placed third out of twelve drivers [10] demonstrating that       these commercial BNP assays have a direct economical impact [11].
