     Our underpinning research addressed the challenge of heart failure, which       is a global health issue.
It led to the recognition that aldosterone       antagonists such as spironolactone have beneficial effects in individuals       with various kinds of heart failure.
It is now widely recognised that       aldosterone antagonists improve survival among patients with chronic,       severe systolic heart failure and heart failure after myocardial       infarction.
Consequently, current guidelines recommend the use of an       aldosterone-receptor antagonist in these patients.
This has led to       significant patient benefit.
Aldosterone antagonist treatment is now recommended in National Institute       for Health and Case Excellence (NICE) guidelines, specifically those on       chronic heart failure ([1]; issued in 2010).
In preparing this Guideline,       NICE gave detailed consideration to our previous work, as follows:       "....studies were identified comparing aldosterone antagonists plus       optimal medical management with placebo plus optimal medical management in       patients with chronic heart failure.
Barr (1995) [i] compared       spironolactone with placebo in a population with chronic heart failure       (CHF) secondary to coronary heart disease.
Macdonald (2004) [v] compared       spironolactone with placebo in a population with mild heart failure,       defined as patients whose CHF had been at least [New York Heart       Association] NYHA class II at diagnosis, but optimising their treatment       had improved the patients' condition substantially into a stable and less       symptomatic one....." (Section 5.2.3.2, p96; tabulated on p103).
This       contributed to the following recommendation (R29) for second-line       treatments: "....consider adding one of the following if a patient remains       symptomatic despite optimal therapy with an ACE inhibitor and a       beta-blocker: an aldosterone antagonist licensed for heart failure       (especially if the patient has moderate to severe heart failure [NYHA14       class III-IV], or has had a myocardial infarct within the past       month)....".
In recognition of the influence of his work on heart failure, Prof Struthers       was appointed as a member of the Steering Group of the NHS Quality       Improvement Scotland Heart Disease project, which led in 2010 to the       publication of Clinical Standards for Heart Disease [2].
These apply       throughout the NHS in Scotland and recommend (Standard Statement 15, p28)       that "Patients with heart failure are commenced on medication to reduce       symptoms and improve prognosis, unless contraindicated....15.5 Patients       with left ventricular systolic dysfunction and persistent New York Heart       Association class III heart failure and who have been New York Heart       Association class IV in the last 6 months receive spironolactone except       where contraindicated.....".
In a further recent development [3], the Eplerenone in Mild Patients       Hospitalization and Survival Study in Heart Failure (EMPHASIS-HF)       randomised, double-blind trial evaluated the effects of another       aldosterone antagonist, eplerenone, in patients with chronic systolic       heart failure and mild symptoms.
The decision to undertake this study was       based upon the outcomes of the RALES and EPHESUS studies, both of which       were influenced by our work [i-iv].
The results of this Pfizer-funded       study indicated that eplerenone, as compared with placebo, reduced both       the risk of death and the risk of hospitalization among patients with       systolic heart failure and mild symptoms.
An aldosterone antagonist is now recommended (Level 1 recommendation) for       use in all patients with systolic heart failure including patients with       mild NYHA II heart failure.
Clinical practice guidelines making this       recommendation include the 2012 European Society of Cardiology guidelines       [4,5] and the 2011 National Heart Foundation of Australia and Cardiac       Society of Australia and New Zealand guidelines [6,7].
Aldosterone antagonist treatment has been shown to be cost effective: the       incremental cost-effectiveness ratio for aldosterone antagonist therapy       when added to standard therapy (ACE inhibitor plus 03b2-blocker) in       patients with heart failure has been calculated to be ~US$500 per life       year gained [8].
Finally, the most recent development (April 2013) has been the addition       of the use of spironolactone for heart failure to the World Health       Organization Model List of Essential Medicines, which is updated every two       years using a transparent evidence-based process endorsed by the WHO       Expert Committee on Selection and Use and serves as a guide for the       development of national and institutional essential medicine lists       throughout the world [9].
