     This study has delivered an evidence base regarding the use of aspirin in       diabetes and is now       embedded at the heart of national and international Guidelines.
The 2008 BMJ       publication [i]       reported on the results of this trial.
The impact of this initial study       was immediate with much       publicity worldwide; lay press, radio and television discussions and       reports were made throughout       2009-11.
Further changes to national and international Guidelines were       made over the next 3-4       years taking these data into account (see below).
It created a global       change in prescribing practice       for patients with diabetes that provided value to frontline clinical teams       in both primary and       secondary care.
It represents one of the major changes in the care of       people with diabetes       internationally over the past 5 years.
Further, editorials reviewed this       article favourably (e.g.
[1,2])       using the evidence from this trial to give advice to readers.
The BMJ       voted the publication second       most impactive study published by them in 2008.
It also received 6 stars       for clinical impact from the       American College of Physicians [3], who summarise the best new evidence       for internal medicine       from over 130 clinical journals using a worldwide panel of &gt;5000       physicians to assess the clinical       relevance and newsworthiness of rigorous studies.
Government Policy Impact and Guidelines (National and International):       UK Primary Care       Guidelines changed as a result of our findings [4], as have those abroad.
UK and international       Guidelines for medically-related specialities such as Pharmacy [5] and the       Drug and Therapeutic       Bulletin have been influenced, quoting POPADAD as the reason for change.
The recent SIGN       Guidelines on the management of diabetes took the trial findings into       account when making its       recommendations (http://www.sign.ac.uk/pdf/sign116.pdf).
In addition the new USA       recommendations, from a joint statement of the American Diabetes       Association, the American       Heart Association, and the American College of Cardiology, essentially       call for tighter criteria for       aspirin use in diabetes quoting the trial (http://circ.ahajournals.org/content/115/1/114.long).
Dr Sue       Kirkman, a member of the writing committee, is quoted: "The previous       recommendations had been       that pretty much anybody with diabetes over the age of 40 should be on       aspirin, but there...is less       of a general recommendation for aspirin than there used to be, and this is       based on some of the       newer studies that have come out".
Further the respected US Preventative       Services Task Force [6]       recommended on aspirin use, based on the trial.
The Canadian, New Zealand       and Australian       Diabetes Guidelines [7] also changed in response to the trial as did those       of the European Society       of Cardiology [8].
The Clinical Guidelines Task Force of the International       Diabetes Federation       Global Guideline for the care of people with Type 2 diabetes around the       world has also       incorporated the findings from POPADAD [9].
The ATT       Collaboration updated their       recommendations for aspirin in primary prevention after considering the       results from POPADAD       and two later trials [v,vi].
They concluded that the benefit of aspirin       appeared to outweigh its risks       when used for secondary, but not primary, prevention.
Improved Patient Care and Health Outcomes: The findings have also       been integrated into UK       [10] and global [various non-English-language websites] healthcare as an       exemplar of a clinically       relevant study.
Aspirin has significant side effects associated with its       use in CVD prevention.
Even       mild adverse events such as dyspepsia can be a major issue, requiring       additional prescriptions of       antacids and proton pump inhibitors.
In the ATT Collaboration       meta-analysis [vi], aspirin allocation       for primary prevention increased major gastrointestinal and extracranial       bleeds, and this has been       confirmed by others.
Aspirin was associated with a 55% relative risk       increase in major bleeding.
Reducing aspirin prescribing reduces these risks and will have impacted on       the diabetes       population previously considered for aspirin primary prevention.
There is       also a question regarding       increased CVD events in patients on proton pump inhibitors and aspirin,       though this may be due to       reduced effectiveness of the aspirin produced by the antagonist.
NHS Cost Impact: Although aspirin is relatively cheap, there are       251,000 people with diabetes in       Scotland alone, of which about 50% will have no evidence of CVD.
Thus       there will be potential       savings to the NHS as aspirin prescribing falls and also for associated       proton pump inhibitor usage       which will be substantial over time.
Impact in other clinical areas: More recently this work has       underpinned a number of meta-analyses       including the effect of aspirin on long-term risk of death due to cancer       and cancer       metastasis [ii-iv].
This work in cancer has also been the subject of       editorials in high impact journals       and produced much interest in the lay press, expressed via radio and TV       items.
Pubic Engagement, Media Coverage: The findings have also formed       the basis for public       engagement and debate on use of aspirin in diabetes [11].
This debate has       appeared in tweets,       blogs and on lay websites, there have been discussions in newspaper       articles, radio and TV shows       in all the continents of the world.
