     This research has benefitted the Scottish economy and local population       through the establishment of two biotechnology companies, Cypex and CXR       which, between them, employ up to 40 staff and generate an average annual       turnover of &#163;2.4M.
Professor Wolf, a Director of CXR from its       formation until August 2012 and a member of the Scientific Advisory Group       of the Translational Medicine Research Initiative, received the OBE in       2010 for his contribution to life sciences in Scotland.
Cypex (www.cypex.co.uk) was formed       in 1998 and has, since releasing its first recombinant P450 in 2000,       developed a portfolio of &gt;100 products including 19 human P450s, eight       sulphotransferases, murine and canine P450s, fine chemicals and       antibodies.
These are marketed in Europe via Tebu-Bio [1], in the US via       XenoTech LLC[2] and in Asia and Africa.
Their use helps pharmaceutical       companies to eliminate drug candidates which are likely to fail during       development or cause drug-drug interactions in patients.
Cypex also offers       contract services in custom protein expression and the production of drug       metabolites.
Its products (in the form of cell lines which express human       P450s) are used in bioreactors to generate drug metabolites in sufficient       quantities for toxicological evaluation, as is now required by the FDA       when human-specific metabolites represent more than 10% of the       administered dose [3].
This application has been adopted by pharmaceutical       companies including Novartis and Hoffmann-La Roche [4]; the intellectual       property has been licensed to BTG for further commercialisation and       Novartis has licensed the technology (&#163;400K) for further marketing and       use.
CXR (www.cxrbiosciences.com)       was formed in 2002 to provide services in preclinical drug development and       chemical safety.
It currently has &gt;60 clients worldwide and has       pioneered the application of humanised mouse models in drug development.
It opened its first international sales office in the USA in May 2012 [5].
It also markets a number of cell lines and other reagents derived from       University-based research [ii,iii,vi]; these include the Hepatic Reductase       Null&#8482; mice and a range of reporter mice, licensed for marketing by CXR via       Taconic in the USA and Europe.
AstraZeneca, Pfizer and Nestl&#233; have also       taken out licenses to these models.
The second aspect of the impact of this research has had international       reach, benefitting the pharmaceutical industry and regulators.
This aspect       arose from an ITI Life Sciences-sponsored research and development       programme (2005-2009) in which CXR and TaconicArtemis GmbH (Cologne)       collaborated in the generation of humanised mouse models to determine the       human-specific systemic effects of drugs and chemicals [iv,v].
The       generation of these exciting new research tools, which are now marketed       via Taconic [6,7], has been welcomed by pharmaceutical companies and       regulators because of their applicability in drug regulatory submissions       [7].
These models have important applications in, for example, allowing the       species specificity of non-genotoxic carcinogenesis to be established       [8].
This is central to the predictive risk assessment of drugs and       consumer products; to that end the use of these humanised and reporter       models is embedded in the EU Innovative Medicines Initiative programmes       MARCAR (http://www.imi-marcar.eu/partners.html)       and DILI (http://www.imi.europa.eu/content/mip-dili),       whose aim is to identify new biomarkers to predict the effects of       non-genotoxic carcinogens and predict the potential for drug-induced liver       injury.
CXR is a key small/medium enterprise participant in this &#8364;25M       collaboration, led by Dundee, between academia, the pharmaceutical       industry and drug regulators, and the extent of industrial involvement       (&gt;&#8364;5M) is a direct result of the Dundee team's track record in       developing commercially-applicable novel models for assessing chemical       safety.
In a third aspect of impact, this research has benefitted industry,       patients and consumers in Europe and beyond as a result of the development       of innovative methods for in vitro toxicity testing.
Better in         vitro testing methods are urgently needed as a result of the       enactment in 2007 of the REACH regulations, which demand toxicity testing       of some 30,000 substances using non-animal methods wherever possible, and       the staged implementation of the 7th Amendment to the EU Cosmetics       Directive, which has prohibited the use of animals for skin irritation,       corrosion, and genotoxicity testing since 2009 and for characterising the       disposition of cosmetic ingredients since March 2013.
The AREc32 cell line       [iv], licensed via CXR to Givaudan, has been shown to be useful as part of       an integrated testing strategy for the prediction of chemical-induced skin       hypersensitivity reactions without the need for animal testing [9,10] and       has been adopted for water quality assessment and the evaluation of       disinfection by-products by institutions in Australia and Germany [11].
The use of this cell line provides the pharmaceutical, cosmetic, consumer       product and chemicals industries with a cost-effective,       legally-permissible method for assessing potential skin sensitisers and       benefits patients and consumers by improving safety assessments.
