     Beneficiaries     (a) UK and local Dundee Biotech (by introducing new cutting-edge       technology services into the sector).
(b) Pharma and Biotech companies (such as Pfizer) using mass spectrometry       and other services provided by DCP.
(c) Academic translational programs using mass spectrometry and other       services provided by DCP.
Dundee Cell Products (DCP) is an innovative SME commercialising high       quality research tools for life sciences research (http://www.dundeecellproducts.com).
Moreover, it provides services to pharmaceutical and biotechnology       companies as well as to academic researchers.
DCP was formed in 2006 by Prof Lamond and Dr Ajuh (who became Chief       Scientific Officer and Chief Executive Officer respectively) with       co-investment and assistance from the University of Dundee.
In 2007, the       company secured equity investment funding from a syndicate of angel         investors to finance and expand its activities, followed in 2009 by       a six-figure investment from angel investors and the Scottish       Co-investment Fund (SCF).
This helped DCP establish manufacturing and       research facilities, and recruit expert technical and sales staff to       expand its product portfolio.
In 2011, Dundee Cell Products was awarded a       &#163;70,000 SMART:Scotland award from Scottish Enterprise (1).
This award       supported the development of proteomic-based methods in predictive       toxicology.
This was also accompanied by a &#163;20,000 BioKT R&amp;D grant by       the Innovation Portal Dundee to develop new human growth factor products       and related services (1).
Since its launch in 2006, DCP's turnover has increased ~10 fold and the       company broke even in 2010.
As of 2013, the company employed 10 people       (eight with PhDs) with plans to increase headcount to 15-20 by 2015 with       the development of novel high technology products and services.
During the       assessment period, turnover on the company's core products and services       has been growing at ~30% year on year (2).
Since 2008, the company has       greatly expanded its products and services catalogue and as of 2013 offers       &gt;5,000 products and six contract research services.
Moreover, the       company has built SILAC-based quantitative proteomics, SILAQTM,       as one of its innovative contract research services as a direct result of       expertise at the University of Dundee.
DCP has successfully completed commercial contracts with both biotech and       major pharma companies.
In 2013, ~30% of its income came from       international sales to countries including: Italy, Spain, France, Germany,       Switzerland, Sweden, Belgium, Hong Kong, Japan, the USA and Malaysia.
Two       examples of commercial partnerships are:            In 2009, DCP signed a major contract research agreement with Pfizer to         develop new SILAQ applications to facilitate the discovery and         development of new and safer drugs, potentially saving millions of         dollars of clinical trial costs (3).
This agreement was renewed in 2010.
In 2008, DCP announced a major partnership deal with the biotechnology         company Molecular Targeting Technologies, Inc (MTTI) (http://www.mtarget.com)         (4).
Under this agreement, DCP has the rights to distribute a portfolio         of MTTI products in Europe primarily based upon fluorescence research         applications.2028          DCP also provides services to academic clients.
As of 2013, the company       had contracts with &gt;70 Universities worldwide (2).
For example, DCP has       been involved in projects with the University of Leeds to investigate the       effects of virus infections on cellular proteomes (5) and with the Paul       Ehrlich Institute, Germany to study molecular mechanisms of transmissible       spongiform encephalopathies (6).
The company maintains a close working relationship with the University of       Dundee and other UK Universities.
For example DCP has been involved in       five CASE studentships over the assessment period: 4 MRC-CASE PhD       studentships together with academics at the Universities of Aberdeen,       Dundee, Imperial College London and St Andrews and a BBSRC-CASE PhD       studentship with the Roslin Institute, Edinburgh.
For these studentships       DCP provides training in research technologies and in their       commercialisation.
The company also benefits from continued links with the       Lamond laboratory and when appropriate can utilise specialist equipment at       the University.
From 2010-2013 DCP was engaged in a DTI / Scottish       Executive sponsored Knowledge Transfer Partnership with other mass       spectrometry researchers in the College of Life Sciences (Dr Dougie Lamont       and Prof Julian Blow) (7).
DCP has been able to recruit highly skilled       staff from the College of Life Sciences, providing jobs for postgraduate       and postdoctoral researchers from the University.
This highlights the       economic opportunity provided by the College of Life Sciences creating a       highly trained local pool of life scientists with skills that are of       direct benefit to biotechnology companies.
Moreover, DCP has provided an       outlet for the commercialisation of new products and services in cutting       edge proteomics initially derived at the University.
