     Beneficiaries (and nature of the benefits/impacts):       (a) UK Biotech (through the creation of Glencoe Software and their support       for Aridhia Informatics Ltd)     (b) Major biotechnology companies (by licensing software to PerkinElmer       (PE) and Applied Precision Inc for their commercial imaging platforms).
(c) All Pharma and Biotech companies using PE high-content screening       technology     (d) All academic translational programs using PE high-content screening       technology and/or OMERO (see (b))     (e) International publishing (by providing Rockefeller University Press       with Data Viewer solutions)     (f) The international biological and clinical research communities       handling image BigData (by providing data format, image storage and       analysis solutions)     The OME Data Model (first released in 2002), Bio-Formats (first released       in 2003) and OMERO (first released in 2007) have enabled the sharing and       analysis of image data as readily as genomic data.
Some examples of how       OME is used, for example by BioBus, which provides hands-on science       education for Schools in the USA, are available on the OME web site (1).
A       major impact is the uptake of OME image software and management tools by       multinational companies, which is provided to them through the Glencoe       Software spin-out, founded in late 2005 by Swedlow.
Impacts:     Glencoe Software (2) has tripled in size since its launch and by       2013 employed 13 people, with a revenue growth of 20-40% during the       assessment period.
It has recently entered a partnership with Aridhia         Informatics Ltd, a Scottish-based company that specialises in       accessing, storing and analysing health-care information to create       innovative products for personalised therapies and improved patient       outcomes (3).
Glencoe Software provides commercial licenses, extensive data management       support, and customisation for OME's software tools to companies       delivering imaging solutions to their customers.
OME's Bio-Formats       file translation library is the most comprehensive image file format       translator available and has been incorporated into several commercial       products.
Moreover, as the data management solutions are continually       developed and supported, companies benefit by not only acquiring the right       to use them in their closed-source software but take advantage of the       open-source foundation of knowledge, specifications, and new software       produced by the OME Consortium.
Examples of companies currently       distributing software platforms developed by OME and provided by Glencoe       Software through commercial licence include:     Applied Precision Inc       The first customer of Glencoe Software was Applied Precision Inc (http://www.api.com/),       which integrated the data management solutions provided by Glencoe with       its Deltavision imaging system.
Glencoe Software collaborated with Applied       Precision to develop a customised version of OMERO called softWoRx DMS&#8482;,       which was installed on every DeltaVision image acquisition system sold       during the assessment period (4).
PerkinElmer       PerkinElmer, Inc. is a multinational technology corporation that operates       in 150 countries and produces instruments, diagnostics, and (bio)medical       imaging solutions.
In 2008 PerkinElmer licensed OMERO from Glencoe       Software and has used it as the foundation for its successful Columbus&#8482;       platform for high-content screening and microscopy image storage,       management and analysis*.
Columbus&#8482; now dominates the market for data       management in high-content screening in Pharma and academia, and thus       makes major contributions to drug discovery and basic research (5).
The       system is a commercial product, but supports the open source OME       applications.
This adaptable feature enables images to be imported from       any other imaging system and is a major reason for the dominance of       Columbus&#8482; in these markets (5,6).
*Note: PerkinElmer systems that incorporate the Columbus&#8482; platform are       built in Cardiff.
Rockefeller University Press (RUP)       In 2008, Rockefeller University Press launched the JCB DataViewer,           the world's first on-line publication system for           multi-dimensional life sciences image data (http://jcb-dataviewer.rupress.org).
The JCB Data Viewer is a customised version of Bio-Formats and OMERO built       by Glencoe Software, in partnership with RUP.
The DataViewer web browser       permits scientists to view, and share multi-dimensional image data       associated with articles published in The         Journal of Cell Biology.
Currently, &gt;280 articles and &gt;980       figures are linked to &gt;99,000 image datasets in the JCB DataViewer (7).
Harvard Medical School       Glencoe Software has licensed Bio-Formats and OMERO to Harvard Medical       School as the foundation for publishing data from its NIH-funded LINCS       project, which provides a resource for thousands of image-based assays of       well-known drug molecules (8) that is accessed by industry and academia.
Other measures of impact:       In 2011, the BBSRC announced Prof Swedlow as `Innovator of the Year' in       recognition OME as "a revolutionary venture into open source software"       (9).
He received the prize from David Willetts MP, Minister for       Universities and Science, who spoke at the BBSRC Bioscience for Growth       business networking event in London on March 2011.
