     The beneficiaries:     (a) The Pharmaceutical industry (particularly GlaxoSmithKline, Aeterna       Zenartis and Merck &amp; Co who benefited from the evidence that targeting       PKB should be efficacious and from structural evidence for the       druggability of PKB).
(b) Cancer patients (those who have already benefited in Phase II       clinical trials and those likely to benefit from future drug combinations)     (c) Life sciences companies (through the production and sales of reagents       used to probe the PKB/Akt signaling pathway in normal and diseased       tissue).
Impacts:     Drug development of PKB/Akt inhibitors for the treatment of cancer     Dissection of the PKB signalling pathway and elucidation of the PKB       crystal structure has been extremely influential, stimulating       pharmaceutical companies to develop specific inhibitors of this pathway       for therapy.
PKB/Akt is associated with tumor cell survival,       proliferation, and invasiveness.
Activation of PKB/Akt is one of the most       frequent alterations observed in human cancer, making PKB/Akt an       attractive target for cancer therapy.
The MRC non-exclusively licensed the       IP from the PKB inhibitor screening methods patent (EP 0862622 B1) to a       major pharmaceutical company (name withheld for confidentiality reasons)       who has used the IP in their drug discovery efforts resulting in clinical       phase development.
As part of this agreement, the MRC received a total of       &#163;150,000 (1).
A number of companies have initiated drug development campaigns in this       area and several novel agents have been advanced into clinical trials       including the three examples below:     GlaxoSmithKline (GSK)     In 2008, GSK developed GSK690693, a low-nanomolar pan-PKB kinase       inhibitor (2).
GSK690693 exhibited significant antitumor activity in       ovarian, prostate and breast carcinoma xenograft models (3).
Consequently,       GSK690693 entered Phase I clinical trials for the treatment of hematologic       malignancies.
However, clinical development was suspended, perhaps due to       potential side effects subsequently reported by GSK in rodents.
GSK have       since developed further PKB/Akt inhibitors that have now entered clinical       trials.
Currently 1 Phase II and 2 Phase 1 trials are underway testing the       efficacy of the orally available ATP-competitive inhibitor GSK2110183 in       multiple myeloma, haematologic malignancies and solid tumours (4) and 3       Phase I trials of the ATP-competitive inhibitor GSK2141795 are underway       for the treatment of solid tumours, ovarian cancer and lymphoma (5).
Promising results for GSK2141795 have been reported in gynecological, head       and neck, prostrate, and colon cancers (6).
Aeterna Zentaris     Structural biology studies by Prof Daan Van Aalten at the University of       Dundee showed that lipid binding to the PH domain activates PKB/Akt, thus       revealing an alternative mechanism of PKB/Akt inhibition.
Perifosine, an       oral PKB/Akt inhibitor, was developed by Aeterna Zentaris using this       strategy and this compound has been through 19 Phase I and 25 Phase II       clinical trials and entered Phase 3 clinical trials for colon cancer and       multiple myeloma in 2010 and 2009 respectively (7) (http://clinicaltrials.gov).
While the Perifosine Phase 3 trials were not successful, the impact of the       fundamental research on this drug development strategy was very       significant.
Merck &amp; Co     MK-2206 is an oral, non-ATP competitive allosteric PKB/Akt inhibitor with       potential antineoplastic activity developed by Merck.
There are currently       41 active or completed clinical trials testing the efficacy of this drug       in a variety of cancers (http://clinicaltrials.gov).
In 2009, Merck announced a partnership with AstraZeneca to develop a       combination anti-cancer regimen composed of MK- 2206 from Merck together       with a mitogen-activated protein kinase 1 inhibitor AZD6244 from       AstraZeneca (8).
Development of reagents by life science companies     The identification by the University of Dundee that phosphorylation of       PKB/Akt at Thr308 and Ser473 is required for full activation of the kinase       has led to the development of many new reagents by life science companies.
The University of Dundee entered into an exclusive arrangement with Merck       Millipore (formerly Upstate Biotechnology) to sell PKB reagents developed       and produced by the MRC Protein Phosphorylation Unit and the Division of       Signal Transduction Therapy.
Subsequently, Merck Millipore designed a       number of PKB-related catalogue items such as antibodies, assay kits, and       fluorescently labelled proteins.
Since 2008, total sales of PKB related       products by Merck Millipore for which the University of Dundee has       received royalties has amounted to $1,784,449 (9).
Phospho-specific antibodies specific to Thr308 and Ser473 residues to       measure the activation of PKB/Akt are now sold by many life science       companies including Cell Signaling Technology (http://www.cellsignal.com)       (who currently sell 23 different phospho-specific antibodies to these       sites, Invitrogen (http://www.invitrogen.com),       Santa Cruz Biotech (www.scbt.com), BD       Biosciences (www.bdbiosciences.com)       and Sigma Aldrich (www.sigmaaldrich.com).
Many of these companies also sell assay kits for detecting downstream       physiological substrates of activated PKB such as GSK-3, identified as a       target of PKB/Akt activity by the University of Dundee.
