     The work with HMIC on their 2010 national inspection of the policing of       ASB, was directly responsible for a significant change to Home Office       policy, involving a shift to a more victim- focused and harm based       approach [5-1].
Reflecting these findings, eight police forces trialled       new processes and systems, with the resulting Home Office assessment       supporting a shift to the focus on harm and victims originating in the       UPSI study [5-2].
In 2012 Her Majesty's Inspectorate of Constabulary       re-assessed all forces in England and Wales to determine the progress they       had made in implementing reforms based upon the research.
They found       "...there is no doubt that the police service has improved its       responsiveness to victims of ASB since HMIC last reported on this issue in       2010, with progress made in every forces.
The survey results confirm that       victims have noticed these improvements" [5-3].
Further national policing policy influence resulted from the ACPO study       assessing the effectiveness of `prevent' policing, and in particular       harnessing and applying aspects of community policing practice to the       prevention of terrorism This had an explicit impact upon the Coalition       government's revisions to the national CONTEST counter-terrorism strategy       [5-4 &amp; 5-5].
This policy influence was reinforced `on the ground'       through a series of UPSI training events for regional counter-terrorist       units across the country and presentations to the majority of police Basic       Command Unit leads in England and Wales.
The research was afforded       international reach by an invitation to present at the ACPO International       Prevent Conference in 2011 attended by counter- terrorism professionals       from North America, Asia and Europe.
Additionally, these events were       important in enabling the findings of the research to re-shape local       delivery.
The influence of the Institute's research on UK policing has provided a       platform for increasing international reach.
Commissions for work from a       number of international agencies over the past five years, have included:       the Police Academy of the Netherlands; the Scottish Institute for Policing       Research; and Victoria Police, Australia.
In respect of the latter, during       the summer of 2011 Innes was invited to be a Visiting Fellow at the Centre       of Excellence for Policing and Security, Australia.
During this period he:     - lectured at the Australian Federal Police's HQ on UPSI's       counter-terrorism research and its shaping of the UK's approach;     - ran a training event on community impact assessment of major crimes for       the New South Wales Homicide Command;     - and gave two lectures and private briefing to the Commissioner and       Deputy Commissioner, Victoria Police.
These are examples of how the engagement work undertaken by the Institute       has shaped international debates on policing policy, especially around       being responsive to community needs.
Impacts on practitioners and professional services       A significant impact of UPSI's research has been improving the efficacy of       Neighbourhood Policing.
In 2008, a pilot study using the UPSI community       engagement methodology (outlined in 3.2 above) was conducted in Cardiff       that evidenced an increase in community engagement of around 73% compared       with SWP's established approach, and less of a bias towards older and more       affluent citizens.
The pilot's results led to the approach being       progressively extended across the whole of South Wales and integrated       within SWP's corporate strategy for improving public confidence.
According       to official Home Office figures, in the year to September 2011 there was a       9% increase in the number of people in South Wales stating they were       confident in the police to deal with local concerns.
This reflects how,       starting in 2009, a rolling programme of face-to-face interviews with the       public conducted by Neighbourhood Policing officers using the UPSI method       was initiated [5-6].
A notable success of this work was Operation Michigan.
The UPSI       methodology generated `community intelligence' about a drugs market police       were unaware of, ultimately resulting in: 184 arrests for Class A drug       supply; Prison sentences totalling 200 years set by the courts; Six kilos       of heroin, crack and cocaine seized; A 36% reduction in serious       acquisitive crime in the target areas and 25% reduction in ASB.
When the       approach was mainstreamed within SWP in 2011 similar results involving 8       arrests, and sizeable drug and cash seizures were obtained [5-6].
In London, UPSI has been working with the Safer Sutton Partnership       throughout the REF period using the engagement method to inform       Neighbourhood Policing and borough-wide Strategic Assessments.
The work is       credited with: reducing the number of public priorities by about a third;       and, in a MORI Tracker poll community safety issues dropped to number       three from one in the list of public concerns.
This collaboration and its       results have been praised by the Audit Commission [5-7], and featured as a       case study in a 2012 Liberal Democrat Policy Paper on policing [5-8].
Participation on public policy advisory committees       Reflecting the Institute's growing reputation for helping to improve       police practice, Innes provided oral evidence to the Scottish Parliament's       2008 enquiry into Community Policing [5-9] as well as The Home Affairs       Select Committee in 2011 and The Silk Commission on devolving policing to       Wales in 2013.
He has also been directly involved in the Home Office       Working Group that established the new national College of Policing, for       which UPSI has been cited as a possible model for linking with the       academy.
Innes is also a panel member of the Independent Commission on       Policing established by the Labour Party.
The research on ASB and       counter-terrorism resulted in Innes being appointed to Cardiff's `Safer       and Cohesive Communities' and `CONTEST' boards.
These positions provide an       opportunity to feed research evidence into local interventions on an       ongoing basis.
In sum, UPSI can evidence a significant track record of impacting upon       police innovation and reform.
The former Chief Constable of West Yorkshire       and ACPO Lead for Prevent has stated [5-5] "In Neighbourhood Policing and       Preventing Violent Extremism, the UPSI have influenced two of the most       significant developments in police policy in the last decade."
