     Beneficiaries (benefit/impact):       (a) The courts (through the provision and analysis of forensic biometric       information relevant to sexual abuse).
(b) The victims of sexual abuse and society at large (through the       conviction of dangerous paedophiles)     Impact:       The success of the research by the University of Dundee to devise       identification methods of perpetrators of child sexual abuse has resulted       in a heavy active forensic caseload consisting of 29 cases from police       forces in England (15 forces) and Northern Ireland and Scotland (6 forces)       during the period 2008-2013 (examples are highlighted in references 1-5).
Moreover this work has also resulted in the conviction of perpetrators of       adult sexual abuse (6).
This is a clear indication of the confidence of       the investigative agencies in the research and its interpretation to       secure a court room hearing.
The research by Prof Black directly helped to       secure a change of conviction leading to the first ever case of       identification of a paedophile from his hands for the Metropolitan Police       Force (1 and 7).
Furthermore, the methodologies developed from the       research in this area now underpin Prof Black's professional practitioner       evaluations of evidence.
These evidence-based evaluations are sufficiently       compelling that they have led to 78% of the accused changing their plea to       `guilty (7).
In addition, this work has resulted in two life sentences and       over 90 years of incarceration sentencing.
The cost to the taxpayer of a trial by jury on every criminal case has       recently been expressed as a concern.
A conservative estimate for trial by       jury is &#163;3,000 per day but some trials will run to several million of       pounds.
Therefore a change of plea in relation to the casework surrounding       forensic identification by hands is estimated to have saved the taxpayer       &gt;&#163;2.5 million to date.
It also frees court time to allow other cases to       be heard more swiftly.
In some regards, a greater impact is on the stress,       anxiety, fear and shame that has been removed from the victims and their       families who would have all the details of the case displayed for       dissection in the court in the presence of the media.
The psychological       impact on victims being forced to relive their trauma in a public forum is       immense and has been shown to be a significant factor in on-going physical       and mental illness long after the trial is complete.
This work has led to a healthy symbiotic relationship between the police       and the scientists with the importance of this work highlighted by the       media.
A documentary surrounding the first conviction of a paedophile by       using this form of evidence was broadcast in a documentary screened by ITV       22nd Sept. 2009 http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NUCVdL5ZNrM       (8).
Following the transmission, 4 other victims came forward to accuse       the perpetrator of abuse and he was tried for these crimes and given an       additional 10 years imprisonment for crimes committed between 1984 and       1991 that were previously unknown to the police.
This research has a financial, health and welfare, judicial and a       humanitarian impact at both a personal and a societal level.
This work has       consequently resulted in Prof Black and her team being approached by other       countries to assist them in what is becoming the crime with the highest       rate of increase globally.
Prior to this research, there was no admissible       means whereby a perpetrator could be identified from images of their       hands.
This work has greatly benefitted the war against paedophilia and       transformed the tools available to the judicial system to allow a greater       number of paedophiles to either be found guilty or to persuade them to       admit to their guilt.
The work has been of great interest to a range of non-academic       organisations and Prof Black and her team have been invited to present       their work to the Home Office (23.3.10), to the Scottish Scientific       Advisory Council (7.6.11), The Scottish Parole Board (23.11.11), to the       Child Exploitation and Online Protection Agency (13.3.13) and other       intelligence organisations.
Moreover the work of this team in public       outreach has been recognised through two awards &#8212; Brian Cox award for       Outreach 2011 and inaugural Stephen Fry award for Excellence in Public       Engagement with Research, 2012 (9).
Note: In March 2013, the Centre for Anatomy &amp; Human Identification       applied for the 2013 Queen's Anniversary Prize for Higher Education       (awarded 22 November 2013) for their study and application of human       anatomy, forensic human identification, disaster victim identification and       forensic and medical art.
This award recognised the Centre as being an       international leader in craniofacial identification and forensic facial       reconstruction for the identification of the living and the dead.
