     The beneficiaries     (a) The World Health Organisation (expert opinion that shaped       international Guidelines for Drinking Water Quality)     (b) The UK Department of the Environment and Thames Water Utilities Ltd       (development and use of phosphatase inhibition assays to monitor       cyanotoxin levels in reservoirs and drinking water)     (c) Scottish, US, Canadian, New Zealand, and Australian environmental       authorities (expert opinion that shaped guidelines relating to cyanotoxins       in recreational and drinking water)     (d) The general public at risk from cyanotoxin exposure in drinking       water, dialysis fluid or in lakes and rivers.
Background:     Research by the University of Dundee has had a major impact on the       recognition, toxicity-assessment and risk-management of cyanobacterial       blooms and cyanotoxins in waterbodies worldwide.
This research provided       primary guidance in the formulation and adoption of safety plans by       several governmental and regulatory authorities for health protection       against cyanotoxins in human drinking water supplies, aquaculture and       veterinary practice.
Impacts:     In 1999, Professor Codd played a major role in preparing one of the most       comprehensive and highly cited texts in the cyanobacteria field "Toxic         Cyanobacteria in Water: A Guide to their Public Health Consequences,         Monitoring and Management" which was published by the World Health       Organization.
Professor Codd authored chapters 5, 7, 10, and section 8.5.8       as well as participating in the editorial advisory group.
The guide       detailed the information needed for protecting drinking-water sources and       recreational water bodies from the health hazards caused by cyanobacteria       and their toxins.
This text was key in the derivation of the World Health       Organisation (WHO) guidelines for Drinking Water Quality (1,2).
These       guidelines, published in 2008 and updated in 2011 (and frequently citing       primary research from Professor Codd) are one of the most significant       policy documents for the management of water resources (1,2) and represent       the current position of "UN-Water", the body that coordinates programmes       concerned with water issues amongst the 24 UN agencies.
In addition, Prof MacKintosh was a discussant at the Water Toxins Panel       of the Department of the Environment Standing Committee of Analysts       (Organic Impurities Working Group) from 1992 to 1996 and was a consultant       to Thames Water Utilities Ltd. (1994-1995), advising on use of protein       phosphatase assays to detect microcystin in water samples.
This resulted       in the use of new analytical methods to monitor water safety during a       period of microcystic blooming on reservoirs in the Thames area which are       still in use today.
Other current governmental and regulatory authority guidelines have been       heavily influenced by cyanotoxin research at the University of Dundee.
These include:     1) Guidance to Public Health and Environmental Health Authorities in       Scotland (2012), on risks of cyanobacteria in inland and inshore waters       (3).
Professor Codd was part of the Working group that prepared this       document and the guidance commissioned by the Scottish Government takes       account of current WHO guidelines (2).
2) The Guidelines for Canadian Recreational Water Quality (2012)       (4) is used by provincial and local authorities in Canada and provides       advice on the health risks of recreational waters.
3) Guidelines For Managing Risks in Recreational Water (2008) (5)       is a document produced by the Australian Government for state and       territory governments to develop legislation and standards to manage the       quality of coastal, estuarine and fresh waters used for recreation.
4) The US Council on Environmental Quality commissioned an Interagency       Working Group on Harmful Algal Blooms, Hypoxia, and Human Health to       produce a 2008 report assessing the problem of harmful algal blooms in       inland waters of the US (6).
5) The US Geological Survey published guidelines in 2008 for the design       and sampling for cyanobacterial toxin in lakes and reservoirs (7).
6) The US Environmental Protection Agency published a fact sheet in 2012       (8) providing basic information on human health effects, analytical       screening tools, and the effectiveness of various treatment processes to       remove or inactivate the three most important cyanotoxins that occur in US       water.
7) The New Zealand Ministry for the Environment and Ministry of Health       published guidelines in 2009 to promote a unified approach to managing       cyanobacterial risk in water used for recreational purposes (9).
The development of microcystin-Sepharose to purify and characterize       protein phosphatases and their diverse regulatory subunits by the       University of Dundee was adopted by Millipore and this reagent is marketed       worldwide.
(http://www.millipore.com/catalogue/item/16-147).
