     Beneficiaries (the benefit/impact):     (a) Pharmaceutical companies (the identification of AMPK agonists as cancer     prophylactic and potential therapeutic agents, as well as for diabetes)     (b) Diabetes patients (patients in Phase II clinical trials who have     benefited from ImegliminTM)     (c) Cancer patients (patients in Phase II clinical trials who have benefited     from metformin or other AMPK agonists in their therapy)     Impacts:     Drug Development campaigns by Pharma for novel AMPK activators       Research by the University of Dundee not only identified the components       and regulation of the AMPK signalling cascade, but also defined AMPK as a       key energy sensor with a central role in metabolism, diabetes and, more       recently, cancer.
The impact of AMPK research at Dundee can be evidenced       by the publishing of 57 patents from 22 different organisations,       describing small molecule activators of AMPK.
This, in turn, has led to       the initiation of several major drug discovery campaigns and clinical       trials, including:     Poxel, a spin-off from Merck-Serono in 2009, has developed       both a new indirect activator of AMPK called ImegliminTM, as       well as a direct activator of AMPK that is in pre-clinical development       (1).
ImegliminTM is currently undergoing Phase II clinical       trials to test the benefit of additive effects of ImegliminTM       with metformin.
In 2012, Phase IIa clinical trials showed that ImegliminTM       displays a superior benefit : risk profile compared with metformin in type       2 diabetes patients (2), and Phase II results recently released by Poxel       suggest that ImegliminTM showed increasing effectiveness as an       add-on therapy to Sitagliptin in patients inadequately controlled by       Sitagliptin monotherapy.
Mercury Pharmaceuticals Inc has developed new compounds to       activate AMPK for the treatment of prostate cancer (3).
The company is       evaluating these compounds in an established animal model of human       prostate cancer and initial results are very promising.
In addition to       prostate cancer, genetic markers in 30%-50% of non-small cell lung       carcinomas, 40% of colon cancers and over 50% of malignant melanomas       suggest that AMPK activators developed by Mercury Pharmaceuticals Inc will       have efficacy in these indications.
In 2010, the company signed an       exclusive agreement with Debiopharm Group for the development and       commercialisation of a small molecule activator of AMPK (Debio 0930) for       treatment of type 2 diabetes (4).
Betagenon, performed a drug discovery programme to develop       novel direct AMPK agonists (5).
In 2008, the pharmaceutical company       Antisoma announced that they had licensed rights to develop and       commercialise Betagenon's AMPK activators in cancer indications.
Clinical trials of metformin for cancer treatment and prophylaxis       The identification by the Dundee team that the tumour suppressor LKB1 is       the upstream kinase that activates AMPK, together with the finding that       metformin decreases cancer incidence in diabetic patients, has had a major       impact on the cancer field, especially as metformin is orally available,       has no long-term safety issues and is available as a generic drug.
This       has driven 52 case-controlled clinical trials worldwide (many between       2008-2013) with an enrollment of over 7,000 people in 10 different       countries.
As an example, these trials include one started in 2010 as the       first large-scale international clinical trial testing the effects of       metformin administered for 5 years on both recurrence and survival in       early-stage breast cancer (6).
These kinds of trials will establish       whether the stratification of patients with AMPK-inactivation in their       cancers will benefit from AMPK-activating drugs and also assess whether       existing chemotherapy and radiotherapy regimens may be enhanced by       combining them with treatments that modulate AMPK.
Thus far, two pilot       studies, in 2011 and 2012, have demonstrated a positive effect of       metformin in women with newly diagnosed breast cancer awaiting surgery       (7-8): short-term preoperative metformin was well-tolerated and resulted       in clinical, biomarker and cellular changes consistent with beneficial       anti-cancer effects.
As of 2013, there are 13 Phase I, 37 Phase II and 2 Phase III trials       underway examining the effect of metformin in a variety of cancers such as       pancreatic, prostate, colorectal, and breast cancer (see http://clinicaltrials.gov/)       and as of October 2013, metformin appears promising as a preventive agent       for ovarian and hepatic cancers.
Whilst anecdotal, Lewis Cantley, Director       of the Beth Isreal Cancer Center, Harvard Medical School, said of the       drug: "Metformin may have already saved more people from cancer deaths       than any drug in history".
