     Improved social welfare and cohesion     In international disasters, mass graves and scenes of crime facial       recognition may be one of the only viable options for identification.
However, misidentification from visual recognition is frequent and a       reliable facial depiction system has improved the efficacy of       investigations, which in turn has a positive effect on society with the       efficient repatriation of victims and return of the deceased to the family       and for judicial matters of estate.
The use of these craniofacial       techniques has been incorporated into Interpol's Disaster Victim       Identification procedure (5.1) and has been confirmed as       directly responsible for efficient identification by the police (5.2).
Delivering highly skilled people and international standards     Wilkinson's, 3D computerized craniofacial system is now utilised       in international forensic institutes, such as the FBI Academy, National       Centre for Missing and Exploited Children, Turkish Forensic Institute,       BostonPD and Royal Newfoundland Police (5.3), and this group       has trained approximately 50 practitioners worldwide (South Korea, India,       Malaysia, Japan, USA, Canada, Israel, Australia, Europe, South Africa,       Turkey, Mexico and Romania) and has provided police training for Saudi       Arabia, the UK and South Africa (5.4).
Wilkinson has acted as an expert witness in criminal courts in       Britain and South Africa and is currently the only craniofacial       anthropologist accredited by the Royal Anthropological Institute as a       forensic practitioner.
With the increase in social media and CCTV       surveillance this is important to international security, law enforcement       and social cohesion.
She has had a direct effect on international policy       through membership of US and UK Government sponsored Scientific Working       Groups, e.g.
Facial Identification (5.1) and Anthropology and       the Association of Chief Police Officers Facial Identification Group (5.1).
She has been involved in the drafting of numerous international codes of       practice and practitioner guidelines through those groups and the British       Association of Forensic Anthropology steering committee, the EU New       Methodologies and Protocols of Forensic Identification by Craniofacial       Superimposition (MEPROCS) research consortium (5.1) and the       International Association of Craniofacial Identification Board of       Governors.
[text removed for publication].
She is also frequently consulted by UK       Police, Ireland's National Police, Netherlands Forensic Institute and Abu       Dhabi General Directorate in relation to facial identification (5.2)       [text removed for publication].
Cultural enrichment through improved public engagement with art,         science and history     This research has enabled more reliable and realistic       historical/archaeological interpretations of ancient remains and this has       increased public engagement through museum exhibitions, publications and       media events (5.5, 5.6, 5.7).
The computerized facial       depiction of people from the past became a recognized scientific method as       a direct result of the BBC2 series History Cold Case (5.8)       and Wilkinson featured as part of the Dundee team in each episode       producing a digital craniofacial depiction, the reveal of which was the       climax of each programme.
Series 1 (2010) recorded over 2M viewers and led       to a second UK series (2011).
The most significant historical projects of this group include the       depictions of Mary, Queen of Scots (5.7), Richard III (5.7)       and J.S.
Bach (3.5).
The former was central to an exhibition       at the National Museum of Scotland (NMS) with &gt;28,000 visitors, the       second was integral to a C4 program with &gt;4.1 million viewers and 64       million web discussions about the face, and the latter was placed in       permanent exhibition at the Bachhaus with &gt;7 million web page       discussions.
This work was directly responsible for a change in the way       the public viewed these historical figures, away from the Shakespearean       view of a twisted Richard III monster and towards the only portrait of       Mary, Queen of Scots showing her during the period of time she lived in       Scotland.
Wilkinson uniquely applied craniofacial analysis techniques to       study the Lewis Chessmen (5.9) (discovered in 1831       on the Isle of Lewis)       and this research was influential in changing the view of the production       and likely use of these pieces.
Since 2008 Wilkinson's team have reconstructed approximately 25       archaeological faces and their work is exhibited in &gt;ten new       exhibitions around the world (5.7), including the National       Museum of Ireland, Stirling Castle, Heritage Malta, Ulster Museum,       Bachhaus (3.5), National Museum of Scotland, and the British       Museum (Wilkinson REF 3).
In March 2013, the Centre for Anatomy &amp; Human Identification applied       for the 2013 Queen's Anniversary Prize for Higher Education (awarded 22       November 2013) (5.5) for their study and application of human       anatomy, forensic human identification, disaster victim identification and       forensic and medical art.
This award recognised the Centre as being an       international leader in craniofacial identification and forensic facial       reconstruction for the identification of the living and the dead.
