     Rae and Carswell's research has significantly influenced       the way in which enterprise initiatives and enterprise advisers/educators       have approached entrepreneurial learning and education.
Driving this       research through to shape the Centre has generated further reach and       significance by enabling the Centre to: secure several successful       projects, support hundreds of enterprises, and enhance the personal and       business growth of many entrepreneurs.
The Centre attracted 4 KTPs, for example in Orchid Business Computing         Ltd and Trans Oceanic Meat Co (Nottingham) Ltd.
In the case       of the latter, Rae used his work to develop entrepreneurial       learning and decision-making which assisted KTP associate, Grieve,       to work entrepreneurially in order to do make an impact on process, and in       turn financially benefit his organisation.
Grieve was able       to save the company &#163;100,000 per annum as a result of changes to process       that he instigated (University of Derby, 2005).
The Centre attracted funding for the `Achieving Business Focus' and `New       Venture' programmes.
`Achieving Business Focus' (ABF) used Rae's       research on MCEs to concentrate on mid-career support.
The programmes used       Rae's life story research to encourage entrepreneurs to       reflect on their life story and make a step change to their business.
72%       of businesses participating in ABF reported job creation (15.5 in total)       or safeguarding of jobs (67.5 safeguarded) (Mosley, 2006, p.4).
77%       reported that they had improved the delivery of products and services as a       result of the programme, demonstrating change in process and practice       (Mosley, 2006, p.7).
The `New Venture' (NV) programme was utilised the       practical approach and networking/cohort learning advocated by Rae       (2004) and colleagues in the Centre.
By the conclusion of this programme       62% of participants reported that they felt clearer about their business       opportunity post-intervention (Mosley, 2006, p.13).
NV delivered a toolkit       that entrepreneurs/aspiring entrepreneurs could study in their own time;       this later used technology (CD-ROM toolkit) and was used to develop       practitioners.
Working the Derby and Derbyshire Enterprise Partnership (DDEP)       the Centre demonstrated significant regional impact through the highly       successful `Enterprising Derbyshire' Programme.
This followed and       utilised Rae and Carswell's focus on skills       required for an individual to be entrepreneurial.
The results showed       consistent improvements in turnover, profitability and employment       opportunities.
Measuring the 6-month impact of `Enterprising         Derbyshire' in 2006/2007, 32% of businesses had taken on additional       staff.
Of those that had started trading: 64% reported increased turnover       (36% reported a significant increase) and 56% reported increased       profitability (3rd Avenue, 2007).
By March 2008, businesses       involved with the programme had created 36 jobs, and safeguarded a further       5.5 (3rd Avenue, 2008).
Rae's research (2004) unveiled the need for continuous       education and mentoring for early start-up businesses, as well as the       importance of `learning through doing'.
On this basis the `Student         Placement in Enterprise Education' (SPEED) initiative was launched       (2008).
This was distinctive in providing funding for students to take a       trial and error approach to starting a business.
Over 73% of participants       demonstrated good entrepreneurial qualities after the initiative, by going       on to start their own business (Woodier-Harris, 2010,       p.471).
Woodier-Harris' work on entrepreneurial careers was       inspired by Rae's, particularly the critical incidences in an       entrepreneur's learning journey.
This in turn informed the SPEED programme       through the emphasis on cohort learning and social relationships       (emphasised by Rae and Carswell (2000b) and later by Woodier-Harris).
The impact was felt among the student community, business start-up       community, and in the region through its economic benefits (University of       Derby, 2007).
DBS was one of only 4 business schools chosen to involved in the `Creative         Business Catalyst' development project (2008-2009) (funded by NESTA       and HEFCE).
This cross-sector project linked MBA students with creative       businesses to allow each to influence the other.
By the end of this pilot       it was deemed to be an outstanding success and there were recommendations       for a full roll-out.
Enterprise Inc ran (funded by East Midlands Development Agency       (EMDA) and ERDF) ran in 2008-2009.
The Centre's findings on cohort       learning were used to shape the delivery model.
The success of this       included 463 individuals assisted to start a business (against a target of       400) by its evaluation in 2011; this success led to the Centre's       involvement in `Enterprise Inc 2' (Dixon,       2011).
Successful case studies are plentiful (University of Derby,       2010b).
In 2008-2011, `Ingenuity' (funded by EMDA) began, in collaboration       with two local universities.
`Ingenuity' facilitated knowledge       dissemination, identified challenges with SMEs and looked to address these       through action-based approaches, and drew in University and partner       expertise to provide enterprise support.
Rae's work on       practical theory was used to inform this action-based approach.
In an       interim report in July 2010 (Momentum Associates, 2010), the programme had       already reached 750 businesses through networking and showcasing events,       and 108 businesses through one-to-one knowledge transfer support.
There       are many success stories (University of Derby, 2010a).
The `Innovation Axis' (2009-2010) initiative provided SME's with       the opportunity to observe good practice and engage with peer-peer       learning.
Rae's (2005) research on entrepreneurial learning       and learning cycles informed this initiative, and led to the innovations       of entrepreneurs being captured and cascaded to other SMEs through       mentoring activity (University of Derby, 2011).
Rae's findings (as well as the Centre as they learned from       and progressed Rae's work) led to changes to conventional       practice in enterprise development.
This has become a cornerstone for       several business growth initiatives in the East Midlands, including the       current `Let's Do Business' (2013-2015), an ERDF funded project for       enterprise support for graduates, young employed and those displaced from       private and public sector jobs.
