     SYTOC developed a large following through over a decade of work.
Their       launch event attracted over 200 businesses and began on-going links with       over 50 of these to develop and deliver knowledge management and       organisational change research and programmes (University of Derby, 2010).
In 2009, key contributor to the group, Visiting Professor Seddon,       accepted an invitation to sit on a Government Think Tank for Systems       Reform in the Public Sector.
The research conducted into use of knowledge management for cultural       change was used to inform the development of a middle management       development programme for Derby City Council.
The programme ran       from 2000 till 2010; from 2005, and focused on the importance of knowledge       management in change and the educators' role in unlocking the individual's       potential as a leader.
Dexter's and Marshall's findings       that the educator's role facilitates the organic nature of individual and       organisational change was pivotal to this programme.
The programme was       attended by 200 middle managers from Derby City Council (DCC) and       was designed to address weaknesses in Derby City Council's       management (for example in terms of strategy and processes for management       development).
The programme was continuously updated using the research       conducted by the SYTOC group and provided a mechanism in which impact       could be ensured and evaluated.
Research in 2003 and 2009 (by UoD) of       participants' managers found that those that had been on the programme       were better able to lead change, stayed longer, had more rapid       progression, were in more senior roles, and were more strategically aware       (Hann).
As the programme grew the outcomes of the emerging change initiative were       fed back to the educators, who responded by amending the programme in       order foster change and individual growth.
The educators' role changed as       well, to become more integrated with the change process in the       organisation.
Dexter's and Marshall's       research on the sustainability of change through knowledge sharing was       fundamental to the success of this phase of the programme.
The research process itself enabled the managers to reflect more on the       current and potential future state of the organisation and potentially       change their thinking with regard to leadership approach\style and methods       for operational improvement.
Derby City Council cited the research       input and change activity delivered by SYTOC through the programme as a       key part in the Council achieving an `excellent' status in the       Comprehensive Performance Assessment inspection (2006).
This status       impacted the Council significantly, for instance allowing then `greater       freedoms and flexibilities such as a reduction in reporting to       government'.
This is evidenced in a testimonial from Derby City Council's,       Head of Performance and Improvement (Greenan, 2013).
Knowledge management research has also been disseminated through short       courses on the fundamentals of a Systems Thinking approach to business and       organisational improvement.
Over a five year period the course has       attracted a variety of people, primarily from within the service industry       and public sector, including transformational change managers and senior       managers from health, fire and police services.
Practitioners have the       opportunity to implement research informed service improvement       methodologies to enhance service and reduce costs.
To date there have been       many examples of the students research and application of the methodology       making a positive impact on their organisation (testimonials available).
Such impact is measurable through the service level received by the       customer or consumer of the service.
For example, the reduction of the       true end-to-end time to deliver a public service such as the installation       of special equipment at the home of a person with special mobility needs.
Other examples include the reduction of void times in social housing,       improved efficiency in the process for the measurement of air quality       (environmental agency) and process improvement for the School Food         Trust.
The impact of the group's research in knowledge management and service       improvement can also be evidenced through the direct engagement of       researchers in the supervision of Executive MBA students on the Business       Impact Study.
For example SYTOC member Franco has used       directly the group's critical research of the application of Systems       Thinking approaches to service improvement.
Illustrations include work       with the Senior Manager of Children's Specialist Services to reduce the       waiting times for appointments in Nottinghamshire NHS.
Key impacts       include a Quality Improvement Programme that empowered frontline       clinicians to resolve demand and capacity issues by thinking differently       and creatively; a reduction in waiting for assessment appointment from 12       weeks to 9 weeks, and a reduction from 46 weeks to 6 weeks for treatment       over a period of 7 months and maintaining the KPI requirements.
(Aldridge,       2013).
Work with the Director of Global Field Service Engineering for Honeywell         Aerospace lead to the introduction of chargeable services for       Technical Support incorporating fully authorized Service Centres       Worldwide, and the identification of growth opportunities for customers to       include retrofits, modifications and upgrades for existing in-service       products.
Ongoing impact includes the company realigning the future       support of Air Transport and a significant uplift in profits (Alcock,       2013).
Longbottom's research commenced in 2006 and focused on a       centralised lending unit (processing loan applications from application to       completion and subsequent account management).
Funding was initially       negotiated at &#163;6000 per annum to cover the period 2006-2009.
Further       extensions were agreed to cover the period 2009-2012, and 2012-2015.
Total       funding pledged by the Bank over the period 2006-2015 is &#163;54,000.
A pilot       implementation of the new methods within the centralised lending unit       commenced in 2008 and involved a department of approximately 30 people.
This was subsequently rolled out across the unit to other departments and       involved in total approximately 250 people.
Research to monitor progress       and performance was conducted over the period 2009-2011.
The findings show       improved performance metrics in customer satisfaction, financial       performance, and internal staff satisfaction (results presented in       publications).
Ongoing projects have now been identified to extend this       work into the retail branch network of the sponsor bank (Personal       references can be provided on request).
