     At the national UK level, Levi's work on fraud costing principles       and typologies of impact (developed in a study for ACPO and in Levi and       Burrows, 2008) were used as the baseline for annual fraud indicators by       the new National Fraud Authority, who also appointed Levi to advise on its       (classified) identity theft strategic assessment.
[5.1] On the back of       this, with colleagues elsewhere, in 2009 Levi helped the Financial       Services Authority develop an evidence-influenced strategic view of the       harms (scale and impact) of a broader range of financial crimes -       including fraud, market abuse (e.g.
insider trading) and money laundering       - and how they might be prioritized and counteracted.
[5.2]     Levi's work on organised crime (with Maguire) helped to stimulate those       developing the Serious and Organised Crime Agency to focus on harm       reduction rather than conventional law enforcement outputs, reframing       organised crime as looser networked crime and examining the use of       administrative measures to supplement criminal enforcement.
In a letter of       support, the first Director General of SOCA notes that "With SOCA, we       looked at work he had done around harm reduction, which led to the       inclusion of that approach within the strategy of SOCA which was published       in the first Annual report of the agency.
It guided much of the       development of the Serious Organised Crime Threat Assessment, which led to       the Serious Organised Crime Control Strategy, which allowed many       government agencies, police and intelligence services to work together in       coordination to address the threats posed to the UK", concluding that       Levi's "work has definitively shaped much of the underpinning strategy and       thinking within law enforcement and the government, particularly the Home       Office"[5.3].
Levi adapted an e-crimes harm framework for the Police       eCrime Unit of the Metropolitan Police, which they use for their annual       reporting.
As the former head of this unit states, this framework helped       provide "a true reflection of the impact police operations have when       deployed to combat cyber crime."
As a result, the Unit was able to put       together a "business case which subsequently secured &#163;30m treasury funding       over a four year period and based on the 1:21 return on investment       evidenced an end of year four Harm Reduction target of &#163;504m".
The former       head of unit notes Levi's "significant assistance in creating the Harm       reduction process (which is now being utilized in several other areas of       policing in addition to cyber), and your ongoing support which has been       instrumental in helping policing deliver these impressive results and in       reducing harm to the UK" [5.4].
The influence of Levi's work on organised crime policy has continued with       his unpublished internal literature review on organised crime for the Home       Office, and in-house seminar to policy-makers there, which underpinned       "the organised crime research strategy subsequently published by the Home       Office in late 2010" [5.5].
Levi's work on organised crime prevention and       the costs of fraud was used extensively in a Home Office economic study, The         impact of organised crime in the UK: revenues and economic and social         costs, and fed into the Prime Minister's Strategy Unit paper Extending           our Reach, to which he was appointed to an internal review       team.
The deputy director of the strategy unit at the time notes that       "Michael was recommended to me by senior practitioners in both the Serious       Organised Crime Agency and the police and I can confirm that his research       was invaluable in the development of the final report...In particular, his       research on the importance of prevention was highly influential and       impactful" [5.6].
In terms of international policy making, Levi's analysis of       e-gambling and money laundering [see 3.3] provided the evidential basis       for the Council of Europe's Moneyval committee to conduct a       money-laundering typologies exercise on that subject, to which he was       adviser; it was also used and cited explicitly in the German government's       revision of its money laundering legislation in 2013 to include online       gambling.
His research on proceeds of crime enforcement was a key part of       the DG-Home proposal for a 2012 directive on the confiscation of proceeds       of crime.
In addition to advising on the background report published with       the proposed directive [5.7], Levi's work was used in the Directive       explanatory document to make the case for the need to incentivise asset       recovery.
[5.8]     His reformulation of organised crime as networked crime has subsequently       become conventional wisdom: see, e.g.
the Europol Serious and Organised       Crime Threat Assessment (2013), on which he was an adviser/critical       friend.
In a letter of appreciation, the Director of Europol singles out       Levi's work: "of all the help we received, yours was especially useful".
[5.9] This is the foundation for the EU Policy Cycle and its       prioritisation of different crimes within the Union and its Member States.
Finally, his work on the costs of cybercrime as part of a team asked by       the UK Ministry of Defence to do a critical overview of evidence has been       refined and submitted to the CRIM committee of the European Parliament at       their request, and fed into his project for them on the cost and impact of       organised crime in Europe.
It is one of several of Levi's works cited in       the World Economic Forum Global Agenda Council on Organized Crime's 2012       report on organized crime enablers.
[5.10] His involvement as one of the       founding members of that committee - now merged into the Illicit Trade and       Organised Crime Global Agenda Council - helped to shape its orientation       towards a strategic focus on intervening against key enablers rather than       against more frontline criminal actors, and to his participation in its       2013-14 project on measuring the impact of illicit trade and organised       crime globally.
