     Bovine TB: the problem       bTB is caused by the pathogen M. bovis, which infects livestock       and wildlife, with severe socio-economic       consequences and an impact on animal health.
bTB is largely eliminated in       many       countries, but the control of M. bovis has proven problematic in       both Great Britain and Ireland.
In       the absence of improved control, the projected economic burden to Great       Britain over the next       decade is predicted to be &#163;1 billion.
Though persistence of M. bovis       in the environment and poor       test sensitivity may play a role, efforts to understand and control bTB       centre around the role of the       Eurasian badger (Meles meles) as a potential reservoir.
Despite the       importance of badgers as a       wildlife reservoir, this risk is concentrated in the South-West of       England, and in the rest of Great       Britain at least half of cases have previously been attributed to recorded       movements of cattle from       high risk areas that are under annual testing.
Once detected, OTF status       is withdrawn (OTFW) or       suspended (OTFS) depending on whether infection is subsequently confirmed;       all reactor cattle       are slaughtered and movements of cattle from the herd suspended until OTF       status is recovered,       which requires that the herd be clear of reactors for two consecutive       tests over six months.
University of Glasgow risk-based bTB surveillance model becomes           Scottish Government           policy       The Animal Health and Welfare Veterinary Laboratory Agency (AHVLA) is the       UK statutory agency       responsible for disease control, including implementation of bTB testing       and advising policy-makers       in government.
Members from the AHVLA as well as the Chief Veterinary       Officer for       Scotland and Scottish Government Scientific advisor joined the Glasgow       researchers on the       project steering group tasked with working up the research findings into a       framework that was       practical for implementation.
In April 2011, the University of Glasgow       research team presented       their risk-based bTB model and a range of surveillance options to the       steering group, and worked       with them to identify the most appropriate surveillance model to implement       through existing AHVLA       channels in Scotland.
The final form of the model was presented to the       Scottish Government       (including a group of government cattle stakeholders) in May 2011 and       accepted in June, just 15       months after the initial research was commissioned.a Details of       the revised bTB policy and its       implementation date (1st January 2012) were announced via       letters sent out by the AHVLA to the       livestock industry and veterinarians through a Scottish Government press       release in October 2011b       which sparked widespread media coverage.c     The model can be easily adapted at any time to account for changes in       individual risk factors,       thereby ensuring that bTB surveillance and resource allocation remain       optimal in Scotland.
To       ensure the model remains evidence-based, the University of Glasgow has       been commissioned to       undertake further monitoring of the surveillance system and consider       options for improvement       under the Scottish Government Centre of Expertise in Animal Disease       Outbreaks, of which Profs.
Kao and Mellor are Principal Investigators on the Centre Directorate.
This       is the first time that risk-       based surveillance for bTB has been used in the European Union, and       therefore the first time that       a scientific underpinning has been used to inform bTB surveillance.
Speaking of the University of       Glasgow-informed Scottish bTB surveillance system, the Chief Veterinary       Officer for Scotland       commented...     `In other OTF countries a wide range of surveillance protocols are in         operation but none have         been fully successful.
The Scottish risk based system of exemptions is         therefore truly unique.'
d     Revised Scottish Government policy saves money       Prior to the introduction of the new risk-based model developed by the       University of Glasgow, all       eligible cattle herds in Scotland were tested on a 4 year cycle and annual       costs for bTB control in       Scotland averaged &#163;2 million per year.
A major aim of the University of       Glasgow-led policy revision       was to provide a surveillance system that would save money and more       effectively target       surveillance resources.
Under the revised policy, simple strategies are       used to identify premises at       low risk of infection to exempt them from testing.
Additionally, the       procedures for herd `breakdown'       follow-up testing have been changed by reducing two testing cycles to just       one.
Unconfirmed herd       `breakdown' testing at 6 and 12 months after restoration of OTF herd       status is no longer required       under the revised policy.
The predictive ability of the model provides the       opportunity for livestock       owners to implement pre-emptive control measures via preferential purchase       of cattle from areas       where bTB is a low risk.
As of June 2011 there were 12,580 Scottish       agricultural holdings       registered, with typically one herd per holding.
Previously, one in four       of these would have been       subject to routine herd testing in each year (i.e.
3,145 of them).
Of       these in 2012, 1,018 herds       (more than 30%) were exempt from routine testing, resulting in savings to       the Scottish Government       in the region of &#163;150,000.a,e,f Consequently, the government       funds saved from the revised policy       have enabled investment in parallel animal health priorities (such as       bovine viral diarrhoea       eradication and reduction of sheep scab) to further enhance the health and       welfare status and       reputation of Scotland's livestock industry.d     Reduction in bTB testing affords benefits to farmers and animal           welfare       The reduction in bTB testing in Scotland has also impacted upon farmers,       veterinarians and cattle.
For testing to take place, cattle must be gathered and restrained in a       'crush' (a powerfully built       cage that holds the animal upright and still) on two occasions, 3 days       apart.
This process       represents a major challenge as cattle, particularly beef bulls, can       exceed 1,000 kg in weight.
A       2008 survey commissioned by the Health and Safety Executive (HSE)       identified bTB testing as the       most hazardous task undertaken by veterinarians, and indeed HSE statistics       detail incidents where       farmers have been killed whilst moving their cattle for the purposes of       bTB testing.h The testing       process is therefore time consuming, potentially dangerous to those       carrying out the testing,       stressful to the animal and very costly in terms of time and effort.
Reducing the frequency of bTB       testing and exempting some herds altogether will undoubtedly reduce the       risks to people and       stress on cattle resulting from the manual handling involved.
The cost of       the bTB testing process       for farmers can peak at &#163;50 in profit loss per animal due to reduced       productivity (weight, milk       yields).
The reduction in bTB testing from the revised policy has       translated to an estimated saving       of &#163;100,000 per year to the Scottish farming industry.f     The success of the Scottish Government policy receives UK wide           recognition       Whilst Scotland has been officially bTB free since 2009, incidence rates       of bTB remain       problematically high in the southwest of England and parts of Wales and       Ireland, with an annual       average of approximately 25% of herds in the South-West under movement       restrictions due to bTB       at some point in 2011.
Given the wide sale and transfer of livestock       between regions of the UK,       these areas represent a challenge to surveillance measures across the       whole of the UK and bTB       control remains a high priority issue.
In recognition of the Scottish       policy on bTB testing, the       Scottish Government bTB policy team was nominated and shortlisted for `The         Innovative Delivery         Award' at the 2012 UK Civil Service Annual Awards.
These awards are       designed to showcase best       practice in implementing technology in government policy making.
The       policy development work       has been further recognised by the Civil Service, which has translated the       University of Glasgow       research behind the Scottish Government policy into a case study on its       `Open policy making'       website.
The case studies aim to showcase proven best-practice examples of       policy making,       highlighting pointers for future approaches.
In direct reference to the       University of Glasgow       research underpinning the Scottish Government bTB policy cost savings, the       article states that       `The academic research is central to this achievement and re-affirms         the Scottish Government's         decision to engage academia after it recognised it did not have the         resources or expertise to         conduct the research in-house.
'h Furthermore the Boyd-Orr       Centre for Population and Ecosystem       Health was awarded the 2013 Queen's Anniversary Prize for Higher and       Further Education.j     In response to such advocacy and demonstrable benefits gained from the       incorporation of the       University of Glasgow's research into bTB government policy in Scotland,       the UK Department for       Environment, Food and Rural Affairs (Defra) commissioned the University of       Glasgow team in July       2012 (almost &#163;300,000 in funding) to produce a model of risk-based bTB       surveillance in England       and Wales, which includes the aim of extending these efficiency measures       to low risk areas of       England and potentially Wales.i The AHVLA has supported this       move by disseminating the       `Scottish experience' of successful research-led bTB policy development to       the approximately 200       Official Veterinarians involved in bTB testing across England, Scotland       and Wales in its distribution       profile.k Furthermore, dissemination of the Scottish bTB policy       to policy audiences as prominent as       the European Commission has given the University of Glasgow and Scottish       Government policy       development work an international profile.d
