     The work of Professor Sarah Cleaveland and the University of Glasgow       rabies group has had a strong impact in several African countries and at a       global level.
Their research has led directly to major changes in policy,       influencing decisions made by government health and veterinary authorities       in Tanzania and Kenya.
In Tanzania, this work led to the development and       adoption of new standard operating procedures for measures that both       control rabies in animal populations and prevent rabies from developing in       humans.
In Kenya, the team is currently developing a national rabies       control and prevention plan for the Kenyan government.
At the global       level, the team's efforts have led to the drafting of a resolution on the       global elimination of canine-mediated human rabies to be taken forward at       the WHO World Health Assembly in May 2014, which is the vehicle for       controlling the budget and policy decisions of the WHO.
In 2009, Cleaveland helped to develop a cost effective package for       sustainable canine rabies control at a WHO/Bill &amp; Melinda Gates       Foundation Consultation.a The consultation recommended       financial mechanisms by which canine rabies control can be sustained       through cost savings in PEP, essentially adopting a `one health' approach,       where solutions to rabies control are addressed as a joint concern of both       veterinary and medical authorities.
Cleaveland's work was debated at the       WHO level, demonstrating both the significant health problem posed by       rabies and the potential for global uptake of the work of University of       Glasgow research, which could lead to effective eradication of the       disease.
Tanzania: Human post-exposure prophylaxis and dog vaccination     Between 2008 and 2012, Cleaveland led the `Canine Rabies Elimination       Demonstration Project', funded by the WHO/Bill &amp; Melinda Gates       Foundation in Tanzania.
At the outset of the project period in 2008,       Cleaveland and the Glasgow team (Hampson and Lembo) worked with the senior       health and veterinary authorities in Tanzania to develop new national       Standard Operating Procedures for both human intradermal PEP and mass       canine vaccination, advising on planning, implementation logistics and       vaccine options.
These were adopted by the Tanzanian authorities in 2009,       representing a significant achievement in African public health policy.b,c     In 2009 (Nov-Dec), Cleaveland, Hampson and Dr Tiziana Lembo worked with       Tanzanian veterinary officials and collaborators from the WHO and United       States Centre for Disease Control (CDC) Rabies Team to deliver primary       training on the new PEP standard operating procedures to 30 clinicians in       Tanzania and on the delivery of mass dog vaccination schemes to 35       district veterinary officers.
These training sessions were complemented by       the training of 22 lab technicians in rabies surveillance techniques (as       part of a separately funded programme of implementing effective rabies       surveillance in Tanzania; UBS Optimus Foundation, 2008-2011).
The aim was       for each of these trained professionals to train others and for the nation       to build specialist capacity in the veterinary, medical and surveillance       aspects of rabies control.
The project also included research by both Cleaveland and Hampson       (University of Glasgow) on new strategies for human PEP regimens.
Working       in a project area covering the South-East of Tanzania, the team promoted       the use of human PEP vaccination by the intradermal route through training       workshops with medical officers from the Ministry of Health, conducted in       collaboration with the WHO.
This was based on research showing it to be a       simpler, cost-effective replacement for intramuscular vaccination, due to       the lower volume dose required.
As a result, since early 2010, the use of       intradermal PEP in the project region has increased from 0% to &gt;80% of       PEP vaccinations given (see Figure).d Issues of PEP regimen       compliance to prevent treatment failure have also been improved through a       mobile phone text-based reminder service initiated by Hampson in the       project area.d            Kenya: Informing a national rabies policy      During 2012, Cleaveland was working with the CDC base in Nairobi, which       catalysed the establishment of the Zoonotic Disease Unit (ZDU) within the       Government of Kenya.
Through this collaboration, Cleaveland's expertise in       rabies was sought during a large rabies outbreak in the city of Kisumu in       western Kenya, and Cleaveland provided operational advice to the       veterinary field teams, and organised supplies of vaccine.
As a result of       this, a plan to develop a national rabies control strategy was initiated       by the ZDU, and Cleaveland invited to develop the outline and framework,       which was presented to the Kenyan Veterinary Association in April 2013.e       The strategy document, which encompasses human PEP, dog vaccination and       rabies surveillance in a step-wise approach, is being finalised within       the Government of Kenya, and has thus been the subject of national policy       discussion.
Rabies Blueprint      The `Rabies Blueprint' is a web-based resource       (caninerabiesblueprint.org), launched in June 2010, providing a       step-by-step guide for health authorities in rabies-endemic areas.
It was       conceived and steered by Lembo and the Glasgow team in collaboration with       the Partners for Rabies Prevention, an independent group of rabies experts       from international agencies.
The Rabies Blueprint combines all of the       relevant existing rabies control guidelines, addressing the       responsibilities of each stakeholder, legislative frameworks, costs and       implementation strategies.
Within the first year the site had 46,000       visitors (over 2,000 per month) from 157 countries, 1,719 cities and five       continents.f The Blueprint has been used in many regions with a       high incidence of rabies, such as Africa (Uganda and Benin) and Asia       (Afghanistan and Indonesia).
For example, the Asia co-ordinator of the NGO       `Global Alliance for Rabies Control' uses the Rabies Blueprint for       planning their programmes and operational activities in the Philippines       and Indonesia, describing it as a `valuable tool for training and         implementation of dog rabies control programs' and has cited its use       in the WHO strategic framework for rabies elimination in South East Asia       (2012).g,h      Influencing strategic policy on global health      In September 2012, Cleaveland and Hampson were invited to a WHO Expert       Consultation on rabies held in Geneva, Switzerland, bringing together the       leading practical evidence for discussion and providing a platform to       ratify operational recommendations to be advocated at government level.
This Consultation urged the WHO to continue to advocate human rabies       prevention through the elimination of rabies in dogs and to promote wider       use of the intradermal route for human PEP, which University of Glasgow       research has shown to reduce the volume and therefore the cost of the       cell-cultured vaccine by up to 80%.i     `The research conducted by the team has contributed substantially to         progress on for example the global burden of rabies and the         cost-effectiveness of intradermal rabies post-exposure prophylaxis and         rabies surveillance.
The published results of that research have         contributed to updating relevant recommendations of the WHO Expert         Consultation on Rabies.'
&#8212; Director, Dept.
of Control of Neglected       Tropical Diseases, WHO.j     Owing to the significant body of work on rabies from Cleaveland, Hampson       and Lembo, and the resulting impacts on rabies control in East Africa,       Cleaveland has become a prominent expert adviser at the world health       level.
She is the leading international adviser for rabies on the WHO       Neglected Zoonotic Disease working group of the Scientific and Technical       Advisory Group for Neglected Tropical Diseases (STAG-NTD); Glasgow       research has thus been pivotal in the prioritisation of canine rabies       elimination as a top priority of the working group.j,k     The report by the STAG-NTDk has resulted in global canine       rabies elimination being identified as a priority of the WHO and       contributed to a WHO resolution on rabies in Africa being officially       tabled for discussion at the World Health Assembly in May 2014, thereby       stimulating policy discussion at the highest inter-governmental level.
