     There are approximately 35 million laying hens in the UK, which produced       9.3 billion eggs in 2012       with an estimated retail value of &#163;957 million.
The industry operates a       pyramid distribution (Figure       1) with the upper levels being the `layer-breeders', whose eggs are       fertilised and hatched.
These       include pedigree birds selected for desirable characteristics, such as egg       dynamic stiffness (i.e.
the       Kdyn metric tested by Bain).
From these birds, the       great-grandparents and grandparents are bred to       create the parent stock, which are distributed around the world.
It is the       progeny of these birds, the       commercial stock, that produce eggs for the table.
The combined research of Bain and       McKeegan has contributed substantially at       key levels within the layer industry       (highlighted in Figure), to improvements in       eggshell quality and hatchability and to       positive legislative change that affects the       welfare of UK commercial laying flocks.
These contributions have led to substantial       improvements in productivity, including       better eggshell quality, higher chick output       and decreased incidence of pecking       injuries, as described below.
Improving eggshell quality     As a result of Bain's validation of a novel       tool for assessing eggshell quality, several       international specialist layer poultry-breeding       companies are using the measurement of Kdyn in their breeding       programmes.
These       include Lohmann Tierzucht GmBH,a a German-based breeder that       holds a 30% share of the world       laying market; and Hy-Line International,b a US-based breeder       that holds 45% of the world market       and 85% of the US market (the second largest egg-producing market in the       world).
Since 2008,       both Lohmann Tierzucht and Hy-Line have tested all breeding selection       candidates for Kdyn in all       four of their pedigree lines for white and brown egg stocks,a,b       with Lohmann using the technology       on more than 20,000 pedigree birds annually.
The process from selection of       pedigree birds using       Kdyn to commercial egg production takes approximately 3 years;       thus, table eggs with improved       stability have been available on the market since 2011.
To poultry companies such as Lohmann Tierzucht, the benefit of improved       egg quality is not only       relevant to commercial layers, but also benefits the breeding sector       because eggs with better shell       quality have improved `hatchability', leading to a higher chick output.a       Lohmann Tierzucht also       claim that "Eggs from birds with better DS [dynamic stiffness] achieve         a better revenue through         higher percentage of saleable eggs in relation to total eggs produced,"       citing 2% fewer egg       seconds depending on the age of the flock.a     Both companies have UK subsidiaries supplying substantial shares of the       UK market, with       Lohmann GB (36%) and Hy-Line UK (30%) accounting for 66% of all day old       chicks.a,b Both       companies use a single hatchery, Millennium Hatchery in Warwickshire,       owned by Hy-line UK.
The       hatchery produces infrared beak-trimmed/vaccinated day-old chicks that are       transferred to rearing       farms for 16 weeks, after which they go into commercial layer       egg-production farms.
Between       them, Lohmann GB and Hy-Line UK are responsible for some 22.4 million of       the 34 million laying       hens in the UK, all of which will have been selected for improved eggshell       quality on the basis of       the Kdyn measure, and which are capable of producing in excess       of 310 eggs per bird per annum       with an annual packer-to-producer value of approximately &#163;500 million.
Therefore, the estimated       2% fewer egg seconds claimed by Lohmann incorporating Kdyn into       their selection programs will       have saved up to &#163;10 million per annum to UK egg producers alone.
Influencing UK policy on welfare and productivity of commercial           laying flocks     Between 40% and 80% of the 35 million laying birds in the UK are subject       to injurious bird-on-bird       pecking, which can escalate to cannibalism, causing up to 20% mortality.c       To minimise this risk,       every hen hatched by Lohmann GB and Hy-Line UK, and intended for the       commercial production       of eggs with improved eggshell quality, has its beak trimmed using       infrared technology before       leaving the hatchery.
Carefully managed breeding programs and investment       in improving eggshell       quality is intrinsically dependent on the welfare, and therefore       productivity, of layer hens.
DEFRA       has estimated the economic benefit to the egg industry of birds not being       injured or killed (bird-on-bird)       could be anywhere between &#163;4.82 and &#163;12.3 million per annum.c     However, an EU directive (1999/74/EC) outlining the minimum standards for       keeping egg laying       hens had also prohibited all mutilation, and the UK enactment of this       legislation &#8212; including a ban       on beak trimming by any means &#8212; was due to be implemented on 1st       January 2011.
In 2007, the       Farm Animal Welfare Council advised the government of the implications of       this ban, recognising       the greater welfare issue of pecking injury and the lack current UK       practice to prevent it if the ban       went ahead.d McKeegan's research, commissioned by DEFRA and the       BEIC in 2008, was       instrumental in the UK Government's decision not to go ahead with the ban       on beak trimming.
The       findings were presented to DEFRA in March 2009,e and considered       by the Farm Animal Welfare       Council.f The findings were then summarised in a wider       consultation,g between January and April       2010, which was circulated to 79 poultry industry stakeholders, including       industry representative       bodies, animal welfare groups, veterinary associations, Government       agencies, academic institutes,       consumer groups and retailers.
The new draft regulations `Mutilations (Permitted Procedures) (England)       (Amendment) Regulations       2010' were presented to the Joint Committee for Statutory Instruments by       DEFRA in November       2010, together with an explanatory memorandum explaining the evidence       base, citing the Glasgow       research.h On 7th December 2010, the amendment was       debated by the First Delegated Legislation       Committee.
Mr Plaice (Minister of State for DEFRA) stated: "the         researchers believe infrared was         the least painful method.
I have said in my opening speech that we         accept that it does cause pain.
We do not believe that it causes chronic pain; the research at Glasgow         demonstrated that even if         neuromas are present, they are not functioning."
The committee voted       to extend the use of routine       beak trimming of laying hens, but restricted the method used to the       infrared technique only.i     The new amendment came into force on 23 December 2010, preventing the       ban, which was due to       be implemented on 1st January 2011.
Thus, McKeegan's research       has resulted not only in the       maintenance of improved welfare standards for laying birds, but also the       avoidance of what would       have been substantial economic losses for the industry had the ban gone       ahead.
