     Research at the University of Glasgow has systematically supported feline       health care by providing       a reference point for expertise, reagents and testing services.
This work       has yielded incremental       but wide-reaching benefits across a range of key stakeholder industries of       veterinary diagnostics,       animal healthcare and veterinary care.
Veterinary diagnostics     Diagnostic reagents     The landmark research on FIV created a range of immunological reagents       that are useful in       veterinary diagnostic services.2 The company AbD SeroTec Ltd.,       has held a license to modify,       package and distribute these diagnostic reagents since 1994.
Furthermore,       since 2008, a range of       10 different antibodies developed by Willett and Hosie have been sold       either directly or through       distributors in the USA, UK, France, Belgium, Germany, Japan and Brazil,       with sales of &#8364;81,977       (~&#163;70,400).a In addition, the world's largest veterinary       diagnostics service, IDEXX laboratories,       uses two of the University of Glasgow antibodies (supplied by AbD SeroTec       Ltd.) in a panel       designed to measure the ratio of immune cells in blood samples for the       diagnosis of potential blood       cancers (IDEXX #2880 Immunophenotyping of Lymphocytosis       (Blood)-Canine/Feline).
This screen       is available in IDEXX diagnostic laboratories in the USA and Canada.b     Diagnostic services     Diagnostic tests developed at the University of Glasgow are made       available through the Glasgow       Veterinary Diagnostics Service.
These tests have been used in big cat       species, which are also       susceptible to viruses such as FIV and FeLV.
Willett and Hosie adapt tests       developed for domestic       cats for use in big cats held in European captive-breeding programmes.
Such tests are required for       the safe transfer of animals between zoos, and, according to veterinary       advisors, the University of       Glasgow offers the most comprehensive feline virus testing service.c       Between 2008 and 2012, the       service performed 30 tests per year for Amur leopards,d the       world's most endangered big cat       species with just 130 animals worldwide; and since 2008, performed 29       tests for Asiatic lions,c a       highly endangered cat that is at risk of contracting FIV from African       lions housed within the same       zoo.
In 2011, the service screened 41 Iberian lynx to rule out a viral       cause for an epidemic that       affected most of the captive population.
Willett also advised on the       safest vaccine for inoculation of       these animals, as vaccines can be contaminated with viruses that do not       affect domestic cats but       can harm big cat species.e     Feline vaccine development     The development and testing of vaccines against FeLV and FIV has       positioned the University of       Glasgow School of Veterinary Medicine as a key reference point for vaccine       developers.
Vaccine development     The 1993 collaborative research with Merial on a recombinant FeLV vaccine1       provided the       underpinning technology for the development of one of the leading       international vaccines against       FeLV (PUREVAX FeLV).
This vaccine, used in healthy cats aged 8 weeks and       older, was licensed       in 2000 and is sold as both a single vaccine and a multi-vaccine       combination; [text removed for       publication].
In January 2012, a new version of the vaccine with improved       efficacy was launched in       the USA, based on the same underpinning technology.f     Vaccine testing     In 2008, Pfizer Animal Health asked Willett and Hosie to perform       screening for the presence of       neutralising antibodies (produced in response to vaccination), which       provide a measure of       immunity conferred by a vaccine.
Pfizer requested tests of blood samples       from cats immunised       with their FeLV vaccine (Leukocell 2) as part of a long-term vaccine       serology study.
Pfizer (now       Zoetis) has a commitment to long-term data collection, underpinning their       Companion Animal       Immunisation Support Guarantee, which covers reasonable diagnostic and       treatment costs if a pet       vaccinated with a Leukocell 2 contracts FeLV.
At the time, Pfizer did not       have the internal expertise       to perform this test, and considered the University of Glasgow to have the       best expertise in the       field and thus the preferred choice.g     Vaccine safety     In 2010, a feline retrovirus (RD114) was found to have contaminated       vaccine products.
While       RD114 poses little risk to domestic cats, it does pose a risk to millions       of juvenile dogs treated with       the same vaccines, as well as big cat species.
Hosie and Willett were       asked by two of the world's       largest veterinary pharmaceutical companies, Merial and Intervet (now MSD       Animal Health), to       provide a reference standard of purified RD114, as attempts to work with       RD114 from the       American Type Culture Collection (a global resource for such biomaterials)       had failed.
The       Glasgow RD114 enabled these companies to successfully develop tests for       its detection and meet       the demands of the regulators.
Merial stated that `the quality of RD114         stock provided by Pr M.         Hosie was better and allowed us to continue our work....without this         virus, we would have         experienced additional delays in our ability to develop those tests and         reply to the regulatory         authorities in the context of an investigation on the presence of RD114.
'f       Similarly, MSD Animal       Health stated, `having this material has allowed MSD AH to continue to         provide quality feline         vaccine products.
'h     Veterinary care     Hosie's research on feline viral diseases has yielded expert advice for       veterinary practitioners in       domestic pet practice.
She is one of four UK experts on the 17-member       European Advisory Board       for Cat Diseases (ABCD).
This organisation provides evidence-based       guidelines for the prevention       and management of major feline infectious diseases, including the choice       of vaccines and       vaccination protocols.
ABCD also helps veterinarians to raise awareness of       infectious diseases       among cat owners.
Hosie was lead author of the ABCD guidelines for the       prevention and       management of FIV.i These guidelines recommend against       euthanisation of cats with FIV and       provide recommendations for clinical management.
They also draw upon       research performed at       the University of Glasgow that indicate that the current vaccine provides       limited protection against       common virus strains in Europe and thus its use is not recommended.
The       guideline was published       in the International Society for Feline Medicine's journal in 2009, and       launched at the annual       congress of the European Society for Feline Medicine to 419 vets from 26       countries.j The 2009       guideline has been downloaded 695 times between Jan 2012 and July 2013,       and its updated       version (published in June 2013) was downloaded 287 times between June and       July 2013.k The       veterinary officer of International Cat Care &#8212; a leading international cat       welfare charity &#8212; stated       that, "...these articles are highly thought of and highly regarded,         with a lot of clinical use.
"k     Hosie was also lead author of a new `Matrix' guideline (2013).l       This document offers veterinarians       guidance in conducting interviews with pet owners to determine vaccination       strategies appropriate       to the lifestyle, geographical location and disease risk of each cat.
The       guideline has been       downloaded 266 times since June 2013.k It also addressed       concerns raised in the veterinary       industry, articulated in a British Small Animal Vet Association (BSAVA)       policy statement, regarding       adverse reactions in cats (such as tumours at injection sites) linked to       the frequency of vaccine       boosters.
In this respect, the BSAVA supports the ABCD guidelines, which       recognise that some       core vaccines are required by all cats while others are only required       under certain circumstances.m       Hosie has been invited to share her expertise in the prevention,       management and treatment of       feline viral diseases caused by FIV, FeLV and other viruses at Continuing       Professional       Development days organised for veterinarians by Merial.
Since 2008, Hosie       has delivered training       at seven such events in the UK, attended in total by 290 veterinary       professionals.n
