     The research was pivotal to the ongoing efforts of voluntary sector       organisations to lobby the government in order to raise the profile of       outdoor learning, to draw attention to the current crisis and to persuade       the government to put in place protocols and policies to stop the decline       in such activities.
The impact can be traced through from evidence given       to House of Commons Select Committee, the raising of the debate in the       House of Commons through an Early Day motion, to support for the       establishment of the Council for Learning Outside the Classroom which       provides an important forum for the dissemination of policy and practice       relating to outdoor education.
Evidence to Parliament     In 2010, the English Outdoor Council launched its campaign Time for         change in outdoor learning: Hard evidence on the value of the outdoors         and a challenge to deliver fair access for all [5.1].
The report       draws heavily on the evidence of inequalities which our research revealed,       eg:     "This disparity of opportunity is described in detail by Professor Power       et al.
Their research shows a clear link between the level of provision of       outdoor education and the proportion of pupils in the school who are       eligible for free school meals - the greater the level of disadvantage,       the less provision."
Our research was also cited in evidence given to the House of Commons       Children, Schools and Families Select Committee in the 2009-2010 session.
The Select Committee report [5.2] refers to our finding that `the higher       the levels of pupils eligible for Free School Meals, the lower the number       of trips and visits offered (at Key Stage 3)'.
In the oral evidence given       to the Select Committee, the Chair of the English Outdoor Council claims:     "What I can do is quote some research by Professor Sally Power from       Cardiff University.
She identified that there are winners and losers in       this...The smaller the school, the lower the number of visits that go on.
In those schools, the proportion of youngsters taking up the opportunity       to go on a visit is lower.
Professor Power identifies a whole group of       others who also don't get that opportunity: Traveller children, Turkish       students, Sikh girls, asylum seekers and Asian girls, particularly from a       Muslim background."
Our research has also been drawn on in submissions from the Field Studies       Council and the Council for Learning Outside the Classroom to the House of       Commons Science and Technology Committee's enquiry into Practical         experiments in school science lessons and science field trips [5.3].
At this hearing, the evidence from our research is used to underpin the       Schools Minister's assertion that schools should use the Pupil Premium as       a means of helping disadvantaged children afford field trips to       `experience the natural environment' and to argue that the Government       needs to offer explicit guidance to headteachers and governors to ensure       this happens.
Bringing the debate to the House of Commons      This research has contributed to the raising of debate on this issue and       the development of policy proposals on LOtC.
In our research we emphasised       the importance of making LOtC an entitlement for all pupils rather       than an optional extra.
The issue of entitlement then appears in the       recommendation by the House of Commons Children, Schools and Families       Select Committee.
In the same Report that cites our work, the Select       Committee proposed that "There should be an individual entitlement within       the National Curriculum to at least one out of school visit a term" [5.2].
Not long afterwards, on the 25th May 2010, the English Outdoor Council       generated an Early Day Motion (tabled by Bob Russell, LibDem MP,       Colchester) which called on the "Government to find a way of making this a       reality for all young people, including those who need financial support"       [5.4].
Although very few Early Day Motions go to full debate or lead to       new legislation, these formal motions are an important vehicle in drawing       MPs' attention to issues.
The research has informed efforts to protect and expand LOtC       opportunities.
The importance of the viability of Local Authority outdoor       education was featured in an HM Government e-petition calling to save       these centres, "Our petition calls for the government to protect outdoor       education centres from imminent closure by creating a fixed-term       transition fund and providing business training which will enable Local       Authority Centres to survive long enough to become self-sufficient" &#8212;       issues that were highlighted in the DCSF study [5.5].
The petition       received over 6,000 signatures.
Contributing to the Council for Learning Outside the Classroom     Both projects provided evidence to support the establishment of the       Council for Learning Outside the Classroom (CLOtC) [5.6].
The Council,       established in 2009, is a registered charity to champion learning outside       the classroom.
Echoing our own recommendations, its main aim is that `that       EVERY child should be given the opportunity to experience life and lessons       beyond the classroom walls' (http://www.lotc.org.uk/about/       ).
The Council provides an important link between the academic research       and LOtC professionals and its membership includes over 100 educational       and environmental organisation.
For example, the findings from the DCSF       study were presented at the first National Conference for the CLOtC in       2009 - where the interactive GIS was exhibited.
Since then CLOtC has grown       to become the leading voice in promoting learning outside the classroom       through accrediting activities, offering training courses and       disseminating the latest research evidence and policy initiatives.
