     In addition to the academic work outlined previously, the overall       programme of academic activity (FSB survey and academic publications)       focused on the impact of current policy on key areas such as graduate       entrepreneurship, and the roles of universities and public procurement       policy on small business development.
The research reports were used by       the FSB as a basis for policy development and lobbying of UK and Welsh       government in order to influence policy direction.
As a result, the work       was widely utilised in a range of governmental debates from late 2008       onwards, including those on issues such as finance, rate relief, taxation,       enterprise zones, and business development plans.
The report entitled "Putting the Economy Back on Track: Business Support       and Finance" was used in lobbying government in relation to finance policy       development.
It identified the banking sector as the key organisation for       providing financial support to companies.
However, respondents of the       survey named banks as one of the major barriers to company growth because       of difficulties in accessing credit.
The findings of the survey also       revealed that small businesses thrive on personal relationships for advice       in areas such as start ups; recruitment; marketing and product       development.
Approximately 75% of the respondents stated that they relied       on informal sources of support, such as other businesses, personal       advisors, suppliers and family.
The data also showed that those small       businesses that used banks or the Government as a source of advice were       dissatisfied with the service and described access to finance as a       significant barrier to their growth.
Quoting Packham G, from a press       release:     "These findings illustrate that action must be taken immediately for         small businesses to gain access to vital funds to ensure their growth         and survival.
People often do not realise that small businesses are the         backbone of the economy, employing 13.5 million people and contributing         over 50 % to UK turnover, therefore it is vital that this sector is         given the necessary support and backed up by fair and flexible credit."
Following the Bank of England Monetary Policy Committee's 1.5 % cut in       interest rates in late 2008, the FSB used the survey evidence to support       its call on banks to pass on this reduction so that small firms might feel       the benefit through financial savings and be helped with their cashflow.
John Walker, FSB National Policy Chairman, stated, "Our survey shows that       small businesses thrive on personal relationships when seeking support       such as marketing, recruitment and access to finance.
However, there is       evidence that new and growing firms, which require finance from their       banks, are experiencing barriers to accessing funds and therefore not       getting the same sort of close contact with their banks".
He goes on to       say, "We would like to see the first meeting of the new Small Business       Finance Forum call branch managers to account to ensure that they do more       to show how they can support small businesses.
The first step to help this       crucial sector could be to immediately pass on the recent cut in interest       rates which could save small businesses &#163;750 million and help get the       economy back on track."
In terms of rate relief in Northern Ireland, the survey data was used to       assist in the FSB's response to the consultation on integrated impact       assessment of Small Business Rates relief.
Specifically, the results of       the survey indicated that just over 40% of respondents in Northern Ireland       own their businesses premises out of which they operate, while 19.4% lease       and 31.5% rent property.
9% work from home.
The FSB used analysis to argue       that, "Given that most leases and rent agreements include tenant       responsibility for rates, the potential for landlords to benefit is       minimal".
In terms of taxation and enterprise the survey data was used as a       submission to the House of Commons regarding the Northern Ireland       Enterprise zone.
The 2008 survey data indicated that only one third of the       FSB's Northern Ireland membership are incorporated, suggesting that a       substantial proportion of them are unlikely to gain directly from a       reduction in corporation tax.
Thus, the FSB argued that the support for a       corporation tax reduction in Northern Ireland suggested that FSB members       saw such a move more as a way of invigorating the wider economic       environment.
This survey dataset was subsequently used by the FSB to       assist their response to the Suffolk Economic Summit and Suffolk Strategic       Delivery Partnership through providing a range of contextual data related       to ownership characteristics, firm size, customer base and growth       aspirations.
