     Dixon's research established the concept of active waveguides and       demonstrated AE monitoring capability in the laboratory and through       limited field trials.
The initial system was complex, expensive, fragile,       bulky and required mains power.
It depended on expertise that only Dixon       had, and even then, Dixon was only able to obtain slope-displacement       measurements by post-processing data collected during site visits, so       monitoring was not continuous or real-time.
With funding from EPSRC, including Follow-on, KTA and Collaboration       Funds, Dixon and Spriggs have translated this apparatus into the Slope       ALARMS sensor through the combination of research and knowledge-transfer       work in collaboration with BGS.
This is a patented, practical, low-cost,       battery-powered unitary device with wireless communication of warnings.
The sensor design has been developed to a level appropriate for       manufacture, with the first batch produced in 2012.
Validated in field       trials, the sensor can be employed in slopes formed of a wide range of       geological materials and configurations.
It will continuously monitor and       record AE generated by slope displacements and issue warnings of changing       displacement rate by text message over a mobile-telephone network (www.slopealarms.com).
Dixon filed a UK patent application for an `apparatus and method for       monitoring soil slope displacement rate by detecting acoustic emissions'       in January 2009.
With support from LU's patent agent, this was revised and       the application, naming Dixon and Spriggs as inventors, was successful.
UK       patent GB 2467419 was granted for the invention in May 2011 [C1].
A collaboration agreement between LU, proprietors of the patent, and BGS,       developers of the electronic design, makes provision for apportioning       income from commercialisation of the sensor technology.
The inventors entered Slope ALARMS in two competitions and won both.
With       Geotechnical Observations and BGS, they won the civil engineering category       in The Engineer magazine's 2011 Technology and Innovation Awards,       which `celebrate collaborative engineering projects that have, or are         likely to have, a significant impact on the sectors they are active in'       [C2].
It also won the commercialization category of LU's Enterprise       Awards in 2010.
Beyond the two Slope ALARMS sensors operating at an experimental site       since 2009 [R2], there are now nine operating at sites in the UK,       Italy and Canada at locations where landslides can do serious harm to       infrastructure and local communities, with a further three installed in       Austria in early 2014.
Monitoring is in collaboration with CH2M [C3]       at Scarborough promenade (since 2012) and Flat Cliffs (since 2011),       Yorkshire, where coastal landslide movements threaten roads, water supply       and use of public spaces, and in collaboration with Geotechnical       Observations [C4] and Network Rail [C5] at a 12 metre deep       rail cutting near Southampton (since 2011).
In this application Network       Rail are assessing whether Slope ALARMS can provide cost-effective real-time  	  information to aid decisions about line safety.
In the Italian Alps       at Passo della Morte, there is a high risk of rapid movement within a       complex of large landslides that threatens a critical road link.
AE       monitoring commenced in 2010 and four Slope ALARMS sensors are now in       operation by Italy's Research Institute for Hydro-Geological Hazard       Protection [C6] to understand the causes of slope displacements       and warn of failure.
Monitoring at these sites is aiding assessment of       hazards and associated risks.
Slope ALARMS has attracted considerable media interest as a result of the       publicity that followed the awards [C2].
Articles have been       published in a national British newspaper [C7], and in magazines       published by professional societies [C8], raising public and       professional awareness of the device and the global problem of landslides.
International reach is demonstrated by on-going work to employ Slope       ALARMS around the world.
Slope ALARMS was installed in 2013 in a slope at       Peace River, Alberta, Canada, that poses a risk to a main highway.
This       monitoring is in collaboration with Thurber Engineering and Queen's       University, Canada.
In 2013, Dixon in collaboration with German company       INGLAS GmbH were awarded a contract by the Austrian Railway to install the       Sentinel for Alpine Railway Traffic (SART) system to detect and       warn of landslide hazards to alpine rail traffic.
INGLAS conducted a       review of landslide instrumentation systems world-wide and concluded that       integration of Slope ALARMS in the SART system provides the optimum       approach [C9] and three Slope ALARMS sensors will be installed in       early 2014.
Following several significant landslide events world-wide that       have resulted in loss of life and damage to critical infrastructure, Dixon       has been approached by companies and public organisations from more than       ten countries regarding the use of Slope ALARMS as a viable technology for       mitigating impacts of landslides.
