     The E-College Wales was an e-learning project pioneered and managed by       the University of Glamorgan in collaboration with six partner colleges       across Wales, supported by the European Social Fund (ESF) Objective One       programme.
Its aim was to provide an accessible, innovative, online       learning environment to individuals living in Objective One areas, and to       enhance learning opportunities for individuals in Objective one area in       Wales who wanted to improve their career prospects either through creating       their own businesses or improving their own competences and skills.
The E-College Wales can evidence significant impact from the project.
While there were internal impact benefits for the University in terms of       publications and pedagogical procedures and teaching and learning       practices, in terms of social and economic impact the most significant       impact was upon participating students within the E-College Wales projects       in terms of enhancement and development of their careers post programme.
In terms of dissemination a seminar series was undertaken plus a       conference.
Further presentations were made to UK, Welsh Government,       British Council, Business Eye and employers within the project area (ECW,       2005).
In terms of student beneficiaries the project achieved its pre set       objectives with over 1000 online learners achieving credits.
More       specifically 11% of beneficiaries started new businesses, 5% of those       already in business experienced growth, 9% received promotion within their       existing organisation and 25% planned to start a business.
Moreover, 65%       of project beneficiaries believed that they had enhanced their work       skills.
The E-college had provided them with training in entrepreneurial,       ICT and managerial skills, practical entrepreneurial skills and an       increase in managerial and associated skills.
Students upon the project       achieved excellent results particularly on the BA Enterprise programme.
The project offered a first experience of Higher Education to a       significant proportion of participating students and enabled students to       progress from HND to Masters level qualifications.
The E-College Wales       project can be seen to have achieved an immediate and lasting impact on       the majority of its beneficiaries.
A recent review of former students via       linkedin reveals that many have taken employment as small business       advisors within enterprise support agencies (Mark Adams, Tina Sommer),       others are successful entrepreneurs (Ben Brierley, Anthony Burgess, Daphne       Field, Adele Harries, Denise Harries) and consultants (Victoria Cooper)       and some have experienced significant career progression (Stephen Boyd,       Steve Curry) since undertaking the course.
The E-College project also witnessed the introduction of a number of       entrepreneurial short courses.
The aim of these courses was to enhance       entrepreneurial awareness and career intention.
These courses (SANE, DANE       and GANE) were embedded within the University of Glamorgan Business School       curriculum for several years as additional courses of study.
Moreover they       have been adopted by several European Business Schools in Poland, Germany       and France.
After the E-college was established, a large number of research outputs       resulted, focused both on enterprise education specifically and on the       role of Higher Education more broadly in promoting entrepreneurship       through education and knowledge dissemination / creation.
In addition to       this, the University also went on to establish a number of key academic       programmes for industry which include SANE, DANE, GANE, and the female       entrepreneurship project.
