     Prior to this research, the Allied bombing of France had received little       formal discussion within France.
The research has therefore raised       critical awareness among French people of the ambiguities and effects of       the Allied bombing of their country.
This has happened at a time when       memories of World War II have been gaining in salience as the generation       that lived through it approach the end of their lives.
Equally, the       effects of Allied bombing on France had been marginalised from most       military histories of the war.
Within this general perspective, the main impact of this research has       been threefold.
(a) Among French television producers     Firstly, the growing public interest in these events in France stimulated       French television documentary makers to invest in documentaries on the       subject.
The first, Dominique Monteiro, contacted Knapp after finding the       Le Havre article on the internet; the second, Catherine Monfajon, did the       same after similarly finding the Dodd/Knapp article.
The first programme       was broadcast on FR3's regional and national networks (September/November       2012 &#8212; audience of over 300,000), and the second on prime time national TV       (to be broadcast in May 2014).
Knapp's research was key to the successful       production of these documentaries: `He has brought to the film the       knowledge of a historian, distancing the story from the emotions it       carries and placing it within a wider context' (Producer, October 2012);       `I think that without him, it would have been extremely difficult to move       forward with any confidence in this ambitious film in which it was vital       to have a robust historical framework ... in order to tell the public this       extremely important but delicate history with the greatest possible       accuracy' (Director, October 2012).
In both cases, the research performed       an empowering function, ensuring that the producer and director could rely       on a firm and impartial basis of historical knowledge.
The Producer is       currently in discussion with a second documentary maker with a view to       preparing a film on Le Havre, again with Knapp's close involvement.
(b) Among the US military     The second major impact of this research has been on the teachers of       military officers at the US Army Command and General Staff College, Fort       Leavenworth, Kansas.
The analysis of the bombing of `friendly'       populations, victims of collateral damage as enemy military objectives are       targeted, has relevance for twenty-first century conflicts such as those       in Iraq and Afghanistan: liberal democracies typically claim to fight wars       to further the well-being of foreign peoples &#8212; whom they nevertheless bomb       and kill in the course of military operations.
A Professor of the US Army       Command and General Staff College first contacted Knapp after the       publication of the article on Le Havre; since then his pupils have been       stimulated by it to integrate the perspectives of civilians into their       courses on planning for military operations.
`I routinely assign (Knapp's)       narrative of the bombing of Le Havre to illustrate the effects of poor       planning to my mid-grade officers, all who will serve as planners at       senior headquarters following graduation' (October 2012).
As one of these       students reported, the research `has made a difference in my life in the       way that I think of war and more importantly, how to think about the       effects of war' (US Air Force Major, May 2010).
(c) Among `live' French audiences, including survivors of bombing     Pre-publication circulation of Knapp's article `The Destruction and       Liberation of Le Havre in Modern Memory' led to an invitation to speak at       a French Defence Ministry conference in June 2007, which included       academics and survivors of bombing, and thence to a publication of a       French version of the piece.
Subsequent public lectures and talks (the Le       Havre Historical Research Centre, June 2010; the M&#233;morial de Caen, March       2012, Marseille municipal archives, October 2013) brought together those       interested in the Second World War French bombing experience, giving       members of the French public &#8212; often survivors of the events, or       second-generation relatives of these survivors &#8212; an exceptional       opportunity to place their own personal and local memories in a broader       historical framework.
Le Havre's local paper (Presse Havraise, 30       June 2010) reported on a lecture given by Knapp attended by over 150       people, mostly in their fifties or older, noting the strong participation       of survivors in the discussions.
The head of the Le Havre Historical       Research Centre noted that Knapp's `methodical and quantitative history,       founded on both French and British archives', impressed an audience which       was also `moved by this sensitive subject' (Wuthrick, October 2012).
Similarly, and given the continuing political sensitivities of the       subject, the Director of the M&#233;morial de Caen pointed out how vital it had       been to demonstrate publicly that a British historian was undertaking this       work, `so that at last the public in Normandy, who suffered so much as a       result of Anglo-American bombing, can talk freely with a British       historian' (Simonnet, October 2012).
For these groups, the research was an       acknowledgement of their suffering from a citizen of one of the nations       that inflicted it: not an apology, but a statement that if the Allies had       had their reasons, those did not justify each and every raid.
This impact       continues today with the use of the web exhibition by classes in a Le       Havre lyc&#233;e, and Knapp's invited participation in preparing commemorations       of the bombing, to be held in September 2014 (Municipal Councillor and       school teacher, Le Havre, April 2013).
In 2010, by decree of Prime Minister Fran&#231;ois Fillon, Knapp was made       Officier dans l'Ordre des Palmes Acad&#233;miques `in recognition of your       eminent academic career devoted to French contemporary politics and       historical studies.'
