     Every year in Britain, many hundreds of thousands of individuals suffer       from neurological problems, for example after strokes, head injuries or       tumours.
The measurement of cognitive deficits following frontal lobe       damage (collectively known as "dysexecutive symptoms") is a major issue       for the treatment of these patients.
It has long been known that patients       can suffer a wide range of cognitive disabilities such as deficits in       planning, multitasking, response suppression, etc.
which present a severe       handicap in everyday life.
But although we have had good measures of       intellectual and memory functioning, and also of visual perception,       language, and motor skills, before our research it was not possible to       quantify well dysexecutive problems in the clinic because the necessary       psychometric tools to measure them did not exist.
Our diagnostic instruments have now been widely adopted by clinicians to       determine if patients with neurological problems are suffering from       dysexecutive symptoms.
The results of the tests are used to guide       treatment and make decisions relating to handicap &#8212; for instance, whether       patients can return home to live independently, or are able to manage       their own finances.
They are also used to assess disability where there       are issues relating to compensation (e.g.
brain damage following car       accidents).
The publisher of the four tests reports sales as follows (as at Feb       2012):            The average sales of these products over the past three years would         indicate that these tests are administered to approximately 55,000           patients per year.
The BADS has been translated into six languages (Brazilian         Portuguese, Chinese, Dutch, German, Greek and Russian) and the BADS-C         has been translated into Dutch.
Over 15 research permissions have also         been agreed for these tests over the past five years.
The tests are sold around the world including in the UK,         Australia/New Zealand, Denmark, France, Germany, Netherlands, Norway,         Spain, Sweden, India, Canada, USA, as well as being distributed by local         publishing partners in other countries across Europe, Asia, Africa and         South America [a].
The Hayling and Brixton Tests       The Hayling and Brixton Tests together measure three of the most common       symptoms of the dysexecutive syndrome [b].
Firstly, the Hayling       Test measures response suppression (the ability to withhold an       inappropriate behaviour).
The pre-existing measure of this ability (the       "Stroop Test") provides a false negative rate too high for most clinical       purposes, and the Hayling Test has now largely supplanted it in the UK.
Secondly, the Hayling Test measures response initiation.
Despite being one       of the most commonly reported dysexecutive problems (approximately 27% of       all neurological rehabilitation patients show this problem) there was no       pre-existing formal measure for it, so the Hayling Test filled this       clinical need.
Thirdly, the Brixton Test is a test of rule attainment.
It       has now supplanted the test previously in most common use (the Wisconsin       Card Sort Test &#8212; WCST), having addressed a major concern with that test &#8212;       that guessing could not be detected.
The BADS test battery       The BADS test battery is a suite of psychometric tasks which can be       administered together to gain an overall diagnostic picture of the       patient's dysexecutive problems [c].
This was devised for wider       clinical use than the Hayling and Brixton Tests, and can be administered       by qualified occupational therapists and some other personnel who have       specific training but who are not medical doctors or Chartered       Psychologists.
Like the Hayling and Brixton tests, it has also gained wide       acceptance as a standard diagnostic instrument, and its use is presented       in many standard texts [d].
BADS-C       Researchers and clinicians who work with children found the logic of the       adult version of the BADS compelling, but wanted a version which was       suitable for children.
Accordingly, the BADS-C was created, and is used       specifically to measure dysexecutive symptoms in children with       neurological problems, as well as a range of psychiatric and developmental       conditions where frontal lobe dysfunction is a feature [e].
The Rookwood Driving Battery       Damage to the frontal lobes can cause a range of cognitive disabilities       and changes in behaviour, some of which can affect a person's fitness to       drive a vehicle.
A 2007 study [f] found that three sub-tests from       the BADS battery were useful in predicting on-road performance among       people who had suffered some form of neuropathology, and these were       incorporated (along with other tests from other authors) into a battery of       tests specifically designed for driving assessment, which was named the       Rookwood Driving Battery [g].
This is the only tool of its kind       available in the world, and it is used in a wide range of conditions,       including brain injury [h] and dementia [i].
Use of the tests in clinical practice       The tests described above have been widely adopted in clinical practice.
A       recent survey by the Division of Neuropsychology of the British       Psychological Society (the principal representative body for       neuropsychologists in the UK) asked members which of the many available       tests they choose to use in their day-to-day practice for measuring       frontal lobe cognitive deficits.
The three most commonly used tests, out       of the many invented over the last 100 years, were the BADS and the       Brixton Tests (both 89% of respondents), and the Hayling Test (81%) [j].
Training on the diagnostic tests is now integrated into the professional       training of e.g.
clinical psychologists, occupational therapists, and       psychiatrists.
For instance a recent exam paper prepared by the       Examinations Unit at the Royal College of Psychiatrists included a       question on the correct use of the Hayling Test [k].
In 2010 Burgess received the "President's Award for Distinguished       Contributions to Psychological Knowledge" from the British Psychological       Society, and the invention of these tests (as well as the resulting       knowledge) was cited as a principal reason for the award [l].
Use of the tests in legal proceedings       The impact of these diagnostic procedures has also extended beyond the       clinic.
In New South Wales, Australia, for example, the Offender       Assessment Unit recommends the Hayling and Brixton tests for measuring       executive function in offenders [m].
In the case of The Crown vs.       David Waterhouse (Bradford Crown Court, February 2008) evidence of       diagnostic information provided by the Hayling Test was presented to the       court in reference to a matter of responsibility in consideration of a       charge of attempted murder.
The defence argued that the defendant,       following a frontal lobe injury, was incapable of stopping himself from       stabbing his 14-year-old stepdaughter several times with a kitchen knife.
But the result of the psychometric testing was accepted as evidence that       this was not a safe interpretation of events, and the defendant was       convicted [n].
