     The primary impact objective of Dupr&#233;'s research, and that of the Egenis       Centre more broadly, has       been about improving public understanding of science &#8212; through promoting       more sophisticated       appreciations of genetics and of evolution, and informing public       discourse, which can lead to better       informed decision-making.
The research has obvious and immediate relevance       to this goal, and       Dupr&#233; has disseminated his research findings to a variety of specialist       and non-specialist       audiences.
A central strategy has been to speak in a variety of forums and       to publish in a wide       variety of media, from academic papers to general news media, from       podcasts to radio broadcasts,       to stimulate better-informed discussion of biological issues.
Dupr&#233; gave evidence to the House of Lords Select Committee on Science and       Technology Inquiry       on Genomic Medicine (April 30, 2008).
He emphasised, inter alia,       the need for better patient       understanding of genetic tests.
In paragraph 6.7 of its report (Section 5,       Reference 1) the       Committee recommended that `debate should aim to improve public         understanding of genetic risk         and predictive testing in common complex disorders', a       recommendation accepted in the       Government response: `We have asked the HGC to consider how to generate         demonstrably         effective and informative debate around the issues raised by complex         diseases' (2).
Dupr&#233; was later asked to write an article, `Are there "Genes For"       Traits?'
(March 8, 2010), for       BioNews, a website dedicated to promoting better public understanding of       genetics and related       areas.
The article was reproduced as part of a School Resource Pack,       `Spectrum of Opinion:       Genes, Autism and Psychological Spectrum Disorders', produced by the       Progress Educational       Trust (PET), with the aim of informing debate on assisted conception and       genetics.
The pack,       piloted at the Robert Napier School in Gillingham, Kent, is available for       download by teachers to       support lessons and homework on the topic (3).
He was also invited to give       a keynote presentation       to an international conference in the Netherlands (14-16 March 2013) on       `Genetics Education in       the 21st Century, Design Criteria and Good Practices', for an audience of       100 researchers,       developers, teacher trainers and teachers in science education.
Dupr&#233; was invited to take part in the first Nobel Week Dialogue, in       connection with the 2012 Nobel       awards, in which he participated in panels on genetics and nurture, and on       human evolution (4).
Contributors included leading scientists (e.g.
seven Nobel Laureates) and       policymakers (e.g.
the       US Secretary for Energy), and the proceedings, which took place before an       audience of more than       1200 people, were streamed to a worldwide online audience via       Nobelprize.org.
Films of the       discussions have been posted on the Nobel Week Dialogue site and on       YouTube.
Dupr&#233; was       quoted in a piece on the event for the Bloomberg News website.
The       Bloomberg science       correspondent later noted that reading Dupr&#233;'s work had led him to change       his reporting of       genetics, such as avoiding using words like `blueprint' (5).
Further specific impact relates to public understanding of evolution.
This includes the debate       generated by Dupr&#233;'s criticism of the traditional `Tree of Life'       representation of evolution.
On       January 21 2009, New Scientist published a cover feature entitled       `Why Darwin was Wrong about       the Tree of Life', which quoted Dupr&#233;, as did the Daily Telegraph (January       22 2009) (6).
A       consequence of these two articles was considerable international debate,       including among       creationists and scientists, questioning Darwinism further and quoting       Dupr&#233; in blogs and       discussion forums online, for example NEUROLOGICA blog, Sandwalk,       Darwin's God blogspot,       Who is Your Creator?, and Texas Citizens for Science.
Dupr&#233;'s work on Darwinism has been presented to a wide range of audiences       in talks in the USA,       Mexico, Israel, Canada, Belgium, France, Norway, Germany and the UK,       including a contribution       to the prestigious Cambridge Darwin lectures in 2009, with an audience of       c. 800.
The podcast of       that talk has been downloaded almost 26,000 times since March 2009 (7).
In       December 2009,       Dupr&#233; gave a talk to the American Philosophical Association on `Post       Genomic Darwinism and       Human Nature'.
In the week following, the Cambridge Darwin Lecture podcast       received 2,193       downloads, circa 20 times its weekly average.
A talk on Darwinism at the       American Association for       the Advancement of Science meeting in 2009 was followed by an interview on       the BBC World       Service; the BBC interviewer later stated that Dupr&#233; had made a       `considerable contribution' to       extending public understanding of Darwinism (8).
The talk contributed to       Dupr&#233;'s election to a       Fellowship of the American Association for the Advancement of Science, the       only UK-based       philosopher with this distinction, further raising the international       public profile and reach of his work,       and augmenting its impact-generating capacities.
In 2012, Dupr&#233; published a column for Project Syndicate (9), which works       with 475 leading       newspapers in 151 countries (and one of the top five internet news sources       in the world for 2012,       according to the influential Real Clear website).
There he argued for the       importance of open       debate about weaknesses in current evolutionary theory, despite the       dangers of unintentionally       lending encouragement to anti-evolutionists in so doing.
This column       prompted extensive       commentary and discussion in leading and widely-read science blogs,       including a critical       discussion on Jerry Coyne's Why Evolution is True, and a defence       on Massimo Pigliucci's       RationallySpeaking (10).
