     Policy Changes and implementation: The ASSIST programme has had an       impact across the UK, both from its implementation in schools and       its incorporation into policy agendas.
Since 2010 over 350 UK schools have       hosted the programme and over 150 staff from former primary care trusts       and local authorities have been trained to deliver it within their local       area.
In Wales, the ASSIST programme has been implemented in 40-50       secondary schools per year since 2008 and is a continuing commitment in       the 2012 Tobacco Control Action Plan [5-1].
In England, the Tobacco Control White Paper `A Smokefree         future' published in 2010 focuses on the use of evidence-based       policies in three areas, the first of which is `to stop the inflow of         young people recruited as smokers'.
The White Paper dedicates a       section to peer-led and school based initiatives and states that it will       consider the findings of the National Institute for Health and Clinical       Excellence (NICE) review of the evidence on peer-led and school-based       youth-focused initiatives when developing guidance on peer-led and       school-based initiatives [5-2].
The review of smoking and young people       which informed this White paper identified the ASSIST Programme as a `potentially         important intervention' [5-3].
Furthermore, the NICE guidance on School-based         interventions to prevent smoking (which was informed by four       separate reviews) contains a specific recommendation on peer-led       interventions which states that health care commissioners should `Consider         offering evidence-based, peer-led interventions aimed at preventing the         uptake of smoking such as the ASSIST (A Stop Smoking in School Trial)         programme',[5-4] referring readers to the trial results published in       The Lancet.
In Scotland's 2013 Tobacco Control Strategy, the ASSIST programme       has been identified as a `useful smoking prevention initiative... which         could have a positive impact on inequalities'.
The strategy also       states a commitment to pilot the intervention in Scotland to consider its       suitability for Scotland and whether it can be adapted for use with other       risk-taking behaviours [5-5].
The ASSIST programme has also been cited as an example of good practice       in the UK Government White Paper, `Healthy lives, brighter futures: The         strategy for children and young people's health' [5-6] and was       flagged as an example of a preventative strategy aimed at young people in       the NHS guidance document for its Stop Smoking Services [5-7].
A new not-for-profit company set up to licence the ASSIST Programme:       In March 2010 Cardiff University and its collaborator in the DECIPHer       centre, the University of Bristol, set up DECIPHer IMPACT Ltd (www.decipher-impact.com),       a `not for profit' company which maximises the translation and impact of       evidence-based public health improvement research and expertise.
The ASSIST programme is the company's first product which is now       trademarked as the DECIPHer-ASSIST smoking prevention programme.
Licences       are sold by the company, for which licensees receive DECIPHer-ASSIST       materials, training, support and ongoing quality assurance.
This licensing       system maximises the quality of the programme's implementation in       real-world settings, thus protecting the brand and maximising the       likelihood that the reductions in smoking found in the randomised       controlled trial are reproduced in schools elsewhere.
There has been       substantial demand for DECIPHer-ASSIST from local healthcare purchasers.
The majority of customers are Primary Care Trusts (PCTs) in England.
Company turnover for the year ending July 2013 was &#163;240,000, generated       from the sale of licences [5-8].
To date, 27 licences have been sold at       between &#163;25-30,000 per license.
DECIPHer IMPACT Ltd has employed two       members of staff: a General Manager and a Chief Executive Officer.
DECIPHer IMPACT Ltd was the overall winner of the 2011 BRIG-H Health       Innovation Award which recognises outstanding health innovation       achievements [5-9] and the 2013 Cardiff University's Innovation and Impact       Awards [5-10].
Fewer smokers: Since 2010, a total over 60,000 Year 8 students       (over 11,000 peer supporters) have been exposed to DECIPHer-ASSIST [5-8].
Based on the level of effectiveness observed in the MRC trial, around 1674       fewer adolescents are regular smokers as a consequence of DECIPHer-ASSIST.
Cost savings: If the results of the cost effectiveness analysis       were extrapolated to those students who have been exposed to the       intervention, the annual cost of implementing ASSIST at this level would       be around &#163;38.1 million (based on 2007 figures).
This investment would       result in 20,400 fewer 14 year old smokers.
Given that NHS expenditure on       treating lung cancer in 2009/10 was &#163;260.8 million in England, and NICE       estimates that providing Varenicline (in the form of patches or gum for       example) for 125,000 adult smokers attempting to quit in England and Wales       would have annual prescription costs of &#163;6.25 million, implementing ASSIST       on a large scale will prove an important cost-saving element of tobacco       control policy.
