     Influencing the execution of military operations     In early 2008, acknowledging his expertise about military planning       developed during British       Academy- and ESRC-funded research projects, King was invited to contribute       to Britain's new       counter-insurgency doctrine, Joint Doctrine Publication 3-40, Security         and Stabilisation: The         Military Contribution (Section 5, Reference 1).
His work, contained       in Chapter 9 - Political and         Social Analysis, fuses sociological thinking with military planning       procedures, and allowed       Headquarters to understand better the political dynamics of a military       theatre.
King was subsequently invited to become a member of the NATO       International Security Assistance       Force's (ISAF) Regional Command (South) HQ, in Kandahar, from October 2009       to November       2010, when 6 Division of the British Army provided the Commander and core       staff to the       Headquarters.
Joining the Prism Cell, whose function was to give       non-military and critical advice to       the Commander, a British Major-General, King conducted the first full       socio-political analysis of the       South region while `in theatre', from November to December 2009.
Drawing       on this, King wrote a       political engagement plan, which had the effect of revising ISAF's       counter-insurgency strategy,       which, up to that point, had focused exclusively and quite unrealistically       on gaining the local       population's consent for a centralised Afghan state (2, 3).
King       recommended that the       headquarters engage with local power-brokers to develop a political       campaign through existing       patrimonial networks, with the military element being subordinate to this       political strategy.
This       concept was implemented as part of the civil-military campaign to secure       Kandahar City in 2010.
The Head of Prism Cell said King's contribution to the latter `cannot         be overstated' (2), and the       Chief of Staff of the Headquarters claimed that King's plan had `influenced         strategic thinking' (3).
King's impact on the reframing of strategy was recognised with an ISAF       medal.
The success of the       Prism Cell is noted in the MoD Joint Doctrine Note 3/11 `Decision-Making       and Problem-Solving:       Human and Organisational Factors' (para 313) (4).
Since 2011, initially       under the aegis of the       Defence Cultural Specialist Unit, and starting with 3 Commando Brigade       Royal Marines, King has       advised successive brigades deploying into Helmand province about the       area's complex power       dynamics, and mentored the final Helmand task force in September 2013.
He       has sought to       persuade Task Force Helmand and ISAF to place political engagement at the       heart of their current       transition strategy.
Shaping military training and education     As a result of his contribution to military operations and his continuing       research on the armed       forces, King has played an increasingly prominent role in military       education.
He was invited to       contribute to Royal Marines Young Officer training (60 officers a year       since 2010), lecturing and       mentoring future lieutenants on stabilization and counter-insurgency in       preparation for operations.
King also delivers a Continuing Professional Development course at Exeter       on counter-insurgency       to 25 military personnel a year (since 2010), attended by       operationally-experienced officers and       non-commissioned officers who have served in Iraq and/or Afghanistan,       often in combat roles,       including members of the Special Forces.
In recognition of the esteem in       which his input to strategy       is held, the armed forces have requested that this course now runs twice a       year.
King is an annual       contributor to both the Advanced and Higher Command and       Staff Courses at the Joint Services       Command and Staff College (JSCSC), lecturing and instructing officers,       including those destined       for the highest levels of command.
Since 2010, 1400 middle-ranking       officers from the UK and       overseas have attended his teaching on the Advanced Course (350 a year).
From 2011 onwards,       120 senior UK and NATO military officers, diplomats, intelligence agents       and civil servants have       attended his contribution to the Higher Course.
One Commanding Officer       recorded that King's       `considerable effort to generate a better understanding for our people         paid off handsomely' (5).
He       was appointed to the new advisory panel of the Joint Services Command and       Staff College in       2012, is currently contributing to course design, and is a mentor on the       Higher Command and Staff       Course.
There is thus an increasingly numerous cohort of officers in the       British armed forces who       have been taught by King and with whom he has close professional       relations, and whose strategic       thinking has been impacted upon and shaped by King.
Informing public policy debate     In November 2010, following the publication of his paper on Helmand       province (Section 3,       Reference 3), King was asked to give expert testimony through both oral       and written evidence to       the House of Commons All-Party Parliamentary Defence Committee hearing       into operations in       Afghanistan (Section 5, Reference 6).
This evidence and the paper itself       have been widely cited in       the resulting discussions and the Committee's report.
A former UK Defence       Secretary twice cited       the paper in his testimony to the Defence Committee's inquiry on       operations in Afghanistan (7).
The paper was listed on the Chief of Defence Staff's 2013 recommended       reading list for military       personnel, with a commentary by a senior officer (8).
King has also influenced public debates by using the media to communicate       his work beyond the       military and policy-making communities, including an appearance on BBC2's       Newsnight (20       September 2010) with a former commander of the SAS, and articles in The         Guardian and Prospect       (9, 10).
Most recently, as part of ESRC and Nuffield Foundation projects on       `cohesion', King has       contributed to practitioner debates about female accession to combat       units, demonstrating that the       evidence from Iraq and Afghanistan shows that in a highly professional       military, women should be       able to serve in the infantry.
To promote this view widely and       effectively, he organised a major       international joint scholarly and practitioner conference at All Souls       College, Oxford in March 2013       entitled Frontline: Combat and Cohesion in Iraq and Afghanistan.
The conference included 48       prominent academic and military practitioners from 11 countries, including       representatives from the       highest ranks of the British Army and NATO, such as the Deputy Supreme       Allied Commander's       special gender representative.
King's report from this conference has been       sent to the latter and to       selected senior officers in NATO, the British Army and the UK Ministry of       Defence.
In response to       the decision by the former US Secretary of State for Defence, Leon       Panetta, to integrate women       into combat units, King has published pieces on female accession in the       premier defence/military       policy/practitioner journals in the UK and US, such as Parameters (the       journal of the US Army War       College), the Royal United Services Institute's RUSI Journal       (Section 3, Reference 5) and the       British Army Review, thus reaching a range of influential       professional audiences.
He has also       appeared on Radio 4 to discuss these issues (Section 5, References 10).
Through giving talks and       seminars at venues in the US such as West Point and the Army War College,       to military personnel       both affected by Panetta's decision and/or currently attempting to       institutionalise it, he has advised       key practitioners and sought to impact on their thinking and professional       practices.
