     Outcomes for patients have improved     There are at least three peer-reviewed articles proving that moving text       therapy is effective for hemianopic alexia, with the first dating back to       1993.
Despite this, until the launch of Read-Right, the therapy was not       available for suitable patients to access.
We decided to make the therapy       freely available.
Read-Right went live in June 2010 and has had 16,703 unique       visitors generating 177,078 page views from 30,878 visits.
38% of visits       are returning visitors.
657 patients with hemianopic alexia have       used or are using the site.
Eye-Search went live in September 2012 and has had 3,090 unique       visitors generating 37,885 page views from 7,281 visits.
An impressive       57.5% of visits are returning visitors.
217 patients with       hemianopia have used or are using the site.
Patients from all over the world can benefit from these applications.
At       present, the top five countries where users log in from are: UK (48%), USA       (25%), Australia (10%), Canada (3%) and Japan (3%) [a].
Patients can fill in an on-line questionnaire to let us know how much       they have benefitted or not.
Not everyone fills it in, but those who do       rate Read-Right as 7.7/10 and report that they are now reading between 30       and 60 minutes more per day.
One patient reported that "Read-Right has restored my self-belief and         allowed me to take control of my own recovery" [b].
A novel clinical intervention has been developed, trialled and         positive outcome demonstrated     Both websites contain clinically-proven therapeutic interventions that       have been trialled in phase II studies.
The data collected from patients       using the applications are akin to a phase IV clinical trial (real-world       efficacy outside close monitoring that occurs in smaller trials).
This has       led to two peer- reviewed publications to date [see section 3].
It       is the first time that web-based therapies for neurological conditions       have been proven to work.
Public involvement in research has improved     Since 2008, 42 patients with hemianopia have helped us in person to       develop both therapy web sites.
Most have come on one or more occasion to       UCL Multimedia to 'beta' test various components of each application.
Many       more patients (~100) have been involved in online testing and have       provided feedback once the therapy applications have been released.
This       has led to changes being made to the 'live' versions.
One patient, Mr Mark Jarvis, has been heavily involved in developing the       applications and engaging with the research.
Jarvis helped Read-Right       through many iterations.
He also fronts the explanatory video that appears       on the website and on the UCL part of YouTube [c] (675 views to 31       July 2013).
He was also the focus of a Mail on Sunday article       (11th Jul 2010) [d].
Jarvis and Leff have subsequently taken part in a Research Volunteers       Workshop UCL (10 Jun 2011), highlighting the patient involvement in       development Read-Right [e].
Public awareness of a health benefit has been raised     Read-Right was profiled as an example of how patients with stroke could       embrace new technology to improve their outcome in Media Planet       (distributed with The Independent) in May 2010 [f] and in       an article in the Daily Express (15 January 2013) [g].
The Stroke Association have highlighted both web applications in press       releases and also on their website.
Read-Right has also featured in Stroke       Matters (Nov 2010), a publication that goes out quarterly to all       subscribers (free) [h].
