     Since their launch in November 2009, the website and digital archive have       made the original historical and literary manuscript archive freely       available and instantly accessible online, where it has been used by an       extremely broad and varied constituency of scholarly and non-scholarly       users and has had a wide-ranging impact.
Notably, the project has       broadened awareness of and access to key literary and cultural texts,       their significance and interpretation, through transferring and       disseminating research to non-academic audiences about English theatre       history, performance and production.
Key beneficiaries     The H-ADP has sparked interest in, and raised international awareness of,       these records of early modern English theatre history among a wide       constituency, when previously access to the subject was limited only to a       very small number of scholars who were granted permission to use the       original manuscript archive at Dulwich College.
The broad interest in and       active promulgation of the project and its outcomes is evident through the       activities and testimonies of the following parties:     1) Acting companies, theatres, actors, directors and dramaturges         (literary advisers for theatre companies)     This group uses the archive and website material in their own research,       which they share with colleagues and audiences, both in the UK and       overseas.
Actors, directors, acting companies and theatres in the UK,       Japan, India, South Africa, Germany, Italy, the Philippines, the USA and       Canada have stated in Twitter feeds that they have used the material in       discussions with fellow professionals and with members of the public in       lectures, teaching, exhibits and publications.
These Twitter feeds include: @ShakespeareBT (Shakespeare Birthplace       Trust), @theRSC, @the_Globe (Shakespeare's Globe),@theatrestrust       @bencrystal (an actor who specialises in Shakespearean original       pronunciation), @ShakespeareInstitute (The Shakespeare Institute at the       University of Birmingham @donmar, (Donmar Playhouse) @youngvic (Young Vic       Theatre, @oldvic (Old Vic theatre), @sdshakespeare (San Diego       Shakespeare), @PortersofHG (Porters of Hellgate, a Los-Angeles-based       acting company), @KarenJeynes (theatre critic and dramatist based in South       Africa), @heather1576 (Heather Knight, Museum of London archaeologist);       @MOLA (Museum of London Archaeology)     2) Journalists, bloggers and news organisations;     The media has made regular use of the archive and website, as evidenced       by the following Twitter feeds: @gawker, @telegraph, @guardianstage,       @flavorwire (a media website); @openculture (a media website), @vivgoskrop       (UK-based comedian Viv Goskrop), @vickeegan (Guardian journalist),       @bluebirogallery (artist Jenny Caron Hall),@LondonHistorian (a group       dedicated to London history with over 20,000 followers, @glinner (Graham       Linehan, a comic and television writer with over 500,000 followers).
3) Museums and libraries     Museums and libraries have benefited from the enhanced access that the       archive and website provide to documents and digitised, catalogued and       annotated images which can be used in exhibits, publications, lectures and       conferences.
For example, the British Museum features two of these       documents in its 2012 `Shakespeare: Staging the World' exhibition.
Other       users have included the National Art Library (London), the Huntington       Library (San Marino, CA, USA), the Newberry Library (Chicago) and the       Folger Shakespeare Library and National Building Museum (Washington D.C).
Importantly, the H-ADP has protected, conserved and prolonged the       lifespan of documents relating to English literary and cultural heritage       by enabling users to view them digitally rather than handling them in       person, and by providing funding for conservation of damaged volumes of       manuscripts.
4) Secondary school students, teachers and administrators     The H-DAP's impact on this group is evidenced from various Twitter feeds       and from email feedback to Ioppolo after her lectures on the subject.
5) The general public     This constituency has benefited from H-ADP material being utilised in a       wide range of public lectures, in places such as the Rose Theatre Trust       (London); the Rose Footprint Theatre (Lenox, MA, USA); the Shakespeare       Institute (Stratford-on-Avon); Shakespeare's Globe; the National Archives       (London); the Folger Shakespeare Library and New York University.
Visitors to museums and libraries, both real and virtual, have also       benefited.
Links to the H- ADP have been included in numerous library       websites open to the general public in the UK and US, including the       British Library; the National Archives; the Newberry Library; the       Huntington Library and the Folger Shakespeare Library.
The Shakespearean London Theatres Project (ShaLT) has produced a Walking       Map of Theatres 1567-1642, including information drawn from the H-ADP,       which is publicly available for use as a free download:       http://shalt.org.uk/downloads     Usage statistics     The project's impact is clearly demonstrated by the number of hits on the       H-ADP website.
These have increased from a high of 21,772 hits per month       in 2012 to an average of 26,987 monthly hits in January-April 2013.
Visitor numbers to the website averaged 2,108 per month in the same       period.
These data are derived from Google Statistics for the site, which       can be accessed at: http://henslowe-webstats.cch.kcl.ac.uk/.
The number of unique and return visitors per month spikes sharply when       Ioppolo tweets links to the website.
For example, on 1 September 2012, she       responded to a tweet about Edward Alleyn's birthday by tweeting links to       the biographies on the website, resulting in 80 unique visitors within a       few minutes.
On 3 March 2013, she responded to a tweet from the Rose       Theatre Trust and Vic Keegan (a Guardian journalist) about a       notation in Henslowe's Diary by tweeting a link to the electronic       archive's image of the page mentioned and then tweeted several items about       the significance of Henslowe's Diary and how to access it using www.henslowe-alleyn.org.uk.
These tweets, which caused a large spike in usage of the site on that day       and subsequently, were immediately re-tweeted by several Twitter feeds of       up to 5,000 followers each.
Further evidence is provided by articles about       the H-ADP and/or website links in and through articles on the project in       the Guardian, the Evening Standard, the Irish Times,       the Hackney Citizen and BBC Radio 4.     International conference     The H-ADP resulted in an international conference convened by Ioppolo       entitled `Burbage &amp; Shakespeare and/or Henslowe &amp; Alleyn: Who       Invented the "Shakespearean" Theatre?'
This event, held at the University       of Reading on 24 November 2012, attracted over 100 attendees, many of them       non-academic, such as librarians, theatre trustees, archivists, secondary       school teachers and members of the general public interested in       Shakespeare.
The conference was the first to bring together all four       archaeologists at the Museum of London who have excavated 16th       and 17th- century London playhouses with internationally       renowned academics, including three of the world's most esteemed       Shakespeareans: Professors Stanley Wells, R. A. Foakes and Andrew Gurr.
The evaluations of the conference by attendees were unanimously high.
Podcasts of the entire event were posted on the English Department's       website: http://www.reading.ac.uk/english-         literature/aboutus/ell-shakespeare-conference-2012.aspx.
