     CST involves 14 or more sessions of themed activities which aim to       actively stimulate and engage participants, whilst providing an optimal       learning environment and the social benefits of a group.
CST can be       administered by any suitably-trained person working with people with       dementia, such as care workers, occupational therapists or nurses.
CST       groups take place in settings including residential homes, hospitals and       day centres.
Dissemination of CST     Following our development of the CST treatment programme, we have       facilitated its dissemination through the publication of three training       manuals [a], and the development of a training programme [b].
Sales of the manuals in 2008-13 amounted to 5,143 copies [c], and       in the same period we trained over 2,000 people.
Courses took place across       the UK and in Italy and Spain, including attendees from as far afield as       Australia and South Africa.
In 2010 and 2011 we conducted training       workshops at Alzheimer's Disease International conferences in Toronto and       Malaysia, and for the 0/66 international dementia group which organised a       training workshop in Cuba.
We also run a CST website (www.cstdementia.com),       which has c.8,000 hits per month.
In 2006, NICE recommended that "people with mild/moderate dementia of all       types should participate in group Cognitive Stimulation which should be       commissioned and provided by a range of health and social care workers       with training and supervision.
This should be delivered irrespective of       any anti-dementia drug received by the person with dementia" [d].
CST was the only non-drug intervention recommended to treat cognitive       symptoms of dementia.
Our study was referenced as supporting evidence       which underpinned the decision to recommend CST.
Use of CST in the UK     Many people with dementia in the UK and beyond are now benefitting from       CST.
It is routinely offered in many NHS trusts &#8212; for example, in the Isle       of Wight, our CST protocol has been followed since 2009, with one       practitioner reporting that "CST is the gold standard because the         evidence is that it does produce an improvement in people's memory         scores, and certainly in their quality of life" [e].
The       following NHS Trusts are known to be offering CST as at July 2013:       Berkshire; Birmingham and Solihull; Camden and Islington; Cornwall;       Gloucestershire; Greater Glasgow and Clyde; Isle of Wight; Kent and       Medway; Milton Keynes; Norfolk and Suffolk; North East London;       Northamptonshire; Nottinghamshire; Rotherham, Doncaster and South Humber;       Sussex; South Essex, Tees, Esk and Wear Valley and West London [f].
CST is also used in other settings such as care homes.
For example, the       London Borough of Redbridge recently implemented CST in 11 care homes       across the borough [g].
Through use of our manual and training       courses, it is also possible for individuals to set up groups themselves.
In an article in the Mail on Sunday in 2011, one carer gives her account       of setting up a CST group herself, which has now developed into a local       programme [e, h]     The impact on the lives of people who undertake such programmes is       considerable.
One patient reported that "I noticed people becoming more         fluent and you could see people trying to express themselves more."
Similarly, the positive impacts are valued by carers.
One reported that "There         is no argument that my wife's brighter" and another said "she's         started remembering things since coming to the group" [i].
The carer who set up local groups herself concluded that "I want more         people to have access to CST, which helps people to start living again"       [e].
CST is beginning to be recommended more widely in government policy.
In       2011, the NHS Institute for Innovations concluded that CST can save the       NHS &#163;54.9 million a year through reduced use of antipsychotic medication [j].
In 2012, the Memory Services National Accreditation Programme (MSNAP) (run       by the Royal College of Psychiatrists) included CST as one of their key       standards for accreditation [k].
They now report that as a result,       CST is used in 66% of memory clinics [l].
Also in 2011, the       National Clinical Director for Dementia for England drew attention to our       Cochrane Review, highlighting the positive benefits of CST and its use in       community, care home and hospital settings [m].
International impacts     In 2011, the World Alzheimer's Report stated that CST should routinely be       given to people with early stage dementia [n].
It advocates using       CST to provide an effective low cost intervention to help improve       cognition for people with dementia in developing countries.
The CST manual       has been translated into several languages including Japanese, Spanish,       Italian, German, Portuguese, Dutch and Swahili.
Since 2008 CST is being       used in Australia, USA, South Africa, New Zealand, Germany, Canada, Chile,       Italy, Japan, Nepal, the Philippines, the Netherlands, Tanzania, Brazil,       China, Hong Kong, Indonesia, India, Ireland, Nigeria, Singapore, South       Korea, Turkey and Portugal [o].
