     Hardman and Ailes' research was instrumental in helping Walsall Council       to design and execute a street theatre project based on the Bayard's Colts       as part of a wider regeneration programme for the town.
In 2010, the University of Reading's publicity officer interviewed       Hardman and Ailes about their Charlemagne in England project, and made a       podcast available on the internet via the University website.
In the       interview, Hardman and Ailes outlined the background to their research and       what they expected their investigations to produce, and also what they saw       as the interest their findings about a multilingual cultural tradition       (Charlemagne texts being produced and read in Latin, French and English),       with concerns about inter-faith encounters (Christian/Saracen combat and       conversion), might hold for modern multilingual and multicultural Britain.
The interview was heard by the manager of Walsall Council's Creative       Development Team, who contacted Hardman in May 2011 to discuss ways in       which the academic research might contribute to their street theatre       initiative.
Their aim was to enhance a sense of local identity in the       community through putting on a series of plays that would exploit public       interest in the unique set of Bayard's Colts artefacts held by the       council, and would involve as wide a range of people from the local area       as possible.
Hardman and Ailes gave their support to Walsall's bid to the       Heritage Lottery Fund for a project grant, writing a section of the       application outlining their proposed role as academic advisers to the       project, and advising the Creative Development Team on appropriate texts       that could be used as resources for the plays.
The bid was successful, and       the project was launched at a public event in Walsall on 29 February 2012,       at which Hardman and Ailes gave illustrated presentations on their       research and its connections with the Bayard's Colts project.
This event       was attended by some 50 people from a range of institutions, as well as       the general public, and all were encouraged to sign up to take part in the       development of the first street theatre production, planned for       performance in August 2012.
Since the launch in February 2012, the Bayard's Colts project has       successfully achieved its targets: the four plays, with local participants       involved at every level of the production, were performed in outdoor       settings in Walsall town centre in August and November 2012 and February       and May 2013, and the performances were repeated in indoor settings in       Walsall and neighbouring Bloxwich, with live video streaming to audiences       in Canada and other countries around the world.
The November indoor       performance was a gala event at which the Mayor of Walsall was present,       and video interviews were played to provide context for the performance of       the play.
These included an interview with Hardman and Ailes in which they       shared their research findings and discussed their significance in       relation to the Bayard's Colts community street theatre project.
All the       video interviews have subsequently been made freely available on the       Bayard's Colts website (www.bayardscolts.org.uk),       which also contains photo galleries from the street performances and       comments from the public.
The first year of the Bayard's Colts project concluded with an awards       ceremony on 14 May 2013, at which the Chairman of Walsall Civic Society       outlined its achievements and described the cohesive impact it had had on       the local community, both for those who had taken part in the productions       and for those who had enjoyed the performances.
The Mayor of Walsall       presented awards recognising the contributions of the instigators and       supporters of the project, including Hardman and Ailes, and gave       certificates to the local apprentices and students who had worked on the       initiative.
The event organisers have reportedly been asked to take the       plays to Stratford-on-Avon, and plans are underway, with advice from       Hardman and Ailes, to make connections with towns in France and Belgium       where Bayard-related activities are held.
Testimonials     Walsall's street theatre initiative received highly positive feedback, as       did the involvement of Hardman and Ailes.
Recognising their role and their underpinning research, the Chairman of       Walsall Civic Society wrote: `None of this work could have happened       without you.'
Similarly, the playwright stated: `To see the audience       enjoying it was terrific!
I feel very enriched by the whole project',       while one of the actors said: `It's part of my life now &#8212; it's put a spark       back into my life I never thought I'd have again...
I've seen a real sense       of community develop.'
Moreover, the director of the plays expressed his       aspirations behind the project- `It's about making something really       exciting happen in Walsall &#8212; using the past to give us a future.
'- and       this is reflected in one of the tweets: `What a day on Saturday!
Great       performances, great crowds and great music.
That's how to breathe life       into old Walsall town!'
Future impact     Looking forward, the impact to which the academic research of Hardman and       Ailes has contributed will continue to be achieved as long as the Bayard's       Colts street theatre tradition persists in Walsall.
This will help to       enhance a strong sense of identity in the local community through       engagement with the project and involvement in the performances, either as       participants or as audience members.
