     Impact on policy and public debate in UK:       Prior to the current REF period our work had begun to have an impact on UK       policy through presentations to Select Committees on three occasions and       government interest in the relationship between skills and the global       economy.
Broader dissemination of our ideas - including articles by Peter       Wilby and Aditya Chakraborrty in The Guardian, as well as articles written       for non-academic audiences that span the political spectrum from Soundings       (2012), Crossbow (2012) along with the ESRC's Britain in 2010       - has helped underpin our impact.
Two of the project team (Ashton and       Brown) were appointed to the Expert Panel of the UK Commission for       Employment and Skills (2008-2011) [5.1].
Membership of the panel allowed       us to contribute to policy debates by drafting a Briefing Paper and a more       detailed Praxis report on the key findings of our research which were       widely circulated within Westminster and to the wider policy community       [5.2].
We also contributed to an Associate Parliamentary Skills Group and       National Skills Forum publication on future directions for education and       skills policy in Britain launched in the House of Commons (2011), also       widely circulated [5.3].
We are working with the Higher Education Policy       Institute (HEPI) [5.4] and GuildHE in the U.K. on alternative approaches       to human capital models of H.E.
and the graduate labour market.
In a       letter of support the CEO at GuildHE notes of our work: "we have used its       central arguments and research as a key theme of our work at GuildHE and       we reference it regularly in presentations and articles".
In addition, as       a result of this use, "`several important organisations [including the       National Union of Students, the Labour Party and HEFCE as well as       individual colleges and universities] have asked for further information       on the ideas in the 'Global Auction'".
[5.5]     Impact on Transnational policy debates:       The reach of our research dissemination is reflected in the large number       of invited keynote presentations at policy conferences, seminars and       workshops in over 20 countries (the vast majority since 2008).
These       include The World Bank, Washington DC (2010); International Labour Office,       Geneva (2010: 2012); Global Human Resources Forum, Seoul (2010); World       Universities Forum, Hong Kong (2011); Emirates Center for Strategic       Studies, Abu Dhabi (2010); Council of the European Union, Brussels (2012);       European Union Presidency Conference on Vocational Education and Training,       Copenhagen (2012); and The European Business Forum on Vocational Training,       European Commission, Brussels (2012).
As a result of this broad dissemination, the World Bank and the       International Labour Office have both expressed interest in our research       as they look for new models for delivering economic development and social       justice.
Drawing on our research in shaping current debates, the Director       of Education for the World Bank's Human Development Network announced in a       major conference on Global Human Resources (Seoul, 2010) that the ideas in       The Global Auction posed a fundamental challenge to many of the       assumptions about globalisation and human capital theory that had informed       the World Bank's policy agenda [5.6].
The Head of Skills and Employability       at the International Labour Office has written that `The Global Auction'       and our presentation at the ILO in Feb, 2010:     "engendered reflection on ILO's own research and policy advice...they       have the all-too-rare ability to translate these findings into conclusions       and implications that are meaningful to policy-makers...This has proven       effective in increasing the impact of their work in both research and       policy-making worlds.'
[5.7]     Jose Manuel Salazar-Xirinachs, Executive Director of Employment, ILO,       cites `The Global Auction' in reference to re-thinking ILO strategies with       respect to economic development [5.8].
The impact of our work on policy debates is underlined by St&#233;phan       Vincent-Lancrin, Senior Analyst at the OECD Centre for Educational       Research and Innovation (CERI) who has stated that: "Changes in business       models and practices, such as the `digital Taylorism' depicted in Brown et       al (2008) are interesting for education as they may shape the future of       education and education systems...What would the school and university of       the digital Taylorism era look like?
This will be a fascinating future       research agenda."
[5.9]     International policy impact: Singapore.
Brown and Lauder have been appointed to the expert panel, Centre for       Skills, Performance and Productivity, Institute of Adult Learning,       Department of Workforce Development (from 2012), which adds to the impact       of this research since Singapore is widely acknowledged to have one of the       most sophisticated systems of skill formation and industrial policy in the       world.
Moreover, in recognition of the impact The Global Auction       is having on discussions about globalization, skills and the future of the       labour market in Singapore, Brown and Lauder presented key findings at the       Civil Service College, along with dissemination events at the Ministry of       Education, and Ministry of Manpower.
The highly influential Ministry of       Trade and Industry's, Futures and Strategies Division, has also drawn       heavily on our research findings in mapping future trends and their       consequences for Singapore, with a senior policymaker highlighting the way       "the book re-defines the conception of the linkages between education       policy, economic policy, industrial policy and welfare policy" and as a       result how "What was once simple and linear has become complex and messy".
One consequence of the book in Singapore is that "Policymakers are alerted       to the complexity of the issues, and the difficulty of managing economic       competitiveness, the education of its workforce, and the promise of       better-skills for better-jobs"[5.10].
