     Our programme of research into thickened drinks used in clinical practice       has had an influence on commercial products for dysphagia, and on the       practitioners using these products.
Both of these factors have resulted in       increased benefit for patients with dysphagia.
Impact on the manufacturers of drink thickeners.
Our research has been utilised by all three of the companies producing       thickening products (Fresenius Kabi, Nutricia and Nestl&#233;), both through       direct use and citation of our research, and via our training of their       product developers and representatives (for example at the European       Society for Swallowing Disorders 2012, and BAPEN 2012).
These companies       have utilised our work in the development of new products, in the       refinement of existing products, in the training of their employees and in       the training of healthcare providers.
In addition it has been used in       their discussions with NHS staff who procure these products for use in       individual health trusts.
(Every NHS Trust uses these products, and the       total market value is around &#163;12-15m per annum [a].)
Fresenius Kabi cite our research throughout an `advertorial' for their       product, Thick and Easy [b].
This has been used in international       journals such as Dysphagia, and also the professional magazine from the       Royal College of Speech and Language Therapists.
Fresenius also report       that the research has been used in product development:     "The research has also helped us start some new product development         projects by giving us the improved information around the products         available in the market" [c].
Nutricia have also cited one of our papers in an advert for their Nutilis       range [d].
They report that:     "The findings from [O'Leary et al 2010] helped Nutricia to develop an         internal standard for viscosity, which has enabled Nutricia to         objectively measure viscosity when determining the different stages of         our dysphagia products (Nutilis Range)... Nutricia have used the         research from Dr Christina Smith and colleagues to improve the standards         of the Nutilis range, which is designed to benefit the care of patients         living with dysphagia" [e].
The improvements to the thickening products, as described by the       companies have resulted in a better product used in healthcare.
In       addition, the improvements are reflected in the clarity of their       advertising.
Impact on clinical practice through training of healthcare providers.
As mentioned above, companies have used our work in the training of       healthcare providers.
Many of these companies provide extensive training       and education to healthcare staff who make thickened drinks for patients.
Fresenius Kabi, for example, report that:     "Research at UCL by Dr Christina Smith and colleagues has revealed         that there are a number of misconceptions around thickening drinks that         have led to products being misunderstood and potentially affecting         practice carried out by Speech and Language Therapists.
The findings         have been incorporated into our training sessions to ensure correct         usage of the products and increased understanding into how liquids and         thickeners work together allowing health care professionals and patients         to use our products with better knowledge around the way the product         works which ultimately improves practice" [c].
The more carefully this training is provided with increased knowledge of       the behaviours of the thickening products, the better provision for       patients.
We have also directly trained healthcare workers through study days (such       as the adult dysphagia special interest group in June 2011; the Scottish       Speech and Language Therapists Special Interest Group in April 2013) and       practical symposia at conferences (e.g.
European Society for Swallowing       Disorders, October 2012) [f].
Resulting impacts on patients     Our research into the behaviours of thickening products providing clearer       information on the use of these products has influenced the prescribing to       individuals with swallowing difficulties.
For example, a Speech and       Language Therapist at University Hospital Lewisham reported that the       hospital had changed their use of the products as a direct result of the       research [g].
The international reach of the research is demonstrated the International       Dysphagia Diet Standardisation Initiative (IDDSI) which is utilising the       results in setting forth their guidelines.
