     History has shown time and again that problems occur with families during       war-induced separation.
While there is little that can be done to reverse       the trauma suffered by individuals in the past, Parsons' research is       supporting the great achievements being made in the `here and now' in       helping the thousands of Service Children currently in school education.
Student tracking scheme     Pippa Bleach, a former PhD student of Parsons, is driving the Service       Child project forward at The Connaught School in Aldershot, in her current       role as Head of Humanities.
Based uniquely on the understanding of child       separation in war developed by Parsons, the school, which has a high       percentage of Service Children (97 pupils, some 8 per cent of the total       student population), has introduced a tracking scheme which monitors all       students and gathers important academic and pastoral information about       children with parents in the Armed Forces.
The academic aspect of the scheme tracks a child's performance in various       subjects/areas, and cross-references it to when their parents are on       active service.
The pastoral element of the scheme looks at the       behavioural traits of Service Children, and the length, regularity and       location of their parent's deployment.
With Parsons' understanding that       war separation can affect relationships both in the short- and long-term,       the school can take appropriate measures to ensure that Service Children       feel integrated in the school community, such as not forcing individuals       to `make friends' and letting them forge their own relationships.
As       Service Children frequently move schools, the tracking scheme has       particular relevance when an individual leaves The Connaught School, as       these focused and enhanced academic and pastoral notes can then be       transferred to their next school.
The aim here is to provide continuity       and stability for Service Children in a transient and often daunting       environment.
Although this scheme is still in its infancy, The Connaught       School and its staff have embraced it as a highly important and valuable       to Service Children.
As a result, a `Service Child handbook' &#8212; a       comprehensive resource for the care and support of such children at The       Connaught &#8212; is set to be published within the next 18 months.
Tailored teaching materials     Parsons has recently established a link with Blankenhagen School in       Gutersloh, Germany, which caters solely for Service Children.
On the basis       of the work done at The Connaught School and the findings to date,       Blankenhagen School has agreed to trial a curriculum and teaching       materials developed by the staff, based on Parson's work, aimed at dealing       with aspects of separation and the provision of quiet rooms and       counselling services to support their pupils.
Once the materials have been       evaluated and amended, it is hoped that the `Service Child Supplement'       (small sums of money ring-fenced by the Government for each Service Child       in the UK), now available to all schools with Service Children, however       largely un/mis-spent, will be used for the initial purchase and copying of       teaching materials and handbooks at The Connaught and elsewhere.
This will       result in a better awareness of the needs of individual children and       greater continuity in school administration.
Service Child Library     Under the guidance of Parsons and Bleach, The Connaught School recently       created a Service Child Library, with books chosen by Service Children.
It       has also partnered with `Reading Force', a mutual reading and scrapbook       scheme where children read the same book as their parents serving       overseas.
Devised by Alison Baverstock at Kingston University, this       initiative helps to minimise the trauma of separation by giving child and       parent a shared experience to discuss.
Policy making     Parsons' research has caught the attention of policy makers.
In December       2012, the Defence Committee announced a major new enquiry into the       provision of education to the children of Service personnel.
As part of       the enquiry, Parsons and Bleach were asked to attend a meeting with the       Administrative Chair of the Ministry of Defence Select Committee at the       House of Commons.
This meeting took place in January 2013, with Parsons       and Bleach explaining in detail the key elements of the research findings       and how they have trialled learning materials and transfer documents in       schools.
Following this conversation, and based on their success to date,       the team was asked to submit a report to the Select Committee and       ultimately the Defence Minister, which has since been accepted as written       evidence.
In addition, Buckinghamshire County Council recently invited Parsons to       present his findings at their Armed Forces Community Covenant working       group, with the aim of creating and implementing an action plan for       supporting Service Children in the county.
In February 2013, Parsons       accepted an invitation to address an audience of NATO and SHAPE (Supreme       Headquarters Allied Powers Europe) representatives in Belgium in September       2013 about his research, its impact to date and how it can benefit       children both in the UK and worldwide.
Media and other interest     Parsons discussed his research on the BBC 4 programme The Evacuees (Sept       2009).
Producers of the BBC's The One Show heard about Parsons'       research and subsequently asked him to film a segment about war child       evacuation (filmed 23 May 2013).
ITV has since displayed interest in the       work and Parsons and his team are now in negotiation with the channel       about a future TV series.
Moreover, following a conversation between Parsons and the Dean of       Westminster Abbey, the `Children in War Memorial Project' took place in       November 2012, where 12 children laid wreaths at the Abbey in memory of       those affected by war as a child.
This successful event will be repeated       in 2013 and has led to further interest from Gloucester and Truro       Cathedrals, who are keen on using Parsons' research-based insight for       similar services.
In summary, Parsons' work has been hugely important in generating new         ways of thinking about Service Child separation and in changing         organisational approaches towards the issue.
When asked about the         impacts arising from the research, Dr Peter Heinl, the leading authority         on psychological war trauma in children, described it as "truly           ground breaking".
