     Led by Cook, the SUERC radiocarbon laboratory is a world leader, with its       research having       significant impact on a number of organisations including Police and       Customs authorities,       commercial archaeology companies, local authorities, Historic Scotland,       English Heritage and       commercial radiocarbon laboratories worldwide.
Examples of impacts are       listed below.
Forensic Remains: Police and Customs Authorities     Since 2008 Cook has worked with 13 police forces in the UK.
He has       provided 14C analysis and       expert reports for police authorities and forensic science companies for       over 30 cases involving       human skeletal and dental remains.
Radiocarbon analysis provides an       estimate of the year of birth       and can be used to tell whether death occurred after 1955 (i.e.
during the       nuclear era).
Cook's       work has been invaluable to police authorities by helping to determine       whether cases require       further investigation, and has been influential in the progress or closure       of a number of high profile       legal cases.
Haut de la Garenne children's home, Jersey: analysis of bone remains         discovered at the         site during a child abuse investigation in 2008 proved that, although         human, they were not         from modern times and therefore not the result of murder when the home         was open in the         1960s-80s.
No further investigation was required.
A Victorian murder: when a skull was unearthed in Sir David         Attenborough's garden, 14C         analysis helped to identify the victim as Julia Thomas, killed in 1879         by her maid.
Operation Malachi, featured on BBC Crimewatch: analysis determined         that a body         discovered behind hoardings in Manchester was that of a woman who was         born in the early         to mid-1950s and who died in the late 1960s to early 1970s.
This case is         ongoing.
Radiocarbon analysis has been carried out for Revenue &#8212; Irish Tax and       Customs, Merseyside       Police and TRACE Wildlife Forensics Network to establish whether animal       parts such as elephant       ivory and rhinoceros horn came from animals that were alive during the       nuclear weapons era and       therefore traded illegally.
In the context of this work, Cook has appeared       as an expert witness at       Winchester Crown Court (23 June 2009).
One client, Cellmark Forensic       Services, undertakes       commercial forensic and genetic profiling for many police forces, and has       engaged Cook's       expertise to provide accurate analysis of bone and ivory on 12 occasions       during 2011-13.
The       quality of the service that they have received has enabled the company to       grow its caseload during       2012.
Archaeology: Invaluable Cultural Treasures     In 2012 Cook and Hamilton collaborated with researchers from the       Universities of Leicester and       Oxford to analyse bones excavated from a car park that were believed to be       those of Richard III.
Standard 14C analysis alone did not provide the correct       timeframe to confirm his identity.
However,       applying Bayesian techniques and taking data on his diet and the marine       reservoir effect correction       into account made it possible to pinpoint the time of death to demonstrate       that the remains were       consistent with Richard III (later absolutely confirmed by DNA analysis).
In 2008 the National Trust       for Scotland asked Cook to date artefacts from the Isle of Iona, where St       Columba established a       monastery in 563 AD and where, during the following century, his church       played a major role in the       expansion of Christianity in northern Britain.
The work at SUERC       demonstrated human       colonisation of the island many centuries prior to construction of the       monastery.
This finding has       been recognised by the Scottish Parliament for its cultural importance.
In       2011, Historic Scotland       asked Cook to provide a chronology for the formation of the Ring of       Brodgar, which is a key       monument in the Heart of Neolithic Orkney World Heritage Site.
Analysis       determined that the       standing stones pre-date Stonehenge, thus underscoring their national and       international       importance.
Bayesian statistical methods were added to the SUERC laboratory in 2011.
These methods enable       the laboratory to provide a complete analytical approach from advice on       the optimum number and       type of samples for a particular study to actual 14C analyses       and a detailed Bayesian report.
Commercial archaeology companies have benefitted in multiple ways from       the inclusion of       Bayesian statistics in post-excavation programmes.
Perhaps most       importantly, by developing       Bayesian chronologies they have been able to produce historic and       prehistoric narratives that       engage the community's interest, e.g.
Gwynedd Archaeological Trust &#8212; Site:       Ysgol yr Hendre.
In       turn this has led to developers funding 14C dating that       includes Bayesian modelling, e.g.
Cambridge Archaeology Unit &#8212; Site: Must Farm.
Renewable Energy Impacts     [text removed for publication.]
The drive for this research has been       international obligations for       reporting and reducing carbon emissions.
[text removed for publication.]
International impact on commercial 14C analysis       The SUERC radiocarbon laboratory has led the six international radiocarbon       inter-comparisons,       the two most recent since 2008.
Laboratory staff have developed and       distributed 14C reference       materials (e.g.
bone, charcoal, humic acid, wood, etc) to the majority of       the world's radiocarbon       laboratories.
The results are collated and reported back to individual       laboratories for quality       assurance.
These inter-comparisons have underpinned improvements in       working practices in the       14C measurement community, and have set the benchmark for       laboratory practice for commercial       14C analyses.
