     Through the course of our research, we have developed new instruments for       measuring and       assessing emotional intelligence, which we have re-conceptualised as a set       of personality traits,       rather than an IQ-type variable.
The Trait Emotional Intelligence       Questionnaire (TEIQue) has       converted our scientific research into a practical tool which is now in       use across a wide range of       organisations, including businesses and educational establishments.
Their       success is evident in       the very high volumes of commercial usage and associated financial       benefits.
Trait EI theory and       the associated range of TEIQue materials are now at the forefront of       international psychometric       research yielding concrete and substantial mental health and financial       benefits.
Two recent meta-analyses have demonstrated the value of the TEIQue,       recommending it as a       measure of choice for medical research, and one that is psychometrically       superior to other EI       measures in the literature [a].
Sales and distribution     The TEIQue is distributed commercially by Thomas International.
(We also       make it available free of       charge for academic use.)
Distribution of the TEIQue is increasing       year-on-year, with turnover from       TEIQue products rising from [text removed for publication] in 2008       to [text removed for         publication] for 2013 (totalling [text removed for publication]       for the whole period) [b].
Training and dissemination of the TEIQue     Accreditation in use of the TEIQue is conducted by, among others, the       training company Ei World,       who use training materials for the TEIQue under license from Petrides and       Thomas International.
The training seminars facilitate scientific applications of the TEIQue       instruments for purposes of       coaching, team development, recruitment, succession planning, and talent       management.
The       company has trained [text removed for publication] in the period       2008-13, from large corporations,       the public sector and education, including [text removed for         publication] [c].
Use in education     Our work in educational settings covering academic performance, emotional       well-being, and self-harm       informed an intervention at St Benedict's independent school, which sought       to improve the       performance and behaviour of underachieving and disruptive students [d].
One adolescent pupil diagnosed with depression experienced poor       peer-relations and       underperformed academically.
Feedback on her TEIQue profile enabled her to       get her concerns       out into the open and, as a result, to feel happy just to be herself,       which, in turn, empowered her to       put maximum effort into her studies.
She also observed an improved ability       to recognize and       manage her moods, which helped her retain a positive outlook [d].
The TEIQue was one of three assessments used on a group of Year 10       pupils.
The assistant head       of the school reported that "The impact of the assessments was huge,         with a reduction of over 90%         in external exclusions, internal inclusions, removals from class, and         negative referrals.
Among the         majority with poor attendance records attendance improved and positive         referrals increased from         one in the period prior to the assessments, to 28 after assessment         feedback had been given" [d].
Year-end GCSE results increased by 6% and were significantly ahead of       expectations with       performance in English and Maths increasing by 10%.
In that particular       application, the TEIQue       was ranked by the pupils as the most useful of a number of psychological       instruments employed       [e].
Thomas International are now seeking to expand the distribution of the       TEIQue in education, with a       new major venture, Thomas Education.
This initiative seeks to maximize       student potential and staff       performance in secondary schools through the use of a suite of behavioural       assessments in which       the TEIQue features prominently [f].
Impact on businesses and other organisations     The TEIQue has had a variety of impacts on businesses and other       organizations in many       industries.
For example, we have systematically investigated in our       research programme variables       relating to self-awareness and peer-relations, which was very useful to       the Doyle Hotel Group as it       refocused its business strategy from bedrooms to food provision and sought       to retrain all of its       Head Chefs with particular emphasis on self-awareness and teamwork [g].
We have also       extensively investigated the impact of trait EI on stress, which proved       especially relevant for BI       Worldwide in their effort to reduce stress levels among their workforce [h].
In the Thames Valley police force, an officer well known for his       autocratic behaviour contemplated       his TEIQue report, including scores on trait EI facets such as       Self-motivation, Assertiveness, and       Relationships, with particular emphasis on the effect they may have on his       working behaviour.
This       helped him understand how he was being perceived by others.
As a result,       he modified his       approach and communication style and became easier to work with and more       successful overall       [i].
