     The findings of TEN-HMS and the subsequent systematic reviews have had a       substantial impact on the development of telemonitoring and &#8212; more broadly       &#8212; telehealth services locally, nationally and internationally1.
Much of the impact since 2009 has been facilitated through the University       of Hull's `Centre for Telehealth', a cross-faculty collaboration       established to further the development and delivery of remote care       services.
The initial impact of TEN-HMS was the development of a telehealth service       for heart failure patients in Hull.
Not only was the development of this       service a direct result of the benefits seen in the TEN-HMS study, but the       clinical triage of remotely collected patient data was (and still is)       carried out by clinical staff appointed jointly by the University of Hull       and the NHS.
Since July 2009, the heart failure telemonitoring service has       been commissioned directly by NHS Hull, accounting for approximately       &#163;1million of healthcare spending.
Between 2009 and 2011, telehealth       services in Hull were co-ordinated through a multi-agency stakeholder       group, led by Hull City Council and including Professor Cleland and other       representatives from the University of Hull.
This innovative and inclusive       commissioning and governance arrangement has received national attention,       notably being cited as best practice in a King's Fund publication on       enhancing the adoption of telehealth2.
Over 400 heart failure patients in Hull have benefited from telehealth       services.
Evaluations carried out on behalf of commissioners have       suggested that for every 10 patients receiving the service, one all-cause       hospital admission is averted every month.
This reduction in admissions       has yielded commissioners net savings of at least &#163;100k/year3.
The success of the Hull heart failure service provided the catalyst for       long-term, larger-scale commissioning of telehealth services in the city.
Hull's Clinical Commissioning Group now invests over &#163;250k per annum into       telehealth services, with a recruitment target of 1000 patients by 2015.
As key players in the development, delivery and evaluation of telehealth       in Hull, the University is represented on both the commissioning and       delivery groups associated with this service.
The expertise and methodologies developed in local services have spread       nationally.
Evaluations of telehealth services &#8212; which are used to inform       future service development and commissioning &#8212; have been carried out (or       are being carried out) by the University's Faculty of Health and Social       Care (FHSC) on behalf of NHS East Riding of Yorkshire, NHS Stoke-on-Trent,       NHS South of Tyne and Wear, NHS Durham and Merck Sharp &amp; Dohme (MSD).
Overall, these projects encompass over 1000 patients and healthcare       investment of over &#163;1M.
Where these evaluations have been completed, they       have informed the targeting of resources to provide greater efficiency in       care delivery &#8212; for example, data from the NHS Stoke-on-Trent evaluation       underpinned a shift in investment toward simpler, text-based       telemonitoring services3.
In 2011-12, the University's reputation for understanding and       implementing telehealth led to participation in a &#163;900k Yorkshire and the       Humber Strategic Health Authority (SHA) funded project to develop a       regional `Telehealth Hub'.
The University contribution &#8212; led by FHSC &#8212;       involved support and evaluation of telephone coaching, video-consultation       and telemonitoring services across Hull, Barnsley and Airedale.
A full       evaluation report was published by 2020Health, concluding that the hub       benefitted 2100 patients and yielded over &#163;500k in savings4.
The Telehealth Hub has been recognised as a Reference site for the       European Innovation Partnership on Active and Healthy Ageing.
The hub is       one of 32 reference sites across the EU, and one of only 13 who received a       three-star rating &#8212; the highest awarded during the evaluation process5.
Further international recognition has been gained by staff from the       University of Hull being invited to participate in a best practice       telehealth exchange programme between the UK Department of Health and the       Veterans' Health Administration in the USA6.
The University's telehealth research also continues to have a major       impact on policy and international guidelines for heart failure       management.
Studies stemming directly from TEN-HMS (Ref 2 and 3) are       heavily cited within European Society of Cardiology guidelines on the       self-care management of heart failure7, and were included in a       recent NIHR Health Technology Assessment that highlighted the clinical       benefits of telemonitoring in heart failure patients8.
The impact of Hull's telehealth research has also enhanced the delivery       of care through work with industry partners, educational organisations and       skills sector bodies.
Philips Healthcare was an industry partner in the       TEN-HMS study, through the use of their Motiva telehealth system.
The       study gave Philips a platform for developing and marketing Motiva, thereby       building sales and enhancing services.
Motiva is now one of the       market-leading telehealth systems and was used within the Department of       Health's flagship telehealth RCT, the Whole System Demonstrator.
Philips       have a Master Research Agreement with the University of Hull.
This       agreement not only enhances current telehealth products and services, but       also maintains a strong collaboration between industry and academia       facilitating effective and on-going knowledge transfer9.
FHSC has an on-going relationship with Virtual College; a private       provider of online education.
Staff from FHSC contributed to the       development of an eLearning module focusing on Telehealth, which was made       available nationally.
This module has now been accessed by over 1000       students nationwide.
FHSC has continued to work with Virtual College on       developing a new Assistive Technology learning and development framework       (and associated learning resources) on behalf of Skills for Care10.
In addition, the University is working closely with Skills for Health to       review and refresh National Occupational Standards for Assistive       Technologies &#8212; new standards will be published early in 2014.
