     Burchardt's research had taken a `popular' topic into the academic world       for serious scholarly       analysis.
As a result, his 2002 book struck a chord with a wider audience       at a time of revived       interest in allotments and in a historical issue close to people's sense       of identity and everyday       lives.
The publishers regarded it as a model of how to reach out beyond       academia while retaining       academic rigour.
It achieved a wide public readership and has consistently       generated dialogue with       a broad public before and throughout the REF period.
Indeed, demand for       greater access to the       publication by a non-academic audience led to the release of a paperback       edition in 2011.
For most of the second half of the 20th century, allotments       were marginal in every sense.
Their       numbers were in decline, economists and policy makers regarded them as a       wasteful use of high-       value urban land, while architects, planners and some sections of the       public saw them as an untidy       eyesore.
Although they were still valued by hundreds of thousands of       mainly working-class families       across the country, these people lacked voice, leadership and recognition.
Primary impacts       The main impact arising from this research and publication happened in two       phases.
Firstly, the       research led to a nationwide project led by amateur historians inspired by       Burchardt's work, and to       a related book and database.
These resources were in turn a vehicle for a       second phase of impact.
In 2003 a group of amateur historians in the FACHRS requested Burchardt's       help with a volunteer-       led investigation into the history of allotments.
The project ran from       2003 until 2010, with the aim of       extending Burchardt's research into areas of more explicit popular       interest and use, to deepen and       broaden understanding of allotment history through detailed local history       research and to foster       awareness of allotments as a part of the heritage of local communities.
Complementing the broad national framework provided by The Allotment         Movement in England,       the project investigated the history of thousands of local allotment sites       and established detailed       contextual information about allotment holders.
A team of over 30       volunteers collected data on a       systematic, county-by-county basis, with the aim of identifying as many       allotments as possible and       recording key information such as parish, county, date of record, date       site established, name and       status of landlord, number of plots, acreage and rent.
As academic       advisor, Burchardt liaised with       the volunteers, assisting with interim reports and newsletters, giving       talks, and both directing and       supporting lines of enquiry.
For example, he asked the researchers to look       particularly carefully for       tenant lists and other documents that shed light on the attributes of 19th century allotment holders,       to gain a better understanding of who rented allotments and why and to       reconnect allotment history       with local communities and heritage.
The Allotment Movement in England provided not only the initial       inspiration for the FACHRS       project but also its intellectual underpinning.
The project adopted the       same time span (1793-1873)       in order that its findings should complement the earlier work and used the       arguments developed in       Burchardt's book as an interpretative framework.
This approach helped       elucidate aspects which       the FACHRS volunteers might otherwise have found baffling or discouraging       &#8212; the role of national       organisations such as the Labourer's Friend, the significance of spade       husbandry, or the causes       and nature of opposition to allotments, for example.
Most of the questions       the FACHRS       researchers set out to answer also derived from The Allotment Movement         in England and its core       methodology (e.g.
the standardisation of allotment site data drawn from       numerous sources) was       directly adopted to ensure consistency and complementarity between the two       projects.
The project culminated in 2010 with the publication of Breaking New         Ground, jointly edited by       Burchardt and Cooper.
The book reveals that allotments were numerous and       widespread,       cherished not only by agricultural labourers, but also by tradesmen,       artisans and industrial workers;       they were not just, as professional historians had hitherto assumed, a       means of alleviating poverty,       but a central institution of Victorian village life.
It also brings       little-explored aspects of allotment       history under the spotlight, including the moral dimension of allotment       rules, the complex links       between allotments and popular protest, the interventions of paternalistic       employers and the       people's desire for allotments to replace lost rights of common.
In the       words of the preface, the       framework presented by Burchardt's own research and subsequently by the       FACHRS has       `fostered a comparative approach, sustained and extended the enthusiasm       and expertise of the       participants, and resulted in valuable collective contributions to       important historical themes'.
Thus,       contributors to the research and the writing of Breaking New Ground       in their turn made a serious       contribution to an under-researched historical subject.
The publishers       believed the book would       `surely encourage more existing and budding historians to continue to grow       their own history, with       the valuable help and encouragement of scholars like Jeremy Burchardt and       Jacqueline Cooper'       and this has clearly proven to be the case.
The book was accompanied by a database, by far the most comprehensive yet       published,       containing records of over 3,000 allotment sites and nearly 1,000       allotment tenants.
This resource       gives local, family and community historians a starting point for further       investigation and allows       them to place their own findings in a comparative context.
Collectively,       these resources &#8212; for which       Burchardt's original research was the cornerstone &#8212; have opened up a view       on the history of       allotments from the local rather than national perspective and therefore       complement his work to       create a rich picture of interest to audiences within and beyond academia.
Both The Allotment Movement in England and Breaking New         Ground have engendered further       public interest, including requests for and donations of further       information, demonstrating the       continued vitality of interest in this history among allotment holders and       providers.
They have also       provided an unprecedented resource for research into aspects of allotment       history and other       individual and social histories of which allotments were a part.
Secondary impacts       In addition to these major impacts, the broader public impact deriving       from Burchardt's original       research can be described under three headings:     (i) Fostering public knowledge of, interest in and research into the         history of allotments       Following the publication of his book, Burchardt began to receive requests       for information and       advice from members of the public across the UK.
These were further       stimulated by the publication       of Breaking New Ground in 2010.
Well over a hundred inquiries have       been received and answered       since 2008 (as well as many before the REF period) and talks given to many       local history societies,       allotment associations and gardening clubs.
Such contacts often encouraged       individuals to       undertake research into the history of their local allotments and       sometimes allotment and       gardening history in a wider sense, making use of sources (e.g.
the       Labourer's Friend Magazine;       local newspapers) and methods (e.g.
linking tenant lists with the census)       pioneered by Burchardt.
A number of books published by non-academics on the history of allotments       and gardening in       recent years have made major use of Burchardt's work, including Twigs       Ways' Allotments (Shire       Library, 2008) and Margaret Wiles' Working-class Gardening in         Nineteenth-Century England (Yale,       forthcoming).
Sometimes the impact of Burchardt's research was more       personal, connecting       individuals with hitherto unknown aspects of their family history, as in       the case of a descendant of       James Orange (a pioneering advocate of allotments in the mid-nineteenth       century), who wrote to       Burchardt in July 2008 that she had `never heard of James Orange before       reading your book, so       thanks for introducing me to this interesting relative'.
(ii) Raising awareness of allotments as heritage       Prior to the publication of The Allotment Movement in England,       there was little awareness of       allotments as a part of local heritage.
By giving allotments an in-depth       historical grounding,       Burchardt's work played an important role in the emergence of allotments       as heritage in the early       21st century, as at Great Somerford in Wiltshire, perhaps the       oldest surviving allotment site.
Burchardt had drawn attention to this previously little-known site,       emphasising its historic       significance and the pioneering work of the man who created them, Revd       Stephen Demainbray.
Burchardt also gave a talk about Great Somerford and allotments in       Wiltshire to the Wiltshire Local       History Forum in 2005.
The book and the talk helped to raise local       awareness of the county's       allotment heritage and, in particular, the role of Great Somerford and of       Demainbray.
This led Jill       Shearer, a local allotment holder, to write a popular history of the       Somerford allotments, The Poor         Man's Best Friend (2009) drawing both on The Allotment Movement         in England and on subsequent       input from Burchardt.
New commemorative signs were put up in the village       and the bicentenary of       the allotments the same year attracted considerable media attention,       including articles in the Daily       Telegraph, Sun, Metro, and Gardeners World and a special programme of BBC       Gardeners       Question Time broadcast from nearby Malmesbury on 29 June 2010.
As a result of greater awareness of the history of allotments and town       gardens, they are       increasingly being listed by English Heritage, a recent example being at       Bagthorpe Gardens,       Hucknall Road, Nottingham (2012).
Discussions drawing on evidence       presented in Burchardt's       publications have led senior landscape advisors at English Heritage to       conclude that allotments       deserve greater protection and should be included within the next National       Heritage Protection       Plan.
Local authorities are also showing increasing sensitivity to       allotments heritage (e.g.
Wandsworth Borough Council contacted Burchardt for advice in March 2013,       leading them to       promote allotment heritage locally).
Burchardt has been frequently contacted by journalists seeking advice       about allotment history.
Examples include BBC Radio 4's `Laurence Llewellyn Bowen's Escape to the       Countryside'       (interviewed February 2010) and BBC1's `Britain and the First World War'       (consulted September       2012).
The broadening understanding that allotments are an important part       of popular heritage has       also led artists to engage with allotments; among those who have drawn on       Burchardt's work are       Maggie Durkin (Exeter) and Kate Corder (Reading).
In Corder's case, the       research enabled her to       situate her practice-based allotment art project, motivated by       environmental concerns, in the       context of the long history of self-sufficiency and sustainable local food       production on allotments.
(iii) Safeguarding allotments from development       Rising interest in allotment history and heritage has coincided with a       period in which allotment land       is under acute threat of development for housing and other uses.
On the       basis of his work, several       sites at risk of development have consulted Burchardt, including Kings       Hill (West Malling, Kent), St       Stephen's (Bath), Skimmingdish (Oxon), Chinnor (Bucks) and, most recently,       Waterman's       Allotments (Henley-on-Thames, October 2012).
In four of these five cases,       the allotments were, at       the time of writing, retained.
Arguments drawn from the two books and the       FAHCRS database       contributed to the success of the allotment associations in question in       defending their land, through       helping to establish the date of origin, original purpose or legal status       of the sites.
In summary, Burchardt's research on allotments has had a wide, varied and       ongoing public impact.
It has fostered awareness and understanding of allotments as a facet of       community heritage,       enabled and encouraged local historians to research allotments, and helped       to protect allotment       land from being built over.
These impacts allow Burchardt's work to speak       directly to the concerns       and interests of the wider public, while retaining its scholarly       integrity.
