     The underpinning research described here has resulted in three types of       impact, relating to changes in government policy, product       development, and informed public debate.
Clear relationships       are demonstrated between the underpinning research and impact at a range       of scales, from engagement with and influence on UK Government and       business, to influences on the knowledge and modes of thought of a range       of publics world-wide.
Impact from this research commenced prior to the current REF assessment       period in 2005 (DEFRA Good Practice Guide &#8212; Targeting Specific Lifestyle       Groups, 2006 &#8212; evidence item #1), but the most significant impacts       (which we cite here) have arisen since 2008.
In particular,       major contributions to two key reports by the Social Marketing Practice       Andrew Darnton Associates (Darnton &amp; Sharp 2006a; 2006b &#8212; evidence items       #2 and 3) formed the basis for DEFRA's 2008 Framework for       Environmental Behaviours, in which the segmentation research developed at       Exeter was used as evidence for the development of DEFRA's social       marketing approach to behavioural change (evidence item #4).
The       Framework for Environmental Behaviours is the key strategic document that       governs UK behaviour change policy for the environment, and research by       Barr, Gilg, and Shaw formed a significant part of the evidence base for       shifting away from `information-deficit' models of behavioural change       towards more socially-sophisticated frameworks for behavioural shifts.
This research has thus been instrumental in shaping and influencing       policy made by government, and the continuity of impact resulting       from this contribution has been confirmed through written correspondence       from DEFRA who note that the work "has been very significant in shaping       pro-environmental behaviour policy and strategy within DEFRA" (see       evidence item #5).
Specifically, this identifies the main impacts       of the research being the adoption of a segmentation-based approach to       understanding behavioural change and the communication of behavioural       change theories to policy makers within DEFRA (see evidence item #5).
As an expert advisor to Brook Lyndhurst (an independent research and       strategy consultancy focusing on sustainability), Barr also contributed to       a further DEFRA-funded project (Exploring Catalyst Behaviours, 2009) in       which he advised on ways of using policy to promote behavioural change       across different sites of practice, research that was subsequently used in       a summary report that emphasised the importance of focusing on behaviours       that share similar domains of practice, such as recycling and re-use of       materials in the domestic context (DEFRA, 2011 &#8212; evidence item #6).
The research has also been used to promote innovation in social marketing       business practices through developing an innovative community of practice       (consisting of major social marketing businesses, including, Strategic       Social Marketing, Hyder Consulting, CAG Consultants and Uscreates) to       discuss the use of new social media and communications technology for the       development of behavioural change products.
Working with one of these       businesses (Uscreates) and key stakeholders from the UK travel industry       (including Virgin Trains, Snowcarbon, Loco2, Seat 61, Travel Foundation       and Green Traveller), Barr, Shaw, and Gilg co-designed a new mobile       application, Trainaway, to promote and inform consumers       about the availability of low-carbon travel options (Uscreates, 2012a;       2012b &#8212; evidence items #7 and 8), with the aim of discouraging and       reducing the number of short-haul flights taken within the EU.
In so       doing, this innovation has demonstrated the influence of the research in       the development of a new product, an impact that has been       corroborated by written correspondence from Uscreates (see evidence item       #9).
Furthermore, and as a result of this work, Barr was invited to       address Scottish Government analysts and policy makers to discuss policy       implications of the work and the low-carbon travel options product       (evidence item #9).
These activities have been supported by       funding from the ESRC's Business Voucher Scheme and an ESRC follow-on       grant for Barr and Shaw (2011-12).
Finally, research funded by DEFRA and the British Academy has been cited       in many popular media outlets within the UK and internationally,       including, The Telegraph, The Age (Australian newspaper), and Phys.org, a       popular US science website.
Additionally, three articles in very       significant media outlets (2008-2010) have stimulated public debate       through challenging modes of thought (evidence item #10).
This is       demonstrated through online debate resulting from articles in The       Guardian (`Green idealists fail to make grade, say study' &#8212; 132 comments),       The New York Times (`Jet-Setting Greens' &#8212; 57 comments) and Mother Jones,       a popular US magazine (`Flying's moral dilemma: your family or your       climate?'
&#8212; 55 comments).
Barr (2011) discusses the impact of the online       discussion in the Guardian, examining the impact of this article outside       of an academic context.
These examples provide a clear demonstration of       impact on individuals on an international scale.
