     The research described above has had a direct impact on the way disasters       and emergencies are       planned for and responded to, both in the UK and overseas.
The trauma       screening questionnaire       (TSQ) is used widely around the world.
The model developed at UCL was       first implemented after       the London bombings in 2005.
A later evaluation conducted in the period in       question (2008-13)       showed that it had been very successful, and it has since been       incorporated into government       guidance, including planning for the Olympics.
The evaluation of the London Bombings programme funded by the Department       of Health found       that 30% of those screened were referred for treatment and, of those       referred within the       programme, over 75% completed treatment.
The clinical outcomes of this       group were excellent,       with more than 80% achieving a clinically significant improvement, and       were well maintained       among those followed up after one year [a].
The evaluation also       identified a number of       impediments to assisting survivors.
These included: data protection       legislation preventing       identification of those affected; the failure of referral mechanisms in       general practice; the need to       plan for the administration and funding of the mental health response to       disasters; the need for a       register of those affected.
Impacts on policy and planning     Partly as a result of the concerns raised by the programme, the Cabinet       Office issued special       guidance on the use of data protection legislation in emergency situations       in 2007 [b].
The UCL       model used in the London bombings has subsequently been explicitly       recognised in two major       reports, the first issued by the NATO Joint Medical Committee in 2008 [c]       and the second by the       Department of Health Emergency Preparedness Division in 2009 [d].
These reports endorse the       UCL screen and treat model, proposing that: (a) immediate intervention is       restricted to providing       information, psychosocial support, psychological first aid, and education       rather than crisis       counselling; and (b) people who are involved should be followed up to       detect those who have       persistent symptoms who can be treated with empirically supported       interventions.
The recommendations concerning planning for mental health consequences of       a major incident       were incorporated into NHS London major incident plans, including those       for the 2012 Olympics       [e].
Another key recommendation, for a central register of affected       persons after disasters, led to       the setting up of an implementation committee by the Health Protection       Agency (HPA) of which       Professor Brewin was a member.
Provisions for the HPA to set up and manage       a register are now       in place for future disasters, which will make a very significant       difference to providing health care       and conducting epidemiological research [f].
Use in outreach and screening programmes     Programmes based on the UCL model have now been successfully implemented       around the world,       for example in a US school after a suicide and in the Netherlands [g].
During the period 2008-13,       Brewin received 217 direct requests for use of the TSQ from 24 countries.
The three most frequent       sources of request were: large scale health organisations such as       hospitals, community and school       counselling centres (22%); research psychologists and psychiatrists (21%);       individual mental       health professionals and private clinics (19%) [h].
Brewin has       also provided telephone or in-person       consultations concerning meeting mental health needs after large-scale       disasters, for example       following the 2011 Norway summer camp shootings [i] and the 2010       Christchurch earthquake [j].
Twenty-eight governmental and nongovernmental organisations (in various       countries) concerned       with mental health issues and/or high risk populations have had the TSQ on       their websites as a       mental health education material and self-screening tool.
For example,       Suffolk Mental Health       Partnership provide a copy of the TSQ and the Cumbria Partnership NHS       Foundation Trust       recommended use of the TSQ after the West Cumbria shootings in 2010 [k].
In the US, the       Department for Veterans Affairs recommend the TSQ on the website of their       National Center for       PTSD [l].
Use of the TSQ is now part of a standard recommended protocol developed       for firefighters in the       US.
Firefighter Life Safety Initiative 13 was one of 16 such initiatives       jointly developed by       representatives of the major fire service constituencies in 2004.
It aimed       to ensure that "Firefighters       and their families must have access to counseling and psychological       support".
This was developed       and promulgated by the National Fallen Firefighters Foundation (NFFF) and       has since informed the       emerging safety culture in the US fire service [m].
The initiative       developed a Protocol for Exposure       to Occupational Stress which "recommends the use of the Trauma Screen         Questionnaire as a         widely accessible tool for individuals to understand if they are in need         of behavioral assistance."
An       article in Fire Fighter Nation describes a typical example of how one       service used the TSQ in       action to assist a firefighter after a traumatic event [n].
The TSQ has been translated into 8 languages, and has been adapted for       use in children [o].
It       has been included in 56 studies, with 32 of them applying it as an       assessment tool of PTSD       symptoms, and another 18 using it as a screening instrument of the risk of       PTSD development.
Fifteen studies took place in the UK, 11 in the USA, 9 in Australia, 6 in       the Netherlands, and one       each in Canada, France, Iceland, India, Republic of Congo, and Republic of       Georgia.
