     The NHS Centre for Smoking Cessation and Training (NCSCT), based at UCL,       was set up in 2009 as an academic-NHS partnership in order to maximise the       rate of uptake of research findings by the NHS Stop-Smoking Services.
The       aims of the NCSCT are "helping [smoking cessation practitioners] provide       high quality stop smoking support based on the most up-to-date evidence       available" and "to research and disseminate ways of improving the       provision of stop smoking support" [a].
Michie and West, two of       the three Directors, have led the research providing evidence for best       practice within the NHS Stop-Smoking Services.
These services now treat       some 700,000 smokers each year and are the single largest life-saving       treatment service in the NHS, preventing an estimated 12,000 premature       deaths each year.
The Tobacco Programme Manager at the Department of       Health has praised the impact of the research underpinning the work of the       NCSCT: "The research by UCL has contributed significantly to positively         changing clinical practice nationally in what is a hugely important         preventive health service treating some 700,000 people each year.
The         research provided the basis for establishment of the NCSCT and the         content of its training and assessment programme which currently has         more than 12,000 registered practitioners.
The research is also         important to informing clinical practice internationally as well in an         area where the UK is seen as a leader" [b].
1.
Impacts on government policy     The impact of this research has been maximised by close collaboration       with the Department of Health and practitioners and commissioners for the       NHS Stop Smoking Services.
This has taken the form of consultation and       dissemination meetings, regular emailed briefings and web updates, surveys       and high profile events at national and international conferences.
Evidence of the impact of the research via the NCSCT comes from its own       research (e.g.
[6]), key national documents and testimonials from       leading policy-makers.
For example, the Department of Health's 2010       Tobacco Control Strategy, "A Smokefree Future: A Comprehensive Tobacco       Control Strategy for England" refers to the NCSCT as core to several of       its aspects [c].
See for example:     "We will continue to support the development and implementation of the         NHS Centre for Smoking Cessation and Training (NCSCT) as the         benchmarking organisation for clinical competence and standards for NHS         Stop Smoking Services advisers" (p.50).
"Treatment effectiveness rates are variable across the country and         this is not only due to variations in levels of addiction or         deprivation.
Access rates also vary across the country, often due to         local demographics of different socio-economic and black and minority         ethnic groups.
The work of the NCSCT and other partners will help PCTs         ensure that this variation is only due to clinical need."
(p.49).
"We will work with the NCSCT to develop and implement cessation         packages and care pathways for smokeless tobacco users" (p.50)     "The Government already produces a range of supporting documents and         tools to ensure that local areas have the skills and capabilities they         need to deliver comprehensive local tobacco control measures.
The NHS         Centre for Smoking Cessation and Training (NCSCT), launched in 2009,         provides direct support to the areas that most need it."
(p.65).
Michie was called as a witness to the House of Lords Science and       Technology Committee's 2011 Inquiry, Behaviour Change, where she was       questioned about the NCSCT as an example of evidence-based impact [d].
The NCSCT was singled out for praise as an "example of evidence- based         policy" with its success attributed to it having been "developed         by, or in consultation with, academics with expertise in changing         behaviour" (p.20).
The NCSCT was presented as an example of       evidence-based policy in Box 1 of the report (p.20).
2.
Impacts on commissioning     The NCSCT runs annual surveys of those working in the Stop Smoking       Services.
In 2012, 78% of commissioners who responded stated that they       require that the services they commission have practitioners who are NCSCT       certified.
Managers of stop smoking services were asked if the NCSCT       training courses and resources had improved their staff's practice.
On a       5-point scale from `1 &#8212; not at all' to `5 &#8212; extremely', the modal response       (35%) was `4 &#8212; very much', followed by `3 &#8212; moderately (29%) [e].
3.
Impacts on professional training     The research reported here has formed the basis of the national,       consensually determined set of competences for smoking cessation       practitioners adopted by the NHS.
This, in turn, has formed the basis of       the Standard Treatment Programme and learning outcomes guiding the       development of the first ever national training curriculum for       practitioners [f].
This research has also formed the basis for the       certification of Stop Smoking practitioners and accreditation of service       providers.
Between 2010 and 7 May 2013, 20,856 trainees have registered       for the two stages of training: the internet (knowledge) and face-to-face       (skills) training.
11,791 have passed the Stage 1 formal assessment and       are Stage 1 certified practitioners and 5,878 have passed the Stage 2       formal assessment and are fully certified practitioners.
Initial       evaluation has demonstrated positive effects on knowledge and       self-reported competences and confidence [6].
4.
Impacts on practitioners and services     In 2012, 1,223 practitioners rated the extent to which the NCSCT training       and resources had improved their practice: The modal response, 34.0%, was       `very much', with 15.2% responding "extremely", 23.6% "moderately", 12.8%       "a little bit" and 3.5% "not at all".
Biochemically verified success rates       available across 147 services for two years before the introduction of       NCSCT training (2008-10) and one year after (2011-12) suggests NCSCT       training has had an effect.
The average success rates improved by nearly       2% for all services.
The magnitude of the improvement for each service was       predicted by the number of practitioners who attended the NCSCT face-to-       face (skills) training while adjusting for the number of practitioners       trained online (knowledge).
A clear dose-response relationship was found       between the number of practitioners trained and the improvement in success       rates.
5.
Impacts on health     The NCSCT was established to reverse the decline in quit rates and reduce       the wide variability across local services.
The three years prior to       establishment of the NCSCT (2005/6 to 2008/9) saw a 4% fall in       biochemically verified four-week quit rates in the services nationally.
In       the 3 years following establishment of the NCSCT (2008/9 to 2011/12) the       quit rates rose by 6%.
Variance in quit rates across the 151 services       reduced by 31% between 2008/9 and 2011/12 [g].
With any before-after evaluation one can never be sure that changes are       attributable to an intervention.
As far as one can tell there were no       other national events occurring at the time that could account for the       reversal but it is prudent to consider a range of possible degrees of       attribution.
If all of the increase in quit success over the first three       years of operation of the NCSCT was attributable to its operation, based       on a known 70% relapse rate from 4 weeks to 12 months and 20% of the       remained thereafter, its first three years of operation is estimated to       save 21,500 life years: 6,500 after discounting at 3.5% per year as       recommended by NICE.
With the cost of the NCSCT over the first 3 years of       &#163;3 million, the estimated cost per discounted life year saved is less than       &#163;500.
If only half of the improvement in quit rates was attributable to       the NCSCT it would have saved 3,250 discounted life years at a cost per       life year of less than &#163;1,000.
The NICE threshold for value for money is       &#163;20,000 per quality-adjusted life year gained.
