     The government funded Action Plan for Geography resulted from a       successful funding bid by the Geographical Association and The Royal       Geographical Society (Institute of British Geographers).
This bid was       underpinned by national concerns about: (i) declining enrolments in school       Geography classes, (ii) the knock-on effects on recruitment to UK       University Geography departments, and (iii) the persistent difficulty in       widening participation in Geography as a subject.
The aim of the Action       Plan for Geography was therefore to update, and to make more relevant to       students, the Geography that they were learning at school.
In Action Plan       for Geography programmes such as the `Pilot GCSE' and the `Young People's       Geographies' project, academic and school geographers were encouraged to       work together, share ideas, and co-create resources.
Ian Cook's Follow The Things research &#8212; which involved detailed       multi-site, FTT ethnographies, as well as research into collaborative,       affective, co-creative pedagogies &#8212; had already been drawn upon       haphazardly by Geography teachers for some time.
However, it entered the       mainstream of UK school Geography education through his participation in a       number of Action Plan for Geography projects, presentations and workshops       at Geographical Association conferences, publications in teacher-facing       Geography journals, and public engagement activities with school geography       students.
This involvement, over the course of this REF period, has led to       Cook's FTT approach: (1) fundamentally reshaping the teaching and         learning of international trade in UK schools, by influencing the       drafting of the new Geography National Curriculum (as acknowledged by the       CEO of The Geographical Association 2012: see evidence item #1a);       (2) driving forward innovation in school geography teaching; and       (3) by making public a database on trade justice activism.
1) Reshaping the learning and teaching of international trade in UK         schools     Since 2008, Cook's input to the shaping of school geography has been       significant.
For example, he was asked by the Geographical Association       (the professional association of Geography teachers in the UK) to       contribute to the Action Plan for Geography funded 'Young People's       Geographies' project.
He was adviser to, and fed into, the project through       publications, talks and workshops.
This led to the Follow the Things       approach being adopted in Primary (Item #2), GCSE (Items #1b, 3         &amp; 4), and A-level Geography teaching (Item #1a).
In 2012,       the importance of Follow the Things in school geography was further       recognised by both the Royal Geographical Society and Geographical       Association who produced Follow the Things teaching resources drawing upon       Cook's work (Items #5); and it was acknowledged as an inspiration       for the popular `Guerrilla Geography' books and website missions of       Mission:Explore (see evidence items #1c &amp; #6).
It has also       inspired teachers to produce and freely share their own Follow the Things       resources via, for example, the Times Educational Supplement's UK and       Australian websites (see evidence items #7 &amp; 8).
Both the       Qualifications and Curriculum Authority (evidence item #1c) and       Geography Curriculum Developers (e.g., see evidence item #1b) have       written of the direct impact that Follow the Things has had on Geography       school curriculum development and on the student experience, writing that       it "is accessible, enjoyable and, given the grounding in a university       geography department, sufficiently rigorous to underpin [the] GCSE" (Item         #1c), and that they have been "amazed" at how its approach could       encourage Year 10 students to feel "connected with such places, and that       they themselves were `geographers'" (Item #1b).
Teachers have also       argued that Follow the Things' personal approach to learning made even       those students who were normally work-shy respond positively to their       studies.
This on-going process of collaboration led to the Follow the       Things approach to trade geographies becoming part of the Geographical       Association's submission to the National Curriculum for Geography       consultation process in 2012.
It was adopted (Item #1a) and       retained in the final version published in 2013.
2) Driving forward innovation in school geography teaching     After being recognised as "an important resource for geography teachers       at all levels" (Item #1c), Cook worked in 2012-13 with a group of       PGCE Geography students at the University of Nottingham, who presented       examples of their `Teaching with followthethings.com' at a workshop at the       2013 GA Annual Conference.
Seven teachers have since begun blogging and       sharing `tried and tested' Follow the Things classroom resources as part       of a new #followtheteachers project (Item #9 Cook &amp; Whipp), and       new Follow the Things classroom resources have been written and published       on a dedicated `classroom' webpage.
These include a user guide to Follow       the Things in the new National Curriculum and a Follow the Things Ethical       Trade Trump card game (Item #9 Cook et al).
3) Making public a database of trade justice activism     followthethings.com (Cook, REF2014 research output #1) is intended to be       a resource for anyone researching and/or teaching trade justice, including       filmmakers, artists, and many other publics.
As can be seen on the       website's `peer review' page (Item #10), a wide variety of makers       of non-academic Follow the Things work value highly the site's research       on, and archiving of, their work.
The producer of the BBC TV series       `Blood, Sweat and Takeaways', for example, wrote that the site's page on       it was a "wonderful resource" that showed, in a fascinating way, "how much       of an impact the shows made".
To date followthethings.com has generated an       international, interdisciplinary community of interest involving 32,000       unique visitors from 154 countries making 127,000 page views.
Google       Analytics data shows that each visitor visited an average of 3 pages,       stayed on-site for an average of two and a half minutes, and that 31% of       visitors have returned to view the site multiple times.
Over the same       period, 7,000 tweets have been sent from @followthethings, which has       gained 930 followers, including activist organisations, NGOs, journalists,       artists and filmmakers.
