 The publication of PhAB had a dramatic impact on assessment practice of educational psychologists, the lead profession in the UK for assessment and diagnosis of dyslexia.
Concern had been growing about traditional assessment practice which was not evidence based and led to under-identification of dyslexia in bilingual children.
There was increasing awareness about the importance of phonological skills in dyslexia and PhAB provided, for the first time, a reliable and well-validated means of assessing these skills with mono-lingual and bilingual children aged 6-15 years.
There was widespread adoption of the use of PhAB by educational psychologists to the benefit of the many children, particularly those from bilingual or socially disadvantaged backgrounds whose needs the traditional assessment approach failed to identify.
Although other tests of phonological skills have been developed since PhAB, 10 years after its publication it was authoritatively reviewed as `the best available test of phonological processing with UK norms' [a].
In the period 2008-121, over [text removed for publication] copies of the PhAB were sold.
The total number of record forms sold (in the packs and individually) amounts to [text removed for publication] record forms.
One form is used per child being assessed, thus providing an indication of the number of children with whom it has been used during this period [b].
The most important impact of PhAB is on the children who have benefited from having their special needs identified and been able to access appropriate intervention.
Undiagnosed dyslexia has been implicated in low self-esteem, poor school attendance, adjustment problems and criminal behaviour in adolescence, as well as academic failure which has lifelong consequences.
PhAB provided practitioners with an assessment tool which offered significant advances over previous approaches because it was focused on the core impairments in most cases of dyslexia and informed targeted intervention to address the problems identified.
It also allowed earlier identification of problems and, through being made accessible to teachers as well as educational psychologists, enabled many more children to be reached.
A review in a major dyslexia textbook said: "Both the content of the battery and the clear theoretical rationale that underpins it are impressive" [c].
From the outset PhAB was designed to be accessible to additionally trained teachers as well as educational psychologists.
This has greatly extended the reach of the battery and served to maximise the numbers of children who have benefitted from the resource.
In the period 2008-10, 55% of sales were made directly to schools [a].
A major recommendation of the 2009 Government report on identifying and teaching children and young people with dyslexia (the Rose Report) concerned teacher professional development and the need to devise tailored interventions for children struggling with literacy, including those with dyslexia.
Leading professional development resources for teachers recommend the use of PhAB for use in assessments of dyslexia from which tailored interventions will be developed [d, e, f].
One review, published in a journal for practitioners, said: "The battery is designed for use by EPs, speech and language therapists, support teachers and SENCOs.
My experience of using this battery would suggest that all of these workers could find this a useful tool, certainly those directly involved in education.
On the whole I would recommend it highly to all the above and will certainly be using it myself on a regular basis" [f].
PhAB has now become firmly embedded in educational policy across the UK and further afield.
It is positively reviewed and/or recommended on the websites of many education authorities in the UK as well as at a national level in the Republic of Ireland [h].
It is used in at least 126 local authorities across Great Britain and Northern Ireland and during the period 2008-10 sales were recorded in 34 countries [b].
It is used by specialist centres that regularly assess children for dyslexia and also train many specialist teachers and assessors each year.
For example the Helen Arkell Dyslexia Centre reported in 2011 "We usually use the PhAB in our assessments when possible and encourage our trainees to do so as well" [i].
Further corroborating testimony from the Principal Educational Psychologist for the Borough of Luton (who was a member of the Executive Committee of the National Association of Principal Educational Psychologists throughout the assessment period, and was Chair 2008-10) says: "Having been designed from the outset to be accessible to and interpretable by teachers, PhAB has been a very important tool in the services and support delivered to schools by educational psychologists and specialist teachers, and in the assessment practice of special educational needs coordinators in mainstream schools.
While other phonological assessment tools have been published in the UK after PhAB, none of these have been as well reviewed or as highly regarded by educational psychology practitioners, and none have enjoyed the widespread implementation by teachers that has been achieved by PhAB...
It is in widespread use by local authority specialist teaching services and special educational needs coordinators across the UK, and is recommended as an established and highly regarded assessment tool by educational psychologists [j]."
In November 2010, more than 13 years after its publication, the publisher reported that PhAB `continues to sell well and be used widely, particularly by specialist teachers and clinical practitioners.'
It was also reported that a major North American publisher was interested in publishing PhAB for North America.
A second edition of PhAB was commissioned in July 2011.
