     It is notoriously rare for academic philosophers to have their research       discussed outside academia.
There are quite a number of professional philosophers who make a career as       popularisers of the       views of others; many non-academics are familiar with such people.
But for       a philosopher to have       their own original research discussed, repeatedly and at length, outside       academia, in the `public       square', is uncommon.
Strawson's own research is rigorous and original.
His views are sometimes       radical, challenging our preconceptions about such topics as free will,       consciousness, personal       identity, and moral responsibility.
This has stimulated non-academics to question their assumptions and to       engage in debate with       each other about Strawson's theories.
The impact is direct and continuing,       significant in its reach,       and clearly a prime example of how philosophy, done at its best, can       influence public opinion.
What is especially noteworthy is that so much of Strawson's impact derives       from his theoretical       rather than ethical research, though the former has ethical implications.
In philosophy, it is nearly       always ethicists who, for obvious reasons, have the most impact.
Strawson's case is unusual and       important in this regard.
Strawson's research, embodied in monographs and articles on the topics       listed above, has been       disseminated directly by Strawson and through third parties.
Examples of       direct dissemination       through non-academic channels include Strawson's popular presentation of       his own original       research in his enormously popular New York Times opinion piece,       `Your Move: The Maze of Free       will' (2010) (http://opinionator.blogs.nytimes.com/2010/07/22/your-move-the-maze-of-free-will/)       and       his appearances on radio and television, presenting and discussing his       ideas, such as his       participation in the 500th episode of the BBC Radio 4 programme of ideas,       In Our Time (2011,       weekly audience of 2 million) discussing free will with two other       philosophers.
Comments on the       programme can be found at http://www.bbc.co.uk/radio4/features/in-our-time/comments/b00z5y9z/,       with a commentary by the host, Melvyn Bragg, at http://www.bbc.co.uk/radio4/features/in-our-       time/newsletter/b00z5y9z/.
Strawson has also appeared on television in the US (PBS, 2012, and       NPR, 2010) and Canada (CBC, 2010).
Strawson's research is also widely disseminated and discussed by       non-academics on Internet       blogs.
For example, Strawson's article `Against Narrativity' was the       subject of a 2011 blog post,       with follow-up discussion: (http://whoistheabsurdman.blogspot.com/2011/01/living-episodic-         life.html).
In another instance, a non-academic posts a discussion       of, and is clearly persuaded by,       Strawson's research in philosophy of mind: http://integral-options.blogspot.com/2010/04/toward-         science-of-consciousness-galen.html (2010).
At http://guidetoreality.blogspot.com/2006/04/thank-         you-galen-strawson.html, a non-academic blogger explicitly thanks       Strawson for persuading him of       the truth of panexperientialism, of which Strawson is the leading       exponent.
(Originally posted 2006       but updated 2009.)
Strawson's work has also been promoted and stimulated debate through       online video clips.
For       example, there are a number of YouTube videos in which non-academics, or       Strawson himself,       present and discuss his research.
At http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kBUsrdk4f1s       a non-       academic discusses Strawson on free will (420+ views), and at       http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CtDgCQ5vehE       Strawson presents his views on the self (1,380+       views).
In the YouTube video at http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kYUZWyAY9Lw       (2009),       someone who is not a professional academic (though evidently educated in       philosophy) presents       Strawson's research on moral responsibility to a lay public, generating       discussion.
(In all cases the content, context, or what the authors/discussants say       about themselves in their       profiles, suggests that these are non-academics responding to Strawson's       work.)
While these instances give a general indication of interest in and       engagement with Strawson's       research beyond academia, two more-detailed examples will serve to       illustrate the nature and       extent of the debates that Strawson's work has fuelled in the public       arena:     Example 1: Strawson on the narrative conception of         personal identity.
Strawson argues against the popular view, defended increasingly within       professional philosophy by       narrative theories of identity, that people construct their identities       over time by means of a narrative       of their lives that continually builds on past experiences.
The narrative       takes on a certain shape       peculiar to each individual.
The normative claim often associated with       this descriptive claim is that       we ought to live our lives as if they were ongoing narratives.
Strawson subjects narrativity to sustained criticism in his 2004 Ratio       article, revised and reprinted       in his widely-discussed collection of essays, Real Materialism       (2008).
This article is read and       discussed at length in the blog referred to above, where non-academic       bloggers outline Strawson's       case and express reasons for agreement with it.
There follow comments by       readers of the blog,       some agreeing and others disagreeing.
Some praise the more episodic       conception of personal       identity championed by Strawson and the freedom he thinks it entails.
Others warn of the dangers       of living life as if it were a series of episodes.
Clearly these are       non-academics engaging directly       with Strawson's research, not merely agreeing or disagreeing but       explaining it to each other,       finding good and bad points in the argument, and subjecting Strawson to       some decent non-academic       evaluation.
(Strawson himself has received a considerable number of       private       communications from people who do not fit the narrative mould, thanking       him for developing and       defending the non-narrative position.)
Example 2: Strawson on free will and moral         responsibility.
Strawson's original 1994 paper `The Impossibility of Moral       Responsibility' was revised, updated,       and published in Real Materialism (2008) as `The Impossibility of       Ultimate Moral Responsibility'.
This paper has generated an enormous amount of debate both within and       without academia.
The       research was presented by Strawson in popular form in 2010, as a New         York Times opinion piece.
The public response was massive (for a piece by a philosopher) &#8212; over 600       comments, with people       agreeing, disagreeing, or just commenting on Strawson's belief that       ultimate moral responsibility is       impossible.
This on its own is an extraordinary example of impact.
Commenters on the New York Times site defended or disputed       various premises in Strawson's       argument.
Many focused on the key idea that we cannot be ultimately       responsible for the way we       are.
Others wondered about a world in which free will was an illusion, or       something other than what       most people think it needs to be for there to be ultimate moral       responsibility.
Bloggers on other sites, such as http://www.thewarfareismental.net/b/2011/04/01/on-galen-         strawsons-basic-argument/, explain and discuss Strawson's views       (with over 100 comments on       this site alone).
On http://blip.tv/exploring-the-illusion-of-free-will/28-galen-strawson-s-nothing-can-         be-causa-sui-refutation-of-free-will-5539216, George Ortega has       produced a series of videos on       free will, including an episode devoted to Strawson.
(He also produces TV       shows and other videos       on sundry philosophical topics.)
Clearly, Strawson's impact on       non-academics is significant and       ongoing.
