     1.
Establishment of ReNeuron     The research has led to the establishment of two companies.
ReNeuron       was established in 1997 by Jat's collaborators with &#163;5m in venture capital       from Sir Chris Evans after licensing the IP [a].
The initial focus       was to develop stem cell lines for generating new neurons and brain cells       to reverse damage to brain tissue caused by stroke.
Jat was a consultant       to ReNeuron from 1999 to 2005.
ReNeuron is now a &#163;63.5m company (July 2013       figure), publically traded on the London AIM market.
ReNeuron have used       their cell expansion and screening technologies to develop stem cell       therapies for conditions such as stroke where there are few alternative       treatments.
Unlike conventional drug treatments that treat symptoms, stem       cell treatments treat the underlying cause of the disease.
The aim is to       develop cells that can be readily administered "off-the-shelf" to any       eligible patient without the need for additional drug treatments [b].
ReNeuron's lead therapeutic candidate is the ReN001 stem cell therapy for       the treatment of patients left disabled by stroke.
ReNeuron are also       developing stem cell therapies for other conditions such as critical limb       ischaemia, a serious and common side effect of diabetes, and       blindness-causing diseases of the retina.
Reneuron have also developed a       range of stem cell lines for non-therapeutic applications &#8212; the ReNcell&#174;       products for use in academic and commercial research.
The ReNcell&#174;CX       and ReNcell&#174;VM neural cell lines are marketed worldwide under       license by Merck Millipore (USA).
ReN001 is currently undergoing the PISCES (Pilot Investigation of Stem       Cells in Stroke) study.
This is the world's first fully regulated clinical       trial of a neural stem cell therapy for disabled stroke patients.
Stroke       is the third largest cause of death and the single largest cause of adult       disability in the developed world.
The PISCES clinical trial is being       conducted in Scotland at the Institute of Neurological Sciences, Southern       General Hospital, Greater Glasgow and Clyde NHS Board.
It is a Phase I       single administration dose escalation safety study, to 12 stroke patients       disabled by ischaemic stroke, the most common form of the condition.
The       Principal Investigator is Professor Keith Muir, SINAPSE Professor of       Clinical Imaging, Division of Clinical Neurosciences at the University of       Glasgow.
The aim of this trial is to evaluate the safety of the       implantation procedure and determine the side effects associated with the       cell implantation.
Patients in the PISCES trial will be followed up over a       two year period.
Monitoring of the patients will continue for longer term       following the two year end-point.
In addition to safety and tolerability       of ReN001, a number of clinical assessments of the patients will be made       to evaluate changes in motor and cognitive function.
In June 2012, interim       data from the PISCES study for the first five patients was presented by       the Glasgow clinical team at the 10th Annual Meeting of the       International Society for Stem Cell Research (ISSCR) in Yokohama, Japan [c].
Reductions in neurological impairment and spasticity were observed in all       five patients compared with their stable pre-treatment baseline       performance.
Remaining patients in the PISCES trail will be treated by       2013 [d].
ReNeuron have already submitted an application to the UK       regulatory authority to commence a multi-site Phase II clinical trial to       examine the efficacy of ReN001 stem cell therapy in patients disabled by       ischaemic stroke.
The aim is to recruit patients between two and four       months after the stroke.
2.
Establishment of XCellSyz     XCellSyz was established in 2005 as a spin-out from UCL by Professor       Peter Shepherd; Jat was on the Scientific Advisory Board.
XCellSyz was       bought by Cambrex and then Lonza AG the current owners [e].
Jat,       with research support from ReNeuron (1999-2005), developed reagents for       conditional immortalisation of human cells.
Lonza now supply these       reagents as well as conditionally immortal cells to the worldwide       scientific community.
They describe the benefits of these products as       follows: "Lonza overcomes [the limitations of immortalized cell lines]         using a temperature dependent, conditional immortalization approach         utilizing Large T-Antigen that allows the immortalization to be reversed         and the cells to revert to their original characteristics.
This allows         development of cell lines from a wide range of human and animal tissues,         and of novel models relevant to drug discovery based on lines from         people with particular diseases" [f].
3.
Patents     More than 20 patents based on Professor Jat's work have been issued, of       which three are currently active [g].
