     Key insights and findings from Thomas's work include critical and popular       reconsideration of Hardy's so-called `Minor Fiction'; his relationship       with the visual arts; his sympathetic exploration of issues of gender and       sexuality, a new interest in his paintings and sketches and those of his       first wife Emma Gifford, and discussion of the cultural dissemination of       his work in popular music, film and culture.
Her work has led to a       decade-long collaboration with the Thomas Hardy Society and its Council of       Management.
The Society currently has over 1,000 members largely drawn       from the lay public in 17 countries including New Zealand, Canada, Japan,       China, India, USA, UK, Russia, Italy, France, Spain, Holland and Hong Kong       (membership list available).Thomas is also a member of the Thomas Hardy       Society's Council of Management and offers advice and support on events       and issues including: the use of Hardy's house Max Gate (owned by the       National Trust) and a proposal to build 1,000 houses on a cornfield       between Max Gate and William Barnes' house `Came Rectory' which has since       been overturned.
Plenary lectures delivered to the Society's biennial International       Conference/Festival in 2002 and 2006 resulted in an invitation to       co-direct the event's first Postgraduate Symposium (2008).This event,       which has since become a regular feature at the Hardy Festival Conference,       introduced Hardy enthusiasts to the best of cutting-edge research by       young, beginning academics.
One comment in the questionnaire returns for       2012 particularly praised the Wednesday pm Postgraduate panel.
The       delivery of a plenary lecture on echoes of Hardy's work in contemporary       popular music by `The Stranglers', Beth Orton and P.J.Harvey at the 2008       THS Festival Conference demonstrated the impact of her interest in the       cultural dissemination of Hardy's work.
Thomas was subsequently appointed       as Academic Director of the Nineteenth (2010) and Twentieth Conference       Festivals (2012).
The latter featured a very popular lecture by cartoonist       Posy Simmonds on her graphic novel Tamara Drewe (also released as       a film in 2010) which is based on Hardy's novel Far from the Madding       Crowd and one by film critic Philip Kemp on Michael Winterbottom's `Hardy       Trilogy': Jude the Obscure; The Claim (based on The         Mayor of Casterbridge) and Trishna based on Tess of the         d'Urbervilles.
Several respondents rated these lectures as `the       best' and one commented on how Posy Simmond's lecture `provided       interesting insights into the creative role of an author' and how the       talks had prompted them to watch the films again (or for the first time)       with renewed interest.
The Biennial International Thomas Hardy Festival and Conference, is       jointly sponsored by the Thomas Hardy Society, Dorchester Town Council,       West Dorset District Council, Dorchester Business Improvement District,       and the Faber Academy.
Its remit is to enhance the appreciation of Hardy       and his work in the UK and the wider world.
The Festival and conference       take place in St Peter's Church, Dorchester (where the Society's Council       of Management also meets every second month), and features a variety of       events including Poetry Readings, Lectures, Seminars, Receptions, Suppers,       Tastings, New Writing from Wessex, Quiz, Guided Walks, Coach Tours, Drama,       Dance and Musical Performances, Book Launches, Exhibitions and an       Antiquarian Book Fair.
Thomas organised the programme of lectures for 2010       which featured academics and writers Claire Tomalin (author, biographer       and literary editor and broadcaster); and poetry readings by Christopher       Reid and former Poet Laureate Sir Andrew Motion.
53 questionnaires (out of       176 attendees) were received for the 2010 Festival Conference.
Of these 24       felt that the balance between academic and popular events was excellent       and one felt that `the seminars are the highlight of the Conference'.
Another declared it 'an ambitious and well-organised conference, all       rewarding and very enjoyable' and that `the mix of lay and academic makes       for an extremely pleasant experience'.
An indicative comment concerning       the Society and its Festival Conference was that it: `deepens your       appreciation and understanding of England's second greatest writer; I       suppose that's your job!'.
There was a request for `an afternoon workshop       for the ordinary poetry writer'.
This was followed up in the 2012       conference (see below).
Thomas also directed the 2012 Programme, which featured leading scholars,       authors (Posy Simmonds), broadcasters, and playwright (Rupert Creed).
One       respondent to the questionnaire praised two of the Academic lectures       adding that they `threw new light on Hardy for me'.
Another stated that       the lectures were `very stimulating' demonstrated `new insights into       Hardy's poetry' and offered a 'new window onto Hardy's writing'.
Another       replied: `I enjoyed each of the lectures.
Truly enlightening!'
and one       respondent concluded: 'thank you for a very stimulating week'.
Mr Paul       Stephens commented `mix of academic, artistic and popular is perfectly in       the spirit of Hardy &#8212; a wonderful conference and great atmosphere'.
Appreciation was shown for `the warm welcome, kindness and excellent       organisation' and a responded from India commented `thank you for giving       me the opportunity to be part of this exceedingly enriching experience'.
120 delegates, reflecting the broad base of the Society's membership,       attended the 2012 event which featured a creative writing collaboration       with Professor Herbert Tucker (University of Virginia) and the renowned       poet Daljit Nagra resulting in the public performance of six Hardy       inspired poems by members of the general public at the Conference dinner       on Sat 25th August, 2012 and their subsequent publication in       the Autumn edition of the Thomas Hardy Journal (Oct 2012).
One       respondent to the questionnaire &#8212; commented `went to Daljit Nagra's       creative writing workshop &#8212; very good stimulus provided &amp; lots of good       work done by everyone to be followed up later!'.
Thomas's research has also led to invitations to address the Hardy       Society in Sheffield as well as Grimsby Historical Society; a position as       Hardy Advisor for the Dorchester Community Play (to be performed in March       2014) and a collaboration with the playwright Rupert Creed on a theatrical       performance and series of workshops that will explore the extent to which       the avowedly personal `Poems of 1912-13' can be freed from the       biographical straightjacket.
These will feature as part of the 2014       International Hardy Conference and Festival thus demonstrating the       sustainability of her impact into the next REF period.
Thomas's interest in Hardy's informed and sympathetic exploration issues       of gender and sexuality have led to media appearances including two       programmes for BBC Radio Four's `Woman's Hour' Hardy Walks (The         Mayor of Casterbridge) &#8212; broadcast on 21 October 2008, repeated 9th       October, 2010 and featured in Radio Four's `Pick of the Week' on 25th       October, 2008 &#8212; and (Jude the Obscure), 12 November 2008.
She was       interviewed by phone for the Guardian newspaper about the sale of       the `Kings Arms', Dorchester and featured in `Hotel Immortalised in Hardy       Novel up for Sale' (Guardian, 20 December, 2007).
Thomas gave the `Thomas Hardy Birthday Lecture' at the Council Chambers,       Dorchester in June 2010.
Questionnaires completed by members of the public       asked about the ways in which `the lecture changed the way you thought       about the subject?
And whether `this lecture made you want to find out       more about the topic or authors/poets?'
(questionnaires available).
The       event was advertised in the Daily Telegraph, 26th June,       2010 and Dorset Echo, 25/5/10; View from Dorchester,       26/5/2010; Western Gazette, 27/5/2010,)     Following the delivery of her findings at the 2011 `Thomas Hardy at Yale'       conference and in revised form at the 2012 `Thomas Hardy       Conference/Festival' in Dorchester, she was invited to advise the Director       of the Dorset County Museum on an exhibition of Hardy's paintings and       sketches which have never before been in the public realm.
An exhibition       of Hardy-related artwork is now planned to coincide with the opening of       the 2014 Festival Conference.
In February 2013 she was awarded a prestigious Research Fellowship at the       Henry Moore Institute in Leeds.
Planned outcomes include public talks and       a possible future public exhibition at the Institute on Poetry and       Sculpture arising from her fellowship there.
The impact of this research       will be to bring to public attention the close links between literature       and sculpture in the second half of the nineteenth century especially in       the work and aesthetic ideas of Thomas Hardy who was greatly influenced by       the work and writing of the practitioners of the `New Sculpture'       (1877-1910).
A talk by Thomas, entitled `In Defence of Emma Hardy' was given at The       Rectory, St Juliot (Emma Gifford's home) as part of the Society's Cornwall       Weekend (7-10 March 2013) to celebrate the 143rd anniversary of       Hardy and Emma's first meeting.
The talk was published in the Thomas         Hardy Journal in October 2013 and has initiated some interest in the       role of Emma Hardy among the community of Hardy enthusiasts.
She is on the Editorial Board of the Thomas Hardy Society Journal       (members only) and contributes to the Thomas Hardy Website (www.hardysociety.org)       which features a monthly newsletter, news and events, walks and general       information on Hardy and his work.
She has spoken at festivals, and for       literary and historical societies, at schools and in the media.
A `Fudge Book Club' meeting on Far from the Madding Crowd which       Thomas was invited to lead, directly resulted in member signing up to read       for a PhD on Hardy and other writers under her supervision.
