     The impact evidence provided here relates primarily to Jones's       collaboration with and profound       influence on the American composer William Neil (documented in their       regular exchange over       several months: Section 5 no.
9) and the world premi&#232;re of their work Where         there is no Autumn       during the D.H. Lawrence Symposium in Gargnano on 21 September 2012 at the       Sala Castellani       (Section 5 no.
3).
The performers were John Worthen (narrator), Bethan       Jones (clarinet) and       William Neil (piano and digital acoustics).
This concert was open to the       public and the audience (of       about 200) consisted principally of local inhabitants.
William Neil       subsequently gave a concert on       his Aztec flute with a local guitarist while Jones performed Mozart's       clarinet concerto with the       Italian pianist Giacomo della Libera at the Palazzo Bettoni, Gargnano,       hosted by Count Bettoni-Cazzago.
The musical project outlined above featured prominently on William Neil's       website before the       symposium, with photos of the performers, audio clips, a YouTube video       showing an interview with       the composer about setting Lawrence to music (Section 5 no.
6) and a link       to Jones's article `D.H.       Lawrence and the "Insidious Mastery of Song"'.
Neil's website received       50,675 visits during       September 2012 showing a marked increase from the month before and       indicating wider interest in       the symposium activities.
Jones made audio and video recordings of the       premi&#232;re which she then       uploaded for Neil to edit and disseminate.
Neil added audio excerpts from       each of the four       movements of the new piece to his website (Section 5 no.
5), and created a       link enabling payment       for downloads or a musical score.
As well as the audio files, he uploaded       a video of the first       movement, `Southern Nights' (Section 5 no.
1).
Neil prepared a YouTube       video of `Pomegranate'       (the second movement of Where there is no Autumn) with       accompanying fruit images and       commentary.
This was posted online and embedded on the webpage of the       Pomegranate       Celebration event in Madera, California (27 October-3 November 2012).
As guest host of the `Sunday Symphonies' program on WDRT (Driftless       Community Radio,       SW Wisconsin, c. 20,000 local listeners and streamed online), Neil has       given two broadcasts       describing the collaborative composition &#8212; one before the symposium       (9.9.12 &#8212; Section 5 no.
8)       and one after (14.10.12).
The first broadcast included a recording of       Nielsen's clarinet concerto,       performed by Jones, while the second featured the recording of `Tropic'       (the fourth and final       movement of Where there is no Autumn) made at the premi&#232;re.
At the Gargnano concert, Jones distributed a leaflet inviting the       audience to participate in a       follow-up `Webinar' on 8 October (Section 5 no.
2), during which the       composer and performers       would be online to discuss the music and the performance.
Jones set up a       presentation including a       title-page image based on photos provided by conference delegates, web       links and poem texts.
The webinar was a highly successful international event with contributions       to a stimulating       discussion made principally by Jones (in Hull, acting as moderator),       William Neil (USA), John       Worthen (Germany) and Charlotte Stoppelenburg (Holland).
The webinar was       recorded and can be       accessed globally.
In June 2013, Jones organised a follow-up event in Hull in collaboration       with Dr Freya Bailes       and Dr Lee Tsang (Hull Music Department), as part of a two-day `festival',       entitled `From Lawrence       to Larkin' (Larkin being another composer with extensive links to music &#8212;       particularly jazz).
This       began with a concert and workshop at Beverley Minster on 27th,       run by Tsang, and included the       performance of new settings of Larkin's poetry, commissioned for the       occasion.
On the following       day, Jones and Bailes held a Royal Music Association Study Day at the       University with the title       `Twentieth Century Poets In Music' (Section 5 no.
4).
This event, funded       partially by the RMA,       brought together academics, students and the general public in a series of       presentations       combining theory and performance.
Jones delivered a paper on new settings       of Lawrence's poetry &#8212; building       on her Sydney keynote address and foregrounding her collaboration with       Neil &#8212; as part       of a panel on Lawrence and music.
A highlight was the inspirational       keynote address from       Professor Stephen Banfield, who later described the event as bringing       together a group of people       who `genuinely interact, on a new basis, during the course of it'.
Four       new musical settings of       poetry were composed in response to the Call for Papers and performed for       the first time at this       event: `A Blue Scent Rises' by Sandy Clark; `The Bough of Nonsense' by       Hereward Cruttwell-Reade;       `Four Auden Shorts' by Michael Betteridge; and `Four American Lyrics' by       Andrew       Mcbirnie.
Jones distributed questionnaires at the Study Day (Section 5 no,       7) and also included a       flyer outlining the William Neil collaboration and inviting comment and       contributions.
Questionnaire       responses indicated that the event had stimulated participants and would       lead to further creativity:       one delegate commented `I am planning to set Jack Kerouack's poem "Mexico       City Blues" to       music, with spoken word elements' while others wrote `I intend to explore       and subsequently write       more music based on poetry'; `[the event] will be useful for further       composition projects'; and `[I will]       look further afield, indeed towards poetry, maybe D.H. Lawrence or Thomas       Hardy, to be inspired       to composition, not just for piano and voice but for other ensembles'.
When asked about the ways       in which the event furnished new perspectives on the subject, others       alluded to `new insights',       `useful discussions' and the gaining of `a good deal more knowledge from       the day's events, from       the variety of presentations and topics covered'.
This kind of collaborative experience in composition and performance,       combining text and       music, is being sustained and extended by Jones, at the D.H. Lawrence       Society of Great Britain       (most recently on 13 February 2013) and the annual Lawrence Festival in       Eastwood,       Nottinghamshire.
In 2015, William Neil and John Worthen will travel to       Hull for the British premi&#232;re       of Where there is no Autumn as part of an International D.H.       Lawrence event.
