     With &#163;2.4m MRC/DPFS Major Awards funding and &#163;2m TSB support, we are now       implanting 10 laryngeal and 15 tracheal patients with tissue-engineered,       stem cell-based implants, the first patients in the world to receive       stem-cell based organ replacements within formal clinical trials.
We are       now also receiving referrals from the United States and Europe for       application of our products in difficult-to-treat patients presenting to       overseas tertiary referral centres.
The principal impact has been to save       the lives and transform the future prospects of the transplanted       individuals.
However there are also a much broader range of impacts on       clinical practice, public policy and the nature of clinical       transplantation services globally.
Improved patient outcomes     The child treated in 2010 on compassionate grounds was well, growing, and       had not needed medical intervention for 6 months by May 5, 2012 [see         ref 1 above].
He remains well at 3.5 years post-implantation and a       recent biopsy showed normal tracheal epithelium.
We have maximised the use of advantageous aspects of the UK regulatory       framework to apply tissue-engineered products for compassionate uses (e.g.
both children above, plus a tissue engineered trachea that provided       successful palliation and considerable health cost savings in the case of       a girl with tracheal cancer at UCLH).
Thus, we have also led in the       practical understanding of pathways to translation for advanced       therapeutic medicinal products (ATMP), recognised by our Lancet editorial       (2012).
Our breakthroughs in the application of regenerative medicine to severe       airway disorders resulted in a dramatic increase in national and       international referrals of these patients to UCLH.
In response, Birchall       and clinical colleagues Sandhu, George, Janes and Hayward established a       world-first complex airway multidisciplinary team in 2009.
Since then,       more than 200 of the world's most challenging complex airway patients have       been assessed by the team with 18 travelling from all corners of the world       for treatment.
This trend is envisaged to grow considerably as our       technologies are tested by clinical trials in the next two years.
This       activity increases world awareness that these patients, who would       otherwise be abandoned to poor quality of life or unpleasant deaths, can       be effectively treated, and attracts income to the UK from overseas [a].
Changing the nature of health services     We have fundamentally changed the way that clinicians and NHS managers       are thinking about the future of transplantation and healthcare delivery [b].
Within range is a new raft of technologies, which can replace or augment       the range of transplantation as we presently understand it.
Autologous-cell based and other types of Regenmed tissue and organ       replacements do not require immunosuppression and offer one-off solutions       which could reduce the cost of care of patients with organ failure to a       fraction of its present level.
Transplant-focused institutions such as       Royal Free London NHS Foundation Trust [c] and UC Davis Medical       Center, California [d] are already deciding how to allocate       resources to prepare for this future, including new designs of operating       theatre suite and near-patient cell and tissue-preparation facilities.
Examples of organ replacements in development based on the       decellularisation-recellularisation technology which we were the first to       translate into man are lung [e] and kidney [f]       replacements.
Our success gives these high profile groups confidence to       progress.
Impact on UK policy     Our work has substantially informed UK policy on regenerative medicine,       with particular respect to autologous products.
For example, Birchall       advised on the 2012 `roadmap' for UK regenerative medicine research       published by four UK Research Councils and the Technology Strategy Board,       entitled A Strategy for UK Regenerative Medicine [g],       which resulted in the release of &#163;100m government funds for regenerative       medicine at the translational interface.
In addition, he has substantially       contributed to a House of Lords briefing on the future impact of       tissue-engineered organ replacements [h].
We are also approached       regularly for advice by both MHRA and EMA.
Most recently, UCL's work has       been used as exemplar for regenerative medicine as one of the `8 Great       Technologies' announced by the Minister for Science and Universities [i]     Impact on UK scientific profile     Our work, with Coffey (Moorfields, embryonic stem cells for macular       degeneration) represents the most powerful example in the UK, possibly       internationally, of the true clinical potential of stem cell treatments.
Thus, we are frequently called upon to advise bodies internationally, such       as CIRM (e.g.
closed CIRM advisory session 2012, which directly resulted       in a dedicated call for tissue-engineered product trials [j]) and       EMA (which has resulted in changes to the regulatory designation of       complex cellularised products).
Impact on the research workforce     For regenerative medicine to achieve its potential as a therapeutic       powerhouse for the UK, a skilled, flexible workforce is required.
Our       multidisciplinary team includes PhD students, postdoctoral scientists and       clinical fellows (about 30 at any one time), from a wide range of       backgrounds (stem cell and cell biology, engineering, chemistry, business,       medicine and surgery).
They are all exposed to patterns of highly       multidisciplinary working and encouraged to develop their projects by       drawing upon the wide panoply of skills around them.
We have thus assisted       in the development of a highly skilled workforce on whom the future       Regenmed-based health and wealth of the UK can build.
Public Understanding of regenerative medicine     Our team regularly engages with the public directly and through the media       [k].
For example, both Cheltenham and Brighton Science Festivals       feature interactive sessions on stem cell transplants based on this work;       a recent BBC radio programme focused on the potential healthcare gains to       be made from organs built from stem cells, and specifically our recent       work developing new larynges; the Lancet produced a video for public       education featuring Birchall; the MRC have a major public-facing stem       cell education page devoted to our breakthroughs.
