     The original research findings from Wynne's work on Bram Stoker, Dracula,       the Gothic and       Victorian theatrical culture have had a diverse range of interconnected       impacts with local, regional       and international reach in the second-level educational sector, the       heritage industry and literary       tourism.
Educational development: At the Bram Stoker Birthday Symposium       (hosted by Wynne) on       8 November 2012, Wynne's 45-minute presentation on the influence of the       stage on Stoker's       Gothic fictions changed the way school teachers and pupils thought about       Stoker's writings.
A       teacher described how Wynne's lecture would influence her lesson planning       and delivery.
One       pupil noted that she `learned more about the adaptation of novels to the       stage as melodramas and       will use it in my exams'.
Wynne's presentation also enabled the audience       to think about how       melodrama has evolved in soap operas such as Emmerdale and Coronation         Street.
(See Sources       1).
Wynne's volumes on Stoker's theatrical writings impacted on a literary       reading public when       Bram Stoker and the Stage became the leading review article in the       Times Literary Supplement on       23 January 2013 (see unpinning research).
(See Sources 2)     Heritage and Literary Tourism: In April 2012, Wynne organised the       largest international       conference to date on Bram Stoker with 90 delegates drawn from academia       and the general       public.
This Bram Stoker Centenary Conference (supported by the British       Academy) took place at       the University of Hull and at Sneaton Castle in Whitby.
Wynne's own       research findings look anew       at how Whitby is presented in Dracula, by demonstrating how       Stoker's descriptions of light and       colour over Whitby Abbey are derived from his close attention to the use       of stage lighting at the       Lyceum Theatre.
This aspect of Wynne's research has drawn the attention of       Whitby's Literary and       Philosophical Society (http://www.whitbymuseum.org.uk)       and their Chair, David Pybus, who, as a       result of the 2012 Centenary Conference is now collaborating with Wynne on       the Second Bram       Stoker Birthday Symposium in Whitby on 8 November 2013.
The Stoker family       (Dacre Stoker,       Jenne Stoker and Robin McCaw) were guests at the 2012 Centenary Conference       and also run the       Bram Stoker Estate website (http://www.bramstokerestate.com/Home-of-Bram-Stoker-Estate-Gothic-Dracula-Official-website-Bram-Stoker-Estate.html).
They describe the impact of the 2012       Bram Stoker Centenary Conference had on them (See Sources 3).
Wynne's       research and work       during the conference further made connections between Whitby and Hull.
She invited the eminent       Egyptologist and BBC presenter on Egypt, Professor Joann Fletcher       (University of York) to deliver       a conference keynote paper.
Fletcher made connections between the mummy in       Hull's Hands on       History Museum, which had originally been in a private house in Whitby in       the 1890s, and Stoker's       mummy novel The Jewel of Seven Stars.
During the 2012 conference       Wynne's photograph with       this Egyptian mummy in Hands on History Museum appeared alongside an       interview in the       Yorkshire Post on 12 April 2012.
The photograph and article was       one-third of a broadside (See       Sources 4).
Wynne was also interviewed on BBC Radio Humberside with Dacre       Stoker on 12 April.
Contribution to public debate: By hosting the conference in both       Hull and Whitby, Wynne       underpinned the Stoker connection between the two places, prompting the Guardian       newspaper to       put Whitby-Hull on the map as dual Stoker locations.
(Sources 5).
The Times         Higher Education         Supplement reported Professor Clive Bloom's opening conference       keynote which called on       delegates to return to an earlier Gothic and to resist the cult of the       teen vampire romance.
The       article also reported Wynne's comment that the conference looked back from       Dracula to earlier       Gothic and forward from Stoker.
(See Sources 6)     As a direct result of this conference organisation, the BBC producer       Conor Mckay       commissioned Wynne to deliver the first essay in the highly prestigious       BBC Radio 3 series of The         Essay dedicated to Bram Stoker in the week of the centenary of his       death in April 2012.
Other       contributors to BBC's The Essay on Bram Stoker included the       renowned Irish writer Colm To&#237;b&#237;n,       Sir Christopher Frayling and Roger Luckhurst.
In this first Essay       broadcast on 16 April 2012,       Wynne took Stoker to centre stage to examine him within the theatrical       climate which inspired his       greatest fiction, Dracula.
http://www.bbc.co.uk/programmes/b01g4xt1       (See sources 7).
Wynne's longstanding research on the Gothic brought two iconic writers       together: Stoker and       Conan Doyle.
Her research on these writers has been distributed       internationally and has received       the recognition of the Bootmakers of Toronto: The Sherlock Holmes Society       of Canada for an       essay on Stoker and Doyle, published in their society journal in 2011 (see       underpinning research       above).
The Bootmakers of Toronto take their name from Doyle's most famous       Gothic detective       novel, The Hound of the Baskervilles, with its Canadian       associations.
In this story, the Canadian       heir to the Baskerville estate in Devonshire, has one of his boots stolen,       as the novel's villain       needs an item belonging to Sir Henry so the deadly hound will pick up his       scent.
Established in       1972, the Bootmakers of Toronto is one of the foremost global Sherlock       Holmes societies, with       hundreds of members, devoted to a mixture of `scholarship and whimsy'.
Each month 25-40       members, Canadian and international fans, meet in the Toronto Reference       Library.
Canadian         Holmes, the Society's magazine, was established in 1973, and       features a mixture of popular and       scholarly articles.
Wynne's article was, committee Chair Donald Zaldin       noted, `unanimously chosen       by the committee' who described it as a `very fine article about the two       most enduring literary icons       of the 19th century and their respective creators.'
(See Sources 8)     As a result of Wynne's long-standing research on Stoker and her research       presentation to       the Bram Stoker Society, Dublin in 2002, Wynne was commissioned by       Ferndale Films as       academic consultant on a TV documentary on Stoker in 2003.
Dracula's         Bram Stoker was directed       by Sin&#233;ad O'Brien with whom Wynne co-wrote the voice-over.
Ferndale is a       double Oscar-winning       production company (My Left Foot, 1990).
Dracula's Bram Stoker       was narrated by the actor John       Hurt and featured interviews with Christopher Lee, Sir Christopher       Frayling and the director Neil       Jordan.
The documentary has been broadcast by RTE (National TV in Ireland,       equivalent of BBC       1) and regularly repeated on SkyArts 2 (November 2008; July 2012) and       currently advertised on       SkyArts2 for 24 October 2013, 31 October and 3 November 2013.
It is also       being shown as part of       the Bram Stoker Festival in Dublin on 26-28 October 2013.       http://www.bramstokerfestival.com/draculas-bram-stoker/       with viewings of the documentary in       Dublin Castle on 26 October.
(Sources 9)     Wynne's paper on Stoker and melodrama at the University of       Hertfordshire's Bram Stoker       Centenary Symposium on 20-21 April 2012 at Keats' House, Hampstead, was       described as       `compelling' by Sinclair McKay in the Telegraph newspaper 23 April       2012: `whatever you may think       of such academic conferences, there's something curiously compelling,       about &#8212; for instance &#8212; being 	  pointed to the links between late nineteenth century stage melodrama       and the juicy jeopardy       that Stoker invented for his heroes.'
http://www.telegraph.co.uk/culture/books/9220788/Bram-Stoker-is-Undead.html       (Sources 10)     Longevity Wynne inaugurated the first ever Bram Stoker Birthday       Symposium and Birthday       Lecture on 8 November 2012 in Hull.
Participants included the public and       local schools.
Wynne       also presented her research on Stoker and the theatre at this conference       alongside other leading       Stoker scholars such as William Hughes and Andrew Smith.
Following on from       this success,       Wynne has organized the Second Bram Stoker Birthday Symposium in Whitby on       8 November       2013 at Whitby Museum where she is working with the Whitby Literary and       Philosophical Society       to raise awareness about Stoker in Whitby.
Her paper on Stoker, Oscar       Wilde and Egyptomania,       examines the influence of stage magic in both writers' literature and thus       adding another iconic       late-Victorian writer to her repertoire of research.
Sir Christopher       Frayling delivered the Second       Bram Stoker Birthday Lecture, `Mr Stoker's Holiday in Whitby.'
Wynne is       further cultivating the       cultural and historical connections between Hull and Egypt.
In September       2013 she hosted an       international conference, `Visions of Egypt', at Hull's History Centre and       at the University of Hull.
Keynote speakers included Professor Joann Fletcher and Professor Roger       Luckhurst.
