     The DPU's research has contributed to building climate preparedness and       resilience in the urban       Global South by enhancing existing strategies adopted by affected       communities, and introducing       new methods for socio-technological structures to deal with cumulative and       sudden shocks.
The       transfer of specialist knowledge holds impacts for policy-makers in       Bangladesh, Mozambique, and       India, within aid organisations (e.g.
DFID and Oxfam), and for urban       planners and residents of       vulnerable cities.
Impacts range from enhancing citizens' voices in local       governance structures and       supporting transparent decision-making to guiding aid policy and       governmental interventions, and       aiding urban planners through policy tools to plan for more resilient       cities.
Perhaps most       significantly, DPU research contributed to culture shifts in development       and donor organisations       around the world, reinforcing changes in fundamental approaches to climate       change resilience.
At the local government level in the largest cities in countries like       Bangladesh and Mozambique,       research was used to build resilience through policy advice to       governmental programmes.
Moving       from mitigation to adaptation is critical in Bangladesh, frequently       affected by the effects of climate       variability and climate change.
Dhaka has experienced nine major floods in       the last 55 years,       disproportionally affecting the 3.4 million vulnerable urban poor with       limited/no access to services.
The act of documenting community responses to climate variability [e]       facilitated the development       of strategies that moved from climate risk mitigation to planned       adaptation, via policy and financial       decisions seeking to address climate impacts before or soon after they       were manifest.
Research       recommendations by DPU supported policy and planning for the development       of pro-poor land-use       planning and tenure security options within Dhaka's local government, and       on the design of       buildings and infrastructure to reduce climate change risks.
This dialogue       was facilitated through       several focus group discussions and a multi-stakeholder workshop in August       2009, which had 46       participants, including community members, governmental actors and       representatives from       organisations working on urban poverty, climate change and urban planning       issues in Bangladesh.
Three lines of action were identified: access to basic urban services;       land-use planning and the       built environment; and disaster management strategies.
The ongoing actions       by municipalities and       the coping strategies of the urban poor were mapped to identify synergies       and generate       recommendations for future action.
The resulting strategies were       consolidated at the multi-stakeholder       workshop and endorsed in the plans and programmes of governmental agencies       [1].
Likewise, in Maputo, an innovative participatory research process       encouraged working       partnerships between diverse actors with the aim of bridging the gap       between policy rhetoric and       action.
This city of 1 million inhabitants (half below the poverty line)       is subject to frequent flooding       and vulnerable to rising sea levels.
Communities described the drainage       faults associated with       uncontrolled waste disposal as the main factor influencing vulnerabilities       to climate change in the       research area, Chamanculo C district.
Seeking to address this challenge,       in partnership with the       National Fund for the Environment of Mozambique (FUNAB), Reading       University and York       University, DPU research supported networking in 2012-13 between       residents, private sector       actors, and government authorities, including the Ministry for       Coordination of Environmental Affairs       (MICOA), the National Disaster Management Institute (INGC), and Maputo       Municipality.
The first step involved the development of a process of community       organisation that led to the       constitution of a local planning committee on climate change (CPC).
These       CPC members       represent different interest groups rarely represented in such       negotiations, such as the elderly,       youth, housewives, traders and salaried workers.
The CPC has five       community members elected       by local residents, who met weekly from April to July 2012.
They held       meetings with experts and       institutions, working independently of the DPU/FUNAB project team to       develop and implement a       Local Action Plan for Climate Compatible Development with the municipal       government [2].
While       this research engaged actors already concerned with climate change (MICOA;       INGC), through the       CPC it also brought climate change to urban governance bodies where it       previously did not exist.
Real changes in the lives of Maputo residents were already underway       towards the end of the       impact period.
The CPC had begun negotiating the implementation of the       strategies emerging from       its dialogues within the informal settlement of Chamanculo C. These       included new provisions for       recycling and composting centres, and the establishment of waste       collection points to alleviate the       impacts of flooding on blocked drainage.
To achieve their goals, the CPC       established links with       local associations, private operators and NGOs involved in waste       management.
Out of the Local       Action Plan, drawn up in July 2013, the CPC has also begun to develop an       environmental       education programme with the Maputo University Eduardo Mondlane for better       training in climate       change issues, correct usage of water, and treatment of domestic waste,       and it used this       educational process to extend networks within and between communities, and       to mobilise       residents for the regular cleaning and maintenance of drainage channels [2;         p.9].
In a city whose       fast and unregulated growth had outstripped the provision of basic       services, particularly in the       context of a changing climate, this community-led programme demonstrated       to local policy-makers       that residents &#8212; even the relatively uneducated &#8212; can handle climate       information if there is an entry       point that relates such information to their own experience, such as       flooding [3].
Policy makers       subsequently have no vowed to extend this programme to other       neighbourhoods.
Working at the NGO level, DPU researchers are also closely involved in       the design and       operationalisation of new approaches to the study of climate change       resilience in Latin America.
In       2012&#8212;13, the DPU advised Oxfam's Latin America and Caribbean (LAC) office       on managing risk       and working with vulnerability in relation to disaster risk reduction.
Dr       Camillo Boano (Senior       Lecturer) and Dr Alexandre Apsan Frediani (Lecturer) facilitated a       three-day workshop in 2012 with       government officials, civil society organisations, and Oxfam officers from       La Paz, Guatemala and       the regional office in Mexico City.
This contributed to ongoing action       within Oxfam's LAC office in       re-shaping their urban strategies in relation to risk and vulnerability       reduction, shifting again from       mitigation strategies to addressing the actual root causes of risk       production.
For example, this collaboration has redefined the initial terms of       reference of a project undertaken       in La Paz and Guatemala City away from more traditional reactive       mitigation strategies towards the       exploration of local and innovative adaptation plans [4].
This was       demonstrated in the resulting       report, Exploring Oxfam's room for manoeuvre to address the production         of urban risk, which       sought to highlight the social drivers of risk in La Paz and Guatemala       City [5; especially pp.
6, 10,         22].
In particular, DPU research has underpinned recommendations for       further action, including       expanding the knowledge base on intra-community perceptions of risk       (disaggregating community       experiences by gender, disability, tenure status, etc.
), as well as       redefining the understanding of       urban risk as a social and political product; and collapsing the divide       between urban planning and       the field of disaster risk reduction, which as noted has tended to be more       reactive [5; pp.
51, 53].
The Future-Proofing Cities project [b] also spurred       international donors to reassess their aid       priorities to support effective local responses that could support       resilient urban development.
The       project recommendations were adopted by DFID in 2012 as a diagnostic tool       to guide its climate-change 	  portfolio and mechanisms for funding, resource, and project       allocation throughout Asia,       Latin America, and Africa [6].
The reach of this impact on       international debates is demonstrated by       the fact that the Future-Proofing Cities website has received over       300,000 hits since December       2012 and the report was downloaded over 2,000 times by users in multiple       countries and       organisations.
This included municipal governments, leading developers and       architects (e.g.
Balfour), strategy consultants, technology providers (e.g.
Siemens),       funding institutions, and water       and energy companies in the Global South.
It also attracted the attention       and endorsement of       organisations such as the World Bank [7], Rockefeller Foundation,       and Cities Alliances [6].
Since March 2013, the same model has been applied in two Indian cities:       Bangalore and Madurai,       implemented through Future-Proofing Indian Cities with &#163;450,000       committed by the Climate and       Development Knowledge Network (partially funded by DFID) [8].
This       is using the Future-Proofing         Cities framework to undertake a participatory action planning       process to develop urban risk       diagnostics and action plans for Bangalore and Madurai.
The diagnostic       stage was completed in       July 2013 and informed discussions with the state and municipal       governments, service utilities and       civic society organisations.
Stakeholders in both cities prioritised a       focus on the rehabilitation of       infrastructure to develop future proofing strategies, which will inform       the subsequent stages of the       programme.
In Madurai, this was endorsed at a city-wide consultation in       September 2013       organised by Development of Humane Action (DHAN) Foundation &#8212; now a       partner in the project &#8212; which       was attended by over 30 officials from the municipal corporation, plus       other representatives       from the City Technical Advisory Group (CTAG) and City Volunteer Technical       Corps (CVTC).
