     Our research provided a firm and detailed evidence base for what works       best in treatments for schizophrenia.
This work underpinned the       development of NICE guidance in 2002 and the revision of this guidance in       2009.
The primary impact arising from this has been a major shift in       service provision towards these types of treatments, and a resulting       reduction in hospital admissions.
NICE guideline on schizophrenia     Until the publication of our review, the relative effectiveness of the       various existing psychological interventions for schizophrenia was not       well understood.
We established that the most clinically effective       psychological interventions were family interventions (FIs) and cognitive       behavioural therapy (CBT) but not social skills training (which was       commonly in use) or cognitive remediation.
The paper provided the evidence       base for the NICE schizophrenia guideline published in 2002 and its update       in 2009 [a].
As a facilitator of the guideline Pilling led on the       interpretation of the evidence for the guideline development group in 2002       and also advised the 2009 guideline development group on the revision and       interpretation of the review in light of any new evidence that emerged.
Impact on services     This in turn has had a considerable impact on commissioning.
NICE       Guidance for Commissioners now recommends psychological interventions for       schizophrenia in accordance with our recommendations [b].
Family       and CBT interventions for psychosis are now an integral part of all mental       health services and are central to the delivery of Early Interventions       Services for psychosis where greater emphasis is placed these       interventions.
The increased availability of CBT and FIs, supported in       significant part by the implementation of the guideline has seen, over the       past five years, FIs and CBTs offered to an estimated minimum of 150,000       patients in the UK with an estimated uptake of around 100,000 [c].
The update to the guidance in 2009 included a health economic assessment       of the recommended interventions.
If this model is applied to a       (conservative) estimate of schizophrenia cases in the period 2008-13, it       shows that the recommendations may have led to 9,000 fewer relapses and       4,200 fewer hospital admissions attributable to the use of FIs, and 6,000       fewer relapses and 3,200 fewer hospital admissions attributable to the use       of CBT.
Economic impacts     The costs of schizophrenia are considerable &#8212; an estimated &#163;11.8 billion       in England for the period 2008-13.
Based on the modelling produced by       NICE's health economic assessment (2009 guidance) the estimated cost       saving from reduced hospital bed use associated with implementation of       these guidelines is over &#163;28 million.
Government policy     Our work has prompted significant interest and sustained debate including       a review by the Healthcare Commission (2008) and the All Party       Parliamentary Mental Health Group (2010) report on the implementation of       the NICE schizophrenia guideline [d].
Most recently the       Schizophrenia Commission (2012) again re-stated the need to fully       implement the recommendations of the NICE Schizophrenia Guideline based on       the review by Pilling and colleagues [e].
Professional training     NICE guidelines provide the evidence for the Improving Access to       Psychological Therapies (IAPT) programme of the Department of Health,       which is the world's largest implementation programme for psychological       therapies and which has trained over 3,000 psychological therapists in a       range of NICE recommended psychological interventions.
The guideline, based on the review, has also supported the development of       a range of specialist training programmes, e.g.
at the Institute of       Psychiatry (KCL), in cognitive behavioural interventions for       schizophrenia, as a core element of clinical psychology training and four       national pilot programmes of psychological interventions in psychosis.
The       review has provided evidence to support the development of an IAPT       competence framework for psychosis commissioned from Pilling and       colleagues by the Department of Health and which provides the basis for       the national curriculum and all national training programmes for       psychological interventions for schizophrenia in England [f].
International impacts     In addition to its impact on NICE the review had a major impact       internationally, supporting an increased emphasis on psychological       interventions in schizophrenia guidelines including clinical guidelines on       schizophrenia in Australia and New Zealand, Spain and Italy [g].
The NICE (2002) schizophrenia guideline was rated by the WHO (Gabel et       al, 2005) as the most methodologically superior of 24 national       schizophrenia guidelines, a rating that was re-affirmed in 2011 (Gabel et       al, 2011) [h].
