     The principal contribution of this programme of work has been to provide       an evidence base for informed decision making at local and national policy       levels regarding the configuration of acute services for severely mentally       ill adults.
Our work has been widely cited, and has contributed towards       sustaining the crisis resolution/home treatment model beyond the initial       period when it was mandatory national policy, and towards supporting the       introduction of new residential crisis houses in the community.
The       benefits of a policy on acute mental health care that is well founded in       evidence are considerable: the Information Centre for Health and Social       Care estimates that acute inpatient wards cost &#163;655 million per year and       crisis resolution teams &#163;256 million in England.
Effective alternatives to       acute admission represent significant cost savings to the NHS and       furthermore improve an aspect of service provision that users frequently       cite as one of the most important issues for them, and the one with which       they are least satisfied.
Guidance for Commissioners: The Joint Commissioning Panel       for Mental Health, co-chaired by the Royal College of Psychiatrists and       the Royal College of General Practitioners in collaboration with a range       of national voluntary and statutory bodies, has produced recommendations       on adult mental health services which are intended for use by Clinical       Commissioning Groups to inform local commissioning priorities, strategies       and service redesign; and for Health and Wellbeing Partnerships to inform       Health and Wellbeing Strategies.
Their guidance on services for severe       problems in crisis cites our work in its recommendations that: crisis       teams are an efficient way of managing mental health crises; that they can       also be used in early psychosis; and that crisis houses are beneficial for       a sub-group in crisis.
Johnson was part of the expert group making these       recommendations [a].
The NHS London commissioning programme also       produces guidance on acute care models and cites our work in support of       recommendations on crisis teams and crisis houses [b].
NICE Guidelines: Our work is cited in guidelines on bipolar       disorder, schizophrenia and service user experience.
Bipolar disorder:       our study is cited as the main evidence to support a recommendation that       crisis teams be made available for people with bipolar disorder [c].
Schizophrenia: the current (2009) guideline on schizophrenia cites       our trial (paper 1) as evidence that crisis teams may reduce       hospitalisation for people from Black and Minority Ethnic backgrounds as       well as for White service users [d].
In the 2013 revision of the       NICE guidelines, for which Johnson is on the Guideline Development Group,       evidence on mental health teams has been reviewed in more detail, and our       trial (paper 1) will be cited as the only recent evidence supporting the       recommendation that crisis resolution teams be available for people with       schizophrenia/psychosis.
Our work on crisis houses (papers 4 and 5) is       also discussed.
This guideline is now at a late stage of drafting, for       release in late 2013.
Service user experience in adult mental health:       cites our work on crisis houses to support a recommendation that these       should be available as they are greatly preferred by service users [e].
Reports by national voluntary sector bodies: Several recent       reports by influential national bodies cite our work in support of their       recommendations.
The national mental health charity MIND has       conducted a national enquiry into acute care and is conducting a       subsequent report on acute care.
The enquiry report cites our studies in       support of its strong advocacy of the crisis house model.
Subsequently       Johnson and colleagues have collaborated with MIND on their acute care       report: Johnson has appeared with MIND representatives to give evidence on       acute care to the All Party Parliamentary Group on Mental Health.
We have       released to them early findings from our national survey on crisis teams       in the CORE study and these have formed the basis of recent press releases       and media coverage on acute care [f].
The Kings Fund has       recently reported on ways of enhancing the productivity of mental health       services.
This major report cites four of our papers on crisis teams and       crisis houses in support of recommendations that alternatives to admission       need to be further developed in order to increase the efficiency and       acceptability of mental health services [g].
The think tank Centre         for Social Justice has also reported on mental health services       nationally.
It advocates reform of mental health service delivery, citing       our work to support the recommendation for further development and       implementation of the crisis team and crisis houses [h].
International impact: A report by the World Psychiatric       Association making recommendations for the development of community mental       health services makes recommendations in support of crisis teams and       crisis houses in countries with well-developed mental health systems [i].
Our work is also cited in support of new national policies in documents       from Norway and Flanders (Belgium), and in documents supporting local       plans and policies within mental health Trusts.
In Norway, for example,       our work influenced recommendations for crisis resolution teams in Norway,       developed by the Acute Network for the Norwegian Directorate of Health [j].
Johnson has been asked to speak on crisis teams in relation to the       introduction of new policies in Norway, Flanders, Scotland and Wales and       is regularly contacted by service planners and clinicians from a variety       of countries where this model has attracted interest.
