     The health and wider aspects of low-carbon built environments now feature       prominently on political agendas across the world, and the health and       energy research by CBES as outlined above has made a major contribution to       this state of affairs.
It has had direct and significant impacts on the       development and revision of guidance, regulation, and policy at regional,       national and international levels.
This influence has assured subsequent       impacts from regional to global levels on the ways in which buildings are       currently constructed or are likely to be refurbished, and, in turn, on       improvements in human health and wellbeing across the UK and around the       world.
Impacts on regional policy:     CBES work has informed key Greater London Authority (GLA) guidance       relating to Urban Heat Islands (UHI), specifically as noted in terms of       measures to minimise summer cooling energy demand and health risks, whilst       retaining lower winter heating demands and decreased winter health risks       due to reduced exposure to cold.
In response, the GLA drew upon UCL's       research to help produce its key policy document Managing Risks and         Increasing Resilience &#8212; The Mayor's Climate Change Adaptation Strategy       (2011), which details plans to tackle overheating in London [1].
The research has particularly supported the development by the GLA of       better evidenced-based policies and programmes to optimise its mix of       adaptation and mitigation measures, and to target limited funding as       effectively as possible [2].
Shaping national policy and practice:     CBES research into relative humidity and related growth of mould in     dwellings has catalysed and informed important changes in the Building     Regulations for England and Wales.
In 2010, it resulted in amendments to the     moisture criteria guidelines (ADF 2010) for the control of mould growth in     dwellings [3].
Fundamental changes were made to the existing     guidance, in line with CBES's own research recommendation for its amendment.
Those changes included responses to more specific recommendations such as     the need to recognise and respond appropriately to the transient nature of     mould growth.
The research provided policy makers with novel recommendations     about the daily, weekly and monthly maximum average levels of relative     humidity that should be permissible in dwellings.
Changes to ADF 2010 have     had a significant impacts on the UK construction industry and, thereby, on     the UK population as a whole.
Every dwelling constructed in England and     Wales since 2010 has been subject to ADF 2010; from 2011 to 2012, this     amounted to more than 230,000 households.
Following the guidance improves     the safety of dwellings and allows house builders to demonstrate the legal     requirement for compliance with the Building Regulations.
Elsewhere, the research on UHIs (supplemented by further advice from the       CBES team) is informing the development by the Chartered Institution of       Building Services Engineers (CIBSE) of UHI guidance which will be included       in the 8th edition of their Environmental Guide A [4].
This important guide, which is currently undergoing substantial revision       and is due for release in 2014, will provide a primary reference source       for the 19,000+ members of CIBSE.
CBES research has also been used to develop new evaluation tools       informing further developments in policy and guidance.
From 2011,       modelling techniques developed over the years by CBES were used in       collaboration with colleagues from LSHTM to develop the novel `Health       Impacts of Domestic Energy Efficiency Measures' (HIDEEM) tool for the UK       Department of Energy and Climate Change (DECC).
This included the       construction of micro-environmental stock models to quantify indoor       environmental conditions and monetise the health impact associated with       energy efficiency changes in houses in Great Britain.
These CBES methods       employed, for example, empirically derived relationships between house       temperatures and measures of energy efficiency, as well as physics based       models of pollutant concentrations.
HIDEEM informs analyses of the cost       effectiveness of relevant policies by evaluating and monetising the health       impacts of the large-scale implementation of low energy interventions       within dwellings.
Since its release in 2012, HIDEEM has been used by       DECC's Energy Efficiency Deployment Office (EEDO) to generate health       monetisation inputs to its 2012 Energy Efficiency Strategy.
This, the       first in a series of documents to support the delivery of DECC's energy       efficiency policies, relates to and suggests ways to maximise energy       efficiency potential across the UK economy.
Here, the HIDEEM tool was used       specifically to monetise the health impact of wall insulation measures: `DECC         modelling of the impact of the installation of solid wall insulation in         all properties in England gives a total improvement in the health of         those individuals in the properties of &#163;3.5bn-&#163;5.0bn over the lifetime         of the measures'.
The report further notes the potentially       significant benefits of such increases in energy efficiency to wellbeing:       `a higher disposable income, as a result of lower energy bills, can         allow increased spending on other necessities.
In addition, the health         benefits from properly installed energy efficiency measures can be         significant' [5].
DECC has also used the tool to support its       2013 Fuel Poverty Framework.
That document notes that modelling work       carried out using HIDEEM suggests "substantial health-related costs         associated with cold homes".
The influence of that work on the       policies set out here is evident as the report continues: `For this         reason, we believe that we should continue to prioritise vulnerable fuel         poor households for support.
In addition, we will continue to build the         evidence base on health impacts' [6].
International impacts: The reach of these research impacts on       construction and human health has been very considerably extended by the       further influence of the relative humidity research on international       guidelines.
In 2008, CBES was invited to provide expert advice to the       World Health Organisation (WHO) on best practice in, and the international       regulatory framework for, humidity and mould growth.
CBES drew on its       research work to supply that advice via contributions to two expert       meeting reports.
These resulted in the publication in 2010 of important       new WHO mould guidance documents.
This guidance `provides         policy-related recommendations and identifies potential ways for         international, national and local authorities to prevent, reduce or         mitigate exposure to dampness and mould' &#8212; all in order to         `enable policy-makers to identify appropriate measures to support and         advocate in the field of public health protection and ... provide them         with relevant examples and guidance for policy and regulatory measures'       [7].
More broadly, CBES work has contributed to a fundamental shift in the       awareness and understanding among international policy-makers of the       possible co-impacts of carbon mitigation measures.
Its research       elucidating the health impacts of housing energy efficiency interventions       [d] has particularly profoundly influenced international awareness       of and engagement with the issues it raised.
The significance and reach of       that influence was demonstrated in statements of support made by the UN       Secretary-General Ban Ki-Moon, WHO Director Margaret Chan, and US       Department of Health and Human Services Secretary Kathleen Sebelius, all       of whom acknowledged the global significance of the research project to       which CBES [d] made a substantial contribution at the launch of       its findings in December 2009 [8].
The expert knowledge of CBES researchers of the specific health impacts       of carbon mitigation measures is now being combined with their wider       expertise about the impacts of decarbonisation on factors other than       health [e].
This combined expertise led, in 2013, to an invitation       by the International Energy Agency (IEA) to deliver expert input       (alongside DECC) to its `Capturing the Multiple Benefits of Energy       Efficiency' initiative.
That key input from CBES, which related both       specifically to the HIDEEM tool and to wider aspects of the unintended       consequences of decarbonisation, has now supported the development of a       key IEA Handbook [9].
