     Dr. Schulze's research has contributed to a shift from a traditional         security to a human         security approach by the European Union in its external missions.
The EU's human security       project was initiated by then High Representative for Common Foreign and       Security Policy Javier       Solana in 2002.
It brought together both practitioners and academics to       develop proposals for the       design of European security capabilities.
In 2004 the human security study       group published a       report titled `A Human Security Doctrine for Europe' and in 2006 the       Finnish foreign ministry asked       the group to prepare a report on how the human security doctrine could be       taken forward on the       EU's agenda during the Finnish Presidency of the EU [A].
For this project,       an evaluation of existing       ESDP missions, including that of the AMM, was undertaken.
Schulze's       insight into three decades       of conflict in Aceh provided her with the necessary historical       understanding of the root causes and       the dynamics of the insurgency and thus to comprehensively assess the role       of the AMM.
Her       research and recommendations were presented at two key seminars.
The first       seminar on `EU       Human Security' was organised by the Spanish Ministry of Defence in Madrid       on 8 November       2007 and attended by Javier Solana.
The second seminar on EU peace keeping       missions was       organised by the Stiftung Wissenschaft und Politik and the German Ministry       of Defence on 29       October 2009.
Both of these seminars were designed for practitioners, both       government and NGO,       with the aim of learning from the case studies such as the AMM and       promoting the inclusion of       human security principles into policy making.
The reports of the human       security study group, which       draw upon the findings of all ESDP mission evaluations, were published on       the ESDP website.
Schulze's research has influenced the broader debate within the EU on         external peace         keeping missions [B, D, E, F, I].
Indeed the 2007 report by the       human security study group titled `A       European Way of Security', which presented the findings of all of the ESPD       mission evaluations       including that of the AMM, saw some of its wording directly included in       the Report on the       Implementation of European Security Strategy of the European Council in       2008 [G].
This impact       matters because a traditional security approach in peace keeping and       monitoring missions has       shown itself to be too limited as it focuses on the state rather than the       individual.
Human security,       in contrast, advocates a people-centred approach with an emphasis on human       rights and       development.
It views areas of conflict holistically and within the       broader context of global stability.
The shift towards adopting a human security doctrine by the EU, in       particular, has been driven by       the need to adopt a security policy that better reflects the peace keeping       experience of its member       states as well as more generally European values and views on security,       human rights and       development.
Schulze's research on the AMM also fed directly into both EU policy         making and the policies         of individual EU member states.
Schulze's work had a direct impact       on subsequent ESPD       missions and EU external policies [I, J] as reflected in the Directorate       General for External Policies       of the European Parliament's CSDP Mission and Operations: Lessons learned       process [C].
Schulze's research as part of the broader human security project also       influenced national security       strategies.
In particular, the Belgian High Command has adopted a human       security doctrine.
Human security, as proposed by the study group, has also been included in       the British stabilisation       manual [H].
Overall, Schulze's assessment of the AMM made 12       recommendations for future       ESDP to the EU, including: (1) to establish a rapid funding mechanism to       finance the rapid       response mechanism.
; (2), to recruit monitors proficient in the local       language in addition to the       mission language.
; (3) to devise a more culturally-sensitive training       program as well as utilising       existing programs to identify good trainers; (4) to more clearly define       the human rights mandate;       (5) to include more specialist staff in future missions such as a human       rights adviser and a gender       adviser as well as making human rights and gender issues compulsory       elements of pre-deployment       training; and (6) to consider a stronger role for any future mission in       the reintegration       process.
Schulze's recommendations to change the composition of peace keeping         missions to achieve         a greater gender balance and make the training of external missions more         gender sensitive       were addressed by the EU following the AMM evaluation [I].
It is here that       Schulze's background       as a historian of the Aceh conflict was particularly important.
It allowed       her to analyse the impact of       the AMM, which had been largely constituted to deal with the       decommissioning of weapons and       was thus male dominated, upon a society that as result of three decades of       conflict during which       some 100,000 males were killed, had a large number of female headed       households.
The AMM,       while being able to competently deal with the decommissioning of weapons,       was less able to deal       with the broader social issues relating to human rights, reintegration,       gender relations, and the       drafting of the new Law for the Governance of Aceh under the MoU, which       ended up contravening       EU policy on gender equality.
Finally, Schulze's assessment of the AMM as well her work on the history       of the Aceh conflict has       become part of the material studied by practitioners when undertaking       training at the European       Crisis Management Centre in Finland, which has also prepared a manual       based on the research       [A].
