     Professor Dawson's and Dr Scott's research has impacted on a wide range       of services through: patient involvement and partnerships; development and       delivery of safe interventions; and a quality improvement tool, led by       patients.
Professor Dawson's `Staying Steady' research still exists as a community       intervention providing a community-based exercise initiative for falls       prevention [5.1 and 5.2], for which 298 people have downloaded the Staying       Steady Falls Prevention Leaflet up to 25/11/2013.
The Department of Health Partnerships in Older People Programme (&#163;200k,       2006-8 Action Research Evaluation of Northumberland `Fit, Involved, Safe',       Healthy Networks for Falls Prevention) was a successful bid to evaluate a       large scale community based programme of falls prevention [5.3].
Professor Dawson was a key member of the Patient Safety Education Study       Group in 2009 which developed guidance on patient safety in       pre-registration health care curricula.
This was a multi-site national       research project funded by a competitive bid to the Department of Health       National Patient Safety Agency Patient Safety Research Programme.
The       study was based on the belief that what is taught to students in formal       education is not necessarily what is then seen or done in practice.
The       study explored the formal and informal ways pre-qualification students       from four health care professions (Medicine, Nursing, Pharmacy and       Physiotherapy) learn about keeping patients safe from errors, mishaps and       other adverse events [5.4].
The patient reporting of safety research, originally conducted as part of       Dr Scott's PhD, was conducted in collaboration with Safer Care North East       (SCNE), a programme of safety work conducted by the North East Strategic       Health Authority (SHA).
At the request of the SHA, the research was       conducted in the clinical theme of care transfers, discharges and       handovers; one of nine clinical themes identified under the SCNE       programme.
The research was used as a case study to inform safe transfers       throughout the region by the Patient Safety Action Team at the SHA, and       was used in the SCNE final report [5.5].
In addition, the research has       been used to inform the 2013 Health Foundation evidence scan `Involving       patients in improving safety' under the `Service Improvement' heading,       which provides information to help those involved in improving the quality       of healthcare to understand what research is available [5.6].
In 2010 Professor Dawson's research paper `Professionals and the public'       was cited, on the NIHR web page, in: Patient and Public Involvement in       Health and Social Care Research: A Bibliography [5.7].
As part of the research with Yorkshire Ambulance Service (YAS) and North       East Ambulance Service (NEAS), Dr Scott has been seconded to YAS to work       alongside the frequent caller case manager, which has enabled research to       inform practice within YAS and NEAS [5.8].
In particular, YAS developed a       new database for frequent callers based on this research, which has       allowed YAS proactively to monitor frequent callers and case manage those       who are most frequent users [5.8].
In addition to his secondment, Dr Scott co-convened the Frequent Caller       National Network (FreCaNN) for all ambulance services in England in April       2013, and now chairs the group which received the backing of the National       Ambulance Service Medical Directors (NASMeD) group and reports into the       Quality, Governance and Risk Directors group (QGARD).
By collaborating       with frequent caller case managers from every ambulance service in       England, this is a role that reinforces the impact of the research in this       area by ensuring direct applicability to practice, and informs both       practice and policy on a national level [5.9].
The current Ambulance Quality Indicator (AQI) focuses upon locally agreed       definitions of a frequent caller, which range from specific definitions       (such as 15 or more calls in a 6 month period) to clinical judgment       (identified based on a paramedic or call handler recognizing the same       patient consistently).
These approaches result in varying levels of       practice, and Dr Scott has led the development of a proposal for a new AQI       with all English ambulance services via FreCaNN.
This has received the       support of QGARD and has been submitted to the Association of Ambulance       Chief Executives, to come into practice in April 2014.
Professor Dawson's and Dr Scott's research expertise in the area of       safety facilitated their involvement in `An Independent Review of Care       Home Closure and the Involuntary Relocation of Elderly Residents by the       City of York Council.'
This evaluation is part of the Moving Homes Safely       programme which has informed the next stage of the City of York Council's       relocation programme [5.10].
