     The research described above provided substantial evidence to challenge       the existing guidelines on antibiotic prophylaxis (typically in the UK 3g       of amoxicillin or 600mg of clindamycin) prior to a relevant procedure).
Roberts was co-opted onto the NICE Guideline Development Group as adviser       on this topic.
In 2008, NICE issued Clinical Guideline 64, Prophylaxis       against infective endocarditis [a].
The work of the Roberts       group was influential in this document and 7 papers were cited at 16       points throughout the document.
The guidelines recommended that antibiotic       prophylaxis used solely to prevent IE should not be given to people at       risk of IE undergoing dental and non-dental procedures.
Four points were       highlighted that underpinned this recommendation and work by the Roberts       group was used to support 3 of these:            there is no consistent association between having an interventional         procedure, dental or non-dental, and the development of IE (cites         reference [1])       regular tooth brushing almost certainly presents a greater risk of IE         than a single dental procedure because of repetitive exposure to         bacteraemia with oral flora (cites references [5] and [6])       the clinical effectiveness of antibiotic prophylaxis is not proven         (cites reference [7])       antibiotic prophylaxis against IE for dental procedures may lead to a         greater number of deaths through fatal anaphylaxis than a strategy of no         antibiotic prophylaxis, and is not cost effective.
As a consequence of the NICE guidelines, there has been a demonstrable       change in clinical practice, with a resulting decrease in antibiotic       prescribing for dental procedures and infective endocarditis.
A review in       2011 revealed that prescriptions in England reduced by 79% in the two       years after guidelines were issued with no increase in the rate of       infective endocarditis [b].
A review of dental prescribing in       Wales also reported that dental prescriptions for amoxicillin 3g sachets       and clindamycin capsules decreased sharply after the publication of the       NICE guidelines in 2008 [c].
Overall this represents a reduction       of over half a million doses over a five-year period for the two       countries.
The reduction of unnecessary antibiotic prescribing has three       key impacts: (i) improved patient safety through reduced adverse reactions       to antibiotics; (ii) a cost-saving to the NHS through lower wastage; (iii)       a reduction in antibiotic use helping to prevent an increase in antibiotic       resistance in the community.
Improved patient safety: The guidelines discuss anaphylaxis as one       of the reasons for their recommendation.
It has been estimated that       approximately 20 individuals per million patients who receive a dose of       penicillin suffer a fatal anaphylactic reaction [d].
Approximately       500,000 doses have been avoided and an estimated 10 lives likely to have       been saved and countless episodes of anaphylaxis avoided (in the UK       alone).
Cost-savings to the NHS: Prior to the guidelines, approximately       129,000 doses were prescribed per year and this reduced to 27,504 doses       per year in the two years after the guidelines were issued.
This       represents a reduction of over half a million doses over the five years       and a consequent saving of approximately &#163;4m in prescription fees       (calculated from data in [b]).
A reduction in antibiotic use: As detailed above, approximately       500,000 fewer doses of antibiotics were prescribed to patients in the       period.
The inappropriate and overuse of antibiotics in the past has       provided an extremely strong selective pressure for bacteria to evolve and       acquire a myriad of different resistance mechanisms.
As highlighted by the       Chief Medical Officer of England, bacterial resistance to antimicrobials       now represents one of the most urgent problems facing public health and       modern healthcare.
Once antibiotics become ineffective, increases in       morbidity and premature mortality will follow.
Changes in international guidelines: The research described above       has also had an impact on guidelines around the world, which have been       reviewed and modified using evidence generated by the UCL EDI team.
Roberts was acknowledged as an international expert by the American Heart       Association in 2007 prior to his work with NICE and six papers by the       Roberts group were used to support their recommendations.
The research       also informed the 2008 American Academy of Pediatric Dentistry guidelines       for antibiotic prophylaxis for dental patients at risk of infection [e]       and the 2009 European Society of Cardiology Guidelines on the prevention,       diagnosis, and treatment of infective endocarditis [f] leading to       a change in their clinical recommendations.
Other international bodies       have used the above guidelines to inform their own national       recommendations.
For example, in Australia, national guidelines twice       reference work by Roberts and colleagues [g].
