     Survey data on bullying were first reported at the 2005 British       Psychological Society (BPS)       conference, receiving wide media coverage.
Subsequently, at the 2006 BPS       Annual Conference,       the presentation highlighted the prevalence of cyberbullying in the form       of offensive or threatening       text messages in a representative sample of secondary school pupils.
Up to       this point       cyberbullying had received little academic or media attention in the UK       and was, relative to other       forms of bullying, not well understood.
The presentation was one of the       first in the UK to highlight       the risks experienced by children and young people when using technology.
Findings from this       study were then cited in the UK Commons Parliamentary Select Committee       report on bullying.
The 2006 presentation of this YSJU work attracted a wealth of media       attention resulting in articles       on the research in for example the Guardian, Sky News, the Daily         Mail and the Telegraph, and       radio interviews with regional stations including Real Radio and Radio       York.
It was also important       that those data be reported back to children and young people in an       accessible and interesting       manner.
Interviews were accordingly conducted for the CBBC children's       `Newsround' website and       Cosmogirl Magazine.
Such media coverage raised public awareness of       the issue of cyberbullying.
This contributed to a number of discussions with teachers and youth       workers, leading to the       development of interventions to attempt to address the issue in schools.
The evidence from the       research and the dissemination of the findings continue to feed into       national, regional and schools'       anti-bullying work to this date.
Noret was then invited to present these findings at a DfES seminar on       Cyberbullying, which       brought together academics, practitioners and children and young people to       discuss the issue.
Following this Noret contributed to the development work of the Department       for Children, Families       and Schools (DCFS) Cyberbullying Taskforce in London.
This taskforce wrote       and disseminated       guidance on how to tackle cyberbullying in schools and other child and       youth based organisations,       involving youth organisations from the voluntary sector and internet       providers.
This guidance is       still available on the `Childnet' website, clarifying what cyberbullying       actually is for professionals       working with children and young people, and providing key points on how to       tackle this form of       bullying, such as through the integration of cyberbullying into a schools'       anti-bullying policy.
Since 2006, Noret has regularly been invited to present at e-safety and       anti-bullying events       organised by the national organisations `The Anti-Bullying Alliance', the       `Bullying Intervention       Group', and `Grids for Learning'.
These events involve providing       information and running       workshops on cyberbullying for teachers and other professionals working       with children and young       people, to enable interventions to be designed; including practical advice       and guidance on       identifying cyberbullying, what to do to support children and young people       if they are being       cyberbullied, and how schools can integrate cyberbullying into their       anti-bullying policies.
In total,       Noret has presented at over 100 national and regional events on       cyberbullying and e-safety in       London, Yorkshire, the North East and Norfolk.
Many of these events were       training days, to       enable practitioners to take on board the key messages and integrate these       into their work.
These       events were attended by representatives from Local Authorities, the       teaching profession, social       workers and other practitioners working with young people.
In addition,       some of the workshops       were with children, young people, and parents, to raise awareness of the       issue of cyberbullying       and offer key messages about online safety to help address the issue.
In 2010, Noret became a member of the City of York Council's       Anti-Bullying Steering Group,       advising on key findings from the survey and contributing to the       development of intervention       strategies to tackle all forms of bullying in schools.
Following the       2002-2006 surveys, the Council       has asked Noret to run annual surveys in York primary and secondary       schools to explore the       nature and prevalence of different forms of bullying.
Every participating       school receives a report,       plotting its data against the citywide data, to assist schools in       identifying key areas requiring       attention.
Key statistics from the surveys now form part of the City of       York Council's five-year       Children's Plan and these survey data provide a means to continually       evaluate the achievement of       different aims by the Council to improve the well-being and behaviour of       children and young people       across the City.
Whereas in the 2002- 2006 surveys cyberbullying was the       second most prevalent       form of bullying reported by pupils in the Citywide survey, in the most       recent secondary school       survey (2013) cyberbullying is now the least prevalent form of bullying       reported.
