 Over the last 10 years, the cumulative evidence from the CoDEG group, in relation to the development of practitioner development frameworks, policy formation and novel professional education models has improved the quality of pharmacy services through the reform of educational provision and the implementation of practitioner development frameworks.
Educational research work that aimed to address clear national health service needs to define and assure capable and competent pharmacist practitioners, has grown into a world-wide project that has international recognition from nation states and UN agencies for the impact that the evidence-base and translational developments have had &#8212; and are continuing to have &#8212; on developing safe and capable clinical pharmacists.
The key theme of our work throughout has been the application of research-driven educational enquiry to the development of health service capability, in a manner never before applied in the profession.
1.
National impact.
In 2005, ALF evidence was used as a basis for Department of Health guidance to establish the first NHS Consultant Pharmacist posts in England [a].
As a result, over 50 Consultant Pharmacists were in post across England in 2013 [b].
In 2006, the formal JPB partnership described above was set up [c].
This has become the accepted foundation pathway for all early years' practitioners across most of England's NHS Trusts and the GLF has been adopted for use by over 90% of all Band 6 (junior) pharmacists in England.
The cumulative research also supported adoption in Wales and Northern Ireland.
The royal college for pharmacy is now using this educational approach as the basis for its national foundation standard [d].
The emergence of Medical Education England (MEE www.mee.nhs.uk; and since April 2013, HEE www.hee.nhs.uk) as the national commissioning agency for all medical, pharmacy, dental and health science education and training means that pharmacy has a national Professional Advisory Board, reporting to HEE on matters of professional development, including initial education and career pathways.
In 2012, this professional board &#8212; Modernising Pharmacy Careers &#8212; commissioned an independent report into the use of practitioner development frameworks for the profession [e].
The report recommended national uptake of both the GLF and the ALF, and the Royal Pharmaceutical Society (RPS) subsequently adopted stewardship of the CoDEG frameworks to enhance professional capability across all health sectors and impact on the quality of health care provision.
This is now the national norm for practitioner development, affecting all of the 42,000 registered pharmacists in the UK.
In a supporting statement, the RPS say that "This is a historic time for pharmacy, a first for the Royal Pharmaceutical Society and is based upon the decade worth of evidence generated by CODEG and Professor Bates' national and international research in this area...
The RPS can fully verify the usage of the research work, and the impact of the work which has gone into developing the frameworks" [f].
2.
European regional impact.
The evidence base generated by CoDEG was used as a basis for the Europe-wide PHARMINE programme [g].
This multilateral programme, funded in 2009 via the European Commission for &#8364;480,000, set out to map foundation level and advanced ("specialist") competencies for pharmacy.
The CoDEG frameworks proved to be the building blocks of the PHARMINE outcomes, which were subsequently endorsed by major European special interest partner groups including:  EAFP (European Association of Faculties of Pharmacy) EAHP (European Association of Hospital Pharmacists) EIPG (European Industrial Pharmacists' Group) EPSA European Pharmacy Students' Association) PGEU (Pharmaceutical Group of the European Union)  3.
Other Nations In Australia, Queensland Health, which covers about a third of the population, improved the competency of its practitioners through development of an adapted version of the CoDEG frameworks [h].This initial work has now been taken up nationally, impacting at both foundation and advanced level practice, using CoDEG evidence and GLF and ALF [i].
CoDEG have acted as advisers on the nationalisation of the original frameworks.
In 2012, the Australian authorities published their Advanced Pharmacy Practice Framework for Australia, which acknowledges the CoDEG evidence and work as the basis for this national development [j].
Singapore has also collaborated with CoDEG to develop a national framework for foundation level practice based on the GLF [k].
This particular work stream has driven reform of practitioner development in Singapore along similar lines to the UK.
Other countries where the GLF is being translated and adapted for national use are Ireland (via the Pharmaceutical Society of Ireland), Croatia (via community pharmacy providers), Serbia (via National Expert Panel and community pharmacy providers) [l, m].
4.
Global developments In 2007, the International Pharmaceutical Federation (FIP - the global professional leadership body representing over 3 million pharmacists and pharmaceutical scientists worldwide) established a Global Taskforce for Education.
Subsequent to this, in 2009/10, FIP Education formed partnerships with two UN agencies, the WHO and UNESCO [n].
Practitioner competence and pharmaceutical service capabilities were identified as key missions.
The subsequent development of a global framework for practitioner development (the Global Competency Framework - GbCF) used CoDEG evidence and GLF methodology as a basis for development.
In 2010, a formal agreement with UNESCO established the UNITWIN programme which has an objective to disseminate best practice using the GbCF, most recently in establishing a six-nation African Centre of Excellence for professional education.
The original work by CoDEG has led from local to global impact on contemporary competency- based approaches to practitioner development which impacts on development of medicines expertise, patient safety, and the quality of pharmaceutical care services.
Better training leads to better care.
