     Research into urban infrastructure at the DPU connects theoretical and       policy discourses with action.
It creates practical tools and       methodologies to support development practice, designing and delivering       training curricula for practitioners in urban infrastructure services, and       providing expert advice for institutions and governments.
This research       has helped to reframe the debate on urban infrastructure among planners       and policy-makers, and DPU researchers have also been able to support the       development of improved approaches to the planning and management of       infrastructure in major cities in Sub-Saharan Africa and Latin America.
DPU research on the governance of water and sanitation services has       influenced NGO partners to change their programmes and project strategies.
On the basis of earlier research [a], Allen was invited to act in       the aforementioned advisory capacity for WaterAid and Building         Partnerships for Development in Water and Sanitation (BPD) in small       towns in six African and Asian countries from 2009-10.
This project       brought both WaterAid and BPD `significantly further in [their]         understanding of the approaches necessary to tackle the issues of water         and sanitation services in small towns' [1; p. 32], and       defined the areas for `action research' to be taken forward by the two       NGOs.
Specifically, the research significantly influenced WaterAid's work       through their City-Wide Urban Planning for Sanitation and Water         Project in Lusaka (Zambia), Maputo (Mozambique), Lagos (Nigeria) and       Kinshasa (DR Congo), with that work currently on-track to deliver       high-level city planning [2].
It also helped to develop an       operational framework to diagnose service delivery in small towns,       developing city `typologies' related to demographics, economic drivers,       and autonomy in decision-making so as to inform specific intervention       strategies and external support programmes.
As the project report       indicated, WaterAid `intend[s] to test our approach with the ultimate         goal of improving the way that WaterAid as an organisation, and the WASH         sector at large, addresses small town issues' [1; p. 31].
Additionally, the research is being continued through a funded EngD       currently being undertaken by Hofmann that is expected to produce a       tool-kit which will be used by WaterAid in relation to their work on urban       water access [2].
DPU's research has influenced the re-tooling and capacity-building of       professionals operating in the field, being used to develop reusable       training materials to enhance the delivery of capacity development       programmes in the Global South.
Following from her work [d] with       the International Water and Sanitation Centre in 2008, Allen was       commissioned in 2009 by UNESCO-IHE, the largest international postgraduate       water education facility in the world, based in Delft in The Netherlands,       to design and deliver an online training course on policy, planning and       methodological aspects of sanitation services in peri-urban regions       delivered over a period of four months.
According to UNESCO-IHE       statistics, this course was received by over 3,000 planning officers and       utility managers from all regions of the Global South.
Allen's       publications on water and sanitation in peri-urban areas, as well as a       filmed lecture delivered at UNESCO-IHE in 2008 [7], were key       resource materials in this training module.
Distance-learning participants       use the book published by Springer [c] as the primary resource       that gives structure to the programme.
In 2012, Allen designed and delivered a component for policymakers and       practitioners on water justice, as part of a school on `water governance       and the human right to water', organised by the Centro Interdisciplinario       de Estudios sobre Desarrollo (CIDER), Universidad de los Andes, and the       Municipal Government of Bogot&#225;.
This was attended by over 30 policy-makers       and practitioners, and has since been developed as a reusable educational       resource to train 100 more people (including community leaders) on urban       planning approaches to equitable water governance [4].
During       2010-12, the DPU team of D&#225;vila, Levy, Cabannes and Allen advised the       Indian Institute for Human Settlements (IIHS) on the design and       implementation of their curriculum on urban settlements and services for       working professionals, catering to 1,000 residential students [5].
Following research in the transportation strand, D&#225;vila has delivered       over 20 lectures in eight countries on the institutional, social, spatial       and environmental factors underpinning sustainable pro-poor transport       interventions arising from the DPU's work on local governance, urban       mobility, and poverty reduction.
This has supported a heightened       international discussion amongst policy-makers and planners on the       linkages between urban mobility and well-being, and has been reflected in       increased media attention and high-level workshop events.
As an example,       in 2011 D&#225;vila and colleagues facilitated an international workshop in       Colombia with over 200 participants to reflect upon the case of Medell&#237;n.       This outlined the findings described in Section 3, and provided an       opportunity for representatives from aid agencies, national governments,       municipalities, local communities, academics, students and international       experts to share views on the effectiveness of the municipal interventions       and assess the potential of applying this model in other cities [6].
The discussion gave rise to an international network of policy makers and       professionals in urban development to exchange best practices on urban       mobility, and led to a major book on the subject aimed at policymakers and       practitioners in the Global South [e].
This research by Davila and others in DPU attracted widespread interest       from government actors aiming to incorporate findings about the impact       that a relatively old technology such as cable-cars can have on dense,       hilly, low-income urban areas.
This input into policy thinking is       demonstrated by the fact that, in April 2012, officials in Bogot&#225; and       Cali, as well as La Paz in Bolivia, requested copies of the DPU's detailed       research reports for each case study.
Colombian government officials also       requested copies of the final reports, and the book [e] was       requested by municipal and national officials in Colombia, Bolivia,       Argentina, Chile, Mexico and Cuba, including by Medellin's Metro Company [10].
Between 14 December 2012 and 8 November 2013, the Spanish version of the       book was accessed 4,264 times from the research website [9].
As       municipal interest in aerial cable-cars multiplies around the world, this       demand to look at outputs from the DPU's research demonstrates an       eagerness to understand the potential economic, social and transport       impacts of such systems.
The Medell&#237;n model as examined by DPU researchers       was also incorporated into international policy-making guides for pro-poor       urban upgrading.
For instance, it was included in the UN-Habitat Guides       and launched at Rio+20 in 2012, and in the International Resource Panel       report [3], a clear recognition that urban sustainability requires       cities to provide a greater diversity of energy-efficient, low-emission       transport with low environmental impact to reduce inequalities.
The contribution of DPU research to the global debate on urban transport       policy is demonstrated also by its widespread coverage in the popular       media.
For example, D&#225;vila was interviewed about his research findings for       TV and radio in Colombia (Su Madre Naturaleza TV programme;       Universidad Nacional Radio, twice) and Mexico (Guadalajara ITESO internet       radio), and the reach has been further extended through coverage in major       British and North American media outlets with global audiences, such as       the BBC World Service and CBC [8].
