     How research underpinned impact       The research underpinning impact, conducted by Hall and other       international partners from the PAPA project consortium, provided the       conceptual foundations for the design of the PAPA coach education       intervention programme.
Impact was achieved as a result of delivering the       four year EU funded research project.
The PAPA project involved the       design, implementation and testing of the coach education intervention       which itself aimed to improve participation motivation and indices of both       physical and psychological health in 10-14 year old children.
The       underlying research identified why and where in the motivational process       it would be possible to intervene and have the greatest impact.
Research collaboration       The PAPA project was a collaboration between staff at eight partner       Universities from five EU countries, which, in addition to Hall, included       Joan Duda (University of Birmingham, UK), Bente Wold and Oddrun Samdal       (University of Bergen, Norway), Isabel Balaguer (University of Valencia,       Spain), Athanasios Papaioannou (University of Thessaly, Greece), Philippe       Sarrazin and Jean-Philippe Heuze (Joseph Fourier University, Grenoble,       France), Yngvar Ommundsen (Norwegian University of Sport, Norway) and       Jaume Cruz (Autonomous University of Barcelona, Spain).
The partnership       comprised leading researchers working in the field of sport motivation       whose collective theoretical and empirical research conducted between1993       and 2009 informed the design and implementation of the intervention.
Main beneficiaries        The PAPA project was designed to impact a number of distinct user groups       including coaches and administrative leaders in sport federations, PE       teachers, EU policy-makers involved in youth sport and health promotion       and young people across the EU.
To date the PAPA project has impacted on       local, regional and national FA administrators in five European countries.
Impact on this group of stakeholders was initially facilitated through       representation on the PAPA external Advisory Board, where the English FA       Head of Coach Education was a member.
Representatives from UEFA and WHO       also sat on the Advisory Board, enabling dialogue on strategies for       embedding the PAPA coach education programme into existing models of       training.
Impact on the FA and North Riding FA was achieved through coach       educators who received PAPA coach education training.
Coach Educators from       five European countries have been direct beneficiaries of the PAPA coach       training.
Grass roots coaches were also beneficiaries along with 10-14       year old participants in teams competing in the five European countries.
Nature and Extent of Impact       The research has made a distinct and material contribution to impact by       improving standards in training for youth football coaches.
The research       has guided the development of a theory based coach education programme,       including the development of a coaching workshop, written resources to       enhance professional practice and supporting web based resources located       on a dedicated web-site.
Coach education training delivery and       implementation guidelines have been produced to support power-point slides       and DVD clips for the workshop.
The research underpinning the project       influenced CPD training within the English FA, as the FA integrated the       initial training of FA coach educators into the CPD training programme of       each coach educator.
In North Yorkshire three coach educators were trained       and eight workshops were delivered to grass roots coaches.
Across the EU,       41 coach educators were trained to deliver the coach education       intervention.
The research has also changed professional practice for       grass roots coaches.
Across the EU, 112 training workshops were delivered       by FA coach educators and 1159 grass roots football coaches attended the       workshops and received training.
Those receiving training were themselves       responsible for the coaching of approximately 8000 youth football players       and findings from the PAPA project indicate the trained coaches had a       positive impact on children's motivation and health behaviours.
Practitioner debate has subsequently been informed by the research       findings of the PAPA project, and various professional bodies are       utilising the findings to define best practice.
In this case, impact was       achieved through a dissemination event held at St George's Park, Burton,       where members of the FA Education Department, professional coaches from       national FAs, representatives from WHO, UEFA, Sport Coach UK, national       sporting governing bodies and representatives from various sports       contributed to discussions on the implications of the research findings       from the project.
Brochures summarising the findings from the PAPA project       were distributed and contributed to debate around best practice.
Evidence of Impact            Training program for expert coaches, including implementation         guidelines       Coaching intervention package, including visuals (PPT, DVD)         http://www.empoweringcoaching.co.uk/what-empowering-coaches-does        Website to support intervention www.projectpapa.org        Coaching workbooks and resource packs       Project brochure of findings for stakeholders       Project dissemination event for stakeholders, St Georges Park, Burton.
Citations by social media https://www.facebook.com/EmpoweringCoachingTM?fref=ts         https://twitter.com/EmpCoaching         http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=reggp1pKgT0
