     Impacts on human health: As a result of the underpinning research       described above, genetic       testing for startle disease genes identified in our research studies is       now offered by the Center for       Genomics and Transcriptomics (CeGaT), Leiden University Medical Center and       GENDIA (for       GENetic DIAgnostic Network), an international network consisting of more       than 100 laboratories       located in the USA, Europe, Asia and Australia [a].
In the course       of our research programme, 77       individuals with startle disease have received a definitive genetic       diagnosis from 634 screens of       index patients through multiple candidate genes.
Definitive genetic diagnosis allows improved clinical management of the       condition, improved       patient outcomes and reduction of risk.
For example, genetic changes in       the GlyT2 gene cause       severe breathing problems during early infancy.
With a definitive genetic       diagnosis, parents are       now being trained in effective resuscitation techniques and provided with       heart rate and breathing       monitors.
For example, the charity Action Medical Research highlight the       case of one child with       startle disease: "since the diagnosis the entire family has been         educated about startle disease so         that they're all equipped to deal with a seizure and give her the         medication she needs.
They also         know how to give cardiopulmonary resuscitation in case of an emergency         following an apnoea         attack" [b].
Children with GlyT2 and GlyR 03b2 subunit gene       mutations also appear to have recurrent       infantile apnoea episodes, developmental delay and a mild to severe delay       in speech acquisition.
Knowing the genetic causes of illness enables clinicians to predict more       accurately what sort of       educational needs they are likely to have in the future, thus helping       parents gain access to       appropriate support services.
Harvey has also undertaken public engagement work on this topic, giving a       total of 25 invited       lectures/seminars on startle disease during the period 2008-13 to       audiences in Austria, Belgium,       France, Germany, Italy, Spain, Switzerland, the Netherlands, UK and USA.
He has also spoken on       startle disease at a Caf&#233; Scientifique event for members of the public.
He       has also increased       awareness of startle disease via media work [c].
Overall, our work into startle disease has led to significant changes in       the way that the condition is       understood, detected and diagnosed.
Furthermore, based on a deep       understanding of the genetic       basis of the disease, our work has clearly indicated that clonazepam is       the treatment of choice,       which is again of significant use for clinicians treating this disorder.
Impacts for cattle farming: Startle disease in cattle (also known       as CMD2, or congenital       muscular dystonia type 2) is lethal within days after an animal's birth.
Discovery of the causative       mutation led to the implementation of genetic testing for startle disease       in Belgian Blue cattle,       which has led to healthier animal populations and economic benefits to       farmers.
The British Blue       Cattle Society report that as a result of our work, they brought into       place new policies from 1       January 2013, requiring all artificial insemination sires to be tested for       genetic details, and that the       results of these tests should be displayed on the society's website [d].
An educational programme       was also instigated to inform the society's membership about the       importance of identifying genetic       defects and restricting breeding of such animals.
To April 2013, 521       cattle had been tested, and of       these 12 were found to be carriers.
The introduction of this genetic test       has had an immediate       impact for cattle breeders with cattle affected by CMD2 [e], and       has reduced the frequency of       carriers in the population, enabling the breed to become healthier.
There are also commercial benefits for farmers in terms of reduced       economic impacts.
In a 2011       investigation on behalf of the Animal Health and Veterinary Laboratories       Agency (AHVLA), we       identified six CMD2 carriers and two affected animals on a single UK farm       as well as several       animals `in calf' that could produce carriers or affected calves [e].
The direct impact of the loss of       the carrier bull to the pedigree market, the death of two affected calves       and loss of market value for       other calves was estimated to be &#163;17,500 in this case alone.
Losses would       have been ongoing       without our intervention and guidance on future breeding strategies, since       carriers of this disorder       are phenotypically normal and impossible to identity by visual inspection       [f].
Impacts on dog breeding: Disorders that resemble startle disease       have also been reported in       several dog breeds, although the incidence was unknown.
Following our work       to resolve the       genetic basis of startle disease in Irish Wolfhounds and Episodic Falling       Syndrome in Cavalier King       Charles Spaniels, benefits to the University and animal breeders/owners       were secured by the       patenting [g] and commercial licencing of DNA diagnostic tests       which are currently available via       Laboklin [h].
These tests have enabled dog breeders to avoid `at       risk' matings, or eliminate these       disorders by using non-carrier dogs for future breeding.
For example, in       2011 we identified two       affected Irish Wolfhounds and 13 carriers of a GlyT2 gene mutation,       enabling a US breeder to       eliminate startle disease within one generation.
This intervention was       described by the breeder as       having saved her "from ruin".
The importance of the new genetic       test was also highlighted: "With         your hard work in coming up with a viable test for us, we will know what         paths to take and which         paths lead to disaster" [i].
The diagnostic test for startle       disease was described by the Secretary of       the Irish Wolfhound Foundation as "the first clinically useful test for         a genetic disease in our breed"       [j].
Wider testing of a Cavalier King Charles spaniels by Laboklin       has also revealed that Episodic       Falling Syndrome is much more common than previously anticipated.
In the       2012-13 period,       Laboklin have tested 440 dog DNA samples, revealing 38 affected animals       and 139 carriers [h].
