     IMPACTS ON PRACTITIONERS &amp; PROFESSIONAL SERVICES       Smith's research has influenced professional standards by shaping the       regulatory framework for `exercise referral' schemes.
His research has       demonstrated to practitioners the importance of evaluations and the need       for both theory and evidence based practice.
In 2001 he co-authored the       NHS `Exercise Referral Systems: National Quality Assurance Framework'       (NQAF).
The importance of these professional guidelines is evidenced by       the Foreword from the Secretary of State for Health {A}.
The NQAF has       influenced the planning and management of exercise referral services for       over a decade.
The Department of Health carried out `an extensive mailing       of the document to key people in the NHS and fitness and leisure sectors'       (letter from Head of CHD and Stroke Prevention 11/4/01.)
The current NICE       guidance on Exercise Referral references the NQAF.
The current BHF       exercise referral toolkit states that `it should NOT be used in isolation       from the NQAF....'.
{B}.
Smith's research has impacted on the conduct of his professional work and       practice.
He has been a BASES accredited Sport and Exercise Scientist       since 1994.
BASES requires evidence that its Scientists understand and       apply research findings {C}.
His research positioned Smith to become the       founding Chair of York's Sport and Active Leisure Partnership (`Active       York') in 2003.
In 2006 Doherty took over as Chair.
Important formulated       policy over the Smith and Doherty period included the decision to focus on       HEPA, the need for representation from the PCT and the successful       application for recognition from Sport England {D}.
As part of his       professional work Smith was Chair of BASES between 1998 and 2000.
In this       role he had a major influence on professional standards, guidelines and       training through his work on accreditation and lobbying for Exercise       Science.
Smith has used his research to stimulate practitioner debate.
Since 1993       he has written 14 papers for fitness magazines and professional journals       {E}.
He has had 21 letters published ranging from The Times (03, 04 and       06) to the BMJ (2000).
Smith &amp; Bird's research (2004) set out, among       other things, to provoke debate on transport policy.
HEALTH IMPACTS       Smith's work in Exercise Science has influenced CPD for Health and       Exercise Professionals and improved standards of training.
In 1997 he       organised the first BASES conference with a health theme.
This was       sponsored by the HEA, attracted 368 delegates, five International Keynotes       and 170 presentations.
The abstracts were published in the Journal of         Sports Sciences {F}.
He has given 72 research-informed CPD lecture       and workshop presentations.
Smith and Doherty's research expertise, in the area of exercise, has been       called upon to facilitate a potential change in advice and practice for       people who intend to undertake endurance events such as the marathon.
In       November 2013 Smith and Doherty had a proposal accepted by the BHF which       will involve their convening two expert group meetings to produce a       consensus statement on chronic exercise and cardiovascular disease risk.
Funding has been agreed for (i) a BHF information pack, (ii) an open       access peer reviewed publication, and (iii) expenses and venue costs for       the expert meetings.
Doherty's research has developed practice nationally and internationally.
His work has enabled hundreds of rehabilitation programmes to provide       health services to patients with complex cardiac disease.
His research led       to two position statements from the Resuscitation Council (UK).
These       resolved concerns held by clinicians and patients about the risks of       exercise following a cardiac arrest or after having an Implantable       Cardioverter Defibrillator (ICD) {G}.
This guidance, cited by the British       Association for Cardiovascular Prevention and Rehabilitation, has       increased the confidence of clinicians in including ICD patients in       cardiac rehabilitation (CR) programmes.
There are over 340 CR programmes       in the UK.
Each has an average annual throughput of 500 cardiac patients.
As a result of this research the number of patients with a cardiac arrest,       ventricular arrhythmia, heart failure or ICD who can now access CR is       estimated to be 10% of all eligible patients (17,000 per year).
This means       that potentially this research has had an impact on over 100,000 high-risk       patients over the last decade.
The percentage of CR programmes that       actively exclude patients with ICD and cardiac arrest has been reduced       from 99% in 2003 to 14% in 2012 (National Audit of Cardiac Rehabilitation       [NACR] 2012 table 2, page 6) {H}.The impact is likely to be much larger if       international CR programmes are included.
The exercise programme from       Doherty's RCT has been used at the Manchester Heart Centre since 2002 {I}       and York Hospital since 2004 {J}.
The proven benefits from completing       exercise-based CR, coupled with an average completion rate of 500 patients       per year, per site, is estimated to have impacted on around 11,000       conventional cardiac patients.
This work has improved the quality of life       of thousands of people.
