     Hall, Cunningham, and Wicaksono have used their plurilithically-informed       research in order to raise       awareness of, and to contest, deficit models of learning in bilingual       contexts, both in the UK (and       other `Anglophone' nations) and countries where other languages dominate.
They have shared the       implications of their work with trainee and practising teachers, testers,       administrators, ELT       companies, and education policy-makers, primarily through oral       presentations and online       resources.
Talks and workshops     In 2008 and 2009, Hall gave invited keynotes and plenaries at the       International Conference of the       Mexican Association of Teachers of English (MEXTESOL), in which he       presented pedagogical       implications of his research on the mental lexicon and the link with world       Englishes, drawing on       material that appeared in R1 - R5.
The association president invited Hall       to give another plenary       on this research at the 40th anniversary conference in 2013,       writing: "Your innovative research in       psycholinguistics, sociolinguistics and teacher training have provided       informative talks that have       been memorable to the MEXTESOL audience" (E1).
In order to maximise the impact of their research on a global scale,       Hall, Cunningham, and       Wicaksono have developed a strong relationship with the British Council       (BC).
At the BC IELTS       Conference in Shanghai in 2008, Hall gave a keynote for testers and a       workshop for teachers in       which he explored the implications of the ideas developed in R1 and R5 for       teaching and       assessment in China.
In 2010 Hall was again invited to give a lecture,       this time for staff and local       teachers at the BC in Beijing.
Hall's presentations in China attracted the       interest of the national       media.
Together with the BC's Director of Examinations Services (China),       he was interviewed by:       (a) Sina.com's education channel, watched so far by over 60,900 viewers       (E2); and (b) 21st         Century English Language Teaching Review (100,000 national       circulation), the ELT supplement of       China Daily (E3).
The BC director writes: "The views and content       that you presented have       influenced my own and my colleagues' understanding of world Englishes so       that, for example, I       was able to edit a draft British Embassy memo on English so that it made       reference to the       `plurilithic' nature of English rather than the outdated notions of a       correct `British English' that       appeared in the original" (E4).
Hall has also been invited to talk about his and Wicaksono's development       of an online course for       teachers, informed by R1 and R5 (see below).
He presented the research at       the International       Association of Teachers of English as a Foreign Language (IATEFL) in 2012,       where his talk was       broadcast live online by the BC.
The BC subsequently invited Hall to       participate in its UK seminar       series in 2013.
This seminar was made available online       in June, and by the end of July had been       shared through social media over 90 times.
On the basis of interest       provoked by BC dissemination       of the course, Hall was invited to give a plenary talk and a workshop for       teachers at the 15th       Biannual International Conference of the Lithuanian Association of       Teachers of English as a       Foreign Language in October 2013.
Like Hall, Cunningham has also shared her `plurilithically-informed'       outlook on EAL in IATEFL and       BC events.
According to a BC Senior Advisor, Cunningham's presentations on       EAL (e.g.
R6) have       had "impact on the direction that the British Council takes in terms of       provision of resources for       EAL teachers and research in the UK" (E5).
The co-ordinator of the IATEFL       ES(O)L Special       Interest Group affirms that she has invited Cunningham to participate in a       special pre-conference       event in 2014 "to ensure that your work has the widest impact possible       within IATEFL" (E6).
The       online         video of the BC seminar Cunningham participated in (May, 2013) had       been shared through       social media 160 times by the end of July.
Hall's and Cunningham's work has had an impact in the private ELT sector.
Steve Flinders,       director of York Associates, comments regarding his company's efforts to       deliver language       awareness and communication skills for native speakers: "[t]eaching       `English people to speak       English' is of course something of a marketing challenge but the view that       the British and the       Americans are often poor international communicators is very current       across the world and the       work being done by you and your colleagues [...] provides us with       credibility and authority when       trying to propagate this message" (E7).
Wicaksono organised a Higher Education Academy seminar in 2012, Changing         Englishes in         internationalising universities, at which Hall, Wicaksono, and       Cunningham presented, drawing on       R1, R5, and R6.
The workshop, held to enable internationalisation       strategies which recognise the       plurilithic nature of students' Englishes, was attended by over 50       academic and support staff from       around the UK.
Over 70% of those who gave their feedback said they were       `very satisfied' with the       event.
Related to this, Flinders comments: "the work of language       sensitisation that is being carried       out at the University of York St John has provided me with insights into       the change management       process in this context that I have found helpful in both my thinking and       my training" (E7).
Online resources     Hall and Wicaksono's online Changing           Englishes course for teachers presents a plurilithic       perspective on TESOL and teacher development, informed by R1 - R5.
The       course is intended as       a vehicle to enable teachers globally to use the plurilithic approach to       change the conceptualisation       of English which currently underpins teaching policy and practice, thus       seeking a direct impact on       professional values and on educational practice around the world.
Prior to       release, the course was       evaluated positively by trial participants (both intending and practising       teachers from ten different       countries), with one commenting a month after completion: "[t]he greatest       benefit of working       through the course was that it sparked reflection (on my own practice, on       my own       experiences) and I have, in fact, been thinking quite a bit about the       course" (E8).
Since its release       in early 2013, the site has received over 195,000 unique visitors       (adjusted for bounce rate), with       over 75% returning (E9).
A `top story' in June 2013 announcing the course       on the British       Council/BBC TeachingEnglish website had been shared over 1,150       times by the end of July.
A BC       blog posting Hall was invited to contribute has been tweeted over 60       times.
The course is a sister project to Wicaksono's online ELF           Tutorial, underpinned in part by ideas       from R2.
The objective of the tutorial is to help HE students in all       disciplines to develop awareness       of, and consequently enhance, the ways they interact in mixed language       groups.
It has been       viewed or downloaded from the Jorum digital repository of Open Educational       Resources on more       than 1,100 occasions (E10).
