     UCL's research pioneered 3D body-surface scanning and its application to       the clothing industry.
Since 2008, sizing surveys have been conducted in       numerous countries, leading to improvements in clothing manufacture and       efficiency in the global retail industry overall.
In addition the research       has now also had impact in healthcare by supporting work on combating       obesity and related diseases such as diabetes.
Further success is       evidenced by the growth of UCL spinout companies.
Sizing surveys: Since 2008, countries around the world,       including Germany, Thailand, Mexico and Italy (2012) [a] have conducted       large-scale sizing surveys, based on the earlier UK National Sizing       Survey.
UCL either managed or advised on these national surveys.
In       Germany, where the survey was carried out in 2008, the results have been       used to update German size charts, produce virtual avatars, and by Sizemic       to create a range of SizeGERMANY fit mannequins [b].
In Thailand, the anthropometrics data generated by the 2009 national size       survey has been used to assist the Thai clothing industry.
The scan data       collected in SizeTHAILAND was used to construct the first-ever standard       Thai body size chart.
The chart has now been used by clothing       manufacturers in Thailand to design and produce clothes that better fit       the Thai population.
The director of SizeTHAILAND confirms that "according       to feedback from leading uniform clothing manufacturers who have adopted       the SizeTHAILAND sizing system, there has been an approximately 35%       reduction in overall clothing alterations."
[c]     Impact on retail and manufacturing: The results of the       SizeUK survey have had a significant impact on manufacturing.
Analysing       the SizeUK anthropometrics data and related analytics, UCL and its       partners developed company/brand specific size charts for over 25 UK       retailers based on the retailer's/brand's specific demographic customer       profile.
This work started in 2005 but has been ongoing through 2008-2013       as companies redo their size charts and new companies purchase the SizeUK       data.
Since 2008, manufacturers have particularly benefited from the       development and use of SizeUK and SizeGERMANY fit mannequins.
Fit       mannequins are used in the clothing industry for product development and       quality assurance.
The work by Buxton, described above, has underpinned       Sizemic's commercialisation of fit mannequins, developed from 3D SizeUK       shape data.
This process ensures the mannequins are realistic and have       accurate body shapes, truly representative of their age group and target       customer profile.
Sizemic offers both customised mannequins and a range of specially       developed generic mannequins, available in a variety of sizes and shapes       representing different age groups for both genders.
In Germany, the range       consists of 13 standard-sized fashion mannequins for men, women and       children [b].
This enables retailers to establish the optimum body shape       for their target market and standardise this across their supply chain,       ensuring that all of a company's suppliers are developing and fitting       product on the same body size and shape.
Sizemic's managing director lists       feedback from the company's clients on the use of fit mannequins: "greater       accuracy and consistency of fit as all suppliers are fitting and       developing product on exactly the same body size and shape (size and shape       standard); excellent QA [quality assurance] communication tool; reduction       in returns for fit and sizing; reduction in production development time       and costs."
[d]     Use of these mannequins speeds up the product development lifecycle, as       samples no longer need to be shipped back and forth between suppliers in       Asia and retailers in Europe and America [d].
This helps to underpin `fast       fashion' by reducing lead times, reducing the need for sampling and       ultimately reducing air-freight costs by ensuring the correct products       reach the correct retailers and consumers.
Improved garment fit and       development efficiency enhances the suppliers' relationship with their       retail clients, ensuring benefits on both sides of the transaction as       well.
The increased customer satisfaction and loyalty leads to increased       sales and therefore profit.
This is particularly true given the growth of       internet shopping, with retailers taking on the burden of supplying       customers with multiple sizes as they are unsure what size will fit.
Prior to the use of fit mannequins, it would typically take four to five       iterations of a sample before a retailer could finally approve it.
This       has now been reduced to one or possibly two iterations, resulting in at       least a 50% reduction in sample making, shipping and fit model costs.
It       also speeds up the product development time by at least 25%, which is       critical for the `fast fashion' retailers that make up Sizemic's       customers, including Tesco, New Look, Topshop, Miss Selfridge, Sainsbury's       and Boden [d].
Another UCL spinout company, Bodymetrics, originally set up in 2000,       produces body scanners for use in clothing retail.
At Selfridges       department store in London and Bloomingdales stores on the west coast of       America, Bodymetrics pods scan customers to provide made-to-measure jeans       and identify which brand will most suit individual customers; as of 2012,       the pod accounted for 20% of all premium jeans sales at Selfridges, where       it has been in use since 2009 [e] and where it grosses $5,000 annually per       square foot of retail space [f].
In 2011, another pod was installed in a       high-street fast-fashion store in London [g].
The retailer, New Look,       also uses Bodymetrics scanning technology in-house to ensure uniformity of       size for garments manufactured in factories across the world [g].
Adoption of new technology in healthcare: Treleaven and his       collaborators have developed a 3D healthcare system for GP practices that       analyses and comments upon a patient's 3D anthropometrics, comparing the       patient's scan to the SizeUK data.
A patient is scanned and the GP then       compares the patient's anthropometrics data with the SizeUK database to       identify any deviation of the patient from national norms, such as over or       underweight and the shape of the stomach which is an indicator of the       propensity for the onset of Type II Diabetes.
A company, ShapeDynamics,       was established in 2010 to support the software.
Since 2011, the system       has been undergoing trials at a large private GP practice in the City of       London.
To date, 240 patients have been scanned.
[h]     Creation of spinout companies: The spread of national       sizing surveys around the world has had an economic benefit for Sizemic.
Set up in 2008 as a UCL spinout, the company now has 10 employees, with       offices in London and Hong Kong, and a turnover of &#163;1m [d].
Since 2008,       Bodymetrics has expanded to 10 employees and started business in the       United States [i, e].
