     The impact of this body of research has been felt in several areas,       notably: 	       The Bible in the Anglican Communion     As a result of the research noted above, Andrew Village was asked to act       as consultant to the Anglican Consultative Council (ACC) for their Bible         in the Life of the Church Project (BiLC).
This project was       commissioned by the Anglican Communion in the wake of the global       controversies related to homosexuality and other issues that threatened       the cohesion of the Anglican Church.
At the heart of these disputes are       issues about the use and authority of Scripture, and the project was       intended to help the church understand how the Bible is used by its       members.
After a meeting in Durban in November 2010 a questionnaire survey       was set up that used the research instruments already developed.
The       initial results formed part of the final project report (ACC, 2012), and       follow-up work is planned.
Issues of biblical authority, veracity and applicability remain of       central importance for many `ordinary' readers.
Beliefs about the nature       of Scripture are central to explaining how it is interpreted, but these       beliefs are complex and shaped by a variety of factors.
Quantitative       research on ordinary readers is revealing how these different factors       interact, and why simple explanations do not always suffice.
For example,       the effects of educational experience on levels of biblical literalism       vary even within a single denomination.
Research that makes these effects       clear is helping denominations such as the Anglican Church to better       understand the forces that are currently creating internal tensions and       threatening schism.
The impact of the YSJU research input to the BiLC project has been to       help members of the ACC working group recognize that, without some attempt       to reach `ordinary' members of the denomination, there is a danger of       assuming that the only relevant view of Scripture in the Church is that       which is wholly derived from the educated, informed and interested       sections of the hierarchy.
The survey has shown how other voices might       potentially be heard in a debate that has profound significance for       members of an internationally important religious denomination.
The SIFT method of preaching     Psychological type measures such as the Myers-Briggs Type Indicator are       widely used among churches to help individuals to better understand       themselves and to help groups to function more productively.
This is not       without some critique, so it is important that there is a sound body of       evidence to ensure that any application of psychological type is valid and       justified.
Research on psychological type in churches has shown that congregations       and clergy have distinct psychological profiles that differ from each       other, and from the public at large.
This means that it is especially       important that those responsible for teaching or preaching in churches       understand the way in which psychology shapes the hermeneutical task of       delivering a message to a particular group of people.
The SIFT method of preaching (Francis &amp; Village, 2008) is based on       the theory corroborated by the research mentioned above.
It has been       applied to specific lectionary readings (Francis &amp; Atkins, 2000, 2001,       2002) and to the general theory of preaching.
SIFT preaching is       increasingly being discussed by preachers (for example it was the theme of       the Church of England's annual lay Reader's conference in 2012) and taught       through workshops delivered in the UK.
The theory predicts that people       have different preferences for acquiring and evaluating information, and       this may shape the way that sermons are heard or the Bible read.
Preachers       are using the results of the research to their advantage, by shaping       sermons that ensure their listeners can appreciate biblical expositions       using their preferred ways of psychological functioning.
The Bible and Creationism     The 2009 celebrations of Charles Darwin spawned a number of publications       and research studies.
Empirical studies were aimed at the general       population, and left some church groups feeling that they had been       misunderstood.
A survey of mainly conservative denominations in the UK in       2010 drew on the research expertise of the Practical Theology group at       YSJU, and was sponsored by church groups interested in understanding in       more detail what Creationists in the UK believe about the Bible, creation       and the environment.
The impact of this study has been to move the debate       from a simple description of beliefs among churchgoers to a more       analytical understanding of what factors predict different beliefs, and       why Creationist beliefs persist in some church traditions.
