     The impact of the underpinning research described above relates to:       first, enhanced knowledge       about how children watch theatre; second, the development of new methods       to enhance and       extend young audiences' experience of live performance.
Both these       elements have changed       delivery and practice in both arts and education contexts.
1.
Enhanced knowledge in theatre and education contexts     The research has had a direct impact on arts practitioners, including       artistic directors of some       of the most significant organisations working with arts and young people.
This includes Tony       Graham, Artistic Director of the Unicorn Theatre, London, who described       Reason's research as       `inspirational' and stated that The Young Audience (3.1) was       `without doubt the most important       book on theatre for young audiences for many years' (5.1).
Tony Reekie,       Chief Executive of       Imaginate, described the research as:     A fantastic resource for everyone interested in children's theatre.
Reason's       groundbreaking research provides fresh insights into children's       experiences of live       theatre which are of great benefit to arts and education communities       across the world.
(5.2)     Helen Nicholson, Professor of Drama, Royal Holloway, details the impact       of Reason's research in       terms of its ability to supply:     ...the cultural sector with the elusive evidence of the impact of their       work that they often       need to justify their funding in increasingly lean times.... [Reason]       provides an excellent       argument for including live theatre as part of children's educational       experiences and       some very useful approaches to classroom practice that will undoubtedly       enhance       children's experiences (5.3).
Janet Stanford, Artistic Director of Imagination on Stage, USA, writes       that Reason's research is       `that rare example of a scholarly text that can and should have practical       application in the field'       as it `inspire others to experiment with similar techniques as they       develop post-show lesson       plans of their own' (5.4).
Examples which evidence impact include:            Material developed by international arts festivals and organisations         which directly         acknowledge the impact of Reason's research in shaping their approaches         to young         audiences.
Internationally these include the Barbaro International         Festival of Children's         Theatre, Galway, Ireland (5.5) and Teater Centrum, Copenhagen, Denmark         (5.6);       Continuing professional development workshops for teachers and         creative education         workers, conducted with Imaginate, that changed how teachers understood         the         potential of young children's aesthetic engagement with theatre;       Adoption of the research report as a key resource by organisations who         have included it         on their webpages, including: Theatre for Young Audiences UK; Young         Peoples'         Theatre, Canada; Imaginate, UK; Forsoegsstationen, Denmark.
The international impact of the research is evidenced by Reason's       invitation to speak at an       Australian Research Council event at Sydney Opera House to an audience       including Melbourne       Theatre Company, Bell Shakespeare, Malthouse Theatre, Sydney Theatre       Company, Arena       Theatre Co and Queensland's Performing Arts Centre.
Reason also delivered       a keynote address       for the Australia Council to an industry audience on engaging young       audiences (5.7).
The reach of       the research is indicated by its coverage in reviews, blogs and other       media (including the Sydney         Morning Hearld and Huffington Post).
2.
New Methods for Engaging Young Audiences     The second strand of impact emerges directly from the first, but       continues from knowledge of       how children watch theatre to the strategic development of methods       designed to be used by       arts practitioners and educationalists to enhance young audiences'       theatrical experiences.
This       includes the development, dissemination and implementation of a range of       resources (5.8) in       cross-media platforms to national and international audiences.
`Evaluating the Performing Arts' is a downloaded resource pack that       facilitates discussion and       debate about theatre among young children.
The document was written in       consultation with       Reason (who also wrote the Foreword) with specific sections on drawing and       post-show       discussions developing directly from Reason's underpinning research.
`Talking about Theatre' is an interactive online resource for schools, in       which children are       guided through an intuitive animated process of theatre criticism and       discussion.
The resource       was developed through &#163;40,000 of Co-Create Arts Funding and draws upon       Reason's       underpinning research.
In prompting and shaping Imaginate's development of these resources,       Reason's research directly       impacted upon and changed the activity of a major organisation with an       international reputation for       the development of the performing arts for young people.
These resources       have since had direct       and significant impact on the practices of artists working with theatre       for young audiences and       teachers working in the class room.
Susanne Batchelor, of Scottish Borders       Council Art's       Development team said that the resources `Fill a gap in terms of extending       the experience back in       the classroom [and are] a very accessible and fun way of engaging pupils       in the critical evaluation       of their theatre experiences.
(5.9)
