     (i) `Impact on the public understanding of Caribbean history and         culture via the creative sector (television)'     Welsh's research has had impact via the re-presenting of her expertise in       Caribbean history and culture to non-academic, popular audiences.
She acts       as a specialist advisor to researchers for BBC radio and television       programmes which have connections to the Caribbean and Caribbean diaspora.
Most recently she was consulted by researchers on series 10 of the popular       BBC 1 series, `Who Do You Think You Are?'
for a programme on Black British       footballer John Barnes.
This explored his Jamaican ancestry and the key       political and cultural contribution of his grandfather, Frank Hill, in the       1930s, 40s and 50s.
This ninth episode of the series was aired on 17th       October 2012.
The series regularly attracts viewing figures of 6 million.
Welsh's consultancy thus has had wide impact in creating and interpreting       cultural capital and in contributing to a wider public understanding of       Caribbean history and culture via the creative sector (television).
(ii) `Influencing pedagogic strategies and curriculum development in         the field of Postcolonial Studies and Anglophone Caribbean literature'     Welsh's 1996 publication, The Routledge Reader in Caribbean       Literature quickly established itself as a Routledge bestseller and       as a template for subsequent collections.
It has never been out of print       and is widely recommended as a core text on Caribbean, Black Studies,       World Literature and Postcolonial programmes globally.
For example, it is       currently required reading on modules at Stanford, Chicago, Cornell,       Illinois, Iowa, Santa Cruz, Michigan State, Miami, Texas Christian,       Florida, Toronto, Manitoba, Albany, Victoria, Auckland, Queensland,       Brisbane, the University of the West Indies in Jamaica and Barbados,       Puerto Rico, Hong Kong, Lyon, Liege, Aarhus, Marburg, Freiberg, Saarland,       London, Oxford, Cambridge, Warwick, Kent, York, Leeds and Newcastle.
In his 1996 review of The Routledge Reader in The Observer,       Caribbean/ Black British writer, Caryl Phillips, noted the `ample space       [given] to authors who have been previously underestimated', especially       early, out of print and non-canonical and/or critically neglected figures.
More importantly, he anticipated the Reader's impact in shaping       understanding of Anglophone Caribbean as a whole by influencing curricula       and encouraging re-publication of lost or out of print texts: `It may well       have paved the way for the republication of some of them.
This is true of       H.G.
de Lisser and Roger Mais and is certainly the case with Una Marson.'
Since 1996, this impact has been realized with the launch of the Faber       Caribbean Classics series edited by Phillips and Macmillan and Peepal       Press's republication of important early Caribbean texts including, as       predicted, Mais and Marson.
Welsh is currently writing critical       introductions for the `Caribbean Classics Series' (led by writers Derek       Walcott and David Dabydeen) which reprints Caribbean texts with the aim of       widening access to local Caribbean audiences.
Welsh's 2012 pedagogic research on teaching gender in Postcolonial       Studies also has impact as part of an English Subject Centre/ Palgrave       Macmillan publication designed to influence design and delivery of       curriculum in international as well as national HEI contexts.
Although too       recent a publication to have significant citation figures for, it has led       to a number of invitations, including an invitation to join a new Black       British Women's Network (BBWN), initiated at an international expert       meeting to promote Black British Women's Writing at Vie Universiteit       Brussel in March 2013 and funded by the Flemish Research Council (Fonds       voor Wetenschappelijk Onderzoek Vlaanderen).
(iii) `Creation and interpretation of Black British Women's Writing'     Welsh is a recognised expert on Black British writing and her 2007       monograph, Grace Nichols (British Council and Northcote Press),       was the first book length study of this important author, included on UK       GSCE and A Level syllabi.
Her international reputation has led to       invitations to be area consultant to the prestigious online resource, The       Literary Encyclopaedia, to join the editorial board of The       Journal of Contemporary Literature (India), and to act as specialist       peer reviewer for major publishers such as Routledge (US), Taylor &amp;       Francis (US) and Palgrave Macmillan (UK).
Welsh's research directly led to       the invitation to join BBWN as a targeted expert.
BBWN has impact via: a       new online annotated bibliography of criticism of Black British women's       writing aimed both at scholars and students; a special issue journal       publication which will explore the current state of Black British Women's       Writing and criticism by means of a genre-based approach; targeted       conference panels (for example at the international `AfroEurope'       Conference in London, October 2013, and at the Postcolonial Studies       Association Conference, Kingston University, September 2013) and an       international conference, `Black British Writing: Tracing the Tradition       and New Directions' will be held at the University of Brighton in July       2014.
Popular dissemination of network research takes place via dedicated       BBWW groups on LinkedIn and Facebook:     https://www.facebook.com/groups/378188258946761/       http://www.linkedin.com/groups?gid=4834285&amp;trk=hb_side_g     (iv) `Widening awareness of food studies, Caribbean and other ethnic         minority culinary practices in a regional context'     Welsh's latest research into Caribbean food studies and food writing has       impact by increasing public understanding of food studies, Caribbean and       other ethnic minority culinary practices in an international and regional       context.
Her research has led to invitations to speak both in the UK and       abroad.
For example, at the International Conference, `Caribbean Food       Cultures: Performances of Eating, Drinking and Consumption in the       Caribbean and its Diasporas' held at the Centre for Transcultural       Research, the University of Heidelberg (September 2012), and at a public       event on `Food and Storytelling' in the Studio Talk Series hosted by the       International Centre for Arts and Narrative (ICAN) at York Theatre Royal       (October 2013).
She also presented papers on food at the International       Conference, `Narrating The Caribbean Nation' at Leeds Metropolitan       University (April 2012) and at the `Caribbean Studies in the North'       seminar series, at Leeds Metropolitan University (October 2011).
