     Dr Watson's reputation as a leading expert on the role that cultural       heritage plays in the       development of communities and the marketing of destinations has led to a       degree of recognition       beyond the operational contexts of cultural tourism in Yorkshire and the       North of England.
His       knowledge of representational practices in marketing has enabled him to       make a very significant       contribution to the way that the City of York has understood the needs of       its visitor segments,       developed products to meet these needs and helped to place culture and       heritage at the centre of       the city's evolving tourism strategy.
This recognition led to the       appointment of Dr Watson, in 2009,       as a non-executive Director of Visit York, the private sector company that       manages and markets       tourism in the City of York and the surrounding area in North Yorkshire.
He was re-elected for a       second term as a Director in 2012.
He has also convened and chaired the Director's Research Committee of the       same organisation.
This involved developing the organisation's overall competence in visitor       research and its       integration within the strategic marketing process through identification       of new market segments       using SPSS software.
A key part of these developments has been to       integrate the business's       research activity with other aspects of its marketing activity, including       segmentation, product       development, campaigns and evaluation.
The segmentation analysis has       benefitted in particular       from Dr Watson's research collaboration with the University of Seville.
Latterly, the work on representational practice, destination marketing       and community heritage has       found another application in the development of a new strategy for tourism       for the City of York.
The       City Council in partnership with Visit York engaged Dr Watson not only to       help in developing the       strategy itself but also to seek his advice on the crucial issues of       stakeholder involvement in these       processes and the inclusion of local communities and communities of       interest in formulating the       strategy.
In order to achieve this he organized three consultation       workshops that were carried out       at the City Council's headquarters and involved residents, local       businesses, politicians, members       of the arts community, the hospitality industry and attractions providers.
As well as organizing       these events Dr Watson used group facilitation techniques in order to       establish the views and       priorities of those involved.
In providing advice and support to the City Council and Visit York for       the strategy process Dr       Watson organised a conference at the University where he used his       knowledge and research in       the heritage and cultural sector to facilitate discussion and further       consultation with residents,       representatives of community groups and leaders in the local cultural       industries sector.
This activity       has had a major impact in terms of the integration of academic and       practitioner activity that has       been fully recognised in the sector and which has provided stimuli for       tourism development &#8212; particularly       cultural tourism &#8212; and contributed to the overall quality of the tourist       experience in the       city and its surrounding area.
This has been testified to as follows:     " ... your involvement in the development of the new tourism strategy at       the City of York Council       has made a key contribution to the advancement of tourism in the City.
York is a recognized       international destination with a complex stakeholder community.
Your work       in developing       consultation processes with this community has been key to the process,       and your further       involvement with myself, other Council officers and members in the       development of our strategy       and our approach to strategic thinking is also acknowledged.
This       collaboration has made a       significant impact on the development of strategy in a city that is       recognized for its good practice in       the strategic management of tourism."
C. Croft, Assistant Director,         Communities, Culture and         Public Relations, City of York Council, 15.10.2013.
"I can confirm that your involvement over the past three years has been       instrumental in the       development of research at Visit York and the integration of this with the       process of strategic       planning for tourism in the city.
In particular I would like to draw       attention to the way that the       University and the Business School have played a major part in the       stakeholder consultations that       have been carried out as a part of the strategy process.
Your facilitation       of these events and your       further involvement in framing the strategy as a non-executive director of       Visit York have been a       key part of what has been achieved.
Your participation has demonstrated       that such activity       informed by academic research has made a significant impact in an       organization that is recognized       nationally for its excellence in destination management."
Jane Lady         Gibson, Chair of the Board of         Visit York, 15.10.2013     "Your contribution as a non-executive director of Visit York, has over       the past four years made a       significant impact on the way that the research function of the company is       perceived at Board level.
As you know our research capability has developed over time so that it now       supports both       marketing and strategic objectives and your experience and knowledge have       been instrumental in       facilitating these developments."
Kate McMullen, Head of Visit York,         21.10.2013
