     After learning of the results of our preliminary analysis of 2009, the       Director of the NHS Cancer Screening Programmes asked Halligan to present       the data to the next meeting of the National Bowel Cancer Screening       Advisory Group.
The data were orally presented in April 2010 when Halligan       concluded that barium enema should be withdrawn from the NHS immediately       (where circumstances allowed) and that CT colonography was a safe,       sensitive, and acceptable alternative to colonoscopy for diagnosis of       colorectal cancer.
Within one month this led to an Interim Guidance Update       being issued by the Bowel Cancer Screening Programme (BCSP IGU 007 Apr       1010), which was sent to the Director, Lead Nurse, and Lead manager of       every NHS bowel screening centre, and to Quality Assurance Reference       Centre (QARC) coordinators.
This stated that the SIGGAR trials "show         that double contrast barium enema is significantly inferior to CT         colonography for detection of colorectal cancer and large polyps.
It         also shows that the false-negative rate for colorectal cancer is         significantly higher for barium enema."
The screening centres were       asked to use "CTC rather than barium enema wherever local expertise and         circumstances permit" [a].
The subsequent "Guidelines for the use of imaging in the NHS Bowel Cancer       Screening Programme" (NHSBCSP Publication no.
5, July 2010) stated that, "Where         imaging is indicated, CTC is the preferred method.
Double contrast         barium enema is reported to have a fourfold false negative rate; it is         therefore not appropriate for screening patients...Where high-quality         CTC is not available locally, the patient should be referred elsewhere         for examination" [b].
In the light of the trials' findings, Halligan was asked to join the       Bowel Cancer Screening Advisory Panel in 2010 to advise on the national       implementation of CT colonography in the screening programme.
Subsequently, the Programme Director asked that a committee be established       with the specific remit to oversee the implementation of CT colonography       in the Bowel Cancer Screening programme, and its subsequent quality       control.
The Bowel Cancer Screening Programme CT Colonography Steering       Group was formed in February 2012 and Halligan was asked to sit as       advisor.
The group updated the Guidelines for the use of imaging in the       National Bowel Cancer Screening Programme, published November 2012 [c].
The Guidance repeats the statement that barium enema should be       discontinued immediately in favour of CT colonography and references the       HTA monograph from the SIGGAR trials [d].
The trials are also       cited on the "key research in bowel cancer and bowel cancer screening"       page of the NHS Bowel Cancer Screening Programme website [e].
Impact can be proven by analysis of imaging procedure rates within the       Bowel Cancer Screening Programme.
In 2007 and 2008 the numbers of barium       enema and CT colonography studies performed in the Programme were       approximately similar (71 vs 99 for 2007 and 210 vs 284 for 2008).
In       2010, the year the guidelines for imaging were published, the figures were       265 barium enema vs 1,291 CT colonography.
Figures for 2011 were 128 vs       1,833 and for 2012 were 76 vs 1,928 [f].
The SIGGAR trials' findings that CTC was more accurate than barium enema       and not significantly different to colonoscopy have also impacted on the       provision of diagnostic services to symptomatic NHS patients.
Firstly,       barium enema services are being reduced in the light of the trials'       findings and secondly, CT colonography provision is helping alleviate       pressure on endoscopy services generated by both the symptomatic service       and the screening programme [g].
The British Society of       Gastrointestinal and Abdominal Radiology have convened a committee in       parallel to the screening programme to oversee the implementation of CT       colonography in the symptomatic NHS setting; Halligan also sits on this       committee.
In May 2013, a meeting of the Royal College of Radiologists       Professional Support &amp; Standards Board made the decision to revise its       guidelines on the imaging of colorectal cancer in the light of the       findings of the SIGGAR trials.
Halligan joined the Working Party       responsible for revising these guidelines (due December 2013) [h].
The impact of the trials reaches beyond the UK: the trial data were used       by a US radiologists Working Group on CT colonography in 2010 to justify a       higher rating for CT colonography for screening in the American College of       Radiology Appropriateness Criteria; they are also currently using the data       to evaluate national reimbursement for CT colonography [i].
The       trial data were also presented to the National Board of Health &amp;       Welfare in Sweden in 2012 during the development of new and updated       National Guidelines on colorectal cancer to make the case that barium       enema should be withdrawn in Sweden and replaced by CT colonography [j].
Reviewing the trials in March 2013, the most-prominent colonoscopist in       the USA, Douglas Rex MD, stated, "these study findings justify widespread       incorporation of CTC into U.S. hospitals, with subsequent abandonment of       DCBE" [k].
