     The UCL team's objective and empirical research has permitted the       creation of vital training and tools for PFI for practitioners in the UK.
More broadly, it has shaped the understanding of PFI internationally,       particularly in New Zealand, where it assisted in the establishment of a       carefully planned PFI framework.
It has also informed the development of       emerging PFI strategies and policies, including, in the UK, the       development of PF2 launched in December 2012.
(i) Developing training and tools for industry practitioners, and         building a community of practice: The two research publications for       CIC [a, b] were highly acclaimed.
The first was reprinted three       times following its publication in 1998, and is still in print; it was       also translated into Japanese.
It provided the first significant, unbiased       and research-based explanation for professional service firms in the       construction industry of what PFI consisted of, how it worked, and the       risks inherent in its use.
Prior to this point, firms had taken on PFI       commissions and contracts without realising the impacts on their business       risk and reward.
These two books thus exemplify the significant influence       of UCL research which was sustained throughout the REF impact period.
From 2006-07 through to 2009-10, the UCL research team designed and       delivered a bespoke executive education course based on the research       described in Section 2, named the Project Directors' Development Programme       (PDDP).
This emerged from a commercial contract awarded by a section of       the Local Government Organisation then known as the 4ps (now Local       Partnerships), whose purpose is to support UK local authorities.
The       contract awarded had a minimum five year value of &#163;440k and was       competitively won by the UCL research team in 2006-07 under EU procurement       rules.
This research-based training programme enabled delegates to apply       findings to `live' PFI/PPP projects, developing a cohort of professional       project directors with transferable skills.
In the first cohort of 23       delegates, there were more than 35 ongoing projects under management,       ranging from the building of care homes and fire stations to the creation       of a major waste-to-energy plant, which could be studied.
The projects       involved leading commercial companies and banks, and had an estimated       total construction cost of over &#163;500m and a total net present value of in       excess of &#163;5bn.
Two full cohorts completed UCL's PDDP course before it was       cancelled in 2010 due to the global financial crisis.
Through the PDDP, UCL researchers provided delegates with a clear       appreciation of their responsibilities in terms of leading the public       sector as a client and commissioner of PFI/PPP projects, and enabled them       to understand the opportunities and barriers driving innovation and risk       sharing, and to recognise the importance of managing the relationship as       well as highly complex contracts.
One example of a direct impact on a       delegate was that whilst on the PDDP course they renegotiated a previously       poor contract with a consultancy that represented the client.
Even with       the cancellation of many major projects due to the economic downturn, PDDP       had sustained and direct impacts on delegates which enabled them to apply       the findings to their future work.
As the LGO's Director for the PDDP       stated: `I have met a number of delegates who attended the course.
All         attest to the professional and personal positive impact which the course         had upon them.
Some have moved on to other projects, having completed         those which they were doing during the course ... Others have been         promoted within their authority or other authorities, in which they         acknowledge that the PDDP played a significant part in having widened         their expertise and attitudes' [1].
The course's value was       further recognised by its receipt of the 2009 Association for Project       Management `BNFL Award' for providing the greatest contribution to the       development of project management [2].
Building on the success of the PDDP course, in 2009-10 the research team       &#8212; together with senior individuals from KPMG and Ashurst LLP (both leading       consultancies in PPPs) - developed and delivered a one-day project finance       workshop attended by early career professionals in those two companies.
Following its initial success, Ashurst LLP went on to run the same       workshop for Balfour Beatty annually from 2011 (an estimated 40       participants).
This workshop also proved to be of significant value to       participants, as a Balfour Beatty staff member commented: `It was         clear from everyone's enthusiastic participation yesterday afternoon         that we all really enjoyed ourselves and certainly learned something in         the process ... the feedback in the office this morning is         overwhelmingly positive (which is rare for a full day's training!)'
[3].
(ii) Informing UK debate and policy development: The Knowledge       Transfer Project (KTP) from 2009-11 with KMPG played a vital role in       answering requests from government and central agencies for a better, more       evidence-based analysis of the performance of privately financed projects       [e].
A key objective of the KTP was precisely to construct a       process of expert discussion.
As a result, a collaborative network was       formed called the Infrastructure Intelligence Club (IIC); it comprised 16       major players in the UK infrastructure investment and PFI/PPP projects       market [4].
Over a series of meetings between 2010 and 2012, the       IIC discussed the issues arising from the presentation of the research       team's objective analyses carried out on the operational performance of       schools and hospitals [e].
As a result, the organisations involved       were able to clearly establish empirically based assessments of PFI/PPP       performance and hence put forward the merits of using this form of       procurement with a wider public audience, based largely on UCL research.
The IIC members met during a time when PFI/PPP was receiving significant       negative press attention in the UK.
The objective empirical work presented       and discussed by IIC members revealed that the overall operational       performance of PFI/PPP school and hospital projects was not as dire as       commonly portrayed.
As part of this debate, in 2010 The Times       published an article on 'PFI-funded hospitals outshine peers in study of       cleanliness' which covered the empirical research from the KTP run by UCL       [5].
Public concerns over PFI led to various investigations,       including one in 2012 by the charity Civitas, which moderated its argument       against PFI financing again based, at least in part, on the UCL research [6;         pp.
2-3].
The empirical analyses produced on UK PFI/PPP performance were considered       as part of the strategic review of PFI/PPP conducted by HM Treasury in       2011-12.
This review also involved gathering views from many varied       sources, including some IIC network members, such as KPMG.
The IIC members       argued that there were public sector benefits from using PFI/PPP, drawing       heavily on evidence produced by the UCL research [7].
In December       2012, HM Treasury published its decision, not to scrap PFI/PPP &#8212; as much       of the popular press had predicted &#8212; but to modify it and rename it as       `PF2'.
Also in late-2012, the UCL team was invited by The Infrastructure       Forum (TIF), a national infrastructure think-tank, to write a report       comparing the performance of public and private hospital services in the       UK, aimed at senior policy and industry circles [8].
(iii) Influencing the strategic development and current understanding         of PFI internationally:       New Zealand had historically been extremely wary of using PFI to procure       its infrastructure.
In 2008, however, following a change of government       there that was willing to consider the use of PFI/PPP &#8212; but only after       having first fully explored and understood its ramifications.
The       embryonic PPP market was established in New Zealand in 2009 with the       announcement of the Transmission Gully road project.
Noting this       development, Edkins made contact with the New Zealand Council for       Infrastructure Development (NZCID), and proposed designing and delivering       an executive level seminar series to provide a strategic overview and       insight into the fundamental principles and practice associated with PFI,       including the wider use of Public Private Partnerships (PPP).
These       workshops were brought to the attention of the New Zealand Treasury, which       offered its formal support to this initiative as an important means of       ensuring that the implementation of PFI in New Zealand learned from best       practices whilst avoiding errors made elsewhere.
As a result, in 2010 and 2011 two executive level seminar series were       delivered in Auckland and Wellington (a total of four separate three-day       seminars) attended by about 200 senior delegates in total, from both       industry and government [9].
The workshops involved presentations       that drew on the accumulated knowledge originating in the UCL team's       research [a-d], as well as the ongoing UCL research through the       KTP with KPMG [e].
As a representative of the New Zealand Treasury       noted, they `took place during the establishment of NZ's PPP programme         and assisted with educating the NZ public sector in the overseas         experience of the PPP model (with which they were not generally         familiar).
It was useful to the NZ Treasury through assisting with the         development of the market and providing an opportunity to test and         challenge our own thinking' [10].
This work in New Zealand also resulted in the UCL research team being       invited in early 2012 to hold a formal meeting and make a written       submission to the Western Australian Public Accounts Committee, which was       then conducting a review of a PPP project.
The research team was formally       thanked by this organisation for assisting its investigation into the       allocation of services at the Fiona Stanley Hospital Murdoch, located 15       kilometres south of Perth, Western Australia [11].
