 The underpinning research in solar energy and energy efficiency, and its contribution to energy benchmarking as part of wider energy policy, has been adopted in a number of wine producing regions (UK, North Carolina and California) and is influencing energy consumption through wine producers changing their production methods.
The linkage of the research to wine production and operations has informed policy, regulations and guidelines relevant to the sector through enhanced energy awareness with the main beneficiaries being the local wine industry, their associations and governing bodies.
The reach of the case study is extensive with individual wineries, vineyards, professional bodies, institutions and the wider supply chain benefitting in different countries including the emerging winemaking industry in the UK.
Local wine industry associations and governing bodies; UKVA Sustainability Programme, UKVA regional bodies SEVA (South East Vineyard Association) (corroborating statement 1, source 5.1) and MVA (Mercian Vineyard Association) (source 5.2) and the UK Wineskills Programme (source 5.3) have benefitted from the underpinning research through increased knowledge of how systems operate in an energy context with consequential cost savings.
Collectively, the data accumulated during the case study has led to the development of the first set of UK relevant benchmarks and the establishment of an industry Energy Working Group for UK wine producers and industry stakeholders.
The Energy Working Group is the first of its kind in the UK.
Smyth is an energy expert for the UKVA and sits on the working group as an expert witness thereby facilitating the process through which research outcomes directly impact on energy policy and subsequent implementation by the UK industry.
The UK energy benchmark study provides an up to date representation of the industry's current energy requirement on which future sustainable programmes are being developed (source 5.4).
Evaluating the energy demand of winemaking facilities through specific auditing procedures developed by the CST team and underpinning research (including solar energy) has had a major impact on individual operating performances, resulting in cost saving and environmental benefits.
The underpinning research has contributed to the development of a patented solar water heater (source 5.5) that has particular application to hot water usage in the wine making industry.
The solar water heater is being commercialised as SolaCatcher through Solaform Ltd, a University of Ulster spin-out company (source 5.6).
Energy audits conducted for individual wineries have significance through a direct impact upon the strategy, operations and management practices of that facility and changing wine production activities to adopt greater sustainability procedures.
Information from the energy audits has had a fundamental impact in changing the attitude of the UK winemaking industry.
Many wineries have been empowered through the knowledge provided from the audits to review and change their operating policy and management tailored to a greener agenda.
This is evidenced through written support from a range of wine producers (SMEs) spanning the full spectrum of wine making in the UK and the USA.
As an example, the research enabled senior management at Domaine Carneros in California, to evaluate and compare their systems, processes and plant against accepted Californian benchmark values and provided information that permitted the winery to analyse energy consumption trends and patterns and instigate improvements in energy usage (corroborating statement 2, source 5.7).
In the UK, a number of English wineries had an immediate impact from their participation in the study.
Following the energy audit, each winery was given a detailed report on their energy usage and benchmark including the award winning Ridgeview Wine Estate (corroborating statement 3, source 5.8).
Each winery used this information to implement energy saving measures that led to a reduction in energy usage and economic savings.
The research has also impacted on the building of new wineries in the UK, the wider supply chain and professionals involved in their construction.
The UK wine industry is set to expand significantly in the next decade and the building of energy sustainable wine facilities is crucial.
This research has already been used by a number of producers with impact apparent through changes in the design of their wineries to reduce the energy requirements in their processes and operations.
Ancre Hill Estates (corroborating statement 4, source 5.9) is an example of how the research has directed the design (and energy use) of their proposed new winery and how this research was used by their design consultants.
The research has resulted in the production of wine within stricter, defined energy benchmarks thereby improving the environmental credentials of the industry whilst reducing energy use and associated emissions.
This research determined that the collective UK winery operations used 2,008 MWhs of energy in 2011, equivalent to 1181 barrels of crude oil, producing 736.8 tonnes of CO2.
As the industry is in the midst of rapid expansion (production increased fourfold over the past decade), the Energy Working Group, using the energy benchmark established by Smyth at 0.557 kWh/litre, has set this as a desired upper limit for all UK wine production as evidenced by prominent English producers (source 5.4).
The impact of this study is not limited to the wine industry but is applicable to the much larger food and drink industry.
Through an Inter-trade Ireland Fusion project, the research team provided expertise to Errigal Seafood, demonstrating the wider reach of the accumulated knowledge and expertise.
The company's thermal energy bill in 2011 was &#8364;445,847.
Using the transferable skills, knowledge and expertise developed in the wine study, the team were able to directly impact savings in the shellfish production facility.
The research through streamlining the company's production processes led to a 15% reduction in energy used, equating to &#8364;89,184 and 42.3 tonnes of CO2 saved (corroborating statement 5, source 5.10).
