     The impact described is strongly economic, with Zhang's research having       direct effect on efficiency of manufacturing operations with significant       and directly measurable financial performance improvements in four       companies.
Supply chain optimisation in engine block casting: CIFUNSA     CIFUNSA (http://www.cifunsa.com.mx)       is one of the world's largest producers of gray iron blocks and heads       (200,000 tonnes annually, and even in 2006 had sales of approximately       $1bn) for automotive giants GM, Ford, Chrysler, as well as Toyota, Nissan,       John Deere etc.
Zhang's research into ant-colony optimisation of safety stock placement       and lead time in an assembly supply chain was applied to model CIFUNSA's       highest demand engine block supply chain in 2009.
The results were       then adopted by CIFUNSA, leading to on-hand inventory reduction of 20%       between 2009 and 2011.
In the same period, the cost of       goods sold (CoGS) was reduced by 10% (a).
The foundry process in this       business is very labour-intensive, so a small reduction in CoGS represents       a significant enhancement to the company's earnings of an estimated $100M       per annum).
Agile business strategy for R&amp;D and manufacturing: GRINM     Beijing General Research Institute for Non-Ferrous Metals (GRINM) started       in the 1950's as a Chinese national research institute providing research       and development support for the non- ferrous metal industry (http://www.grinm.com).
Over the last 12 years, GRINM has been transformed from a state-funded       research organization to an R&amp;D and manufacturing enterprise operating       in the global market.
Business agility is an important factor for their       success.
In 2008, based on his research, Zhang was invited to help GRINM       develop an agile business strategy.
The deputy general manager of       subsidiary company COMPO visited Zhang at the University of Exeter in 2009,       spending eight months learning about manufacturing strategies, systems and       management, developing expertise in Zhang's agile and lean enterprise       theory.
This led to Zhang visiting GRINM in 2010 to work on a       strategy building process and train 82 senior directors and managers (b).
GRINM have continued to apply Zhang's agile process, assisted from 2012       by Rolan Berger (international business strategy consultants) who are       tasked to implement the strategy, with continuing hands on support through       personal visits by Zhang.
GRINM estimate Zhang's agile process coupled       with other factors have contributed to turnover rising by over 30% from       RMB 33bn (~&#163;3.4 bn) since 2010, during a period of decline in the       global market for metal products.
Agile business strategy development: COMPO     Beijing COMPO Advanced Technology Co. Ltd was established by GRINM as a       subsidiary in 2005 (http://www.composolder.com),       COMPO is a high-tech enterprise specialising in R&amp;D, production, trade       and services for tin-based solders and non-ferrous new materials.
By 2009 the company realized that its size required an agile and       lean process for managing its strategies, operations, marketing and       systems, and the consequent development of its top management.
This       resulted in COMPO's deputy general manager studying at Exeter.
On his       return to China in 2010 he applied his training to formulate and       implement a business strategy, with Zhang's direct assistance.
Since then       the company has grown its revenue by over 50% annually, with a total       increase of sales by 400%, and profits by 300% (c).
Business strategy: J+S Ltd     Implementation of Zhang's strategy and analysis techniques to J+S Ltd (       http://www.jands.co.uk)       has resulted in a direct reductions of stock and work-in-progress levels       by &#163;200k (approximately 2% of turnover), production lead-time by 15%, and       average days late on contracts by 2.8 days.
The company's turnover went up       from &#163;9.9m in 2004 when the collaboration first started to &#163;12.8m in 2012       with profit increased fivefold.
According to the company's operations       director (d), on a visit to the university in 2010 for further       collaboration:     "we have done extremely well since the scheme thanks to the system         that has been put in place during the collaboration, a recent example is         that we have won a 10 year contract worth over &#163;10m due to the system,         that is why I am here to seek further collaboration".
During the implementation of this strategy 23 company staff including       project managers, engineers, and shop floor supervisors and operators were       trained in the agile and lean techniques.
Impact via Knowledge Transfer Projects     Mr Volata, a KTP Associate with J+S, was subsequently employed in 2007       by the company to manage and implement Zhang's research in the company's       Aberdeen site.
Volata joined Knox D'Arcy in 2008, and later KPMG       in 2009 as an operational strategy consultant helping other UK       companies to achieve competitiveness, using the agile and lean strategies       developed by Zhang at Exeter.
Since 2009, Volata has used the       agile methodology developed by Zhang and himself to assist international       and UK companies, including Zurich Financial Services, BP, Heineken UK,       Londis, Budgens, Anglo American, Unilever and Thomas Cook.
