     The underpinning research described above has had an impact both on       indoor monitoring of microclimates in museums and on damage assessment of       cultural heritage materials.
It has succeeded in raising awareness to       risks of damage to objects on display in showcases and in enclosures       during storage or in transit.
The dosimeter that we have developed is a       small portable tool with a fast response time that is practical for use in       museums and galleries.
The dosimeter is easy for conservators to use in       order to evaluate whether inappropriate materials have been used in       showcases and as backboards for paintings, and the effect of different air       exchange rates.
Use of dosimeters in museums     Throughout our research programme, we have worked with the Tate Gallery       to develop and test our devices so that they are useful and relevant to       professional conservators.
The Tate now uses our dosimeters to monitor       levels of air pollution in its store rooms and identify effects on       paintings and sculptures.
The Conservation Department at the Tate report       that: "The Piezoelectric quartz crystal dosimeter PQC has provided a         means of gaining a much better idea of the extent of air pollution in         store rooms and, more importantly, identifying its effect on the         collection of paintings and sculpture...We can now start putting into         practice new routines, where necessary using better (and more expensive)         materials, and prioritise our decisions for a remedial process that will         take many years to complete" [a].
Other museums have changed their practices as a result of using our       dosimeters.
The Museo Bellas Artes in Valencia, for example, used       dosimeters to monitor the conditions within microclimate frames.
As a       result of these tests, the museum now only uses acid-free materials inside       the frames, and avoids certain materials, such as chloroform which was       previously used in the joints of the frames.
The dosimeters have also been       used to identify pollutants from cleaning products used in regular       maintenance in the museum [b].
Our dosimeters were used in 2007-8 by English Heritage to assess the       oxidising potential of the atmosphere in two of their properties: Apsley       House and Kenwood House, both of which house internationally important       painting collections.
The analyses allowed important management decisions       to be taken on refitting the air filtration system and the impact of dust       from the gravel at the entrance to Kenwood House.
The lead-coated PQC       crystals determined the risk to paintings from microclimate frames used to       protect them against relative humidity fluctuations and internally       generated pollutants.
The research has increased the use of such frames       that are now a standard approach to displaying vulnerable paintings in       historic house environments [c].
Use of dosimeters in art transport: the Lady with an Ermine     In 2011, our dosimeters provided vital information during the transport       and exhibition of Leonardo da Vinci's Lady with an Ermine.
There       had been considerable controversy about whether the painting should be       able to leave its permanent home in Poland [d] but, as part of a       monitoring programme, our dosimeters were placed within the micro-climate       showcase in which the painting was exhibited at the Royal Palace in Madrid       to monitor the level of corrosiveness of the air within the frame.
Art       transport company SIT-Artyd report that this monitoring showed: "good         results that warranted the continuity of the tour to London and Berlin,         before the return to home in Poland" [e].
As a result of       this successful experience, SIT are now promoting and including the       dosimetry in their exhibition, storage and transport services for museums       in Madrid, Valencia and Barcelona.
Dissemination of our research to professional conservators     We have disseminated our research findings to professional conservators       across Europe and beyond, through our collaborative work, and through       presentation of our results at a series of workshops and conferences aimed       at professionals.
For example, through the IDAP project we developed an       algorithm for processing AFM images to allow damage assessment of collagen       fibres.
Damage to collagen at the fibre and fibril level is now taught at       regular workshops held by the School of Conservation in Denmark [g].
Odlyha herself has presented at many conferences, including in Turin,       Vienna, Evora, Portugal, and recently in Madrid and has participated in       workshops held in London and Madrid.
These were well attended by       conservation professionals from many organisations including the British       Museum the National Gallery in London, and the Mus&#233;e National Picasso       (Paris) [i].
Odlyha has also edited, and written an introduction       to, a chapter on cultural heritage in the Journal of Thermal Analysis and       Calorimetry (May 2011).
