     The Centre for Econics and Ecosystem Management (www.centreforeconics.org)       was formally established in 2011 under a memorandum of understanding       between Writtle College and Eberswalde University.
It operates from its       main office in Eberswalde University under the management of two       Co-Directors: Dr P Hobson and Professor P Ibisch, and is currently       supported by Foundations of Success for Europe (Mrs I Tilders), Nature       Conservation for Europe (Mr S Mueller-Kraenner), and the European       Conservation Coaches Network (ECNet).
Recently, it has established a       memorandum of understanding with the Centre for International Development       and Training at Wolverhampton University and also with the Wilderness       Foundation.
The objectives of the Centre are to grow the specific brand of research       underpinning "econics" and to develop mechanisms for applying the theory       to meet the requirements of the sector.
At the moment most of the       international activities of the Centre are sponsored by four key       collaborative partners all of which are based in Germany.
They are the       German Government agencies: GIZ; The German Federal Agency for Nature       Conservation (Bundesamt f&#252;r Naturschutz, BfN); the German Academic       Exchange Service (DAAD); and German branch of World Wild Fund for Nature       WWF.
After the success of the tenth Conference of the Parties of the Bern       Convention (COP10) and the publication by Ibisch et al.
edited by the       Secretariat of the Convention on Biological Diversity (see 2 on section 3       above) a number of high profile contracts were agreed with the German       Agency, GIZ to implement "MARISCO" (a method in vulnerability assessment       and adaptive management recently developed by the Centre) in the planning       process for protected area management.
The first of the contracts was a       two year project (BIOMARC) working with national park staff from two of       the main marine reserves in Costa Rica.
The task was to develop a MARISCO       model for managers to use in the planning process for both parks.
The       successful outcome of the project prompted further discussions with GIZ on       ways to widen access to the MARISCO process for all the international       conservation partners working with GIZ.
As a result a second contract was       signed for the production of a manual detailing the science and method of       MARISCO for the purpose of circulating to all the GIZ partner       organisations in conservation.
The manual and accompanying video was       produced in 2013 (see 6 on section 3 above)     Raising the Centre's profile both through scientific publications and       activities with GIZ was a contributing factor to the development of a       working partnership with the Government agency, BfN.
Two main projects       were launched in 2012.
The first relates to the Centre's research       expertise in forest ecosystem function (see 3 on section 3 above),       and is a contract to co-ordinate a UNESCO World Heritage European Beech       Project.
The goal is to establish by 2014 "World Heritage" status for a       network of prime sites for European beech across its entire range of the       continent.
Identifying appropriate indicators of forest ecosystem function       that could then be used by scientific staff in the project team to select       priority sites for natural old growth beech was a key factor in the       process.
The second contract is to apply MARISCO to the process of       planning for a UNESCO transboundary biosphere reserve in the Altai       Mountains across the Russian and Kazakhstan border.
The scientific robustness of MARISCO enables practitioners to use the       method to test and evaluate in detail existing practices in land use       management.
MARISCO is being applied this way in a project funded by the       German branch of WWF to assess the effectiveness of FSC forestry schemes       operating in Russia.
The successful completion of the first phase of the       project have simulated negotiations for a new four year contract to employ       the method in an assessment of certification schemes in oil palm       plantations in South East Asia and Argentina.
Providing training in specific skills directly related to the needs of       the sector is one of the key objectives of the Centre and at the moment       MARISCO is the main vehicle for delivering outcomes in this area.
Many       organisations within the environmental sector recognize a gap in the       understanding and applied knowledge of complex cultural ecosystems amongst       both existing and prospective employees.
Often, highly qualified students       and staff with academic knowledge in specific disciplines lack the       necessary skills to transfer and apply their understanding to problems       encountered within a multi-disciplinary environment.
Using its knowledge       and research expertise in ecosystem science and complex systems theory the       Centre has, for the last two years, worked with the German Government       agency, DAAD, to deliver training in Ecosystem Diagnostics Analysis and       MARISCO to both postgraduate students and employees in the environmental       sector within Albania.
After the successes of the first consultancy       project the Centre was encouraged to submit proposals for a larger,       regional programme of training for postgraduates and professional staff       across Montenegro, Albania and Kosovo.
This latest contract will run for       two years.
