     The first therapeutic applications of modulating the interaction of serum       amyloid P with its ligands revolved around compounds that interact with it       to remove it from pathogenic amyloid fibres and therefore render those       fibres more vulnerable to proteolytic degradation.
A lead compound, CPHPC,       was developed and shown to cross-link two SAP pentamers, removing the       protein both from circulation and from interaction with amyloid.
The       discovery of this compound was critically dependent on the insights into       cooperative ligand binding discovered through the decamericSAP/dAMP       structure solved in Wood's lab at Birkbeck and reported in reference [2]       above.
A biotech company, Pentraxin Therapeutics Ltd (PTL), was spun out of UCL       in 2001 to design drugs for the treatment of amyloid-related diseases and       develop them; serum amyloid P became its first validated target [a],       resulting in a series of patents.
For example, in 2008, formulations of       CPHPC were patented as a possible treatment for Alzheimer's disease [b].
Preliminary results (published by the Centre for Amyloidosis and Acute       Phase Proteins) showed SAP depletion in vivo [c]; however       despite these and other promising results in mouse models and human data       showing that CPHPC causes a fall in circulating concentrations of SAP,       this drug has made little progress in clinical trials as a monotherapy for       Alzheimer's disease.
Wood and his co-workers in the Centre for Amyloidosis and Acute Phase       Proteins at UCL and at PTL have now licensed a combination of CPHPC and       anti-SAP antibodies to GlaxoSmithKline (GSK) as a treatment for systemic       amyloidosis [d].
This therapy involves administering CPHPC (i/d       GSK2315698) first to remove SAP from the patients' circulation and then       administering an anti-SAP antibody (i/d GSK2398852); with no SAP in       circulation, this antibody should be directed to amyloid-bound SAP to       activate the patients' immune systems and destroy the amyloid.
The first Phase I clinical trial of the combination therapy began       recruiting patients diagnosed with systemic amyloidosis in June 2013 [e].
This is a two-part trial; the first part is a dose escalation study to       determine the safety of the two components and the second will assess its       dose-response and effect on SAP concentrations in more detail.
It is       co-sponsored by three London hospitals and so contributes to the       continuation of skilled employment in the UK, both at GSK and at these       sites.
GSK have hailed the importance of their collaboration with the       Centre for Amyloidosis and Acute Phase Proteins as part of their strategy       of academic engagement in drug discovery [d, f].
The potential       value of this combination therapy has already attracted the attention of       patient groups, despite its early stage of development; Amyloidosis       Australia has described it as "...the most wonderful news about         Amyloidosis we had heard in the past 8 years" [g].
The known function of circulating SAP as a mediator of the inflammatory       response is being exploited by the innovative biotech company Promedior       Inc., based in Lexington, MA, USA.
Promedior's work focuses on the       development of recombinant forms of SAP (Pentraxin-2 or PTX-2) as       treatments for fibrosis.
This term refers to the formation of excessive       connective tissue in response to inflammation, a response that plays an       important part in many types of chronic organ failure.
The mechanism for       the activity of PTX-2 against fibrosis is based on its specific,       calcium-mediated recognition of so-called "damage-mediated molecular       patterns" (DAMPs) which are exposed when cells are damaged.
This promotes       the removal of the damaged proteins by immunoglobulins on the surface of       macrophages.
The mechanism of this interaction was elucidated using recent       crystallographic data obtained by Promedior, which shows the calcium-and       immunoglobulin-binding sites lying on opposite sides of the pentraxin       complex.
These studies, also, would not have been possible without access       to the initial structures obtained by Wood's group at Birkbeck from 1994       onwards.
The most advanced compound in the Promedior pipeline is currently (summer       2013) an injected form of PTX-2 designated PRM-151 [h].
This is in       early clinical trials for the treatment of idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis       (IPF), a chronic, progressive lung disease that kills about 5,000 people       annually in the UK.
The FDA and EMA have designated PRM-151 as an "orphan       drug" for this condition, giving Promedior some specific commercial and       marketing incentives [i].
A Phase I trial in IPF patients and       healthy volunteers has shown that PTX-2 is safe, suggested that it can       reduce fibrocyte levels in IPF patients, and recommended it for further       clinical trials [j, k]; a Phase 2 trial is now in progress.
Pentraxin formulations are also being developed for fibrous diseases of       the retina.
A Phase 2 clinical trial of PRM-151 to prevent scarring       following trabeculectomy in glaucoma enrolled 124 patients from 14       European study centres and was completed in November 2012 but is not yet       published.
A variant form of recombinant SAP, PTX-169, has now been       developed for injection into the eye.
Pre-clinical results presented at       the Association for Research in Vision and Opthalmology in 2012 indicate       that this compound shows promise in diabetic retinopathy and age-related       macular degeneration, each of which affects millions of people worldwide [l];       clinical trials are planned.
Promedior is a thriving company and its       SAP-based programmes make a significant contribution to economic growth       and skilled employment in Massachusetts.
