     The UCL research has underpinned the development of original artistic and       cultural artefacts that       are valued highly by both the public and private sectors, and which are       making an important       contribution to the global profile of British innovation in architecture       and design.
Although       impossible to quantify, it has nonetheless delivered significant financial       impacts via its influence on       major projects by leading architectural practices, as well as on the       formation of innovative young       design studios.
The following examples illustrative some of the ways in       which the research has       underpinned these important outcomes:     (i) Contributions to major architectural projects: The research       has supported the delivery of       major architectural projects run by some of the UK's best known       architectural and design       practitioners, including globally renowned London practice, Wilkinson Eyre       Architects, which has       twice won the RIBA Stirling Prize (2001, 2002).
Several of the company's       110 staff (including       former BIAW researcher Matthew Potter, now an Associate Director) identify       Gage's research as       an important influence, and core elements of that research are evident in       some of the company's       biggest projects.
Thus its environmentally responsive conservatories for       `Gardens by the Bay'       (Singapore's iconic park) deployed a tiered approach to energy-use by       using shades responsive to       their local climate conditions to regulate the building's internal thermal       levels.
This use of solar       responsive technologies reflects the insights published in [c],       and Wilkinson Eyre acknowledges       the direct influence of Gage's research legacy upon projects such as these       [1].
Flanagan Lawrence (formerly BFLS Architects) likewise cites the influence       of the research on work       such as their [text removed for publication] Soundforms project in       Cardiff, completed in 2011.
The       work done here on sound and performance by the Associate Director of       Flanagan Lawrence, a       former BIAW researcher, fed directly into the Cardiff scheme, wherein `adaptive         technologies and         digital prototyping were used for the development of the acoustic         panels' and `generative software         was used to optimise the layout and position of the panels to meet the         acoustic requirements' [2].
(ii) Formation of innovative design studios producing original         artistic and cultural artefacts:       Gage's work has catalysed the institution of numerous commercially and       artistically successful       design firms.
The influence of BIAW research on interactive, responsive       and performative       architectural design is much in evidence in the work of the these       companies, with most of them       specialising in the development of responsive architectural elements such       as interactive facades,       modulated lighting and motion-sensing components, and in the provision of       immersive and large-       scale landscape installations for public and private clients.
The       resultant designs are finding favour       among consumers in both the public and private sectors, and in doing so       are contributing directly       to the global profile of British innovation in architectural design.
Jason Bruges Studio was established in 2001 partly to commercialise BIAW       research techniques,       especially vision systems, low-cost actuation and control       hardware/software, and digital prototype       fabrication.
The company, which now employs more than 20 staff, has       deployed these techniques       in international projects and installations [text removed for publication]       between 2008-13, including       the development of the changing lighting facade on the W Hotel in       Leicester Square (2010) and an       installation for San Diego International Airport, USA (2012).
The       influence of the research is       explicitly acknowledged by the firm, who state: `The research         environment, both in the Bartlett         Interactive Architecture Workshop and the Bartlett Digital Fabrication         Workshop, has had a         considerable impact on the success of the Jason Bruges Studio' [3].
The extent of this influence on       Bruges, who worked for many years alongside Gage, is evident in Ariel         Dynamics, an interactive       sound-and-light `bubble', fully immersive installation developed for the       2012 Olympics Park.
Commissioned by Coca-Cola, Ariel Dynamics used people-tracking LED       sensors in 180       polypropylene `bubbles' responding to the `chink' of glasses.
Its design       was underpinned by Gage's       research on social cybernetics and agent-based responsivity, and was       described by the firm as `a         practical substantiation of the arguments put forward by Prof Gage in         his paper, "The Wonder of         Trivial Machines"' [3].
It likewise underpinned the establishment in 2003 of Haque Design +       Research Ltd by another       former BIAW member, Usman Haque.
The practice has since developed       cutting-edge,       experimental interactive architectural designs incorporating responsive       environments, interactive       components, digital interface devices, and mass-participation initiatives.
Expertise developed       within the BIAW allows Haque to employ technologies including wearable       computing, mobile       connectivity, people-centred design, and ubiquitous `cloud' computing.
The       company's director       acknowledges `the considerable contribution that the research         environment of ... the Bartlett         Interactive Architecture Workshop has had in the development and success         of my design practice         ...
In cultivating a forum for radically new, but explicitly practical,         approaches in architecture [it] has         particularly influenced my work on `open source architecture' [4].
Sixteen* makers are an experimental architectural practice with a       particular interest in `design       through making', where the nature and properties of materials combine with       a site's environmental       conditions to inform their design process and eventually produce       `responsive architecture'.
Phil       Ayres drew on the research in producing the experimental sixteen* makers       installation called 55/02       in Kielder Forest, Northumbria (2009).
Designed and built with Nick       Callicott, Chris Leung and       Professor Bob Sheil (co-owner of sixteen* makers and Director of       Architectural Technology at the       Bartlett), 55/02 used environmental sensing to explore principles of       site-specificity and adaptive       behaviour.
The influence of Gage's work on interactive technologies,       feedback systems,       performative elements and time-based architecture is evident in the use in       55/02 of sophisticated       environmental sensory devices to respond to its environment and to weather       conditions [d].
(iii) Impacts on culture, well-being and the economy: The       production of original artistic and       cultural artefacts by companies founded on or using UCL research has       important benefits to       cultural life, not just in the UK but also in the many countries around       the world where those projects       are realised.
Some of those projects, moreover, deliver significant       additional benefits, including       supporting improved health and wellbeing.
The Nature Trail by Jason Bruges       Studio, completed in       2012 for the new Morgan Stanley Clinical Building at Great Ormond Street       Hospital (GOSH),       London, provides one notable example.
This interactive `wallpaper'       installation was designed       specifically to support the `patient journey' from ward to theatre for       children aged 6 months to 18       years.
The installation drew heavily on Gage's research into the ways in       which design can be       `environmentally' responsive to its local conditions, and through which       interactive and responsive       architectures can enhance the user's well-being [a, b].
Synthesised in uniquely accessible, child-       centred graphic wallpaper, patients, parents and health-workers are able       to find responsive LED       image-panels of animals that are `hidden' in the `natural canvas' of the       wood, allowing young       patients to be fascinated and distracted during their stay in hospital [5].
In some cases, projects generated using the research have delivered very       significant economic       benefits.
Recent examples include Pachube, an open-source, real-time       environmental data       infrastructure and online community designed by Haque Design + Research       between 2009 and       2011.The software allows individuals to store, share and discover       real-time sensor, energy and       environment data from objects, devices and buildings around the world       through the internet of       things &#8212; a globally online network of tools and gadgets.
Key       characteristics of the software were       informed by Gage's work on low-cost local actuated-environmental       monitoring, human-to-computer       and open-source enabled design [c, d].
The Director of the firm       specifically acknowledged the       influence of this work on the development of Pachube [6].
In 2011       the software (now rebranded as       Xively) was sold as a $15m spin-off company to LogMeIn to support its       cloud services; by July       2013, more than seven million devices have been connected using Pachube       technology.
(iv) Contribution to the global profile of British innovation in         architecture and design: The       use of the research by established architectural practices has allowed       their delivery since 2008 of       some of the best and most innovative design in the world.
Wilkinson Eyre's       `Gardens by the Bay'       project won the 2012 World Architecture Festival `World Building of the       Year', whilst Flanagan       Lawrence's Soundforms took four top architectural awards in 2012: RIBA       Design Award, RIBA       Welsh Award, Best Welsh Building, and Welsh Client of the Year.
In the       same year, this project       was also mid-listed for the RIBA Stirling Prize and at the World       Architecture Festival.
The innovation and quality of the designs produced by new companies       founded on or making       extensive use of the UCL research has also been widely acknowledged       nationally and       internationally since 2008 through prestigious awards.
Awards to Jason       Bruges Studio include the       Design Museum's 2012 `Design of the Year' award and the Brit Insurance       Design of the Year       Award in 2010 and 2011.
Haque Design + Research have won prizes including       the Design       Museum's 2008 Interactive Design of the Year Award; the 2008-09 Wellcome       Trust Sci-Art Award;       the Swiss Creation Prize; Japan Media Arts Festival Excellence Prize; and       Asia Digital Art Award       Grand Prize.
Sixteen* makers' 55/02 installation also won a 2011 RIBA       National Design Award.
