     Innogen's AGLS research on life science regulation has had significant       impact on legislative and       policy formulation and implementation at national and international       levels, has contributed to the       formulation and strengthening of networks at national, international and       supra-national levels, and       has impacted public and policy discourse.
Practical activities and outputs       included producing:       policy-oriented outputs (10, 11); publications read by       practitioners, such as Nature Biotechnology       (12); and policy and press briefings.
In the REF period, the named       researchers gave 39 talks in 11       countries to industry/government/international agency audiences; 21       workshops and public events;       3 select committee briefings.
The Financial Times Pharmaceuticals       Correspondent confirmed that       the FT invited Chataway and Tait to prepare a session for their       high-level Global Pharma       conference (2009), because of the `significant policy relevance of their       research' (19).
Chataway       maintained regular industry contact, leading to several research projects       with pharma companies       and the international Pharma Futures working group that began work in       2013.
Additionally,       Innogen supports the movement of researchers into policy environments as a       way of maximising       impact, and its staff are involved in numerous decision-making fora.
Mugwagwa       undertook       placements at New Partnership for Africa's Development (NEPAD) and the AU       (2007 and 2012),       Langlois worked in the Parliamentary Office for Science and Technology       (POST) (2007) and       Chataway held a part-time placement at RAND Europe (2010-13) and is       currently vice-president of       Globelics where she promotes policy-relevant research.
Impact on European and global life science legislation, policy         formulation and         implementation       Given the global nature of governance of life science products, such as       pharmaceuticals and GM       crops, European and global legislation and policy implementation has a       direct effect on policy and       legislation in developing countries.
The OECD International Futures       Project invited us to develop       scenarios based on our research on the global healthcare sector       trajectory.
This work investigated       possible trends in the development of health technologies and the       bioeconomy, focusing on the       period 2015-2030.
Three scenarios were developed and published in an       influential report, which       concluded that wide-ranging governance reforms were necessary to ensuring       best outcomes from       biotechnology advances (10).
1985 copies were distributed, with       4851 downloads.
The report       constituted the basis of the work of the OECD Working Party on       Biotechnology, comprising 33       member states, in formulating the influential new OECD policy on       harmonisation in biotechnology,       which subsequently led to its industrial biotechnology policy.
The       Director of the OECD       International Futures Programme confirmed (14) the report was       discussed and presented in 60       OECD working groups, to member state governments (including Japan, US, UK       and Germany),       and to 14 large-scale stakeholder events.
He also confirmed that the work       was `a crucial       contribution' to the OECD's involvement and influence in biotechnology.
The work of Adele Langlois has impacted public and policy discourse.
As       part of her doctoral       studies, she secured a competitive scholarship from the Wellcome Trust to       undertake a fellowship       at POST (2008) to develop a policy briefing (13), widely       distributed among peers and MPs.
POST's       Scientific Advisor for Biology and Health stressed the timeliness and       policy relevance of the work,       `which had been the reason for selecting Langlois's project for the         fellowship in the first place' (20).
The POSTnote received an average of 161 downloads a month during the       latest data period, and a       total of 1935 downloads by 2012.
Impact on African legislation and policy formulation and         implementation       AGLS research has been used to frame and establish new African policy and       regulation on drugs       and agro-biotechnology.
Innogen's relationship with the AU began in 2006       with advice that led to       policy initiatives that improved and harmonised regulation of medicines       and biosafety.
Chataway,       Mugwagwa et al wrote an invited report on building the case       for health systems innovation in       Africa, which the Science and Technology Advisor of NEPAD/AU confirmed       formed the       background document for the 8th Summit of the AU (2007).
He       confirmed also that the work       informed ministerial-level discussions that led to the inter-ministerial       agreement on the science and       technology programme of NEPAD/AU, an example of international policy       impact (15).
Later, it was       published as a book by the AU and made widely available in paper and       online (11).
15,000 copies       were distributed, and the book is now widely used by Ministries of Health       throughout Africa in       developing health policy.
While attached to the NEPAD Office of Science and Technology (2007), Mugwagwa       used the       AGLS approach to develop a framework on medicine control harmonisation.
The Director of the       African Biosafety Network of Expertise (ABNE) and the Scientific Affairs       Officer of the Economic       Commission for Africa confirmed that this work constituted a core       dimension of the policy to       harmonise drug regulation within the AU (16).
In particular, it       determined the agreed approach of       cluster-based harmonisation, as opposed to horizontal harmonisation across       all countries.
In Kenya, Innogen research impacted agro-biotechnology legislation and       policy, as a result of       Kingiri's work with government agencies.
During her OU doctorate       (2004-08), she worked on the       implementation of the Kenyan National Biosafety Act using Innogen       approaches.
Following       completion in 2009, she joined the African Centre for Technology Studies       in Kenya and was invited       to join the team drafting regulations later appended to the Biosafety Act.
She contributed to four       draft regulations (environmental release; import, export and transit;       contained use; labelling)       approved in 2011 and 2012.
The Biosafety Director of the Kenyan Biosafety       Authority (KBA)       confirmed the importance of her work and involvement from the initial       stages of the development of       the policy in 2008 (17).
In addition, he stated that Kingiri and       her Innogen experience were       instrumental in the development of Kenya's first guidelines for inspection       and monitoring of       genetically modified (GM) field trials, a clear example of policy impact.
Kingiri is also a registered       member of the Kenyan Roster of Experts on Biosafety and the KBA confirmed       Kingiri's Innogen       experience as important for her major role advising on new applications       for GMO field trials in       Kenya.
Impact on Qatar national research strategy       In Qatar, working with RAND researchers, Chataway used Innogen       research on research       governance and as PI, led a project that resulted in the Qatar National       Research Strategy 2012       with its strong focus on responsible and participative development of life       sciences, health and       environment.
The Executive Director of the Research Division of the Qatar       National Research       Foundation stated that Chataway's expertise and leadership was fundamental       in formulating the       strategy, which has been formally adopted as national policy.
Implementation is underway (18).
In summary, Innogen's research question, `Can the life sciences be         better regulated globally?'
has       led to significant influence and impact, which suggests not only that       regulation (and related       governance frameworks) can be improved, but also that Innogen has played a       significant role in its       improvement.
