     A distinction is made between the impact of our research on policy       discourse in a variety of stakeholder settings, on clearly discernible       specific impacts and on practitioner and professional practice.
Impact on policy development     1.
Developing a strategic response to China's presence in Africa.
The AERC's large multi-year Asian Drivers programme (2007-2011) arose out       of a direct initiative from Professor Kaplinsky, who was on the       steering committee for the duration of the programme (12).
Funding       of $2.5m was provided by Rockefeller and the International Development       Research Centre (IDRC) and resulted in scoping studies in 21 countries and       in-depth studies in 14 countries.
Dissemination included an AfDB meeting       in Dakar (May 2009) attended by 60 people, including Ministers of Finance       and senior civil servants.
National workshops were organised in 14       countries with senior government officials, Chinese embassy and private       stakeholders.
Regional dissemination workshops were held in Addis for       ambassadors and Chinese embassy (Sept 2010, 114 participants), and Accra       (April 2011, 54 participants from 20 countries, the Common Market for       Eastern and Southern Africa (COMESA), the Economic Commission of West       African States (ECOWAS) and ECA).
The country impact played an important role in guiding relations with       China.
In several countries it led to the establishment of technical       committees advising governments on how to engage with China.
Many of the       40 African researchers involved in the AERC programme used the methodology       to analyse Africa's engagement with other Rising Powers.
The MMCP (2009-2012) was a joint OU-University of Cape Town (UCT)       research programme, and included collaboration with Universities of       Ibadan, Ghana, Kwa-Zulu Natal, Mzumbe (Tanzania) and Wolverhampton.
Funding was provided by the IDRC, the Hewlett Foundation and the       Oppenheimer Fund, totalling $780K (13).
In addition to extensive       publications and policy briefs, 9 stakeholders attended workshops, and       research was discussed at 10 Policy Dialogue Workshops &#8212; Common Fund for       Commodities (&gt;100 policymakers); World Bank (Policy Dialogue with 150       participants); AfDB (more than 500 delegates; Kaplinsky plenary       with Claire Short (Chair, Ethical Trading Initiative), the Director       General of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD)       and ex PM Sierra Leone; UNCTAD (more than 100 delegates, three times);       AERC (see above); World Economic Forum; the International Council on       Mining and Metals; the United Nations Industrial Development Organisation       (UNIDO, including three Ministers); and Afrexim Bank.
There has been extensive referencing to OU research on Asian Drivers in       UNCTAD Global Commodity Reports, World Investment Report and Trade and       Development Reports (all annual), UNIDO Industrial Development Report, ECA       Annual Report and OECD Development Centre Annual Reports.
In summary, OU research on the insertion of Rising Powers into Africa's       infrastructure and commodity sectors highlighted the significance of the       bundling of aid, trade and FDI by China, India and Brazil.
It resulted in       two high level Policy Dialogues in Addis, each involving more than 20       delegates from the ECA, the AU, NEPAD, Programme for Infrastructure       Development in Africa (PIDA) and the ECA, as well as African universities.
2.
Impact on industrial policies     China's manufacturing prowess and the China-induced commodities price       boom have both had adverse effects on African and Central Asian industry.
Working closely with UNIDO, OU researchers and collaborators developed a       policy framework for the broadening and deepening of linkages from the       commodities sectors (17).
This was presented at many of the MMCP       Policy Dialogues, as well as at meetings in UNCTAD and UNIDO with senior       policymakers.
The monograph written for UNIDO unusually went into a second       edition very rapidly and has high reach globally.
The research was used to review and support the 2013 UNCTAD World       Investment Report (WIR).
Within the 2012 calendar year, the 2012 WIR had       120,000 downloads and 1,000 per day in the first month, with specific       requests from 450 policymakers for background reports.
Drawing on our       analysis of China's participation in global value chains, it helped change       the focus in industrial policy from a fixation with gross exports to a       policy agenda designed to promote capabilities (18).
Direct and specific impact on policy     Walmart acquired South Africa's Massmart chain in 2009 as a vehicle for       penetrating Africa's retail sector.
The potential impact of this in       diverting currently locally-sourced inputs to China-sourced inputs was       addressed in a key ruling of the SA Competitions Court in July 2012.
The       Chief Judge of the Court referred extensively and explicitly to OU MMCP       research in the Court's deliberations (14).
Its ruling will have       far-reaching implications, not just on competitions policy in South       Africa, but on Africa's retail sector, and local and regional sourcing.
Turning to the firm level, the deepening of linkages from Africa's       commodity sector requires the building of capabilities in supplying firms.
Participation in the MMCP research programme assisted an East African firm       to develop a local procurement system and to persuade its client, TNC       Mining Company, to deepen its local sourcing beyond fresh fruit and       vegetables (15).
This has the potential to extend to other mines in       the region, and is used to inform policy dialogues with the World Bank,       UNCTAD and the World Economic Forum.
Impact on practitioners and professional practice     In the context of rising competitive pressures from Asian suppliers, two       relative success stories in South Africa's recent dismal manufacturing       experience have been auto components and (to a lesser extent) apparel.
Drawing explicitly on OU MMCP research and interactions with OU       researchers, a South African consulting company has been heavily engaged       in helping to upgrade capabilities in these sectors and has assisted the       South African government in the design of industrial policy towards these       and other sectors.
It has specialised in the development of backward       linkages (and horizontal spillovers to other sectors), significantly       strengthened by local business services firms engaging in supply chain       development.
The largest of these firms, whose activities now extend to       other African economies and to Central Europe and Asia, explicitly drew on       OU research in order to develop its practical programmes of support to       local industry (16).
It has an internship programme and employs 30       professionals, and has been particularly successful in providing training       and work experience to South Africans from historically disadvantaged       communities, many of who have moved to jobs in government and the       consulting sector.
In addition to this impact on practitioners and       professional practice, this firm is currently actively engaging with a       large number of firms (more than 200 in the auto sector alone).
It is       widely acknowledged in the industry and in government that without the       operations of this firm, South Africa's auto components sector       (particularly) and apparel industry would have been even more deeply       undermined by competition from the Rising Powers in Asia.
