     (i) Contributions to and impacts arising from the transformation of UK         Public Spaces:     Projects by SSLtd, underpinned by the UCL research work described above,       have informed the local plans, strategies and planning application       processes of important projects for more than ten local authorities in the       UK.
By creating a more robust and evidence-informed planning process, the       research has made a significant contribution to the success of those       projects, each of which affects many thousands of local constituents [2].
It has also supported the efficient and successful delivery of more than       50 private-led developments in the UK, including Camden Market (with       Chelsfield Partners and MAKE Architects, then AHMM), and Elizabeth House       (with Chelsfield Partners and Chelsfield Partners) [3].
The regenerative and economic impacts of our contributions to the       redevelopment of UK public spaces are well demonstrated in the case of Old       Market Square, Nottingham.
Work started in 2003 on this &#163;7 million       Nottingham City Council project to transform a dysfunctional and       problematic urban space, which is used annually by more than 5 million       local residents and visitors to the city.
The redevelopment of this high traffic, politically sensitive, and       historically listed area drew particularly on UCL research for strategic       design recommendations, pedestrian movement forecasts and detailed spatial       analysis.
In particular, the project's success relied heavily on the       ability to deliver static space occupancy, since a space that only       supported movement would fail to meet the key objectives of increasing       interpersonal communication and transactions within the Old Market Square.
The square, which is now the centrepiece of Nottingham's regeneration       efforts, reopened to the public in 2007.
It has since won multiple awards       recognising it as one of the most successful public spaces in the UK,       including three Civic Trust awards in 2008 for which it beat a shortlist       of 100 contenders [4].
The redesign of this previously       relentlessly underperforming historic area has significantly diversified       and increased its usage.
Thus, for example, it now hosts an annual `German       Market' in December, and is also transformed during the summer into the       `Nottingham Riviera', as well as hosting myriad short-term events       throughout the year.
The new design and subsequent diversification of the       Old Market Square's use has supported increased footfall through the area:       in the twelve months to the end of April 2012, Nottingham saw a 0.9%       increase in footfall compared to the rest of the East Midlands, which       declined by 2.5%, and compared with footfall in UK towns and cities more       broadly, which declined by an average of 2% during the same period [5].
These changes helped support local shops and restaurants, a contribution       that has been particularly important during the recession.
The redesigned       square has also brought significant cultural benefits to Nottingham,       improving the image of the city and contributing to the preservation of       national heritage as a lived environment.
Writing in June 2008, the       Business Correspondent of the Nottingham Evening Post summarised       some of the benefits that the redeveloped Square had brought to the city,       by saying: `Only the churlish would fail to acknowledge the difference         that the multi-million investment in the Old Market Square has made to         the heart of our city.
While it may take some time in the current         circumstances, there is little doubt that this is an investment that         will, in the long run, pay for itself.
It hosts events, it showcases the         city, it brings in visitors, it is a place where people gather.
People         spend money in Nottingham's city centre economy as a direct result of         the square's enhanced presence.'
[6]     (ii) Contributions to and impacts arising from urban masterplanning           in Jeddah:     Further afield, the space syntax team has achieved significant       international impacts through research in Jeddah.
This began with the 2006       commissioning of SSLtd by the Jeddah Municipality to provide spatial       development strategies for the city, the population of which had increased       from 2 million in 1993 to 3.2 million at the last census in 2010.
The       SSLtd project, Strategic Planning Framework, has made a vital       contribution to planning and decision-making processes affecting the whole       city, including the redevelopment of large and highly populous areas of       unplanned settlement [7].
It also led to a series of further high       profile projects led by SSLtd, including the development in 2008-09 of the       masterplan for the City Centre of Jeddah, a 500-hectare area in the heart       of the city incorporating both its historic core (Al-Balad) and its       waterfront area.
Although the project is yet to be implemented, the SSLtd       masterplan has already had profound impacts on planning and resource       allocation in Jeddah.
Space syntax research into natural movement and the movement economy [a-d],       when repeated in the quite different cultural and environmental context of       Saudi Arabia, has shown that the principles not only also apply there, but       that they can account for the land use and movement patterns even in       Jeddah's unplanned settlements.
This has allowed the development of       evidence- based policy tools to support the municipality's primary       socio-economic regeneration objectives, as well as the reintegration of       the historic city centre into the vastly expanded context [e].
Since 2008, SSLtd has been working with the Municipality of Jeddah and       Jeddah Development and Urban Regeneration Company (JDURC) on six projects       &#8212; with a total consultancy value in excess of &#163;1.5m &#8212; to develop       regeneration strategies and development plans for more than 50 such areas       of unplanned settlement with an estimated total population of 1 million.
These unplanned settlements suffer from multiple urban, social and       economic problems, and are considered the most challenging areas for       improvement in Jeddah.
Using an analytical, evidence- based approach [e],       SSLtd has developed prioritisation strategies, spatial designs, financial       models and adaptable and interchangeable regeneration scenarios ranging       from minimum intervention to full redevelopment.
These plans are being       used by the communities themselves, as well as by local authorities and       private sector organisations, to transform Jeddah's unplanned settlements       and enhance socio-economic conditions therein [7].
They have       particularly informed the Draft Strategic Plan of Jeddah,       published for consultation in 2010.
This plan was revised in 2013 by AECOM       (a global provider of professional technical and management support       services) along with SSLtd on the basis of consultations in Jeddah, and       will be adopted soon.
The same projects are also informing a two-year planning mega project       commissioned in February 2013 to inform the development of Jeddah       Sub-regional, Structural and Local Plans [7].
Its consultancy fees       alone exceed &#163;8million, &#163;1.2m of which goes to SSLtd.
In collaboration       with AECOM, SSLtd's contribution to that project includes analytical       models of the city providing the basis for the precedent studies, baseline       research, option assessment and option development at all scales of the       project.
The project will produce city plans for the next 20 years,       affecting millions of current and future residents of Jeddah and       accounting for the use of billions of Saudi Riyals.
Although its full       implementation will take a long time, the impact of SSLtd research on the       project is already emerging.
The city's department of unplanned settlement       is currently using the SSLtd plans to issue planning permissions in 25       unplanned settlements with a total population of over 500,000 [7].
Following SSLtd recommendations, all categories of unplanned settlements       have been designated to specific authorities or public-private partnership       companies for further actions.
The JDURC started the physical       transformation of two of these areas (Al-Ruwais and Khozam) in 2011 and is       now moving on to work on another six areas.
The municipality of Jeddah has       also started physical interventions based on SSLtd's recommendations in       another eight central areas, including the highly populated areas of       Al-Balad, Betrumin and Qulail.
These projects will enhance the       accessibility of the communities to wider economic and social       opportunities in Jeddah [7].
Space syntax research has, moreover, already generated more widespread       international impacts through its development of an evidence-based,       analytical approach to addressing some of the problems faced by those       living in unplanned and informal settlements.
The significance of this       methodology is acknowledged by its inclusion in important international       policy documents including UNICEF's 2012 report on The State of the         World's Children 2012: Children in an Urban World [8].
Both of the examples outlined here demonstrate the global reach and       significance of UCL's world- leading space syntax research, the impacts of       which include benefits to the UK economy through export, and to the       quality of life of local populations both at home and abroad.
The research       has also prompted increased public awareness of, and an interest in, the       issues it considers.
It is an interest demonstrated, for example, by its       inclusion in the 2012 Olympic Games opening ceremony as one of Danny       Boyle's many allusions to seminal UK research innovations [9].
