     Street lighting is a massive infrastructural undertaking that uses a lot       of energy.
In the UK in 2005, there were 8.12 million lighting points on       the country's streets using approximately 3.14 TWH of electricity, which       gave rise to CO2 emissions of 1.32 megatons [1].
Of       these 8.12 million lighting points, 6.31 million of them were street       lights while the rest comprised sign illuminations or lit bollards &#8212;       furthermore, by 2012 the number of street lights in the UK had increased       to about 6.9 million in total [2].
Whilst of course street       lighting is only one of many users of energy, it is a highly visible case,       and with the rise in environmental concerns so many pressures began to       grow on local authorities to reduce the level of public lighting so as to       save energy.
However, on the other hand, a higher amount of street       lighting provides many important benefits related to crime prevention and       public safety.
This is where the innovative Bartlett research work by       Raynham et al proved to be so useful.
By showing that white lights with       lower illuminance had the same benefits as brighter sodium lights, the       research thereby provided an opportunity to maintain the clear social and       public safety benefits of high amounts of street lighting &#8212; for       pedestrians and motorists alike &#8212; but with a concomitant reduction in       energy use by as much as 30-40% and with a resultant drop in greenhouse       gas emissions estimated at 45.5 megatons in the UK in 2012.
Change in British Standards on street lighting:     In 2003, the British Standard (BS) for street lighting, Code of         practice for the design of road lighting &#8212; Part 1: Lighting of roads and         public amenity areas (BS 5489-1: 2003), was published [3].
Drawing directly on research findings [a] that had been published       in The Lighting Journal to coincide with the deliberations leading       up to the revision of the code, the reissued standards gave revised       guidance on the selection of lighting classes for subsidiary roads.
In particular, it permitted the selection of a lower lighting class, as       defined in BS EN 13201-2 [4], which in turn permitted these       subsidiary roads to be lit with white lights which used a lower       illuminance class than those lit with the traditional orange sodium lamps.
This meant that energy usage lighting levels could be reduced by at least       30-40%.
It should be pointed out that the Bartlett's research       investigations outlined in Section 2 suggest that the energy needed to       achieve the same lighting levels using white light can in fact drop by as       much 50%; however, British Standard committees are notoriously (and       rightly) cautious, hence the use of a slightly lower energy reduction       figure in this case study.
Nonetheless, as a result of this change in the       codes, stimulated by the work of Raynham et al, there has since been an       accelerating move towards white lights for street lighting.
This is also       partly attributable to the fact that since 2005 most of the major       renovations of street lighting in the UK have been carried out using       private finance initiative (PFI) schemes, with those in charge of those       being keen to make savings.
All of the PFI schemes started since 2006 that       the Bartlett researchers were able to check use white light for       residential roads, and this can be seen for example in Hampshire,       Northamptonshire, Croydon and the London Borough of Lewisham [5].
Increasing the uptake of white light:     In the first few years, the uptake of white lights for street lighting       was slow, but improvements in lamp technology soon led to the emergence of       a range of white metal halide lamps that could take advantage of the       changed British Standard codes.
Already by 2007 &#8212; and definitely since       then and during the entire REF 2014 impact census period &#8212; the situation       in the UK developed to the point where virtually all new installations of       street lighting installations were using white light.
Totally accurate data on the UK's population of street lights is very       hard to come by as the lights themselves are run by a number of different       authorities, and whilst there has been significant improvement in recent       years many of the inventories made of them, the figures are still not       entirely reliable.
The following analysis is thus based on a chart       covering road lighting that was provided by Philips Lighting [2],       from which data was extracted data and then confirmed in terms of general       accuracy with that company.
In many ways it is the most reliable source       available, given that Philips is by far the largest vendor of street       lighting lanterns in the UK.
They supply both luminaires and lamps, and       therefore have the greatest need to determine accurate data about light       sources so that they can assess the size of the lamp replacement market.
From this Philips data, it becomes possible to plot the rise of white       light sources used in street lighting from 2005, when virtually none of       them were being used, through to 2012, where they have become increasingly       popular.
Number of street lanterns in the UK [Philips Lighting, Source 2]      Thus the chart indicates, the use of white light has risen dramatically       during the REF impact period, and in addition it is necessary to note that       white LEDs have also been used for street lighting since 2009.
At the same       time, the number of lamps based on older technologies which emit orange       light (high-pressure sodium (SON) and low-pressure sodium (SOX)) has       reduced gradually, as the Philips chart also reveals.
The most dramatic increase began, in fact, right at the start of the REF       impact period.
In 2008, the number of white light sources increased by       c.260,000 units over the previous year.
Since then, the use of white       conventional lamps and white LED lighting has grown from 450,000 lighting       units in 2008 to about 1,450,000 units in 2012, representing what is       nearly a threefold increase.
Energy savings and emissions reduction due to white light:     As mentioned, this increase in the use of white lighting has had       significant knock-on effects for the UK's energy usage and the reduction       of carbon emissions.
The orange-coloured 70W SON (high-pressure sodium       lamp), which was for a long time the typical light source for street       lighting, has a total circuit power of 79W, allowing for aspects such as       gear losses [5].
This is in good correlation with the 2005 data       which suggested an average power usage for all street lighting points of       76.26 W, but also included relatively low powered illuminated signs and       bollards [1].
The most conservative estimate of the energy saved by the use of white       light assumes that the current population of c.1,200,000 conventional       white light lanterns has replaced the old 70W SON lanterns with an average       energy saving of 30% on each lamp.
This gives a safe figure for a       reduction of 28.4 MW in the energy load of these streetlights.
Assuming       that each lantern is on for 4,000 hours per year, then the changeover to       white light can be calculated to have saved the UK 113 GWh of electricity       in 2012.
This reduction also saved local authorities in the UK over &#163;10       million in electricity costs that year, and also reduced payments       associated with their carbon reduction commitments.
Taking again a       conservative estimate of 0.4 kg of CO2 emissions per KWh of       electricity at night [6], this represents a total saving of 45.5       megatons of CO2 in 2012.
Hence the Bartlett research of Raynham et al has proved to be a major       contributor towards helping the UK meet the EU's set target of reducing       emissions to 20 per cent below 1990 levels by 2020.
Using UK government       figures, it is estimated that the UK's net emissions in 2012 were 479.1       megatons of CO2 equivalent &#8212; thus it can be seen that over 9       per cent savings in emissions were achieved through the changeover to       white lights for street lighting [7].
