     The business and health benefits     (A) RESPONSIVE MACROMOLECULAR RELEASE: A PLATFORM FOR MORE COMFORTABLE         CONTACT LENSES     BRU research is regularly presented to the mixed commercial, clinical and       academic audience at the annual Clinical Conference of the British Contact       Lens Association (BCLA) by Tighe and co- workers.
The relevance of BRU       work to both UK and US ophthalmic industry and clinical community is       reflected in the reporting of such presentations on websites sponsored by       major companies.
[e.g.
5.1] Through this mechanism the commercial and       clinical relevance of BRU work is recognised.
The development of a series       of daily disposable contact lenses [5.2] (e.g.
CIBA DAILIESTM       All Day Comfort&#8482; and CIBA DAILIESTM Aqua Comfort Plus&#8482;), which       incorporate the concept of blink-activated release of linear polyvinyl       alcohol by a reptation mechanism, arose from this process.
The consequent       corneal mimicry dramatically reduces the end of day discomfort that limits       the wear duration of the unmodified lens.
CIBA personnel [5.10] first became aware of, and identified the       importance of BRU research, through reference [5.10c] presented at the       1998 BCLA conference.
Following a visit to BRU where the blink activation       process and its potential enhancement in PVA-containing lenses was       explained, CIBA began to embody the principles in their products.
In       consequence CIBA made unrestricted research donations to BRU which for a       ten year period supported a PDRA working on ocular biomaterials research       at Aston.
The more recent CIBA product variant (CIBA DAILIESTM Aqua       Comfort Plus&#8482;) uses two polymers (polyvinyl alcohol and polyethylene       glycol) within the lens matrix and a third surface-active polymer added to       the lens packing solution.
BRU has developed unique methodology       demonstrating the in- eye duration and effectiveness of such       surface-active polymers adsorbed onto the lens surface [3.4].
The CIBA       DAILIESTM products couple this mechanism with blink-activated       release of polymers from the lens matrix.
The release mechanism that we       proposed is incorporated in a marketing claim that the lens "moisturises       at every blink" [5.2].
The latest DAILIES product (launched 2012) is a silicone hydrogel lens       known as DAILIES Total 1&#8482;.
This product contains phosphatidylcholine;       intended to be ocularly released; so as to stabilise the aqueous tear       film.
This contribution, too, can be directly attributed to BRU influence       and supporting research.
In fact, CIBA VISION has sought out BRU       assistance in pre- and post-market support in this arena [5.10].
BRU's research in identifying and quantifying the blink-activated release       of polyvinyl alcohol, and the mechanism of macromolecular modification of       the lens surface has had significant health and commercial impacts.
It       underpinned the blink activation principle, which now characterises all       CIBA DAILIESTM lenses, sold in more than 70 countries with an       annual `DAILIES' PVA-only production (2011) of over 2 billion lenses       [5.4].
CIBA has a market share of ca 25% of the worldwide contact lens         market, now estimated at $6.8 billion.
Daily disposable lenses       account for 15% of lenses fitted, but almost 35% of soft lens revenue       [5.3, 5.4].
CIBA Vision has recognised BRU's contribution in       presentations and publications and key CIBA personnel involved will       provide verification "to any review panel" [5.10].
(B) RESPONSIVE GAG MIMICS IN OCULAR, ORTHOPAEDIC AND DERMAL         APPLICATIONS     Ongoing biomimetic design of other soft tissue GAG analogues has included       a long-term relationship with SME, First Water Ltd, a specialist UK       manufacturer of wound dressings, skin adhesives and conductive hydrogels.
Commercial outcomes were recognised by EPSRC via their national Knowledge       Transfer Challenge competition and this impact that has continued       throughout the impact period, was described (archived EPSRC website) as       first-class interaction between researchers and industry [5.5].
A novel intervertebral disc application involves an injectable pre-gel       avoiding the need for major surgical intervention and, by mimicking the       natural GAGs, restores osmotic responsiveness and disc height.
The       exploitation potential of the fundamental work (Section 3) was recognised       by an EPSRC "follow-on" award, given to develop IP and subsequent       commercialisation [5.6].
The novelty of the resultant patent       [5.7] was recognised in the US "Best Spine Technologies of 2009" awards by       the US orthopaedics industry journal, Orthopaedics This Week, where it was       highlighted as one of the top three regenerative spinal technologies of       the year [5.8].
Long-term studies of biomechanical stability are in       progress.
BRU studies of the application of responsive GAG analogues to therapeutic       and cosmetic contact lenses for dry eye symptomatology, including a       process development programme, supported by J&amp;J Vision Care has led to       joint intellectual property [5.9].
During the impact period there have been further awards to Prof Tighe,       recognising the significance and commercial importance of BRU       achievements, including the European Contact Lens Industry (EFCLIN)       Technology Award (2008) and the ISCLR (predominantly funded by the       international contact lens industry) Research Medal (2009).
