     From the research outlined in section 2, two kinds of impacts were       generated: changing thinking, understanding and awareness; and, changing       strategy and policy.
Evidence of all claims is listed in S5, numbered by       section.
Changing thinking, understanding and awareness:     (s4.1) During the Polish Presidency of the EU in 2011, Dr Copsey was       asked (as the only academic expert) to advise 120 civil servants from       across the EU on 'What public administration reforms should be made in the       future?'
based on his research (S3.4) during an event entitled 'Catalysing       Reform' in October 2011.
He was invited again to advise a consortium of       civil servants engaged in public service reform by the Polish government       in 2012.
According to an official in the Department for European Social       Fund (ESF) Management in the Polish Ministry of Regional Development: `the       work prepared for us by Dr Copsey contributed to our decision to continue       using some of the &#8364;10 billion ESF interventions to fund public       administration reform'.
(s4.2) Between 2008 and 2012, Dr Copsey was consulted regularly by the       Swedish International Development Agency (Sida) for advice on how best to       help Ukraine with its European integration process.
According to the Head       of Sida in Ukraine `Dr Copsey's advice highlighted to us the vital       importance of building strategic alliances with other donors working in       this area, and underlined the importance of focusing our development       assistance on improving the administrative capacity of the Ukrainian       state'.
(s4.3) Impact was also generated by training civil servants, diplomats       and the development assistance community on the EU policy-making process.
Specifically 80 Russian civil servants enrolled at the European Studies       Institute in the Moscow State Institute for International Relations       (MGIMO) in 2009-12.
According to an official in the office of Russian       Foreign Minister, `the training I received from Dr Copsey on how Member       States exercise power and influence, together with the summer school he       ran on the EU and third countries have really shaped my understanding of       EU politics and questions of power and influence more generally'.
Similar       projects were run for Sida officials in Kyiv and Stockholm as well as for       diplomats from the new Member States and 50 Ukrainian officials from       2008-12.
According to an official in the Ukrainian MFA, `Dr Copsey's       presentations on understanding the nature of the EU political system and       how outsiders like us, Ukraine, can get our message across has really       helped me in my day to day duties at the MFA in Kyiv'.
A seminar was also       given at HM Treasury in London in 2011 on exercising influence in the EU.
According to a Treasury official from the EU financial regulation team       `the thought-provoking content has proved useful for developing our       approach in the EU.
Thank you'.
(s4.4) In 2011 and 2012, Dr Copsey was consulted by the Depository Trust       and Clearing Corporation (DTCC) on how to build alliances for effective       financial services reform in the European Union.
He gave a talk in US       Congress in Washington DC February 2012 on the eurozone crisis and its       likely effects on the shifting patterns of alliances in the EU and also       spoke on Wall Street a week later on exercising leadership in the EU, at       an event organized by the Centre for the Study of Financial Innovation       (CFSI).
According to the Head of DTCC Brussels and the Head of Government       Relations in Washington DC, `these presentations have really helped shape       our attitude towards, and understanding of, how to be influential in the       EU'.
(s4.5) Impacts were also created by presenting the findings directly to       the policy community working in think tanks: a) The Centre for European       Policy Studies (CEPS); b) Polish Institute of International Affairs; c)       The Slovak Foreign Policy Centre in 2008, 2009 and 2010; d) The Centre for       International Affairs in Warsaw in 2011.
Changing policy and strategy:     (s4.6) According to a researcher from the Slovak Foreign Policy       Association in 2012, `Dr Copsey's work has been of enormous value to me       ...
I am currently drafting a strategy to improve the quality of policy       coordination between line ministries and the permanent representation in       Brussels, which builds directly on these insights'.
(s4.7) Findings were also presented to the Labour Party's shadow Europe       team in briefings in the House of Commons and at the National Policy       Forum.
According to the Shadow Europe Minister `Dr Copsey's briefings and       advice on EU issues, especially on the theme of alliance building really       helped stimulate our thinking and has informed policy development'.
(s4.8) At the EU Committee of the Regions, according to an official from       the CORLEAP (Conference of Regional and Local Authorities for the Eastern       Partnership) team in CIVEX, `Dr Copsey's work has helped us put together       an alliance-building strategy for the work of CORLEAP'.
