     This research has had significant and wide-reaching impact for a       relatively small amount of research funding (a total of &#163;24,381 over 2       awards).
It has had impact on senior policy makers, primary school       teachers, researchers and students in two main areas: language policy and       teachers' professional development.
English language teaching policy in the primary sector     The research has had impact on policy through the publication of research       findings in the research report, Investigating Global Practices in         Teaching English to Young Learners, which has been distributed       globally by the British Council and is available to download on its       website.
The findings have led to invitations to the researchers to       participate in international policy debates on teaching English to young       learners.
The original research report was designed, at the British       Council's request, to inform policy-makers internationally.
To date, the       web-link to the report has been shared 2,611 times, including 829 emails,       698 Facebook shares and 208 tweets (see S5 .1).
The report has been `right       clicked', which usually means downloaded, 329 times.
The report describes       the issues surrounding the introduction of English into primary curricula       globally from the teachers' perspectives, highlighting in particular key       challenges that need to be addressed to improve English language teaching       in this sector.
The report was used to inform and influence TESOL-Italy's mission       statement on Teaching English to Young Learners presented at the annual       conference in Rome in November 2011 (see S5/2) at a time when the Italian       Ministry of Education is carrying out reforms to teacher education.
TESOL-Italy acts as an influential government consultant on language       policy.
Copland and Garton were invited by the British Council in Lebanon on       March 2nd 2012 to present the findings from the project at a       seminar on English at Primary level.
The seminar was to inform and       influence the Ministry of Education in Lebanon as they embark on a       programme of educational reform of the form and content of English       teaching to young learners (S5.3).
The audience included school heads,       English coordinators, University ELT department heads and Ministry       officials not only from Lebanon but also from Egypt and Jordan.
It was       featured on MTV Lebanon and broadcast to 38000 people (see URL in S5.4).
It was also featured in the British Council newsletter, TalkingEnglish,       sent out to 800 English language contacts.
Copland and Garton were invited by The Guardian to respond to Minister of       Education Michael Gove's plans to teach modern foreign languages to young       learners in primary schools.
Their article was published on Friday October       14th 2011 in the "Comment is Free" section and sparked an       intensive debate on The Guardian's discussion board (see URL in S5/5).
Of       the 134 comments, a number demonstrated raised awareness and understanding       of the issues in teaching languages in the UK context to young learners.
Copland has recently been invited to take part in the influential ELT       Journal/Oxford University Press debate at the IATEFL conference in 2014,       where she will speak for the motion, 'This house believes that primary         ELT does more harm than good' (S 5.10)     Teacher professional development     A second grant was awarded by the British Council in 2011 to elicit       activities used by primary school teachers around the world.
We contacted       all those who had responded to the original research questionnaire and       left contact details (around 2,000 teachers globally).
Approximately 200       teachers sent in activities and the result was a book called Crazy       Animals and Other Activities for Teaching English to Young Learners,       edited by Copland and Garton and published by the British Council in March       2012, with 50 activities from teachers in 28 countries.
The book was       launched by the British Council at the annual conference of the IATEFL in       March 2012, and is available for free as a hard copy or a digital file on       the British Council website (see S5/6).
Details from the website show that       to date, there have been a gratifying 7239 `shares' of the book,       including, 3969 Facebook shares, 543 tweets and 1475 email shares.
The       book has also been `right clicked' 1,711 times.
A web search reveals that       the book has been shared on sites in many different countries including       Russia, Armenia and Italy.
The book is now being used not only by       individual teachers, but also by teacher training centres for professional       development purposes thereby showing impact through changing teacher       behaviour.
Feedback from teachers using the book has been very positive.
Email       comments include: I think this is a very useful almost unique book for       busy teachers &#8212; beginners as well as qualified; [the children] like the       activities very much, they help structure the lesson in a creative way;       It means a lot to me, because I know that all the activities in the book       are offered by real teachers from real classes just like me; the book       that helps me and my colleagues to have fun in the classes and better       results with the children at school.
The English Lead at the British Council Bucharest has distributed 100       copies of the book to primary school teachers and reports that it is very       much appreciated (S5/7).
A leading Italian teacher trainer wrote that she       believes the book would become the best resource currently available for       primary school teachers of English.
Feedback from academics at the universities of Birmingham, Leicester,       Leeds and Warwick has also indicated that the resource is being introduced       into their programmes and modules in teaching English to young learners.
For example, the book has been used on the PGDipEd course, rated       outstanding by Ofsted, at the University of Birmingham (S5/8), while both       the book and the report are used on the TEYL MA module at the University       of Warwick (S5/9).
