     Professor Sch&#228;ffner's research on translation competence development has       had an impact above       all on policy makers and institutions in the European Union by providing       expert advice and thereby       influencing policy and practice.
Transforming policy       As a result of the underpinning research cited above, Professor Sch&#228;ffner       was invited in 2007 by       the European Commission's Directorate General for Translation (DGT) to be       a member of an       Expert Group for the European Master's in Translation (EMT) project.
This       Expert Group consisted       of eight members from several European countries.
Its main task was to       make specific proposals       to the DGT with a view to implementing a common and transparent European       reference framework       for an EMT.
This initiative was motivated by the difficulty the DGT       experienced in hiring qualified       translators.
The Expert Group worked intensively between 2008 and 2009 on       producing       documentation for the DGT, the most important one outlining the Translator       Competence Profile       (see S5.1) This profile document specifies competences translators need to       have in order to work       successfully in the field of multilingual and multimedia communication.
The underpinning research       cited above (especially S3.1, S3.5) contributed to the development of this       competence profile,       which was adopted by the DGT in 2009.
Since its adoption, the Translator Competence Profile has served as a       benchmark for postgraduate       programmes applying to be admitted to the EMT network.
With more than 90       applications from       across Europe in the first round in 2009, 34 programmes were admitted to       the network.
There were       a further 64 applications in the second round in 2010/11, of which 20       programmes were admitted       (bringing the current total to 54 programmes from 20 countries).
The       profile document also serves       as a guideline for universities across Europe that wish to develop       translator training programmes.
The DGT invited Professor Sch&#228;ffner to be a member of the evaluation       committee for applications       to join the EMT Network for both rounds (2009, 2011).
In 2010 Professor Sch&#228;ffner was invited to become a member of the       OPTIMALE Steering       Committee (Optimising professional translator training in a multilingual       Europe, see S5.2), an       Erasmus academic network funded by the Directorate-General for Education       and Culture (total       grant of &#8364;249,904.00).
She is in charge of an OPTIMALE sub-workpackage on       `Training for       professional practice: professionally-oriented practices in the academic       context'.
The activities       within this project build on and expand the research on translation       competence (especially S3.6).
Transforming practice       The findings of Professor Sch&#228;ffner's research have also been presented to       a wide range of       language professionals nationally and internationally.
In November 2010,       she gave a plenary talk       at the 6th Asian Translators Forum of FIT (F&#233;d&#233;ration Internationale des       Traducteurs), held at the       University of Macao on the topic `Translation Competence &#8212; Training for       the Real World' (S5.3).
The audience included researchers, trainers of translators, professional       translators, and       representatives of education ministries from China and other Asian       countries.
This presentation led       to an invitation to write an article on translation competence development       for the Chinese       Translators' Journal (published in No.
6/2012).
Following a presentation       at the DGT's Language       Industry LIND-WEB FORUM, held on 24 May 2012 in Brussels, and attended by       approximately       120 stakeholders from academia, translation companies, public       administration, and freelancers       (S5.4), she was invited by the President of the School of Translation and       Interpreting Studies,       Guangdong University of Foreign Studies, to conduct workshops related to       translator competence       development and training the trainers.
Chinese universities have recently       started to introduce       Master of Translation and Interpreting (MTI) programmes which are closely       modelled on the EMT       competence profile.
Professor Sch&#228;ffner was specifically asked to use the       training workshops to       provide information and advice to support curriculum design and delivery.
These workshops were       held in November 2012, attended by approximately 40 lecturers on China's       MTI programmes from       universities of different parts of China, and video-taped to be made       available by the largest digital       library in China in order to produce a series for the libraries of major       universities in China (S5.5).
Immediate feedback from workshop participants indicated that they intended       to amend their own       programmes and adopt criteria and methods presented by Professor       Sch&#228;ffner.
