     CFL impact claimed here falls into two main areas &#8212; forensic casework and       improvement in police policy, training and practice in their investigative       interviews.
1.
Forensic casework:       Impact through casework: Reports for forensic investigations, and       provision of opinion and evidence for police investigations, criminal       trials and civil proceedings, have all contributed to verdicts of guilt or       innocence and to judgements in civil and appeal Courts.
MC, TG and NM are on the UK Serious and Organised Crime Agency Expert       Advisors' database and are regularly involved in casework on stalking,       sexual assault, murder and terrorism.
This work involves analysis and       expert report writing, sometimes followed by appearances in Court [Section       5: 1, 2, 3, 8].
In addition CFL has provided evidence in civil cases       involving copyright infringement and unfair dismissal.
We regularly       communicate to police and wider user groups through training events and       the media [Section 5: 8].
Our casework clearly has considerable significance for the victims of       crime, for the accused, and for those engaged in civil battles.
Evidence       of impact can be found not only in guilty and innocent verdicts but also       in summings-up and judgements.
In one case involving fraud and extortion       [R v Alder 2008 Peterborough Crown Court] the judge commented that "Dr       Grant, the linguist for the prosecution, provided convincing and measured       evidence [...] This evidence contributes considerably to the case against       Mr Alder" [Section 5: 2].
Further, in a murder case where an appeal       against conviction was lodged against the linguistic evidence provided by       Prof. Coulthard, the Court of Appeal upheld the evidence [Hodgson, D. v       [2009] EWCA Crim (31 March 2009)] indicating that Prof Coulthard's       evidence was suitably cautious and, as appropriate, did not extend beyond       the research base [Section 5:3].
This judgement provides a significant       precedent for the continued acceptance of linguistic evidence in the       Courts.
2.
Policy development and training.
Impact through policy development and training: Research findings have       changed police practice in interviewing witnesses and suspects, and       specifically in cases where there is an interpreted interview.
Changes to       Greater Manchester Police's (GMP) taking of non-native English speaker       witness statements represents a significant, concrete example.
Interpreter-mediated interviews are of specific interest to the UK police       [Section 3: 6] and, although interviewers report difficulty with these       interviews, national training structures do not address this problem.
We       have delivered courses in Greater Manchester Police, Gwent Police, and       South Yorkshire Police (amongst other forces) to sensitise police officers       to the complex issues involved and offer advice to interviewers on how to       manage interpreter-mediated interaction [Section 5: 4, 8].
A good example       of policy development has been with Greater Manchester Police who changed       their processes and documentation for dealing with non-English speaking       witnesses when signing their English language witness statements [Section       5: 5].
Directly as a result of CFL research in police interviewing [Section 3:       4,5,6], CFL became a founding partner of the International         Investigative Interviewing Research Group (iIIRG) dedicated to       promoting interaction between police interviewers and researchers.
Nearly       half of the 400 members of iIIRG are drawn from police forces from within       the UK and 23 other countries, creating a forum for reaching police       interviewers with the most relevant recent academic findings in the area.
TG gave the plenary address at the inaugural meeting of iIIRG in 2008, and       in 2009 CFL delivered the first iIIRG MasterClass for an international       group of police officers.
This MasterClass fed back to police interviewers       our research findings on linguistic insights into investigative       interviewing such as those described above.
Feedback from this       MasterClass, received from an FBI agent nearly two years after the event,       included the comment that "[the MasterClass] literally changed my life!
Or       at least how I do my job!
[...] I use what I gleaned from the MasterClass       all the time" [Section 5: 6].
CFL also draws on its research base to deliver bespoke courses with       either a general or specific purpose.
General courses include the annual International         Summer School in Forensic Linguistic Analysis (ISSFLA) attended by       police and other practitioners and academics.
The ISSFLA has led directly       to the propagation of forensic linguistic modules and programmes in       universities internationally, and has built links with professional units       in the German Federal Police, the FBI and UK police forces.
One example of       more specific training is that provided on the West Midlands Police       On-line Undercover Policing Operations programme (run for groups of       experienced undercover officers three times a year since 2010).
This       programme has changed the practice of officers engaged in undercover       online work [Section 5: 7, 8].
