     It is difficult to overstate the importance of having a sophisticated and       transparent set of state-of-the-art energy systems models for proactive       and responsive engagement with the UK policy community.
Models are the       integrating language of policy and provide the key numbers and insights       that form the backbone of the debate and resultant policy impacts.
This is       particularly true in the highly topical and fast moving area of energy       policy, and especially the key goals of energy system decarbonisation and       energy security.
The Department of Energy and Climate Change (DECC), in its 2009 UK         Low Carbon Transition Plan [1], accepted the MARKAL elastic       demand model's finding (as described in [d]) of the critical role       of the electricity generation sector to enable wider decarbonisation       efforts in buildings and transport.
Resultant electricity decarbonisation       policy mechanisms have been implemented as a key government priority with       latest efforts being support mechanisms under Electricity Market Reform as       legislated in the 2013 Energy Bill.
A continuing impact of the MARKAL-TIMES modelling effort for UK       government policy making has been in demonstrating the economic       feasibility of decarbonisation pathways (as described in [a]),       including the critical interplay between technological and behavioural       change (via energy service demand reductions).
UK MARKAL-TIMES has       constituted the key technical reports on this topic for DECC's 2011 Carbon       Plan [2].
The quantification of electricity sector decarbonisation using MARKAL       models is an essential enabling step to meet the targets set by the       Committee on Climate Change (CCC).
The CCC's carbon budget reports       (2009-13) outline the framework for legislated UK carbon budgets, with       successively commissioned MARKAL-TIMES modelling projects providing       long-term energy and emission scenarios.
In 2011, the UK government       accepted the CCC's 4th budget period recommendation [3] for a 50%       reduction (from 1990 levels) in carbon emissions by 2025, with       underpinning technical appendices from the UK stochastic MARKAL model [c].
Dr David Joffe, the Head of Modelling for the Committee on Climate       Change, has since stated: `Since 2009, UCL's family of MARKAL/TIMES         energy systems models have been heavily utilised by the CCC to explore         the costs and trade-offs between different long-term decarbonisation         pathways.
This underpinning research &#8212; published in successive CCC         reports &#8212; has been invaluable in the CCC's assessment of the appropriate         level of the 2050 target, what this means for measures required in the         medium term within the UK's carbon budget periods, and the policy         framework to deliver these.'
Placing UK decarbonisation efforts in a global context [b], the       TIAM-UCL model provided the key underpinning technical appendix to the       CCC's 2010 international aviation and shipping review [4], which       advocated including international transport emissions in the UK's       legislated carbon budgets for a fully comprehensive mitigation response to       climate change.
Such has been the authoritative benchmark of MARKAL-TIMES that UCL has       been instrumental in developing complementary energy modelling tools for       key stakeholders.
This has included Strachan serving as a strategic       advisor on the development of the ESME energy systems model of the Energy       Technologies Institute from 2010, illustrating how UK industry has adopted       an energy systems modelling approach.
In a parallel development, Ekins and       Strachan have successfully argued for the incorporation of cost metrics       (derived explicitly from MARKAL) to be incorporated into the DECC       Calculator [5] &#8212; the UK government's highly popular policy       engagement tool, which is downloaded by 10,000 UK users each month and has       been adapted into the nationally utilised My2050 schools classroom toolkit       released in November 2012.
Research has been used to provide evidence to policy makers and thus       contribute to informed political debate.
On 24 May 2011, Strachan was       invited to give parliamentary oral evidence based on his modelling       expertise to The UK's Energy Supply: Security or Independence       review by the House of Commons Energy and Climate Change Select Committee.
Following the publication of his review of modelling exercises using the       UCL MARKAL model from 2009-2013 [6], all of which were directly       used in policy support as discussed above, Ekins made two presentations in       the Houses of Parliament.
At the House of Commons on 26 February 2013,       Ekins presented a paper at a UKERC policy briefing on `The UK Energy       System in 2050: Comparing Low-Carbon, Resilient Scenarios' to a number of       MPs and their researchers, which fed directly into the then current debate       on the Energy Bill about the need to decarbonise the UK electricity       system.
On 1 May 2013, Ekins then presented in the House of Lords on `The       Role of Gas in a Low-Carbon UK Energy System: Insights from Modelling',       which has informed the current debate about the role of shale gas from       2020 in the UK energy system.
In terms of sub-national energy policy-making, a multi-regional version       of the UK MARKAL model was presented to senior Scottish government and       industry representatives on the potential role of Scotland in meeting its       own and the wider UK's renewable energy targets, and subsequently       submitted as supporting evidence to the Scottish Parliament's Economy       Energy and Tourism Committee [7].
The reach of the MARKAL-TIMES research impact extends also to       international energy policy.
As research lead on the Japan-UK research       project on international modelling on low carbon societies, UCL led an       international effort that contributed to the declaration and reaffirmation       through 2009-13 of a global long term target of a 50% reduction in       greenhouse gas emission in 2050.
Furthermore the UCL team served as expert       reviewers and contributors to the International Energy Agency's flagship       Energy Technology Perspectives publications [8].
And on the basis       of his research at UCL [a, c, d], Strachan was appointed as lead       author on the `Energy System' chapter under Working Group III of the       Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change 5th Assessment Report, with       interim reports in 2011-12 and the final report to appear in April 2014.
To demonstrate how UCL's systems modelling research has resulted in a       sea-change in how the UK now funds and uses energy models to underpin       policy making, the EPSRC has funded (as of 1 July 2013) a &#163;5.7 million       whole energy systems modelling (wholeSEM) consortium (EP/K039326/1) as a       centrepiece of the Research Council's energy portfolio.
Furthermore, a       memorandum of understanding was agreement in September 2013 between UCL       and DECC to utilise UK TIMES as the principal model for long-term UK       Government energy analysis.
