     In both GB and Ireland, our research reports (S3.1; S3.2; S3.3) have       underpinned governmental and regulatory body proposals for major       restructuring of the format of, and approach to, pharmacy education to       first registration.
These proposals relate to both the four-year       undergraduate degree and pre-registration training period, and also focus       on a recalibration of the pedagogic strategies to increase work-placed       learning and to connect the university learning with practice.
An evidence-base for pharmacy educational reform in Great Britain     Results from our work undertaken within GB (S3.1; S3.2) are informing       current (2013) governmental and regulatory body policy for the development       of pharmacy education to first registration.
Both reports have become key       resources within the field of pharmacy education research and have had a       direct impact on the content of the General Pharmaceutical Council's       (GPhC) publication Future pharmacists: Standards for the initial         education and training of pharmacists (S5.1).
Future pharmacists       is the publication which contains the new baseline educational standards       for pharmacy undergraduate and pre-registration education, which all       Schools of Pharmacy in Great Britain are required to meet to remain       accredited (S5.2).
Revised national government policy in the development of pharmacy         workforce capability     Furthermore, both reports (S3.1; S3.2) have informed the 2011 Modernising       Pharmacy Careers (MPC) Discussion Paper on recommended major reforms of       pre-registration pharmacy education.
The MPC programme was driven by the       Department of Health and linked into Medical Education England (MEE),       which had an advisory role to the Minister of State on the education and       training of doctors, dentists, health scientists and pharmacists.
Our       research formed part of the evidence-base used within Workstream I (the       Workstream examining education to first registration) of MPC to develop       the discussion paper (S5.3) recently approved by MEE for recommendation to       the Minister of State proposing a fundamental change in the pattern of       pharmacy education (S5.4).
Restructuring of pharmacy education policy and guidelines in Ireland     The 2010 PEARs Report (S3.3) formed a root and branch review of the       five-year programme of pharmacy education and training in Ireland,       together with a review of accreditation models and criteria.
This is the       first time an entire country's pharmaceutical education to first       registration has been examined in such detail, and since publication the       recommendations have formed the basis for educational change for pharmacy       education over the subsequent fifteen to twenty years.
The PEARs       recommendations were endorsed by the Council of the PSI, who began       implementing them in their entirety following presentation to, and full       acceptance by, the Minister for Health and Children in Dublin on 8th       July 2010 (S5.5).
The PSI Council commenced full implementation, firstly       by establishing the National Forum for Pharmacy Education and       Accreditation in March 2011 to oversee the development and on-going       delivery of the new integrated programme of pharmacy education, training       and assessment for roll out in the near future.
It aims to produce more       clinically-focused pharmacists who will be positioned to play a critical       role in the delivery of future integrated healthcare services in Ireland,       as well as enhancing their career opportunities in all areas of practice       including the pharmaceutical industry (S5.6.7).
On 1st April       2011, the PSI issued a call for expressions of interest from pharmacists       with an interest/expertise in education, training and assessment to       participate in the work of the National Forum (S5.8).
The National Forum's       Terms of Reference were published in July 2011 and link directly to the       second of the six major recommendations from our work (S5.9).
The first       meeting of the National Forum took place in August 2011.
On 2nd February 2012, the National Forum was officially       launched by the Taoiseach who stated in support of the implementation of       the PEARs Report recommendations: "I strongly welcome the new pharmacy         model which will help to position Ireland at the forefront         internationally of pharmacy innovation and education".
At the same       event, The PSI President said "The National Forum [...] provides an         opportunity to engage with all the relevant stakeholders to ensure that         in the future the pharmacy profession can meet the needs of patients,         industry, communities and pharmacists themselves."
(S5.7).
In       parallel, the PSI has developed new accreditation standards       (Recommendation 5) and a new accreditation process (Recommendation 6) to       give effect to two more of the recommendations from the PEARs report       (S5.10).
In July 2013, the Council of the PSI agreed the policy areas that       required a statutory underpinning to give effect to the new qualification       and drafting commenced in the last quarter of 2013 with a view to       facilitating commencement of the new degree in the near future.
