     Research described in section 2 made a major impact on the revival and       application of metformin as the primary pharmacological treatment for type       2 diabetes worldwide.
The research findings prompted clinical studies that       gave confidence and understanding for use of this drug, The work has       received particular recognition through the UK Prospective Diabetes Study       (S3.1; S5.1) and in recent treatment guidelines (S3.1; S5.2).
The impact of the research at Aston may be traced from its use to inform       the regulatory assessment process for the introduction of metformin into       the USA (1995), when Professor Bailey was accorded the unusual privilege       of being the expert witness to the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA)       for the evaluation of metformin and advisor for the design and evaluation       of the phase 3 clinical trials.
The trial design became the standard for       new diabetes therapies trials throughout the last decade (S5.3).
Having       authored the expert report on metformin to the European Medicines Agency       (EMA), which placed into context the implications of Aston research as       part of the periodic reassessment of approved drugs, Professor Bailey was       elected to serve on the EMA Committee for Human Medicinal Products       Healthcare Professional Working Group and Scientific Advisory Group from       2006-2011 (S5.4).
Through the regulatory process, the research on metformin at Aston has       informed clinical practice.
This has been translated into patient care via       the development of treatment algorithms.
For example, metformin has been       adopted as first line treatment in the 2012 consensus guideline from the       American Diabetes Association and the European Diabetes Association for       the Study of Diabetes (S5.2).
The guideline, which is now accepted       internationally, repositioned metformin as the preferred first-line       treatment for type 2 diabetes, citing work authored by Professor Bailey as       part of the justification for this decision (S5.2; S5.5).
Metformin has       recently become the most prescribed medicinal product for the treatment of       diabetes in North America and Europe (S3.1), and the 9th most       prescribed drug in the USA in 2010, accounting for 48.3 million       prescriptions in that year (S5.6).
The predominance of metformin is also       acknowledged in the current NICE guideline for England and Wales       (published in 2008) and in the Scottish guideline (published in 2010),       with reference to work described above from Aston (S5.7; S5.8).
Metformin       is also listed as preferred initial drug therapy for type 2 diabetes by       most other national and international guidelines, for example the Diabetes       Australia guideline published in 2009 (S5.9) and the diabetes guidelines       for Latin America (S5.10).
Related research at Aston has also been instrumental in the development       of other medicines for diabetes and obesity.
Use of the techniques devised       and applied to the study of metformin has provided metabolic information       that was pivotal for the development of the anti-obesity agent       sibutramine, and Professor Bailey is one of the named inventors on one of       the patents (Bailey CJ, Jones RB, and Jackson HC.
Use of sibutramine       analogues to prevent the development of diabetes.
WO 98/11884).
In summary, metformin has risen from a drug destined for withdrawal in       the 1980s to the most prescribed medication for type-2 diabetes worldwide.
We can claim a substantial contribution to this through early research       studies at Aston University (e.g.
S3.3 - S3.6), along with follow-through       education (e.g.
S3.1; S3.2).
The impact on health and prevention of       diabetes complications is recognised with the prime positioning of       metformin in treatment algorithms and guidelines (S5.3; S5.5; S5.7; S5.8),       and the use of the drug by about half of all patients with type 2 diabetes       in the West (about 30 million patients with a commercial value of $1.6       billion in 2003) (S3.1; S5.2; S5.5; S5.6; S5.6; S5.7; S5.8; S5.9; S5.10).
As a post-script, metformin is now being investigated for potential use       in the treatment of vascular disease, polycystic ovary syndrome and       cancer.
It may yet have more benefits to give, since being saved from       oblivion.
