     Background: Research conducted at Aston (1996 &#8212; date) had a       pioneering role nationally and internationally by characterising the value       and sensitivity of the technique for the study of brain physiology.
Notably, by rigorous evaluation of the novel beamformer approach which       allowed direct integration and comparison of the technique with other       neuroimaging modalities, the technique has become broadly accepted into       every main neuroscience centre in the UK.
Further, as the first Centre in       the UK to apply MEG to clinical diagnostic and pre-surgical evaluation       with leading surgical teams in the UK, the value of the technique in the       treatment pathway for intractable epilepsy is exploited.
This research has       further led to a commercial partnership with the world leaders in MEG       system development, to optimise MEG technology for paediatric application       with enhanced clinical value.
Practitioner and Clinical Service: The most notable impact of our       research is in its clinical application.
The latest Wellcome Trust       Laboratory for MEG Studies is located in a &#163;4.4 million state-of-the-art       neurosciences facility, the Aston Brain Centre.
The facility, operational       from July 2011, is the only Care Quality Commission approved MEG facility       for diagnostic service provision in paediatric age in the United Kingdom.
The facility is providing research-led diagnostic services directly       benefitting health trusts and their clients across the United Kingdom.
Clinical research collaborations with several health trusts across the       country have been active for 8 years.
Since 2008, a total of 226 referrals       have been received.
MEG investigations have revealed no abnormality (36       patients 16%), provided new and important clinical evidence (172 patients,       76%) with 44 patients (23%) progressed to surgery.
29 of these patients       have significant lasting improvements (Engel class I outcome).
Since 2010,       we have provided a contracted tertiary referral service for Kings College       London (KCL; 64 adult referrals), Great Ormond Street London (GOSH; 22       child referrals) and Birmingham Children's Hospital (18 referrals).
Clinical leads in the epilepsy surgery teams from GOSH have reported that       `notable success has been achieved through pre- surgical evaluation of       patients where existing methods failed to provide unequivocal evidence of       focal epileptiform activity or the characterisation of eloquent cortex       close to lesions for excision' (S5.
1).
Four key MEG groups supporting       clinical research activity are now being led by Aston trained staff       (Barnes, Functional Imaging Lab, University College London in 2009; Singh       CUBRIC Cardiff in 2005; Hillebrand, VuMC Amsterdam in 2009; Brookes, Sir       Peter Mansfield MRI Centre, Nottingham PhD at Aston 2003 (S5.2).
Health and Welfare: Intractable epilepsy is debilitating at any       age as frequent uncontrolled seizures have physical, social, and cognitive       implications.
Successful intervention affords significant benefit for all       patients.
However, early successful intervention for children affords       important cognitive and educational advantages as the ability to succeed       in main stream education has lifelong implications.
The child brain is       also very adaptable so recovery from surgery is usually optimal.
However,       conventionally there are two major limitations to progressing to surgery.
First, conventional techniques need to establish that there is a focal       abnormality amenable to resection.
Second, resecting the identified area       must not lead to debilitating consequences such as loss of mobility or       loss of speech and language capability.
Children struggle to comply with       conventional testing at an early age to establish these criteria.
Our work       to optimise MEG to address these questions in paediatric age have led to       many patients, but notably children, progressing to early surgery when       otherwise such a decision would have been deferred.
Thus, our MEG research       is directly affording significant patient benefit (S5.1; S5.2).
Commercial Investment in Technological Developments: Principal       investigators Furlong, Holliday, Seri, Talcott and Witton further       developed a strategy based on our research to enhance both the fundamental       science and clinical value of MEG in the field of paediatric       neuro-development.
Having characterised significant limitations of current       MEG technologies for clinical measurements in paediatric age, and through       collaboration with a commercial partner (Elekta Corporation), one of the       world's first paediatric compliant MEG system is being developed with       Wellcome Trust funding, together with investment from the commercial       partner (S5.3).
This collaborative partnership has had an impact on the       roadmap for the commercial partner, with a focus on clinical application       and optimisation, with important implications for the future development       of the technology (S5.4).
The technological developments resulting from       joint research with Elekta are of benefit to the global clinical       neuroimaging market.
