     The Lambeth Conference in August 2008 hosted the launch of the document The         Principles of Canon Law Common to the Churches of the Anglican Communion       (Anglican Communion Office, London, 2008) and the Anglican Consultative       Council in December 2009 circulated the Anglican Communion Covenant for       ratification by the 44 churches of the worldwide Anglican Communion.
Both       initiatives are designed in part (a) to enable Anglicanism globally to       re-assert its identity, credibility, and effectiveness; (b) to maintain       communion between its churches, at a time of serious discord over issues       of human sexuality; and (c) to provide a basic framework of `house rules'       for the Communion to address divisive issues which might arise in the       future.
The steps leading to the impact in and beyond 2008 begin outside       the census period in 2001 and may be explained thus:     The Principles of Canon Law:     The Archbishop of Canterbury (Carey) invited Doe to speak at the 2001       Primates' Meeting (an annual meeting of Anglican archbishops worldwide)       about canon law and how it might contribute to Anglican unity globally.
Doe's paper3.2 explained his research, proposed articulation       of principles of canon law, and suggested that lawyers should meet to       explore whether these principles of Anglican canon law existed.
The       following year at Canterbury, the Anglican Communion Legal Advisers       Consultation assembled lawyers from across the worldwide Communion (the       first such meeting in Anglican history) to discuss the idea; at the event       Doe engaged the lawyers in discussion of candidate principles he had       drafted in advance.
The consultation accepted Doe's hypothesis.
The       Primates endorsed this (recognising canon law as a `fifth instrument of       unity' in global Anglicanism alongside the Archbishop of Canterbury,       Primates Meeting, Lambeth Conference and Anglican Consultative Council),       and authorised the establishment of the Anglican Communion Legal Advisers       Network to move the project forward.
The Network was set up formally by       the Anglican Consultative Council meeting in Hong Kong, after which Doe       was commissioned to produce a draft `statement of principles of Canon Law       common within the Communion'.
His 100 macro- and 600 micro-principles were       refined by the Network working group (at meetings including sessions in       Toronto and Nassau), presented to the Network (2007), published as The         Principles of Canon Law Common to the Churches of the Anglican Communion       (Anglican Communion Office, London 2008), and launched at the Lambeth       Conference, August 2008 (with Doe3.3 appended to the document).
This statement of principles of law (but not itself a body of law), has       been used by: (a) the bishops of the Anglican Communion meeting at the       ten-yearly Lambeth Conference, as a focus of agreement about what unites       Anglicans in terms of common norms of action (at a special session at the       2008 meeting at Canterbury); (b) each church within the Communion, having       all been urged to study and comment on it by a recommendation from the       Anglican Consultative Council meeting in Jamaica in May 2009 (ACC-14)5.1;       (c) the Supreme Court British Columbia to assist (by way of a persuasive       authority of which judicial notice was taken) in resolution of a property       dispute between Anglicans (in 2009)5.2; (d) Anglican churches       considering legal reform (e.g.
the Church in Wales used the document to       distinguish fundamental principles and functional rules as part of the       process to revise its Constitution in 2010); (e) the Colloquium of       Anglican and Roman Catholic Canon Lawyers in submissions to the       International Anglican-Roman Catholic Commission on Unity and Mission (to       underscore what Anglicans and Catholics share canonically)5.3;       and (f) church jurists from around the world of churches of the Reformed       tradition who, meeting in Utrecht in 2011 to discuss Protestant Church       Polity in Changing Contexts, listened with great interest to an exposition       of the principles of canon law within the Anglican Communion and debated       whether a similar project was possible and desirable as to their systems       of polity globally5.4.
In November 2012, Canon John Rees, the Legal Adviser to the Anglican       Consultative Council, stated in a letter to Doe: `without your       contribution this whole project would not have happened'; `the work has       been quoted in litigation', `its impact at the Lambeth Conference in 2008       was very considerable', and `I have been told how valuable individual       bishops in all parts of the world have found it...for filling gaps in       their local constitutions'5.5.
The Anglican Communion Covenant:     In 2003, decisions in the USA, to select a practising homosexual as a       bishop, and in Canada, concerning services for same-sex unions, threatened       `to tear the fabric of the Communion at its deepest level' (Primates'       Statement, 15/10/2003).
As a result, the Archbishop of Canterbury       (Williams) established the Lambeth Commission to address `the legal and       theological implications' of these decisions and to make `practical       recommendations for maintaining the highest degree of communion'.
Doe was       appointed to the Commission and invited to write a briefing paper3.4       to steer the Commission on the issues, communion and autonomy.
Doe       re-iterated his covenant proposal3.2, which was accepted by the       Commission, and Doe worked on a draft which was incorporated in the       Commission's Windsor Report (2004).
Doe was also appointed consultant to       the Covenant Design Group established by the Archbishop of Canterbury to       take the project forward5.6.
Doe gave presentations on the       Covenant at five separate sessions at the Lambeth Conference 2008.
The       Design Group (Singapore, September 2008) considered that Conference's       reflections and later produced its final draft (March, 2009), using Doe's       suggestion that the covenant should embody the principle that `the       Communion guides, each church decides'3.5 as fundamental to the       covenantal relationship between communion and autonomy5.7.
The       Standing Committee of the Anglican Communion agreed the final text in       December 2009 and the Anglican Communion Covenant was circulated to the 44       churches of the worldwide Communion for consideration and subsequent       ratification or rejection.
The Covenant has stimulated debate and decision       making in each church about what communion and autonomy mean and how to       resolve conflicts amicably.
Discussion within the churches took place not       only at the level of their national synods, but also at more grass roots       level in the dioceses, and in some cases in parishes.
Thus far 9 churches       have ratified it (by adoption or subscription), 1 has rejected it, and 2       have declined to decide5.8.
The Anglican Consultative Council       is currently reconsidering how to proceed given that the Church of England       is amongst those churches which have not ratified the Covenant.
In November 2012 the Director for Unity, Faith and Order at the Anglican       Communion Office wrote: `Norman Doe made a very significant contribution       to the development of the Anglican Communion Covenant, which is currently       being considered for adoption....
He originated the idea, drafted the       first version, participated in the design Group, and educated Anglicans       about it...
Overall, the Covenant process has encouraged Anglicans to       think about what it means to be a church, and how to make decisions       together across cultural and theological difference'5.9.
Assessment of Doe's work by the former Archbishop of Canterbury:     Doe's work has contributed to a change in perception, posture and       practice in global Anglicanism.
Former Archbishop of Canterbury, Dr. Rowan       Williams, wrote in a statement that: `The work on Principles of Anglican       Canon Law was a groundbreaking project which made a huge contribution to       the self-awareness of the Communion internationally and is a lasting and       indispensable resource.
The contribution made to the discussion and       refining of the 'Anglican Covenant' as a focus for convergence and mutual       accountability in the Communion was again indispensable.
Despite mixed       responses, the quality of the work was universally acknowledged...
Professor Doe and his colleagues have done an enormous amount to provide       such a resource and to equip a great range of individuals'5.10.
