     The initial original research at Aston University established a       reputation for PrOH Modelling.
We now present evidence that this PrOH       Modelling research, as cited in Sec.2 and Sec.3, has changed the       awareness, use and legacy effect in a variety of companies, as exemplified       here by 4 cases in which considerable operational and financial impacts       have been accrued.
Higgs &amp; Sons Solicitors, Brierley Hill, (August 2011 &#8212; July       2013) chose 5 different legal services to be improved through PrOH       Modelling.
The following quotes are taken from corroborating Letter ref         5.1 (i) Road Traffic Accidents: "conversion rates were increased       significantly from 67% to 93%... this and other changes will have a       calculated annual impact of just under &#163;200k profit".
(ii) Dispute       Resolution: a PrOH Modelling exercise revealed better case management       tools were required" and "transparency in pricing also impacts on client       satisfaction..." giving, "... a calculated annual impact of just over       &#163;400k" (iii) Commercial Property services "...developed a targeted       approach to acquisition of new significant clients ... effectiveness       increased by 8% equivalent to &#163;150k annualised profit ...".
The final two       services are still in progress [at date of letter], but (iv) "The       Corporate Services team responded very positively to the PrOH Modelling       approach readily identifying training requirements", also "...the fast       track production of sales-pitch documentation is alone expected to save a       significant amount of time and money."
(v) Private Client: services       revealed more efficient ways of managing wills and probate services as, "a       significant project to document, scan and manage all of the information in       the will bank has been reinvigorated ..." Overall it is estimated that       &#163;750K annualised savings have been generated and, "Without the use of PrOH       modelling it is very unlikely that these changes would have happened...".
This work also generated 12 articles in non-academic publications (2 from       the law sector, 2 from professional management practice and 8 from the       free press (see citations selected in refs 5.5-5.9).
In July 2013       on the basis of this work Higgs &amp; Sons have been recognised nationally       by the law sector and nominated for a national award for innovation by The         Lawyer (see ref 5.10); and subsequently won 3rd       place.
SigmaPro, Solihull (January 2008 &#8212; July 2013) is a small       international management training company.
SigmaPro used the ideas of       general systems thinking from our research to build a survey that examined       the cause and effect of different quality management techniques.
As quoted       from corroborating Letter ref 5.2 "The effect of this was to make       our training credible in today's market.
We estimate the effect of this       was to increase sales by at least 10%, and increase student satisfaction       rates which led to higher repeat business.
All this has helped SigmaPro to       expand".
As a result of this initial work further ESRC support was won (by       Clegg) in the form of a CASE award (January 2011 onwards) to support       SigmaPro to develop a unique model using PrOH modelling and systems       dynamics; "Although it is still early days to boast about the impact of       this CASE Award, it has led to a prototype hybrid soft-hard `cost       of quality' model being built which can assess the maturity of an       organisation, predict its cost of quality, diagnose areas of deficiency       and thus direct consultants to more accurately prescribe suitable       actions".
This tool has been used successfully with clients (in early       2013) and has helped SigmaPro create a unique selling point.
"This new       tool, based on the PrOH Modelling Methodology, will help us market our       services and give us advantage over our competitors" (ref 5.2).
Pinstripe Printers, Birmingham (January 2008 onwards).
PrOH       Modelling was used to review the customer interface process for       design-and-print-contracts.
The following gains were achieved by using       PrOH Modelling.
Quotes from corroborating Letter ref 5.3 show that       after PrOH modelling (i) "it was easier for technical staff to capture       customer requirements...10% improvement over 3 months and on-going" (ii)       "Increased emphasis was placed at providing extra services to customers,       so they were more satisfied with the job..." (iii) it "Improved the       scheduling of jobs &#8212; 10% improvement over 3 months and on-going" (iv) it       helped the "generation of a continuous improvement culture in the       business".
Overall, "...without the use of PrOH Modelling it was unlikely       that these changes would have occurred because PrOH modelling was       particularly well suited to managing change..."     Brintons Carpets, Kidderminster (March 2008 &#8212; September 2008       initially continuing up to 2013).
The quality management and supply chain       management practices used to deliver client projects were reviewed using       systems thinking and PrOH modelling.
PrOH modelling was used in focus       groups with the senior management team to rethink operations strategy.
As       in Letter ref 5.4 "The immediate improvements made as a result of       the work can be summarised as follows (i) productivity improvements, as       loom rectification hours and rework was reduced by 18% (ii) scrap and       defects were significantly reduced, with external failure rates reduced by       57% (iii) on-time delivery improved by 14% (iv) general improvements were       made to the Brintons Operating System (BOS) and a cultural change caused a       shift from reactive quality recovery to proactive quality [failure]       prevention.
The medium term effects of this work contributed towards the       standardisation of practices between the UK factories and the new       factories in India and China; and subsequently in the long term towards       new investment in the company from foreign investors [from the USA] which       has reinvigorated its future.
Without this intervention the outcome of the       company may have been very different".
In summary, all of these cases have improved the awareness, use and         legacy effect of systems thinking in their organisations to improve         operations management practise.
These cases show breadth of         applicability as PrOH modelling has been applied to a large leading       international manufacturer (of carpets), a small product-service provider       (printers), a medium-sized professional service company (solicitors) and a       small international (management) training company from the private sector.
In each case the depth and significance of impact is supported by a       letter of corroboration (refs 5.1 - 5.4).
