     Our research changed understandings and raised awareness within the       global reinsurance industry, as well as the business activities of major       firms within the industry.
It did this through providing an integrated       suite of strategy tools for insurers, reinsurers and brokers.
These       included: 1) blending contextual and analytic judgement for enhanced risk       evaluation; 2) managing relationships for both economic and knowledge       gains; 3) strategic positioning for improved competitiveness amidst global       change; 4) mapping and organizing work processes for more rigorous       regulatory compliance (3.3; 3.4).
Developing these tools in conjunction       with industry leaders (monthly meetings) (5.1) was important in       establishing this impact, as was targeted global distribution of our       findings.
The scope and importance of the research impact was recognized       through the award of the inaugural ESRC's Outstanding Impact on Business       Prize (5.10).
Engagement with industry: Impact has been supported through       high-profile engagement at multiple levels globally.
At the organizational         level, we produced 58 customized reports for participating       organizations, which applied our diagnostics.
22 firms also commissioned       strategy or training workshops (2010-12), enabling them to independently       implement those models and monitor their benefits against industry       benchmarks or identified strategic gaps.
Industry-level engagement       centred on two reports (3.3; 3.4), the latter being emailed to 759       industry players globally.
Responses to these outputs are discussed below.
Headline findings were covered in over 30 media reports and presented at       11 high-profile industry events.
Several industry bodies endorsed the       report, its findings and recommendations, including posting it on their       websites between 2010-2012 and using it in their internal and external       communications.
These included Lloyd's, the Intermediaries and Reinsurance       Underwriters Association, and the Chartered Insurance Institute (CII), a       professional association body for over 100,000 reinsurance professionals       worldwide (5.2).
Influencing thinking and awareness.
Our research has       transformed understanding in the global reinsurance industry with evident       increased awareness of critical trends and dangers.
There has been       endorsement and dissemination by high-profile industry players of our       findings as an impetus for industry change.
For example, industry leaders       commented on how the industry needs to take account of our report's       critical finding around excess bundling of risk and over-dependence on       models to avoid crisis (5.1).
Such commentary included ten articles and       press releases highlighting this key finding in the reinsurance media       (e.g., 5.4).
For example, one of the world's largest insurers explained       that they had previously not realized the extent or the dangers associated       with the trend towards risk bundling (5.5), while the media noted that `Paula         Jarzabkowski does not like to mince her words' about necessary       change (5.7).
More recently, our findings on potential systemic risk have       been the topic of invited industry presentations to help "snowball" change       London: 01/ 2013 &#8212; WCI lecture; 03/2013 &#8212; Lloyd's lecture; Bermuda:       04/2013, IRU lecture).
Influencing industry thinking is also evidenced as our critical findings       for change have been adopted as part of industry capacity development       (5.2).
The CII endorsed our reports, frameworks and calls for change to       the degree of awarding accreditation credits for reinsurance professionals       attending Professor Jarzabkowski's lectures and making the associated       material available to their global membership (11/2010, 11/2011, 03/2013)       (5.2).
They thus incentivized the use of our materials in industry       training and development.
Further, a group of leading insurers, reinsurers       and brokers from Bermuda, London, Munich, New York and Zurich are       currently supporting a series of `Masterclasses' based on our strategy       tools, specifically targeted at developing the strategic thinking of       senior professionals, and attended by an initial selected group of 22       future industry leaders.
Transforming understanding in the reinsurance sector is also evidenced in       companies using our frameworks in their own presentations and       communications.
This demonstrates the degree to which industry       participants endorsed and used the project findings to frame their own       arguments, explanations and thinking (5.1; 5.3; 5.9; 5.10).
One company       used our frameworks in a conference presentation in Asia on improving data       quality to support better risk evaluation (05/2012; 5.8).
Impacting organizational practices.
The impact of       implementing our models has already been felt within specific companies,       as demonstrated in feedback we received from many companies, as       exemplified in Section 5 (5.1; 5.6; 5.8-5.10).
Several companies       implemented tailored client segmentation strategies for the reinsurance       sector and, thus, more efficiently deployed relationship management       resources.
As one participant explained in a follow-up interview, they       could link progress with key clients directly to the implementation of our       frameworks; while another quantified the impact as "5 million quid         extra!"
(5.9).
Another company used our report to explain       their relationship management approach and objectives (newsletter, 5.3).
