     Aston's research has had 3 major areas of impact: influencing business       support policy in the UK       nationally, informing regional strategies to drive small business growth,       and delivering growth in       small businesses on the ground in the Midlands.
Aston's ground-breaking research on HGFs quantified for the first time       the nature and scale of       HGFs in the UK.
This, combined with insights from the GEM UK project and       evaluations of       business support in the UK, provided new information about the profile of       businesses and their       support needs (Refs 3.1 - 3.6).
This information is used by BIS in       England.
BIS provide core       funding to GEM UK each year and are the principal user of the annual GEM       monitoring metrics       and research outputs.
There is regular involvement with the work of the       Enterprise Directorate       (BIS) as they provide briefing notes for policy managers and ministers on       entrepreneurship       matters.
GEM UK has developed a set of statistical `look-up' trend tables       on entrepreneurial       attitudes, aspirations and activity (2002-12) for the use of statisticians       and policymakers in BIS and       by Ministers in the formulation of policy (see White papers) and in       answers to Parliamentary       Questions (Ref 5.8).
In a report on Information Assurance for BIS       Indicator Data Systems by the       National Audit Office (NAO) in 2012 the GEM UK survey was the only third       party survey which       received a top score of 4 which meant it was "fit for purpose and       cost-effectively run".
(Ref 5.8).
There has been regular national and regional press coverage on the results       of the annual GEM UK       survey (e.g., Financial Times, Daily Telegraph, The Guardian and The       Economist as well as       extensive media coverage during the annual Global Entrepreneurship Week       (GEW).
The principal       impact of the evaluation research and the work on HGFs has been to inform       the business support       strategy by BIS and in particular the design of Growth Accelerator (Ref         5.1).
The identification of       26,000 businesses as their target for Growth Accelerator over the 3 years       of the programme from       2012 was a direct result of the Aston research on HGFs which identified a       small number of firms       which were responsible for around half of job creation in a 3-year period.
The strategy developed       by BIS for business support (Ref 5.2) has been planned in the       light of information from Aston's       evaluation of business support interventions demonstrating the importance       of adopting a long-term       approach to evaluations.
This will shape the eventual evaluation of Growth       Accelerator (Ref 5.3).
The research on HGFs (Ref 3.1) as well as on the GEM UK datasets       and GEDI was a key pillar in       the successful bid for Aston to co-host the new Enterprise Research Centre       (ERC) to provide       robust independent evidence on the drivers of small business growth.
ERC       outputs (i.e., those       involving Aston research staff) have already begun to impact policy and       have led to discussions       with BIS (June and September 2013) on the reformulation of business       support, the Business Bank       as well as the evaluation of Growth Vouchers &#8212; two major announcements in       the March 2013       budget (Ref 5.9).
Aston HGF research was commissioned by Greater       Birmingham and Solihull       (GBS) Local Enterprise Partnership (LEP) and the Leeds City-Region LEP as       well as Greater       London Authority to inform their strategic thinking on driving growth.
The       work with the GBS LEP       led to an active involvement with the Heseltine Review (2012-13) and       resulted in Hart providing       key inputs into the business support strategy proposals in the Heseltine       Pilot in Birmingham and       included recommendations to position Business Schools as a key provider of       growth support for       small businesses (Ref 5.4).
Building on an understanding of the drivers of small business growth       (from research projects       outlined in section 3 and Refs 1, 2 and 5) Aston was approached in       April 2011 by Goldman Sachs       (GS) to deliver the GS 10,000 Small Businesses Programme which has       had a direct impact on       small businesses.
This programme has enabled Aston to recruit and engage       with growth-oriented       small businesses and provide them with an intensive 4-month       practically-focused management       education programme.
The programme curriculum is informed by research       based at Aston on       HGFs &#8212; especially, innovation, internationalisation, finance and       entrepreneurial motivation and       aspiration.
The 10,000 Small Businesses Programme has 109 alumni       in the Midlands and the       impact of the programme on their growth trajectories has been remarkable.
Growth in jobs,       revenue and profits are in evidence (significantly higher than similar       cohorts of small business       elsewhere in England &#8212; e.g., 77% of firms reported an increase in jobs in       the 12 months prior to       March 2013 compared to only 24% in the wider business population, 66% of       firms indicated that       their turnover was greater in the same period compared to 35% in the wider       business population,       and 53% of participants had increased the underlying profitability of the       business) and they are       more likely to be seeking external finance for their businesses to enable       them to grow even faster.
Alumni from the programme are also accessing Aston business services for       the first time (e.g.,       Knowledge Transfer Partnerships (KTPs) and Knowledge Exchange and       Enterprise Network       (KEEN) projects) to consolidate their growth and competitiveness.
Lord       Young's report in May       2013 uses GEM data extensively and showcases the 10,000 Small         Businesses Programme as       good practice.
The Witty Review in July 2013 showcased the 10,000         Small Businesses       Programme and its role and impact at Aston Business School.
(Refs 5.5 - 5.7).
