     Global eye healthcare company Bausch &amp; Lomb drew on the principles of       bio-inspiration to develop a new contact lens solution that mimics the       natural fluids of the human eye.
By studying how the eye keeps itself       clean, hydrated and germ-free, it brought together three bio-inspired       innovations to create a unique product: Biotrue&#8482; (http://www.biotrue.co.uk).
It uses a lubricant found naturally in the human eye, matches the pH of       healthy tears and ensures beneficial tear proteins remain active.
Based on       a decade of research into bio-inspiration derived from natural photonics,       from 2000 to 2010 [3.1 - 3.6] Vukusic acted as a consultant and advisor       for Bausch &amp; Lomb in the development of the brand positioning and core       messaging of Biotrue.
Vukusic helped shape the company's definition of       bio-inspiration, which formed the backbone of the marketing and       communications strategy for the product launch.
From May 2009 to September 2011 Bausch &amp; Lomb's communications       efforts about bio-inspiration were aimed at two key target audiences: eye       care professionals (ophthalmologists, optometrists, and opticians) and       consumers.
Through the use and description of examples based on his       research into optical bio-inspiration and photonics in nature, Bausch       &amp; Lomb were convinced of the value of using bio-inspiration as the       platform on which to position the Biotrue brand.
Bio-inspiration became an       integral part of the company's core messaging, in its efforts to convey       how the Biotrue product is designed in a completely new and different way       &#8212; i.e.
`to work more like the eyes'.
This resulted in the following brand       promise:     "Nature has always inspired new ideas.
It's called bio-inspiration.
And it's leading to some of today's biggest breakthroughs &#8212; including a         lens care solution that looks for inspiration from the most natural         place &#8212; the eye.
Biotrue is formulated to work more like the eye."
[5.1]     Specifically to engage with eye care professionals, Bausch &amp; Lomb       drew on a research-based contribution from Vukusic that comprised 16       posters and 154 publications published in 17 countries.
This core       messaging on bio-inspiration was delivered to 40,000 eye-care       professionals at 1,000 symposia and seminars in 40 countries [5.1].
Vukusic himself gave 35 presentations on bio-inspiration in the US, UK,       Netherlands, France, Belgium, Russia, Korea, China, Japan and Brazil.
Vukusic authored the introductory feature &#8212; An Introduction to       Bio-inspired Design &#8212; to a 2010 issue of Contact Lens Spectrum [5.2] and       an additional supplement [5.3], the leading magazine for optometrists,       opticians and ophthalmologists.
As part of this communication, Vukusic       also featured in three issues of `Visions' Magazine and one issue of       `Optician' [5.4, 5.5, 5.6 and 5.7].
To reach consumers, a media campaign was instigated following a press       event and was held in New York in May 2010 at which attendees were       introduced to a video created by Vukusic, from which Bausch &amp; Lomb       secured 285 million web impressions for Biotrue in the national print and       broadcast media.
This resulted in consumer familiarity with       bio-inspiration and products `inspired by the natural world', rising       sharply over two periods in 2010, as measured by Directions Research Inc.
In Europe, there were 115 articles published that mentioned       bio-inspiration in relation to Bausch &amp; Lomb's product, reaching 29.7       million users in 15 countries.
Around 340,000 Asian consumers across eight       countries were reached through Internet Forum Discussions, videos and two       magazine advertorials.
Articles about bio-inspiration featuring quotes and       research from Vukusic reached 313,000 readers in Brazil and Argentina.
A       Bausch &amp; Lomb video The World of Bio-inspiration, based on       Vukusic's presentations, has been viewed over 29,000 times [5.1].
This led       to a series of industry and professional communication events resulting       `in a unique impact that is unlike any other new product launch from       Bausch &amp; Lomb,' according to the Director of Medical Affairs Global       Vision Care at Bausch &amp; Lomb [5.1].
In June 2010, Vukusic was invited       to a roundtable discussion [5.8], organised by Bausch &amp; Lomb, at the       annual meeting of the American Optometric Association where he gave a       presentation on bio-inspiration based on his research findings.
Illustrating the importance of the bio-inspiration message, one of the       participants, Dr Bruce Anderson, a fellow of the American Academy of       Optometry, observed: `When patients learn a product is bio-inspired, I       believe their confidence in the product increases.
They realise there's       research behind it that makes it more compatible with the eye, and they're       more willing to try it and accept it.'
The `highlights' website quotes `physicist         Peter Vukusic, PhD, who has done extensive work to bring bio-inspired         products to the market' [5.8].
Summarising the contribution of Vukusic's research to the commercial       success of Biotrue, the Director of Medical Affairs said:     `The launch of Biotrue has been unprecedented in the lens care         solution category.
This is largely due to the excellent consulting         support and insightful guidance by Vukusic in leading us during the         development of the bio-inspiration positioning and our communications         plan.
Having been introduced to the United States in June 2010, Biotrue         had launched in 35 countries in the Americas, Europe and Asia-Pacific         regions by the end of 2011.
In the US, Biotrue's market share growth         after one year was five times faster than the previous best-in-class         launch of a lens care solution.
Unique bio-inspired positioning has         contributed to highly incremental volume for Bausch &amp; Lomb lens care         products in total.'
[5.1]
