     Food safety is a major political, economic, social and health issue, with       recent contamination scares raising the pressure still further on       producers, processers and retailers to deliver safe food to the consumer.
This means striving to reduce insect infestation of crops, delay ripening       to extend shelf life and to improve yields.
This trend means that it is vital that consumers continue to be protected       against potentially dangerous processes being applied secretively to fresh       food before it reaches the shelves.
One of these processes involves the       use of high-energy ionising radiation to extend shelf life by reducing the       bacteria associated with natural foods.
This process can be substituted       for good sanitary practices in food production.
Legislation on labelling       of irradiated food was prevented by the absence of reliable and efficient       detection methods.
Thus before legislation was introduced in 1996,       consumers were unaware of whether or not food had been irradiated.
SUERC       researchers led by Sanderson were the first to develop methods and       equipment for screening foodstuffs for irradiation, and this work led to       the formulation of UK and European standards providing protection and       reassurance to consumers.
In 2001 Sanderson's tests on UK food supplements found that a high       proportion (42%) had been irradiated and were not in compliance with the       law.
Subsequent testing in other countries found that this was a       widespread problem and this information was made public.
Sanderson's team       has continued to analyse samples for food retailer and supplier clients,       testing over 3,000 since 2008.
Sanderson and his team developed two international standard methods based       on the use of luminescence to detect irradiation: BS EN 1788 (first       introduced in 1996) and BS EN 13751 (first introduced in 2001).
Today,       these standard methods are the most widely used to detect irradiated foods       and remain unchanged since their introduction.
Every consumer in the UK       and Europe has benefitted from the added protection provided by the work       of Sanderson's team in relation to food labelling and screening.
Authenticity and traceability of foodstuffs are important to consumers,       regulators and the food industry.
In compliance with EC legislation, the       UK Food Labelling Regulations 1996 and the Food Irradiation Provision       Regulation 2000 require all foods, or listed ingredients of food, that       have been irradiated, to be labelled with the words "irradiated" or       "treated with ionising radiation".
Therefore the work carried out in SUERC       has provided consumers with substantially enhanced protection from       unlabelled irradiated food.
The International Atomic Energy Agency's Food Irradiation Specialist       states:     EN1788 and EN13751 are the most widely used methods to detect         irradiated foods.
In a regulatory sense, EN1788 and EN13751 are         necessary to ensure that food can be tested for compliance with the law.
Both tests used together are a powerful tool in ensuring compliance with         food irradiation regulations and also labelling regulations [to ensure         that food is correctly labelled as irradiated]....
The use of these tests by regulators has ensured that food businesses         (especially those who deal in food supplements) take action to check         their products for irradiation on a routine basis.
The availability of these tests for use by the food industry has also       helped to settle disputes between companies.
The tests are also available       to be used by consumer groups and others who would like to test the       authenticity of food.
Professor Sanderson's laboratory is recognized as the foremost in the         use of and development of luminescence techniques to detect irradiated         food.
[Full statement available from HEI]     To support enforcement of these regulations, the two standard methods are       employed successfully by governments across Europe.
There have been       several cases where companies have been found to be supplying irradiated       products in violation of the legislation, leading to costly recalls (often       sanction enough) and other enforcement action including at least one UK       prosecution.
Food retailers and suppliers also use Sanderson's methods for       screening ingredients, thus managing their regulatory risk.
Sanderson's laboratory is recognised as the world-leader in the detection       of irradiation in foods.
As well as setting new standards for testing, it       is the only establishment to develop, design and sell PSL systems to       detect irradiated food.
The team has supplied over 250 laboratories       worldwide (134 since 2008) with its own systems to ensure that ingredients       have not been irradiated.
These instruments are capable of making many       tens of thousands of measurements per annum across the world.
Training       courses and reference materials are also supplied to laboratories       worldwide.
