     Diamond modelling research at Exeter has made an impact in two principal       areas.
It has provided De Beers with the scientific understanding it       needed to develop techniques to identify synthetic and treated diamonds,       maintaining consumer confidence in De Beers' diamond trading and, by way       of the company's long-established dominance, in the diamond industry as a       whole.
Secondly, it was a factor in a decision by De Beers to invest &#163;20m       in strengthening its research base in the UK, creating high-level       employment for UK scientists [5.2].
The continued success of De Beers is crucial to the employment of       thousands of people around the world.
The De Beers Group employs       approximately 20,000 people, of whom 17,000 are based in Africa.
The       company has mining operations in South Africa, Botswana, Namibia and       Canada and is part of the Anglo-American Group that has 145,000 employees       in 30 countries.
De Beers sells approximately 40% of the world's rough       diamonds, thus supporting a huge number of downstream jobs in the diamond       trade, from polishing through grading to jewellery manufacture and       retailing.
In 2011, De Beers had sales of $7.4 billion with earnings       before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortisation (EBITDA) of $1.7       billion.
According to the Head of Physics [5.2] at the De Beers Research       Centre in Maidenhead, a key factor in achieving such a strong performance       was the high consumer demand that drove price increases for rough and       polished diamonds.
This, he says, "was underpinned by work supporting       consumer confidence in diamonds in the face of rapid development over the       last 20 years of processes for production of synthetic diamond and       artificial treatment of natural diamond.
It is vitally important for the       diamond trade that consumers can buy diamonds without fear of product       misrepresentation."
Referring specifically to Exeter's contribution, De Beers Head of Physics       said: "Prof Jones's work since 1993 in modelling defects in diamond has       played a major role in helping us build the foundation of knowledge on       which our identification methodology is based and has been an important       factor in enabling the detection and containment of recent attempts to       sell synthetic or treated diamond fraudulently as natural untreated       diamond."
Jones's research, supported by two collaborative awards in science and       engineering (CASE) PhD studentships funded jointly by EPSRC and De Beers       [5.3, 5.4], helped the company to develop and test the idea that vacancy       clusters are responsible for brown colouration in natural diamonds with       low nitrogen content.
It enabled De Beers to understand the mechanism by       which the brown colour is removed by relatively short high temperature       heat treatments, and the identity and stability of by-products of this       heat treatment.
The work also helped unravel the link between       nitrogen-vacancy-hydrogen defects and their optical signatures.
These       defects have not been detected in any natural diamond but tend to be       present in synthetic diamond, changing its colour.
Prof Jones' work helped       De Beers understand these phenomena.
De Beers Head of Physics concludes:       "[Exeter's research] has therefore been of fundamental importance in the       development of a robust identification methodology that has safeguarded       consumer confidence and therefore many jobs in the diamond industry."
De Beers cannot quantify the impact of Exeter's work in economic terms;       to remain one step ahead of counterfeiters, the company discloses very       little information about the methods they use to characterise diamonds.
But further evidence that Jones's research has informed practice at De       Beers comes in journal articles published by De Beers scientists [5.5,       5.6, 5.7], which reference the work.
It is also highlighted by De Beers'       decision, on the basis of Jones's results, to award two further CASE       studentships in 2009 to academics at the University of Manchester, and to       support further experiments at Helsinki University of Technology.
The       published paper from Helsinki [5.8] in 2009 cited Jones's work in their       own calculations and acknowledged discussions with Jones during their own       research.
Jones's work is generally accepted as explaining the role of       vacancy clusters in the colour of diamonds.
According to De Beers Head of Physics, De Beers has an increasingly       strong research base within the UK, employing 56 highly trained people,       including many PhD scientists, at its DTC research centre in Maidenhead.
The DTC collaborates closely with Element Six (E6), part of the De Beers       Group and the world's leading supplier of synthetic industrial diamonds.
De Beers Head of Physics reports that in 2013 E6's global R&amp;D will be       consolidated into the E6 Global Innovation Centre (http://www.e6.com/gic)       near Oxford, where "a pipeline of innovative products will be developed       for customers in industries from oil and gas drilling to machining and       electronics."
He said: "This &#163;20m investment is consolidating E6's existing global       innovation teams in the UK and the choice of location was strongly       influenced by the excellence of UK research in diamond science as       exemplified by Professor Jones at Exeter."
He added: "De Beers organizes       an annual conference to encourage presentation and discussion of new       research relevant to the diamond industry at which Prof Jones has been an       active and valued contributor."
[5.9]
