     Research into electromagnetic and acoustic materials at the University of       Exeter has driven major scientific innovations within QinetiQ.
Much of the       work has been in the military arena of several MoD agencies, including the       Counter-Terrorism Centre.
The importance of Exeter's input is captured by       QinetiQ's investment of &#163;3.7m in Sambles' research group over 15 years to       support stealth-related R&amp;D.     Exeter's input has, according to QinetiQ [5.1], "helped to maintain an       innovative culture" within its Smart Materials Technology (SMT) team,       which has one of the highest patent generation rates in the company.
Fourteen patent applications [5.2-5,5.9] have been filed with Exeter and       the SMT team won the Divisional Prize for Technology Innovation in 2012.
Nine ex-Exeter Physics postgraduates and graduates are currently employed       at QinetiQ Farnborough.
Sambles et al's 2004 paper [3.5] led directly to the creation of the Very       Thin Radar Absorbing Material (VTRAM).
VTRAM, patented in 2004, is       believed to be the world's thinnest practical RF absorber.
Recognising the       commercial opportunities, QinetiQ turned its attention to using VTRAM in       RFID tag technology.
RFID tags are used for automatic identification and       tracking, for example to locate pharmaceuticals in warehouses.
However,       the signal from standard RFID tags cannot be read if the tags are in close       proximity to metals and liquids.
QinetiQ found that a modified version of       VTRAM could be used to design new tags that were shielded from the metal       or liquid, thus RFID tags could be used on any metallic or water-filled       container.
This offered a solution to companies like WalMart who wished to       RFID tag all their goods.
QinetiQ developed a portfolio of patents and       created the spin-out company Omni-ID in March 2007 [5.6].
The company was       founded on the technology originally developed at Exeter with James Brown,       who completed his PhD under Sambles in 2010 and was technical director       from 2007 to 2012.
Omni-ID grew rapidly, from an initial offering of 3 products to a       portfolio in excess of 20 products.
In 2009 it received $15m in funding       from investors on the back of strong initial market demand for its RFID       tags.
It secured another $8m in September 2011 to finance expansion.
In       2012, it won `Best in Show' [5.7] at the RFID Journal Awards for its       Visual Tag System, which provides workers with real-time information and       instructions regarding moving assets.
Its high-frequency RFID tag       technology is being used by the US Government, IBM and Bank of America for       cheaper and more efficient IT asset management; by BP, Shell Oil and       Petrobas to increase the traceability of assets through the oil production       process; by BHP Billiton and Holt Cat for tool inventory; and by GE       Healthcare and Johnson &amp; Johnson for safe monitoring of       pharmaceuticals [5.8].
Specialist tag sales since 2007 total more than $5       million, and it has created 15 jobs in the UK and another 115 around the       world.
The development of several joint patents between Exeter and QinetiQ       contributed to the award in 2009 of a three-year &#163;3.2m EPSRC Knowledge       Transfer Account, one of 12 KTAs in the UK, for the two partners to       explore the commercial potential of the intellectual property generated       over a decade of research.
The KTA focused on developing       anti-counterfeiting technologies; the International Chamber of Commerce       predicts the value of counterfeit goods globally will exceed $1.7 trillion       in 2015.
By 2012 the project generated four patent applications [5.9] and       inspired the creation of Arkiris Ltd [5.10], a company jointly run by       Exeter and QinetiQ to work in the security and tagging markets.
The       Arkiris project has taken IP that was not being used by QinetiQ and       developed it into technology that is being licensed in the fields of       security and anti-counterfeiting.
A QinetiQ funded project at Exeter is       currently with a security customer to integrate a technology described in       two patents into their product.
A further outcome of the research is a collaboration between Exeter,       QinetiQ and Sweden's Institute for Surface Chemistry that has succeeded in       identifying new technologies that can be used to prevent the       counterfeiting of documents.
A three-year &#163;180k project with QinetiQ began       in September 2012, using Exeter's expertise in electromagnetic       metamaterials to explore new stealth technologies based on vibroacoustics.
In the same month, QinetiQ also placed an Industrial CASE award within the       School of Physics and Astronomy to develop a deeper understanding of the       Terahertz regime and explore new markets in what is still relatively       virgin territory for commercial and governmental applications.
