     Researchers trained at Exeter and supervised by Sambles in the       fundamental physics of liquid crystal devices developed with others the       novel technology and knowledge transfer essential to the creation of a       spinout company.
This company has gone on to establish a dominant share of       what is set to become a multi-billion-pound global market in electronic       labelling for retailers.
In the words of ZBD Founder and Director of       Technology [5.1] "On so many levels from: specific knowledge of grating       alignment of liquid crystals, general liquid crystal fabrication       techniques; access to theoretical modelling; to learning how to solve       problems as a team; I've benefitted from my time at Exeter and DERA and       ZBD have benefitted from my training."
Jones, Bryan-Brown and Wood raised &#163;1.5m in Venture Capital funding to       create DERA's first ever spinout company ZBD Displays Ltd in 2000.
The       company has since grown to employ nearly 60 people, based mainly in the       UK, but also in offices in the United States, France, Germany and Hong       Kong.
Twenty of the 60-strong staff are scientists and engineers, seven of       whom are at PhD level.
It is an indication of the influence of Exeter's       research expertise that four of those seven PhD students completed their       degrees under the supervision of Sambles and Barnes at Exeter, in addition       to the fact that Bryan-Brown and Wood began their liquid crystal grating       studies at Exeter.
ZBD was founded to exploit the invention by Bryan-Brown, Brown and Jones       of the Zenithal Bistable Device, which is based on the alignment of liquid       crystals on gratings.
The technology enabled the creation of a new type of       low-power LCD.
The image it generates remains on the display even when the       power is switched off, meaning it operates at a fraction of the cost of       traditional (TFT) LCD displays and is more environmentally friendly.
Supermarkets use it for displaying pricing and product information instead       of printed labels, as it can be updated instantly, and it is applicable to       anything that has a display and is battery-powered, such as an mp3 player       or e-tablet.
The technology enables organisations to update hundreds of       e-paper displays from a central source, ensuring that pricing and other       information is accurate and consistent, while saving on consumables and       the time and effort required to replace paper labels.
ZBD is now the world's leading provider of fully graphic e-paper display       systems for retailers.
As a result of underpinning research into grating       alignment of liquid crystals, the company possesses what it describes as       "an extensive intellectual property portfolio and unparalleled expertise       in LCD design and manufacture".
Growth has been rapid.
ZBD has raised over       &#163;50m of venture funding and, since launching shelf-edge label products in       2008, has sold several million displays across Europe [5.2, 5.3, 5.4].
In       2012, it reported for the previous financial year [5.2]:     - Revenue growth to $19.6m (&#163;12.6m) from $6.4m (&#163;4.1m), maintaining an       annual growth rate of 200% since commercialisation began in 2008;     - A presence in 15 retail sectors in 24 countries and at least 50% of the       world's leading retailers engaged with, or in discussions with, ZBD;     - Growth in retail clients from 52 to 130 with e-paper for retail the       primary revenue driver;     - Growth in non-retail customer numbers from seven to 40 across eight       sectors.
In 2012, ZBD reached the number one spot in the Deloitte Technology Fast       50 [5.3], a ranking of the 50 fastest-growing technology companies in the       UK.
Rankings are based on percentage revenue growth over five years.
ZBD's       revenues grew 17,910% during this period.
In the same year, ZBD ranked fifth       in the Sunday Times' Tech Track 100 league table [5.4, 5.5].
Also in 2012,       ZBD won an Innovation Award from the Institute of Physics [5.6] for its       unique e-paper display technology.
ZBD's Chief Technical Officer Cliff       Jones said that the award was "testament to ZBD's focus on applying new       physics to our unique bistable e-paper technology" [5.7].
The company continues to develop novel displays based upon liquid crystal       grating structures, and maintains a world-leading expertise in liquid       crystal alignment that derives directly from its roots in the Exeter       group.
Its CEO believes its investment in R&amp;D (around 50% of its       funding) is a principal reason behind the company's success in 2009 when       it invested over &#163;3m.
The impact of Exeter's research training can be       traced, through ZBD's success, to the benefits experienced by ZBD's key       customers.
Coop Denmark, a Danish retail giant with revenues of $9.2bn,       has introduced ZBD's electronic shelf labelling to more than 100 of its       stores because it "can use it to make our operations more efficient,       launch promotions more effectively and differentiate our stores from our       competitors" [5.8].
UK baby specialist Kiddicare has committed to using       the labelling in ten new superstores scheduled to open in 2013.
Norwegian       discount retail chain Bunnpris is using ZBD's technology in its 200 stores       [5.9], as are Italian supermarket giant SISA [5.9], T-Mobile Austria,       Estonia's leading telecoms provider EMT, U.S. electronics retailer Vann's       and Dutch electrical retailer Plasmadiscounter [5.9].
In September 2012,       ZBD opened a new HQ in Paris [5.10].
To fully deploy e-paper displays across all products in all retailers       amounts to a global market size of $100B.
While this is large investment       it is still much smaller than the annual efficiency savings that can be       made by retailers by avoiding waste, avoiding lost sales as well as fully       utilising their active pricing systems.
While paper signage has acted as a       bottleneck to fully implementing retail IT, electronic signage now finally       unlocks a fully integrated system.
