     Humphreys' most significant impact is on the awareness and understanding       of international forest       governance among key policy makers.
His research has redefined how forest       politics and forest       policy is perceived by scholars and policy makers.
This has led to       invitations to work with a range       of organisations that provide advice to policy makers, including the       International Union of Forest       Research Organisations [5.6, 5.7, 5.8], European Forest Institute       (the leading forest research       institute in Europe, with 25 member governments and 129 member       organisations), and the United       Nations Forum on Forests (UNFF).
IUFRO has 700 government and non-governmental members and is a member of       the       Collaborative Partnership on Forests, an interagency group created by the       UN to support the       UNFF.
In 2009 Humphreys was one of 46 members of the IUFRO Global Forest       Expert Panel on       the international forest regime.
In recognition of the importance of the       concept that Humphreys had       developed, the Panel used it in its own name: the IUFRO Global Forest       Expert Panel on the       International Forest Regime [5.6].
The concept was thus central to       the Panel's mission and to its       work.
The Panel provided a state-of-the-art research evaluation on forest       governance to policy makers.
Humphreys played a leading role as lead author of two chapters of the       Panel's report (Embracing         Complexity: Meeting the Challenges of International Forest Governance;       5.8) and as contributing       author of a further three.
Text analysis reveals that seven of the eight       chapters cited Humphreys'       work, with 37 bracketed references covering 10 publications, spanning 14       years (1996-2009),       more citations than any other author.
Humphreys' analytical work on the international forest regime [3.4,         3.5] received prominence in the       `Introduction' to the report, which outlined the conceptual framework of       the Panel's work [5.8].
He       thus played a fundamental role in shaping the conceptualisations and       vocabularies of the Panel.
Since January 2011, when the report was launched, it has been viewed 6979       times with 6592       downloads (September 2013 figures), indicating significant global reach.
The secondary reach of Humphreys' conceptual work is evidenced by the       fact that the report was       mandated by the Collaborative Partnership on Forests and therefore       well-positioned to influence       international policy dialogue about forests, particularly in the UN system       [5.9].
Its key findings are       reflected in the deliberations of the United Nations Forum on Forests and       also the Convention on       Biological Diversity.
For instance, one of the major outcomes cited in       media interviews by the lead       editor of the report, Professor Jeremy Rayner, draws directly on       Humphreys' research finding that       forest-focused and forest-related policy must be considered holistically [5.3],       a finding also taken       up by organisations such as the Food and Agriculture Organisation.
One of the impacts of the Panel was a commitment to `problem-focused       evolutionary learning'.
In       pursuit of this recommendation, in 2011 IUFRO established an       interdisciplinary Task Force on       International Forest Governance to explore the relationship between global       and local forest       governance.
Humphreys was asked to join this task force with key       responsibility for preparing an       `Issues and Options' paper on community forest management in Nepal.
He has       since served on a       further IUFRO expert panel on biodiversity [5.6].
He contributed as       a lead author to an IUFRO       report on forests and society [5.7].
He has also served as a policy       adviser on five UK delegations       to the UNFF, most recently in 2009, with responsibility for shaping the UK       position on forest policy       instruments.
Humphreys was also appointed lead UK delegate for European Co-Operation       in Science and       Technology (COST) Action FP1207, Orchestrating Forest-related Policy       Analysis in Europe, in       2013.
This Action is based on the research on national forest programmes       undertaken in COST       E19 where Humphreys was also the lead UK delegate (1999-2003).
Thus,       Humphreys' impact on       forest policy discourse in the current REF period needs to be understood       as a cumulative and       progressive process with growing impact that spans the UK, European and       international levels.
Humphreys' ideas are now regularly referred to in key works on       international forest policy [5.1; 5.2;         5.4; 5.5].The impact of Humphreys' conceptual research on forest       governance was acknowledged       by Dr Marcus Colchester, director of the Forest Peoples Programme:     `Humphreys' influential writings have not only got policy-makers       themselves to realise the       relevance of this third force [civil society], but also to see the       benefits.
These are some of the       main reasons Humphreys' services have been in demand with international       organisations,       who sought to revise their own approaches to forests to catch up with the       trend that       Humphreys early on identified.'
In conclusion, Humphreys has achieved demonstrable policy impacts by       actively shaping the       understanding, language and discourse of senior national, European and       international forest       policy makers and of civil society actors.
