     The Cardiff research has impacted on nanotechnology regulation in a       number of ways:            It has helped shape new Government strategy on nano regulation by         identifying regulatory gaps for UK policy-makers;       Team members drafted a British Standards Institution Publicly         Available Specification (BSI PAS137) - a key measure to address the         regulatory gaps identified by their research;       Government cited it in its rejection of a moratorium on the new         technology in the UK;       It is shaping the research agenda of, and future planning for, UK         industry and scientists as well as contributing to wider public debate;       It is influencing international debates including at the Organisation         for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) and EU levels as well         as in Canada and Germany.
Awareness of regulatory gaps and new Government strategy     In the pre-REF period the DTI report had alerted many organisations to       the gaps in the coverage of the existing regulatory framework.
In the REF       period, the Royal Commission on Environmental Pollution devoted a special       meeting to consideration of the DTI Report in its work on Novel Materials       (2008).
The Commission's report (later reviewed by Lee and Stokes) cited       the "regulatory gap" analysis developed at Cardiff 5.1 and       repeated the call for adapting and extending the existing regulatory       framework "as a matter of urgency".
The House of Lords' Science and       Technology Committee's study on Nanotechnologies and Food (January 2010)       quoted the team's written evidence based on the DTI report: "Even if the       current regulatory regime is capable of addressing the current       applications of nanotechnologies and nanomaterials in the food sector,       some witnesses questioned whether this would remain the case as the       science and applications of nanotechnologies and nanomaterials developed.
The BRASS team, for example, anticipated that `gaps in current legislation       will only grow to be more pronounced...current regulation will, in our       opinion, need to be amended to account for more sophisticated nano-based       products and processes.'"5.2.
Two months later the Government       published its Nanotechnologies Strategy5.3 and stated: "The       [Cardiff] research concluded that while many areas had strong regulatory       cover, some gaps existed.
Departments and Agencies within Government are       working to ensure that regulations and policies in all sectors are applied       appropriately to nanomaterials and that the issues identified by BRASS are       addressed."
The strategy sets out actions in four areas where       nanotechnology is most likely to affect the environment or health: food,       cosmetics, healthcare and the workplace.
A new Publicly Available Specification from the British Standards           Institution     Team research - notably the regulatory gaps identified in the DTI report       and concerns about CSR in nanotech companies analysed in the Defra report       had impact on the Department of Business, Innovation and Skills (BIS) and       the BSI.
The research influenced the BIS decision to commission a BSI PAS       (137 on Nanomaterials and Nanotechnology), which the team was contracted       to write (reflecting its strong profile with industry and good reputation       in government).
As well as drawing on several years of research undertaken       by the team (including the DTI and Defra reports), the drafting of the       Specification (commissioned in 2009) involved close engagement with a       Steering Group composed of key representatives of industry and government5.5.
The team's work on the PAS constituted an important element of central       government's developing strategy for the regulation of nanotechnology.
The       Specification aims to overcome problems identified by the team, such as       the lack of nanotechnology-specific regulatory measures and the potential       health and environmental consequences of nanomaterials.
PAS 137 has been       designed as the reference point for the whole of British industry,       signposting regulation and standards relevant to researching,       manufacturing, marketing, managing and distributing nanomaterials at all       stages of industrial development.
Lee, Stokes, Vaughan and Groves made up       the group funded to create PAS 137 which was written between 2009 and 2013       (and published in October 2013)5.5.
Rejection of a nanotechnology moratorium     Non-governmental organisations (e.g.
Friends of the Earth, Action Group       on Erosion, Technology and Concentration) called for a moratorium on       nanotechnology development and use until the risks could be more       accurately assessed.
Research by the Cardiff team, including Stokes' 2009       paper3.4, concluded a moratorium would incur high       administrative and compliance costs and would have an inhibitive effect on       innovation.
This research underpinned a briefing to policy-makers helping       to shape a 2009 UK Government statement on nanotechnology: "The Government       agrees with...the Economic and Social Research Centre for Business       Relationships, Accountability, Sustainability and Society that a       moratorium on the marketing of nanotechnologies would not be an       appropriate response.
"5.4     Impact on industry and the wider public     As a direct result of the DTI report, Lee became an invited member of       Defra's Social and Economic Dimensions of Nanotechnologies Task Force, its       overarching body - the Nanotechnology Research Coordination Group (which       met until the end of 2009) and the Research Councils United Kingdom       Nanoscience Strategic Advisory Team.
These groups set research objectives       on behalf of government departments, regulatory agencies and research       councils, helping to shape the research agendas and horizon-scanning       activities of industry practitioners, scientists and research councils       responsible for the research and development of novel technologies5.7.
Research has also contributed to the development of public information       resources.
Stokes compiled pages about the regulation system for the Nano       &amp; Me (www.nanoandme.org)       website funded by the Department for Business Innovation and Skills (BIS),       described by Professor Andrew Maynard (science and technology blogger at       2020science.org), as `quite possibly the best one- stop-shop for down to       earth information on nanotech around' and by the Nanotechnology       Stakeholder Forum as "a good platform from which to engage stakeholders       including the public, consumers and industry".
Lee and Stokes wrote a       section on regulation for the UK Environmental Law Association's website       "Law and Your Environment" (for advice agencies and citizens) which gets       30,000 monthly visits.
International impact     The Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD)       recommended the DTI report to its Working Party on Manufactured       Nanomaterials (WPMN - particularly Steering Group 5 on regulatory       measures).
WPMN held six meetings (meeting numbers 3 to 8) between 2008       and 2011.
In so doing OECD identified the DTI report's relevance beyond       the UK: "The [DTI] report finds that in the interim, the existing       framework can be adapted generally by ensuring that where appropriate the       regulation extends to nanomaterials.
In this context the work of       international standard setting bodies is crucial in resolving issues of       definition and taxonomy, allowing effective standard setting in relation       to nanoparticles and opening up the prospects of a uniform global response       to the marketing and circulation of nanomaterials.
"5.8     In 2009 the team submitted written evidence on regulation and engagement       to the EU Consultation on a Strategic Nanotechnology Action Plan.
In the       same year, in Canada, the Regulatory Governance Initiative noted that "an       interesting aspect of the Cardiff report was their approach of examining a       lifecycle approach to the regulation of nanomaterials"5.9.
The       German Federal Institute for Occupational Health and Safety cited the DTI       report as contributing to the "statutory background" to its research       strategy5.10 (which identified urgent priorities implemented       between 2008 and 2010).
