     Docherty's research has had an impact on transport policy across several       jurisdictions.
This impact       arose from his sustained engagement with policy makers, as detailed below.
Rail Devolution: Foundation for Impact       Rail devolution was the biggest transfer of power to Scotland from       Westminster since 1999, giving       powers to Scottish Ministers to specify what the rail industry should       deliver in Scotland.
The       Scottish Parliament proposed the Transport (Scotland) Bill in 2004 to       incorporate these additional       devolved powers.
On the basis of his research expertise, Docherty acted as       Special Adviser to the       Scottish Parliament's Transport and Local Government Committee on the       Transport (Scotland) Bill,       providing extensive oral evidence to the Committee on 21 December 2004 [1].
During that       meeting, Docherty advised the Committee on several issues raised by the       Bill.
In particular,       Docherty advised the Committee that the level of powers attributed to the       Regional Transport       Partnerships (RTPs) which were to be established under the Bill might not       be strong enough to       enable them to make a difference to the delivery of transport policy       throughout Scotland.
Drawing       from his research based knowledge, Docherty advised the Committee about       arrangements for       equivalent organisations in England, explaining that `not only is funding       proportionate to the size of       the councils, but representation is proportionate, too, and there is a       requirement on organisations       to try to reflect the politically partisan as well as the geographical       nature of the areas that they       cover' [1].
The final report by the Transport and Local Government Committee cites       Docherty's evidence on       12 occasions and draws on his insights on these matters to recommend that       greater powers for       RTPs be investigated as well as a greater level of proportionality in the       size, political representation       and funding for such organisations be considered by Ministers as the Bill       progressed [2].
During its       second         stage of passage through the Scottish Parliament, amendments were       made to the Bill, in       order to address the Committee's concerns, including those about political       representation in RTPs;       the Bill was subsequently enacted in the Transport (Scotland) Act 2005.
The impact of the transfer of powers under rail devolution has extended       well beyond the initial       introduction of the new legislation.
Docherty's research based expertise       has continued to       contribute to ongoing developments in transport policy and planning since       2008, which have only       been possible due to rail devolution.
In recognition of his research expertise, Docherty was appointed as one       of two non-executive       Directors of Transport Scotland, serving in this role until 2010.
Commenting on Docherty's       appointment, the Chief Executive of Transport Scotland noted that his       skills and knowledge would       `benefit not only the Agency but also the businesses and communities of         Scotland that were         dependent on its trunk road and railway networks' [3].
Over       the course of his appointment,       Docherty drew from his research to shape and influence Transport       Scotland's major transport       plans, policies and strategies [4].
A key example from this period       is the Strategic Transport         Projects Review.
Strategic Transport Projects Review, 2008       Transport Scotland's Strategic Transport Projects Review (STPR) was the       first nationwide, multi-modal,       evidence based review of Scotland's transport system.
Launching the STPR       on 10       December 2008, Transport Minister, Stewart Stevenson MSP, noted that it       was Scotland's largest       and most ambitious Transport Plan.
The STPR recommended a programme of       interventions that       included new infrastructure projects, better incentives for sustainable       travel and more carefully       targeted investment across the country.
Docherty was appointed as a member of the STPR Board, which was       responsible for approving       the finalised STPR plan sent to Scottish Ministers in 2009.
Docherty made       specific contributions       based on his research on processes of transport policy formulation and the       politics of public       investment decisions to the following proposals:            The adoption of the strategic transport service objective for the &#163;1bn         Replacement Forth         Crossing project, to maintain cross-Forth transport links for all modes         to at least the level of         service offered in 2006;       The adoption of the primary strategic objective for the Edinburgh         transport improvement         package to maintain the 60-minute commutable labour market area at the         current level, with a         particular focus on linking areas of economic activity [4].
The STPR identified 29 major transport investment priorities across       Scotland involving a multi-billion       pound spend by the Scottish Government over 20 years.
Key projects       identified by Transport       Scotland in STPR were prioritised by Scottish Ministers, with the       Replacement Forth Bridge       Crossing scheme proving a core focus of investment and change.
The Forth       Replacement       Crossing is Scotland's biggest infrastructure project in a generation,       with the transformation to the       Forth Bridge Crossing underway and due to be completed in 2016.
The       Scottish Government       recognised the significance of this STPR recommendation by committing to       enact legislation,       bringing the Forth Road Bridge Act 2013 into force in March 2013.
In June 2013, Audit Scotland estimated that &#163;7.5bn investment had been       committed by the       Scottish Government to five of the main projects recommended in the STPR,       including the Forth       Replacement Crossing, over the next 30 years.
Urban Transport , Cabinet Office, 2009       Drawing on his transport appraisal and prioritisation research, Docherty       provided evidence to the       Prime Minister's Strategy Unit in 2009 to support its preparation of a       report on urban transport and       its contribution to the economy and quality of life.
Docherty met with the       Senior Civil Servant within       the Strategy Unit to inform and review the report.
The evidence presented       in the Strategy Unit's       review, to which Docherty contributed, suggested a growing need for       government to define a long-term       vision for urban transport which would rebalance its competing demands,       allowing cities to:            enable mobility by promoting a wider choice of journey;       aim to reduce congestion and increase reliability, whilst promoting         greater levels of walking and         cycling; and       assist streets and public spaces to become more enjoyable places to         be, where exposure to         harmful emissions is reduced, and quality of life is transformed.
The final report, An           Analysis of Urban Transport, was published by the Cabinet       Office in December       2009, setting out recommendations to the Westminster Government,       demonstrating Docherty's       research contribution to strategic discussions and planning by policy       makers and politicians at UK       level.
Planning Act 2009       From 2004-2010, based on his established research expertise in transport       policy, Docherty served       as a member of the Commission for Integrated Transport's (CfIT) Academic       panel.
CfIT was an       independent public body established to advise the Government on the       implementation of       integrated transport policy, monitor developments across transport,       environment, health and other       sectors and to review government progress towards meeting objectives.
As       part of his role       Docherty prepared a synthesis of his work to inform the CfIT's response to       the Government's 2007       White Paper on Planning for a Sustainable Future.
The proposed       legislation sought, among other       things, to speed up the process for approving major new infrastructure       projects, including airports,       roads, and harbours.
Docherty's synthesised research [5] was discussed at the       Commission's Plenary meeting of 19       July 2007 where the Commission noted that key issues he raised would       inform the CfIT response       to the White Paper [6].
The CfIT response [7] borrows       directly from Docherty's paper where it       discusses, for example, assumptions the White Paper makes about       population, future demand for       land, and housing which were directly taken from earlier government       reviews.
Following Docherty,       the CfIT response argued for greater scrutiny, and sensitivity testing,       before such assumptions       could be used in national policy and planning.
The CfIT response directly       influenced the CfIT's       input into the Planning Bill 2008 (subsequently Planning Act       2009).Docherty's research thus had       an impact during the review period through the influence of the CfIT on       this legislation [8].
City of Edinburgh Council 2012       Docherty's research-driven expertise on the development of urban and       transport planning and       policy has recently helped inform the City of Edinburgh Council's future       development strategies       and plans [9].
His research was used to make recommendations on how       radical transport and       related policies could revitalise Edinburgh's city centre, whilst ensuring       the sustainable       development of Edinburgh's infrastructure and making it an innovative and       economically vibrant       space.
Docherty's engagement with Edinburgh City Council has also included       a seminar       presentation (22 February 2012) delivered to the members of the Council       and the business       community at an event focused on Restoring Edinburgh as a City for         People.
