     Prof Kotsogiannis' research has had clear practical impacts due to its       direct relevance to the policy debate about fiscal inefficiencies.
His       findings have informed the debate on this issue both at key international       institutions and in countries directly affected through their federal       structure, including Germany, Italy, Switzerland, France, Australia,       Canada, and the US.
Decentralization (`federalism') and reforms of       intergovernmental fiscal relations have been keenly debated in these       highly decentralized countries, in some cases resulting in new       legislation.
These debates, and the relative merits of the reforms have       informed further research using Kotsogiannis' research, which has       influenced a similar discussion beginning in the UK, where Scottish       independence could have wide-ranging fiscal implications.
In the German state of Mecklenburg-West Pomerania, the second part of a       report on revenue sharing and fiscal equalization commissioned by the       interior ministry was published in 2008 (1).
The report, which       cited Kotsogiannis' research on "accountability and fiscal equalization",       was intensively discussed among members of the administration and state       government, and presented to a committee of the state parliament.
The       initial report, published earlier in 2006, also cited Kotsogiannis'       research, and with reference to the arguments put forward in both these       documents the state government proposed a reform of the law of fiscal       equalization of the state Mecklenburg West Pomerania       (Finanzausgleichsgesetz Mecklenburg-Vorpommern, FAG M-V) in 2009.
The       reports were cited extensively in the reasons given for the legislative       proposal, and the reform was duly enacted later in 2009.
Similarly, an Italian report published in 2008 (2), for the Prime       Minister (Presidenza del Consiglio dei Ministri), made recommendations for       federal reforms citing Kotsogiannis' work on the issues of tax base       commonality in its supporting arguments.
In 2012 some proposals made by       this report were enacted by the government of Mario Monti as part of the       spending review.
These included the introduction of a new `citt&#224;       metropolitana' (metropolitan municipality), to rationalise and contain       public administration costs.
In France, the French Agency for Development cited Kotsogiannis' research       in a study on decentralization (2011) (3), highlighting his name as       one of the researchers who have put the issue of overlapping taxation back       on the policy agenda.
In addition to Kotsogiannis' research informing earlier key IMF Country       Papers for Switzerland, he has presented his findings to the IMF (twice in       April and May 2008), and the World Bank (twice in March and June 2011),       with audiences in both cases being made up of staff members of these       institutions responsible for providing advice, and funds, to countries       worldwide.
Kotsogiannis' findings also informed the OECD's declared goal       of helping governments re-establish healthy public finances through a 2009       report (4) entitled `Taxes and Grants: on the revenue mix of       sub-central governments', which again cites Kotsogiannis' research.
Professor Bev Dahlby (University of Alberta), an influential economist in       Canada, who holds advisory roles in both the Canadian National Statistics       Council and the Fraser Institute, cited Kotsogiannis' research in a 2008       article on British Columbia's incentive-based tax cuts (5).
The       article was written for the Fraser Institute, an independent public policy       research organization which has been ranked as Canada's top think tank,       investigates the economic growth, investment, and revenue effects of       personal and corporate income taxation, which provides policy advice to       the Canadian government.
Dahlby has also written a book, The Marginal         Cost of Public Funds: Theory and Applications, published in 2008,       which dedicates an entire chapter to Kotsogiannis' research.
In 2010, Dahlby gave a presentation on the Canadian experience of the       impact of tax competition between sub-central governments to the OECD in       Bern, Switzerland.
In it he cited Kotsogiannis' research evidence from       Canada in front of an audience made up of members of the OECD's fiscal       federalism network (6).
In addition to the above, Kotsogiannis' work has been cited in numerous       policy documents of international organizations, such as the IMF, the       World Bank (7), (at which he acted as a consultant in 2011), the       OECD, and the EU, as well as policy documents of countries which have       undertaken public sector reforms, such as the aforementioned Germany and       Italy.
His work has also directly informed research at the IMF, as shown       by an article published in 2008 (8) that explores the need for       better understanding of the relationship between fiscal decentralization       and efficiency and macroeconomic outcomes.
