     The underpinning research summarised in this case study has delivered       benefits directly to a public service provider, London Underground Ltd       (LUL) and a leading international engineering consultancy, Parsons       Brinckerhoff (PB).
It has also provided professional technical guidance to       building services engineers and influenced the use or consideration of       ground source geothermal cooling in other underground railways and       networks worldwide.
Using LSBU research findings together with data emanating from the KTP       programme, LUL and its client engineer PB invested significant resources       and expertise in assessing groundwater movement across the London basin to       identify potential locations for the implementation of the technology       (2008-2009).
The successful Victoria pilot provided LUL with reassurance       and confidence that the technology was viable.
As a result, LUL has       incorporated the cooling concept into its &#163;500m plans for the Victoria       line upgrade [1].
The Victoria pilot also enabled a number of additional       lessons to be learnt by LUL, including an understanding of the energy       usage involved, the optimal system design configuration and the most       appropriate maintenance regime for this cooling technology.
These lessons       have been carried forward by LUL and its engineering contractors into the       final designs for future station cooling schemes [1].
LSBU research in       collaboration with PB also indicated a potential benefit for the waste       thermal energy to provide useful heating output for local infrastructure.
This offers further carbon savings such that a typical LUL mechanical       ventilation shaft could be used to produce heat energy for local buildings       at half the carbon cost of a condensing gas boiler and with one sixth of       the system energy requirements.
LUL are currently investigating the       commercial prospects of this associated benefit [1].
LUL are basing most of their current station cooling installations on       cooling concepts proposed by the LSBU research.
In 2012, LUL installed       such a scheme at Green Park station.
This scheme has been recognised for       its environmental impact, winning an Environmental Innovation award       sponsored by Eurotunnel at the 2012 Rail Business Awards [2], giving       exposure and recognition to LUL and its partners.
The judge's comments       included: "A clear need at a customer level requiring an innovative         solution &#8212; clear objective, nicely explained trial and correction         process of arriving at final workable design, with an excellent         implementation process and an outcome delivering real benefits &#8212; a real         marvel".
Aspects of the technology implemented and developed at the       Victoria and Green Park schemes have also been adopted by LUL at the       Oxford Circus installation which was completed in 2012 [1].
The schemes at Green Park and Oxford Circus reduce the carbon footprint       relative to other more traditional cooling schemes, providing a more       comfortable, lower cost and more efficient travelling experience for those       using Green Park (34m passenger entries and exits per annum) and Oxford       Circus (81m)) as well as to LUL station staff.
[3]     As a result of the successful KTP collaboration with LSBU and work with       LUL, PB have created a new professional level post and successfully       integrated their traditional tunnel ventilation capability with these new       sustainable cooling technologies.
To date this has generated over &#163;500k of       additional revenue for PB.
The ability to successfully design and analyse       groundwater cooling schemes for underground railway tunnels is now a       marketable skill [4].
The strong relationship established between PB and LSBU continues to       bring mutual benefits.
For example, (i) PB are being consulted by other       metros around the world with similar temperature issues to London [4];       (ii) LUL has commissioned further contract research with LSBU (2009-2013;       &#163;500k) to investigate novel cooling processes within underground systems;       (iii) LSBU have been approached by Crossrail to study groundwater cooling       systems for, and their potential benefit to, the Crossrail programme; (iv)       the LSBU research was recognised by the Institute of Refrigeration in       2008, winning the Ted Perry award for sustainable cooling of underground       railways through enhancement of the heat sink effect [5]; (v) a number of       joint conference papers by LUL, PB and LSBU have been produced since 2009,       including at the CIBSE Technical symposium in 2011 [6,7, 8].
Two important industry-leading Technical Memoranda have also been       generated directly as a consequence of the LSBU research on ground source       cooling [9, 10].
Specifically, the CIBSE Technical Memorandum on Ground       Water Cooling systems directly refers to the collaboration between LSBU,       LUL and PB, and refers to the Victoria trial.
The LUL groundwater cooling system has generated considerable interest       worldwide.
The Naples Metro have applied the method [11] and a number of       other underground operators are actively contemplating its use.
For       example, the Metropolitan Transport Authority is evaluating its use to       cool the New York Metro [12], as are metros in Vienna, Glasgow, Beijing       and Ontario.
