     Professor Bovis' research focused academic debate and influenced       discourse on the socio-economic and industrial policy dimensions of public       procurement in the EU and its Member States.
Statement of impact: The underpinning research has had significant       organisational impact upon the UK Government and the UK legislator by       shaping change in the regulatory environment of public procurement and       influencing parliamentary debate and scrutiny respectively.
Details of impact and justification:     In 2011, Professor Bovis was appointed as lead counsel to the UK Cabinet       Office to advise on public procurement reform.
The UK Government sought to       investigate the potential of economic growth through public procurement.
Research outputs 3 and 5 provided Professor Bovis with the variables       needed to ascertain whether EU Member States (such as France and Germany)       apply the EU Public Procurement rules in an advantageous way for       domestically-based suppliers.
The research found that there is a striking       difference in policy application of public procurement between the UK and       the leading EU Member States, which promote country-based employment       though public procurement.
As a result of this study, the UK Government aligned UK policy with other       EU Member States and adopted a more strategic perspective on public       procurement.
His recommendations were fully accepted by the UK Cabinet       Office and have been acknowledged by that Government department as       "particularly valuable for reforming public procurement in the UK" as a       result of the amendments of the EU Public Procurement regime during       2011-2013.
The UK Government has sought Professor Bovis' continuous       engagement to implement and affect public procurement policy change [6].
Statement of impact: The underpinning research has had an impact       on public policy, law and services by influencing the scrutiny of the       application of public procurement in the EU and in the UK, and reflecting       on public procurement regulation as a policy choice for national       governments.
Details of impact and justification:     In 2011, Professor Bovis appeared before the House of Commons Select       Committee on Transport and provided written and oral evidence on public       procurement application in EU Member States and the UK.
In his testimony,       recourse to research outputs 1 and 2 allowed Professor Bovis to provide       the parameters of the public policy implications for the Member States       arising from EU public procurement regulation.
The outcome of the       parliamentary enquiry was that it published its report and drew attention       to the need for the UK Government to link economic growth, employment and       manufacturing policies with its public procurement strategy [7].
The       result of the parliamentary enquiry also led the House of Commons Select       Committee on Transport to ask the UK National Audit Office (NAO) to       investigate the decision by the UK Secretary of State for Transport to       award the &#163;1.4bn Thameslink project to Siemens AG instead of the UK-based       Bombardier train manufacturer [8].
The NAO published its report in June       2013 and criticised the UK Government over considerable delays to the       project and questioned its value-for-money objectives [8].
In addition, Professor Bovis appeared before the House of Commons Select       Committee on Public Administration and provided written and oral evidence       on defence procurement and industrial policy in the UK in 2013 [9].
In his       testimony, Professor Bovis drew on research outputs 3 and 5 and provided       evidence on emerging trends in industrial policy, which allow for national       priorities to be met within the overall regulatory process of the       integration of public markets.
This led to the House of Commons Select       Committee on Public Administration publishing its Report to the UK       Government on Defence and Government Procurement in July 2013, which       contains Professor Bovis' full findings and recommendations, and advises       that the UK Government apply defence procurement policy in line with       industrial policy [10].
In 2012, Professor Bovis was commissioned by the UK Office of Fair       Trading (OFT) to assess the impact of public procurement regulation on the       future of Post Office Ltd.
The outcomes of the research were underpinned       by Professor Bovis' research outputs 2 and 4 and confirmed the influence       of ordo-liberal theories in public administrations of EU Member States.
The Office of Fair Trading, which is the ultimate regulator of the Post       Office Ltd, has utilised Professor Bovis' recommendations to influence the       UK Public Service Bill in 2012 [15].
Statement of impact: The research has had significant impact on       society through media engagement, citations in policy consultations and       strategy documents, which shaped public debate for responsible public       procurement.
Details of impact and justification:     Professor Bovis has actively engaged with the UK media in disseminating       his research to influence public debate for supporting national industry       and for promoting employment through public procurement.
His appearances on the BBC Newsnight programme on 14 July 2011 and on BBC       Radio 4 on 12 July 2011, together with extensive coverage in the national       press during 2011-12, received UK-wide recognition.
This is because       Professor Bovis urged the UK government and its agencies to use       socio-economic award criteria in public procurement instead of the       cheapest offer.
As a result, in 2012 he was invited by the Royal Academy       of Engineering to make representations to the UK Government based on his       research on the issue of UK manufacturing capacity and its links with       public procurement.
The outcome has been the saviour of the Derby-based UK       train manufacturer, Bombardier, as it was awarded the &#163;1bn Crossrail       contract using criteria that went beyond price, thus safeguarding in       excess of 1,400 jobs [13].
His appearance on BBC File on 4 (20 March 2012) provided a critique of       the Scottish Government's decision to procure foreign components and       supplies for the Forth Bridge replacement, one of the most important       infrastructure projects in the UK for the last 50 years, and offered an       informed debate on opportunities for British industry arising from the UK       Government Procurement Review [12].
Professor Bovis was commissioned by the Trades Union Congress (TUC) in       2012 to investigate the relation of demand structures on railway rolling       stock procurement with the application of public procurement rules in the       UK.
As a result of his recommendations, which were made with reference to       research outputs 4 and 5, the TUC successfully instigated the 2012       campaign, Save British Train Manufacturing [11].
Professor Bovis' learned expertise, which is underpinned by his research       on public procurement in the EU (especially research outputs 1-5), has       been used by and in a range of other public hearings, such as in the EU       Committee of the Regions, the EU Parliament, and the Hungarian National       Procurement Council [14].
