     This case study focuses on impacts in Australia and New Zealand (NZ) that       were enabled by two CSS researchers working with non-academic partner       organisations.
The model for impact generation in both countries was:        In Australia, Professor M Jackson has been working with the International         Centre for Complex Project Management (ICCPM).
The purpose has been       to improve the delivery of complex projects by applying systems thinking.
Jackson's research on CST was strongly influential in the design of       ICCPM's Complex Project Manager Competency Standards, Version 4.1,       2012 (see especially Preface, Foreword, `Projects as Systems' and View 1:       `Systems Thinking and Integration').
The CEO of ICCPM can attest to the       influence of Jackson's research on the Standards [7].
Jackson's work was also central in the design of an Executive Masters       Programme in Business (with streams in `Complex Project Management' and       `Strategic Procurement'), launched in 2008 and jointly developed by ICCPM,       Queensland University of Technology (QUT) and the Defence Materiel       Organisation (DMO).
The aim was to provide a vehicle to educate senior       project managers in the Standards.
Jackson's 2003 book is a core text on       the programme; Module 1 (`Systems Thinking') is based on his CST research;       he has authored a `Learning Guide' and case studies for this module; and       regularly teaches on the degree.
The DMO has formally audited the       programme and identified "a 5% cost/benefit realisation if graduates from       the program are placed on major DMO projects after completing the program"       (letter from the General Manager Commercial, Australian Government       Department of Defence, 30/5/2011 [8]).
Finally, the ICCPM Executive Education course `Systems Thinking and       Complex Project Management', the most popular of its foundation courses,       was developed by Jackson; it uses his 2003 book; employs a `Learning       Guide' authored by him; and Jackson, as an Associate Partner of ICCPM,       frequently delivers the course.
Since its launch in August 2011, this       course, for which Jackson has intellectual property rights, has been       taught to over 250 delegates.
There have been 11 deliveries in Australia       to 325 delegates from organisations such as DMO-Maritime, DMO-Land       Systems, Defence &#8212; Joint Logistics Command, Australian Submarine       Corporation (ASC), Boeing, Australian Aerospace and Airservices; with       further international deliveries in Canada (Thales), the USA and the UK       (BAE Systems, twice).
The CEO of ICCPM, can evidence this [7].
In New Zealand, Professor G Midgley has been working with the       government-owned Institute of Environmental Science and Research       (ESR).
In 2003, he took up the full-time position of Senior Science Leader       in that organisation.
For 7 years he led and contributed to ESR's systemic       interventions in both New Zealand and Australia.
He also mentored ESR       social scientists in the application of CST before returning to CSS in       2010.
ESR continues to use the ideas from his Hull research to inform       applied projects for the benefit of government, stakeholders and       communities.
An impact on ESR of using Midgley's research to inform       funding bids is income from 2008 to 2012 of NZ$6.2m.
Knock-on impacts for       ESR's government clients and communities include the following:     In 2010, ESR undertook a project in partnership with Environment       Canterbury (ECan), the Regional Government, to identify strategic water       management options for Canterbury, NZ.
The methodology for the project was       selected through reflections by the CE of ECan on Midgley's 2000 book,       plus discussions with the author (the CE may be contacted to provide       verification [9]).
The CE has said that the project was pivotal in       the successful development and adoption of the Canterbury Water Management       Strategy (CWMS), which is designed to balance economic growth and       environmental protection into the future.
Beneficiaries include farmers,       the Regional Council, environmental groups, a M&#257;ori tribe, and all water       users in Canterbury.
Prior to the CWMS, there were entrenched conflicts       over water allocations and water quality, plus costly court cases and       decision paralysis in the Council.
The ESR project identified options that       all stakeholders could live with.
Prior to ESR's work with ECan, a       forecast was commissioned of the economic impacts that a CWMS would have       if it was able to overcome the stakeholder conflict.
This was valued at up       to NZ$1.7bn of additional GDP for NZ (Harris, 2009) [10].
In 2007/8, Midgley undertook an evaluation of the process of producing       four `Roadmaps' for 30 years of national investment in biotechnology,       nanotechnology, energy and environment research.
The client was the NZ       Ministry for Research, Science and Technology (MoRST).
The evaluation drew       upon research on boundary critique (e.g.
Midgley et al, 1998; Midgley,       2000) to inform both stakeholder identification and the design of a       participative workshop to develop recommendations for change.
"The final       evaluation report... was discussed by the Ministry's Senior Management       team in a debrief of the direction setting process and influenced thinking       on how best to communicate the rationale for future direction setting       documents" (testimonial from the CEO of MoRST [11]).
A key       recommendation from the evaluation was that stakeholder engagement should       happen before a 1st draft of a Roadmap is produced.
This "had       an immediate impact on how further direction setting work was undertaken.
A follow-up Food Roadmap took into account the need for stakeholder       engagement before too many decisions were made, and paid more attention to       explaining how any information from those consulted would be used" (CEO of       MoRST [11]).
Immediate beneficiaries were MoRST (who had the means       to make the Food Roadmap, and subsequent direction setting documents, more       responsive to stakeholders than previous roadmaps) and science and       industry organisations (who were offered greater influence on the framing       of the Food Roadmap).
In 2009, Midgley was commissioned by the Department of Primary Industries       (DPI), Victoria State Government, Australia, to externally review the       DPI's systems thinking programme of activities.
He also gave public       lectures on his research to over 600 policy makers; facilitated 3       workshops with DPI staff on how to use CST ideas in their practice; and       met senior managers to discuss how the DPI's systems thinking program       could be further developed.
These engagements all drew heavily on       Midgley's (2000) research.
The impacts on DPI included renewal of funding       for systems thinking capability development (AU$250k); agreement by senior       managers that systems thinking should be listed as an `essential skill'       for staff; and two DPI projects worth AU$470k applied Midgley's ideas to       facilitate knock-on impacts for rural communities.
One project facilitated       farmers in influencing the State Government's strategic spatial planning;       and the other is supporting 6 local governments in collaborating on       regional development (see testimonial evidence from the Centre Leader,       Department of Primary Industries, Parkville [12]).
This case       illustrates a `domino effect': Midgley's research underpinned ESR work       with the DPI, which in turn used the ideas to generate their own impacts       in local communities.
