     In 2003, Luis Pinz&#243;n started a second systemic action research project       with the Alternative Dispute Resolution Centre at the BCC.
It was       explicitly designed to draw on Midgley and Pinz&#243;n's research (reported       earlier) to develop the Hermes Programme.
Hermes is a national,       schools-based programme designed to disseminate conflict resolution       techniques throughout Colombia, focusing first and foremost on influencing       the next generation.
The intention is to make a longer-term impact on the       high levels of violence in Colombian society.
Hermes has been operating       since 2003, but only impacts since January 2008 are reported below.
However, it is important to acknowledge earlier activities because the       post-2008 successes were path-dependent on the original research, the good       working relationship between Luis Pinz&#243;n and the BCC, and the effective       early development of Hermes (2003-2007).
The design of Hermes in 2003 was influenced by the underpinning research       in several ways.
First, the programme was based on an analysis of       stakeholders' interests and moral frameworks, using the novel approach       presented in Midgley and Pinz&#243;n (2013).
Second, the mediation approaches       incorporated into Hermes were selected or designed through reflection on       the mediation paradigms discussed in that same paper.
Third, an exercise       was undertaken to critique the BCC's previous experiences of developing       mediation programmes, using the theory of boundaries and ethics discussed       in Midgley and Pinz&#243;n (2011).
Fourth, a reflective practice approach was       institutionalised in Hermes, based firmly on the reflective practice model       proposed by Midgley and Pinz&#243;n (2013).
Fifth, all the professionals       associated with Hermes have been trained with explicit reference to the       theory, modelling language and findings from the Hull-based research.
These professionals have passed the knowledge on to many thousands of       school-based trainees.
Hermes is currently working in 360 schools [1]; operates with 89       professionals who work directly with schools and local communities; trains       approximately 50,000 people per year (including students and their       parents, teachers and school staff) in basic conflict resolution skills;       and disseminates peaceful conflict resolution methods among a wider       population.
All of these stakeholders should be viewed as indirect       beneficiaries of the research and its impact on Hermes.
In addition to reaching children in schools, those who leave schools (and       also volunteer school managers) are invited to participate in the       programme as members of a conflict management network called RENACEG       (National Network of School Managers and Conciliators).
This network       "allows them to extend their influence beyond the boundaries of their own       school and benefit children in other educational institutions" (UNICEF,       2009, p.21) [6].
In 2013, approximately 10,000 school leavers are active       participants in the network, organising `conciliation workshop days' in       local communities, which help to resolve and manage local conflicts.
RENACEG also disseminates information on dispute resolution theory and       methods, drawing directly and indirectly on the Hull research.
Some       volunteers have gone on to become Justices of the Peace.
In 2008, the United Nations Economic Commission for Latin America and the       Caribbean (UNECLAC) and the W.K.
Kellogg Foundation awarded the Hermes       Programme 2nd prize in the contest Experiences in Social         Innovation [6].
By 2009, the Hermes Programme had already "reached       some 1,216,000 people in the school community" [5], and recently the       number of contacts with the public has increased through a programme of       public lectures: in February-June 2013 alone, 343,872 individuals attended       Hermes talks on peaceful conflict resolution [2].
The Hermes programme operates in the poorest areas of 21 Colombian cities       and surrounding zones.
It works mainly with 12-17 year olds, and is eager       to involve youngsters with violent backgrounds, either at home or at       school.
According to the United Nations Children's Fund: "The most       important impact of the Hermes Programme has been the consolidation of a       conflict negotiation model with students and teachers as central actors in       processes that operate based on respect for the skills and abilities of       each individual.
This strays from a completely different disciplinary       model founded on the unquestioned authority of teachers and senior       management.
The model is built on a flexible basis and can therefore       accommodate the specific characteristics of each educational institution,       its students, communities and time" [6].
The "conflict negotiation model"       mentioned in the quotation is a development of the one presented in Pinz&#243;n       and Midgley (2000).
Further statistics on Hermes can be found in BCC (2013) [1], and a       summary follows.
Between 1 January 2008 and 30 June 2013, the number of       schools participating in Hermes increased from 225 to 360.
Between these       same dates, over 2.75 million people participated in courses or public       lectures.
In addition, 106,574 community-based mediation sessions were run       to address local conflicts.
The number of mediation sessions has increased       year on year, with over 17,000 taking place from February-June 2013 alone.
In 2011, a marketing organisation (Synovate Agencia de Investigaci&#243;n de       Mercados) carried out an independent study of levels of satisfaction with       the Hermes Programme among the educational community (including students,       teachers and school administrative staff).
98% of students said that the       programme was useful or very useful, and 98% also stated that the       programme helped them to acquire skills to improve their interpersonal       relationships with others.
94% of all respondents stated that the       programme had produced improvements in their schools, and 99% said that       they would want to participate in the programme again if they had the       opportunity to do so [1].
Other independent studies also confirm these       findings [2, 3, 4].
In 2011, the World Chambers Federation selected the Hermes Programme to       be one of 5 finalists (out of 71 participants) in the World Chambers       Competition under the category of Best Corporate Social Responsibility       Project [1].
This competition "aims to encourage chambers everywhere to       develop innovative projects that have a positive impact on their       respective communities and that can potentially be adopted by other       chambers around the world" [7].
All the above information can be independently corroborated by the       Director of the Hermes Programme in Bogot&#225;, Colombia [8].
