     (1) Influence on clinical practice and capacity.
Anxiety disorders       affect up to 19% of children and young people (Costello, 2004), have a       significant impact on children's home, social and academic lives, and are       known to be a risk for serious mental health difficulties in later life,       including ongoing anxiety, depression and substance abuse.
For almost       twenty years, the `gold standard' treatment for childhood anxiety       disorders has been 9-16 weekly sessions of individual       cognitive-behavioural treatment (CBT) with children, but this requires       specialists and involves more sessions than is often feasible in the NHS.
On the basis of the team's phase one research and her clinical expertise       in psychological interventions for children and families, Creswell       co-wrote two books for parents with an NHS colleague (Willetts) (Overcoming         your child's fears and worries (January 2007) and Overcoming         your child's shyness and social anxiety (August 2007; both published       by Constable Robinson) [1]).
An accompanying manual was produced to guide       clinicians in providing a brief treatment with parents to help their       children to overcome difficulties with anxiety.
Thus, the research has led       to the development and provision of an evidence-based, brief (&lt;5.5       hours) treatment for childhood anxiety disorders that can be delivered       effectively by non-specialists, providing a means to improve access to       psychological treatments for children with anxiety disorders.
Since 2011, this novel parent-led treatment has been used routinely as       the first-line treatment for childhood anxiety disorders across the whole       of Berkshire (approx 300 children per year).
This has meant that the       number of anxious children that each clinician can treat is double what it       was with the previously available treatment [2].
Furthermore, routine       service evaluation has identified that 70% of children meet service       criteria for a good outcome following this treatment [2].
The application       of the team's work across Berkshire came about due to strong links with       local NHS child and adolescent mental health services.
Cooper worked       directly with West Berkshire NHS to set up a specialist service for       assessment and treatment of anxiety disorders in children in 1998 which is       based in the University of Reading.
This service was expanded in 2008 to       cover the whole of Berkshire (population over 800,000), and further       expanded to cover children and adolescents (0- 18 years) in 2012 within       what is now the Berkshire CAMHS Anxiety and Depression Pathway.
This has       provided the setting for ongoing clinical research and the delivery of       evidence-based treatments to the local community.
To increase the impact of this work beyond the local area, the University       of Reading team have presented the findings from their treatment       evaluation to key stakeholders including national and international       organisations of cognitive behaviour therapists, clinical psychologists,       psychiatrists, paediatricians and social workers (throughout the REF       period) [3].
In response to these presentations, members of the team have       delivered skills-based workshops and supervision to over 200 clinicians in       health services in the U.K. and overseas, including Northamptonshire       Healthcare NHS Foundation Trusts (2010), the Danish Psychological Society       (2011), and Charlie Waller Institute for Evidence based Psychological       Treatment (2013), as well as in education services (e.g.
Surrey       Educational Psychologists, 2012), and annually on training courses for       clinicians (e.g.
Oxford, UCL, University of Massachusetts).
Other examples       of the uptake of this treatment approach and its impact on service       delivery include the following: (i) The treatment is the standard       first-line treatment for children with anxiety disorders referred to       children's mental health services across Oxfordshire (over 200 children       per year); (ii) in Dorset Healthcare NHS Foundation Trust, clinicians       regularly use this treatment approach, report positive outcomes and have       transferred the principles to work with other client groups [4]; (iii) in       Guernsey, three new psychological wellbeing practitioners have been       employed who deliver this treatment approach [5].
(2) Enabling public access to treatment through nonclinical routes.
(i) Increased public awareness of problems and treatments.
The       team regularly provide information directly to parents, for example,       through school events, public meetings and the media.
The team's research,       and the resulting treatment programme, have featured widely in the media       including television (e.g.
BBC Breakfast) and radio (e.g.
BBC Radio 4's       Woman's Hour, BBC Radio Berkshire, Radio Verulam) interviews and national       and international news articles (e.g.
Times, Daily Express,       Sunday Express Magazine, Mirror, Prima Baby, NI4Kids,       Junior, Good Health), increasing public awareness of how to       recognise and treat childhood anxiety problems [6].
(ii) Access to self-help methods.
As the two books for parents of       anxious children (above) are available through all major booksellers in       the U.K. and internationally, parents are able to directly access       information based on the team's research.
In the U.K. the books have sold       over 12,000 copies; elsewhere they have been translated in to Norwegian       (2010), Polish (2012) and Hebrew (2012).
`Overcoming your child's fears       and worries' is available `on prescription' widely in the U.K. and       Guernsey (i.e.
is part of a scheme where it is recommended to patients by       GPs in collaboration with local libraries), and is also included in       reading lists provided for concerned parents by NHS Trusts, local       councils, schools, mental health charities and experts in the field [7].
(3) Influence on the development of other assessments and treatments.
The phase one research has also had an impact on the development of       evidence-based assessment and treatments for childhood anxiety disorders       beyond its influence on the team's own treatment programme.
The       underpinning research is widely cited in clinical texts, including (i) a       document that outlines the decision-making process for changes in how       childhood anxiety disorders are diagnosed in the widely used diagnostic       manual, DSM-V, (ii) manuals for clinicians working with children with       anxiety disorders in the U.K., U.S.A., Germany and Italy; (iii)       international texts for people experiencing difficulties with anxiety,       their caregivers and teachers, and (iv) treatment manuals for a wider       range of difficulties in childhood, including managing childhood       immunisations [8].
The team have also contributed eight chapters to       clinical textbooks to guide mental health practitioners in how to work       with children with anxiety disorders since 2008.
(4) Influence on policy and professional practice.
Because of       their research and its application, Cooper, Creswell and Murray are asked       to advise various influential bodies.
For example, Creswell chaired the       children and young people's subgroup of the National Commissioning Centre       for Mental Health NICE guideline for identification, assessment and       treatment of Social Anxiety Disorder (2011-2013); contributed to the NHS       core curriculum panel for the development of a scheme for improving       children and young people's access to psychological treatments (CYP-IAPT);       is currently on the advisory panel for the National Commissioning Centre       for Mental Health review of e-therapies (computer based treatments) for       children and young people with mental health difficulties; and is a       specialist member of the NICE Quality Standards Advisory Committee for       Anxiety Disorders.
In recognition of her work with childhood anxiety       disorders, in 2010 Creswell was awarded the British Psychological Society       May Davidson Award for outstanding contribution to clinical psychology       within 10 years of qualification.
