     Nature of the impact: The impact constitutes an effect         on culture beyond academia, acting on the practice of         publishers, designers, broadcasters and others (see list below) and       thereby on the awareness of a broad audience of consumers         internationally.
The illustrations assembled in DMVI5-1 have given the general       public and specialist users free access to insights into Victorian life,       that speak to today's visual culture.5-2 In their original       locations, the illustrations were integral to the published conception of       the text, and their removal from modern editions and even electronic       versions of texts had made them barely known to modern readers and had       marginalised their cultural significance.
Process: From its inception, DMVI was driven by an impact       plan targeting three types of user:     a.
Readers of Victorian fiction wishing to re-connect with the       illustrations originally integral to literary texts.
b.
General and specialised users (e.g.
designers, historical fiction       authors, amateur family historians) wanting visual information about       nineteenth-century cultural and social life.
c. Illustrators and designers (including for publishing, webpages,       television programmes) requiring historical images not available in       contemporary image banks.
As outlined in section 2, the transmission of research to impact was made       possible through the careful design of the expert tags, which allow the       database to be searched in a systematic and consistent way while       generating a range of results, many of which would not be immediately       obvious to or expected by the non-specialist searcher.
Reach and significance: The features described above have       resulted in DMVI having an international reach.5-2 As       indicated below, database images have been used around the world, and have       reached audiences of many millions through television broadcasts.
The significance       of DMVI lies in its unique capacity to furnish new audiences with cultural       and social images from the past, without losing the information about       their provenance and original connotation.
Evidence of impact: The evidence below has been primarily       accrued as a function of how the images are accessed.
Since DMVI is free       to search and view on line,5-2 it is not possible to evidence       impact on users seeking the illustrations associated with their literary       co-texts.
However, anyone needing a high resolution file (e.g.
for       publication or broadcast) always needs to contact the team.
This gives a       sample snapshot of the range of usage (images are also used in low       resolution, see below).
Through email correspondence it is possible to       find out about responses to the users' own product (e.g.
viewing and sales       figures), and hence gain some impression of the artistic and commercial       impact of the database.
It is therefore known that DMVI has had a           wide variety and range of users, including individuals,       community groups, institutions, businesses and industries around the       world, and the onward audiences of materials produced by them, including:     Film and television companies: Images from DMVI were used in: a       documentary about William and Catherine Booth by Radiant Films in 2009       (Salvation Army in Australia; distributed internationally, see http://bit.ly/174R0uo),5-10       Ant and Dec's Saturday Night Takeaway (ITV, 2008; average audience:       6 million); the opening credits of Byw yn &#244;l y Llyfr (S4C, 2010).
The One Show (BBC; average audience: 5 million)5-6 has       used images from DMVI in three separate programmes (2011-12).
They helped       in "making visually exciting, yet educational and informative films to our       varied prime time audience of approximately five million viewers".
Furthermore, "the literary research underpinning the tagging is essential       in helping us use the illustrations appropriately.
"5-6     Print media (magazines, newspapers and books): Publishers'       designers have sourced images from the DMVI to illustrate new texts,       including book covers.
Images from DMVI appeared in the New York Times         Book Review (01.09.11, http://nyti.ms/1aDOMck)       and in Kurungabaa, a surfing magazine based in Australia (2011).
DMVI images were published in Rose Garrard's Donkeys' Years on the         Malvern Hills (Aspect Publishing, 2008); on the cover of the       paperback version of Timothy Larsen's Crisis of Doubt (Oxford       University Press, 2008)5-3,5-8; on the covers of Lesa Scholl's       Translation, Authorship and the Victorian Professional Woman       (Ashgate, 2011)5-9 and Judith Johnston's Victorian Women         and the Economies of Travel, Translation and Culture, 1830-1870       (Ashgate, 2012); in Teresa Mangum's A Cultural History of Women in the         Age of Empire (Bloomsbury, 2013); and in Stowaway, an online       travel magazine published at Brigham Young University, USA, targeted at a       national audience of young adults, ages 18 to 29.
Heritage         organisations: Dundurn National Historic Site, Hamilton, Ontario,       Canada, used images from DMVI to accompany a booklet of historic recipes       (2008).
Graphic designers: A graphic designer in Southern California used       images from the database in a journal for teenagers affected by cancer       (2008).
A graphic designer used images from DMVI in a booklet associated       with a production by the Austin Shakespeare Theatre, Texas (2011).5-5     Agencies and private companies: Print and digital formats of       images were used by a rental agency in Ohio in 2008.
Communities: Images from DMVI have been used on community websites       relating to the town of Needham Market in Suffolk (2008) and the Malverns       (2008) and by the Friends of Prestwich Forest Park on a Heritage Lottery       funded project (2013).
The following list demonstrates how the images have contributed           to modern cultural life:       Education: The One Show used images in documentary features on       Christmas carols and their roots in Methodism, the history of eating       strawberries, and the campaigner, Caroline Norton.
In other contexts, the       images themselves are an integral part of the story (e.g.
illustrations of       the Malvern donkeys featured in Rose Garrard's `forgotten history' of       these donkeys).
A history teacher in Germany requested an image for use in       class.
One English teacher5-4 comments: "the illustrations that       the database contains have been essential in helping my A-level students       understand the context in which the texts that they have to study were       produced.
The comprehensive organisation of the illustrations makes it       easy to access the images best suited to our purpose ... My students are       now starting to cite the DMVI in their written work as they too appreciate       how quickly a reference to visual stimuli can articulate a point or       illustrate their thinking."
Feedback after a workshop in 2011 for three       local schools included, "What really left an impression was the way the       illustrations from the database can be used to enhance understanding of a       difficult text."
Restoring a lost resource: The researcher for the Booth       documentary remarked on how beneficial it was "to have all these `lost'       pictures available.
"5-10 A posting on the Victorian Poetry       Network praises the "the ability to search specifically for the [407]       illustrations to poems in the database" which enables teachers of poetry       to link back to the original wood-engravings and view them in detail.5-7     Historicity: The Historic Kitchen Coordinator at Dundurn National       Historic Site, Hamilton, Ontario, commented that the pictures used in       their printed leaflets "enhance[d] the historical accuracy of our       research."
Likewise, images were used in the publicity for a UK       heritage-funded project because they were "very evocative of the period       and the local scenery".
Design: The graphic designer responsible for the publication on       cancer described how she used images from DMVI to add a different       dimension to the layout of the book.
Another graphic designer described it       as a "really wonderful resource ... of illustration design."
A figurative       painter based in Florence is using the images as "inspiration" for his       work.
Conservation: An AHRC-funded network seminar series, Literary         Illustration: Conservation, Access, Use (2007-8), run by CEIR in       collaboration with the Victoria and Albert Museum, raised awareness of the       value and vulnerability of illustration resources held in institutions.
The seminars were attended by over forty professionals: curators and       conservators, representatives of commercial publishing, and IT       consultants.
The accounts above are representative but only illustrative of the full       range of uses of DMVI.
In particular, visitors to the site may examine       images, search for sets of them, and even copy and use them at the lower       resolution, without registering their use.
This free, untracked access to       DMVI is core to its purpose in making the images available to everyone.
Indicative of this usage are figures from the Cardiff site www.dmvi.cardiff.ac.uk       (thus not including figures from the sister site www.dmvi.org.uk):       01.08.11 to 31.07.13 saw 18,092 unique visitors, 23,447 total visits,       205,733 page views, with a 3.3:1 ratio of new to returning visitors.
71.54% of viewers were in the USA.5-2
