     The research in craft, design and business, together with associated       knowledge exchange and public engagement, has led to a suite of       mutually-supportive impacts, including:     1) the conceptualisation, fundraising and establishment of a major new       cultural centre for design;     2) a spread of public engagement and changed attitudes among the public       toward design and its value; and     3) innovative forms of assistance to SMEs, already bearing fruit.
1) Conceptualisation: Research undertaken through `Past, Present       and Future Craft Practice'[2] identified the gap in provision       for visibility of design and designers.
The project built partnership       working, ensuring that the research engaged with a wide range of       communities and audiences.
The project delivered 130 public       exhibitions/events; an international conference and exhibition, 120       published international papers on craft practices; a special Journal       edition and two books.
This has enabled audiences to understand and see       the diversity of practice and build an appetite for further engagement[a,b].
The impact of the V&amp;A Dundee project has been transformative to the       City of Dundee's image.
It is the capstone project of the waterfront       regeneration, (circa &#163;1billion), which reconnects the city to the       waterfront.
Commercial advances are also accruing with major chains       announcing their intent to establish themselves in Dundee and citing the       V&amp;A Dundee as the reason [h,i].
2) Increased Public Engagement[j,k]: Public support       was achieved through exhibitions and a consultation process, initiated       with an opening conference and exhibition, `Making it Happen' 2009[c].
This was built upon through an international architectural competition[d].
The exhibition travelled to the Scottish Parliament, Holyrood, Edinburgh[f],       The Lighthouse, Glasgow[e], and then to V&amp;A London[g].
Follett was responsible for the direction, format and content of the       conference and exhibitions ensuring that the projects visibly adhered to,       advanced and exemplified best design practice.
Public attendance at the       events was high; Dundee (Sept &#8212; November, 2010), 16,000 visits, 10,500       completed questionnaire (equivalent of 10% of population of Dundee).
The       touring exhibition at the Scottish Parliament[f] in January       2011 saw a 12.5% increase in visitors to exhibitions, and at the       Lighthouse in Glasgow there was a 25% increase in visitors, with the       V&amp;A exhibit in London attracting an estimated audience of 60,000.
The V&amp;A Dundee now has public ownership and is positively viewed as       leading the ambition for Dundee to become a UK City of Culture.
Dundee was       1 of 4 cities shortlisted with over 2,500 individuals publically       supporting the project and a further 950 having identified elements for       the programme.
The development of audiences for the V&amp;A Dundee are being built       through a pre-opening programme developed with the McManus       Gallery/V&amp;A.
The following exhibitions (all at McManus Gallery)       showcased elements of the V&amp;A collections including:            2011 Queen Elizabeth II portraits by Cecil Beaton (2011, audience         43,631)(opening venue);       2012 Fashion Images (Jan 2012, audience 44,238),       Modern Masters Print Exhibition (2013 estimated audience 38,000).
These exhibitions resulted in a 100% increase in audiences for McManus.
A       pilot master-class with artist Calum Colvin, subject Michael Marra,       musician, (2011, McManus Gallery), linked programme content to exhibition       through professional practice as a model V&amp;A Dundee.
The master-class       explored Colvin's methodology to create work on the ambiguities and       ambivalences of Scottish culture and identity, a unique event engaging       audiences in the co-creation of an artwork.
3) Economic Impact: Design-in-Action, Arts and Humanities       Research Council Knowledge Exchange Hub for the Creative Industries, has       built an innovation model for micro/small SMEs, `Chiasma', working       across the sectors of Wellbeing, Food, Sport, ICT and the Rural Economy.
The aim is to expand design into new sectors; develop business networks       and evolve new ways of doing business, placing designers and design at the       heart of the innovation process.
Within a nine month period 700       individuals and 450 businesses had registered with DiA; 106 applied for       Chiasma events; 76 took part; 11 bids received for prototyping with 6       funded; 1 company launched (within a three month period, sales in first       week in excess of &#163;15,000).
Design in Action, in partnership with V&amp;A Dundee, is hosting a series       of public lectures from eminent designers, with the aim of increasing       awareness of design's value to daily lives and building audiences for the       V&amp;A Dundee.
(Audiences to October 2013, 2,000).
Contributors include:       Sebastian Conran (Conran Associates), Deyan Sudjic (Director Design       Museum), Wayne Hemmingway (Hemmingway Design), Josephine Rydbergh Dumont       (former IKEA Chief Executive), Ian Callum (Designer Jaguar), Christopher       Frayling (former Arts Council/RCA) and Mark Jones (former Director       V&amp;A).
Design-in Action's knowledge exchange, includes events for businesses,       agencies, museums, galleries, government and organisations across       Scotland.
To date events have included: A showcase of creative PhDs and       the launch of Restarting Britain 2 report, in partnership with The Design       Commission, and MSPs.
