     These three projects have resulted in findings which have impacted on the       practices and policies of the participating organisations detailed in the       testimonies below.
In addition to these, the research has resulted in the       formation of the EVN, which has taken the research findings to over 170       organisations in the Yorkshire &amp; Humber region.
The EVN emerged out of       the dissemination workshop from the 2010/11 ESV project (facilitated by       Cook and Burchell) and has continued to bring together business, public       and third sector organisations, funded by small grants from the two       Universities, alongside corporate sponsorship from Irwin Mitchell and KCOM       Group.
Subsequent workshops have focused on bringing organisations       together to develop strategies for developing ESV collaborations that       offer real benefits to employers and the third sector.
The network       therefore constitutes an outcome from the original research project and       also a new pathway for impact for the research.
Importantly, the network       findings formed the basis for the ESRC project and are also a key part of       its pathway to impact.
Below are testimonials from Irwin Mitchell Solicitors, Yorkshire Bank,       the Co-operative Group, and HEYCF, which summarise the organisational       impact.
Core impacts relate to (i) shaping and informing corporate ESV       policies, and (ii) shaping and informing the policies and strategies of       third sector organisations involved in brokering ESV partnerships.
Impact 1     From Irwin Mitchell Solicitors:     "For Irwin Mitchell, the research conducted with HUBS was critical to the       development of the firm's social responsibility strategy in a number of       ways:     1) Volunteering as part of appraisals: while the business had long       thought that it would be a positive step to set targets/objectives around       staff engaging in ESV, the research highlighted that many staff did not       see it as such.
As a result of the research, the policy has now been       revised on two levels: first, legal associates are required to do a       minimum number of hours volunteering to qualify; and second, for       non-associate employees the appraisals have been revised to give them the       space to discuss their ESV activities, but it is not a formal part of the       assessment.
The research also highlighted (much as Irwin Mitchell expected       but had never been able to confirm) that one of the potential barriers to       ESV was the attitudes of line and senior managers.
The revisions to the       appraisal policy will reinforce the positive message at a senior level       that ESV is valued by the firm as something in which they should       participate.
2) Another key policy outcome from the research with HUBS is that Irwin       Mitchell needed to develop its approach to communicating about       volunteering opportunities.
Consequently, the firm introduced a central       `Volunteer Hub' on the intranet which enables all offices to post their       volunteering opportunities.
This is supported by a regular programme of       communication to drive more traffic to the site.
The result is that far       more employees are now taking up the volunteering programme in the       regional offices" (Communications Manager).
From Yorkshire Bank:     "The research by HUBS provided the Yorkshire Bank with evidence to       demonstrate the importance of ESV, and the findings have been used to       promote volunteering and its positive impact.
The findings have:     1) Helped employee communications benefit from the evidence taken from       the report.
The bank has used the findings to help promote opportunities       in need of support and to demonstrate the impact of ESV.
2) Been used to demonstrate the business case for ESV to the Bank's       directors, strengthening the case for ESV to remain part of the bank's       Community Investment Strategy.
3) Been used to share best practice with organisations at Business in the       Community forums and with individual companies.
4) Been used to demonstrate the impact of ESV, which has contributed to       successful award applications, both for individuals and volunteer teams.
5) Been shared with the bank's Media Team to shape communications and       demonstrate the importance and impact of ESV" (Community Affairs Manager).
Impact 2     From Co-operative Bank:     "The `Together We Can' project involved developing a series of nine       environmental challenge volunteering days in the Co-operative Group's       North region in partnership with FCFCG.
This was the first time the group       had brought together members and staff for this kind of volunteering       event; therefore, it was keen to undertake some detailed and independent       research to evaluate the impact and enhance our understanding to inform       future project design.
The support of HUBS was very much appreciated in       this respect and the findings provided a range of valuable insights into:            the differing motivations of staff and members for volunteering, and         the differing motivations among our employees       the experience of the community host organisations and the issues to         consider to ensure that partnering with the Co-operative is a positive         experience for them       the challenges faced by staff in our different businesses in terms of         availability for volunteering activities of this nature, i.e.
one-day         team challenges       the level of understanding of the Group's volunteering policy in         different parts of the business, among employees in general and among         line managers          These research findings are built into the Membership Team's development       of future projects, which involve member volunteering, staff volunteering       or working in partnership with community organisations.
The research       findings on `Together We Can' have also been utilised by the Social Goals       team and will help to inform ESV throughout the business".
(Co-operative       and Membership Manager - North Region)     From FCFCG     "The project with the Co-operative Group and the research with the       Universities of Hull and Sheffield has been important internally in terms       of developing our approach to both partnering with business, and our       decision to now undertake a feasibility study around the Federation       developing a specific brokerage capacity.
During this feasibility study we       have been utilising the research findings - firstly to understand how to       pitch business/third sector partnerships so they meet the needs of the       business.
The second area we have utilised is how to effectively support       our member organisations in their engagement with business; one key point       is that the research has evidenced the infrastructural support that our       members will need to engage, and also the importance of the Federation       providing a level of organisational vetting to help our members to engage       with businesses that share our values on the environment.
Finally, the       research has helped us to realise that our role as brokers could form an       important new income source for the organisation.
Without this research       none of these developments would have been possible".
(Northern Regional       Coordinator)     Impact 3     From Hull and East Yorkshire Community Foundation (HEYCF)     "This has been a fantastic collaboration which has enabled us to develop       new relationships and further our business.
It has been an absolute       pleasure to work with both the Universities of Hull and Sheffield and       hopefully this will just be the start of a very positive relationship.'
(Chief Executive HEYCF).
"Working collaboratively with the Universities of Hull and Sheffield has       been hugely beneficial in developing a commercialised approach to ESV, and       our CSR brokerage.
HEYCF had a good understanding of brokering ESV to       employers.
Our knowledge of the requirements and concerns of employers,       and our relationships with them, were far less developed.
The research has       significantly supported us in addressing this gap, providing access to       high-quality, well-structured, qualitative intelligence on employer       drivers and requirements.
It has been highly instrumental in `opening       doors' to new relationships with businesses, which had previously been       hard to engage.
The structured, research-led interviews in phase 1 have,       in several cases, led the businesses themselves to initiate       evaluations/refinements of their approaches to community engagement.
This       has resulted in HEYCF being commissioned to undertake pieces of work on       community engagement and ESV for some of the city's largest employers.
The       research has shown that the choice of broker is far more influenced by       confidence in personal connections and recommendations than `traditional'       marketing activity.
This will undoubtedly prevent us expending time and       resource on marketing activity which is likely to add little or no value.
The collaboration has given HEYCF added confidence to address       ideologically uncomfortable questions around brokerage - particularly,       whether there is a `role' for smaller, grassroots organisations which       present serious quality assurance challenges.
This in turn has led to       exploring how HEYCF might work with more traditional Voluntary Community       Services (VCS) infrastructure organisations to tackle these issues.
Finally, our experiences and findings (and employers' views), are       currently feeding into the development of a pioneering new IT platform for       volunteer brokerage, which is being developed by the North Bank Forum for       Voluntary Organisations" (CSR Engagement Officer, HEYCF).
