     Horwood and Riddell's research has been recognized for its impact in many       clinical areas relating to paediatric vision, but two clear examples are       the management of early infantile squint and long-sightedness.
These       vision problems are common, treatment takes many years throughout       children's early development and uses NHS services intensively.
The team's       research has improved diagnosis and treatment of these conditions,       affecting the practice of clinicians specialising in children's eye care       (ophthalmologists, orthoptists, optometrists) and improving information       for concerned families.
Clinicians: Before Horwood and Riddell had       documented the frequent occurrence of squint in early infancy, the exact       time at which squint could be diagnosed as pathological was not known       (e.g.
Burian and von Noorden, 1974 state: "Whether this type of deviation       is ...present at birth...has never been truly determined").
Concerned       parents of infants who are observed to squint before the age of 4 months       of age will often consult their GP or health visitor who would, in the       past, refer children to specialist ophthalmology services.
Follow up of       these children was common until 3 years of age (over 3 to 4 appointments)       in order to rule out a pathological condition.
Clinical textbooks [1] and       Royal College of Ophthalmologist guidelines [2] written since the       publication of the team's work recommend, however, that infants should not       be referred for assessment or treatment of squint before 4 months of age.
In addition, this implication of the team's findings has been documented       in professional advice for concerned parents [3].
Data on referrals for       infant squint has not been recorded in detail, but an estimated 30% of       infants taken to a GP or health visitor as a result of an intermittent       squint would have been referred to an orthoptist, resulting in       approximately 17,000 hospital appointments per year in the UK [4].
As       misalignments occur in 73% of infants in their first month, and in less       than 3% after 4 months of age, a reasonable estimate of the effect of       changing referral advice (to delay referral until 4 months) is that the       number of children referred to specialist care may have been reduced by       about 90%.
This amounts to a reduction of an estimated 15,000 hospital       appointments a year, or at least &#163;1,500,000 per year [5] in the UK alone.
About 5% of children have long-sightedness (Tarczy-Hornoch, 2007), which       corresponds to approximately 300,000 children in the UK between 5 and 14       years of age.
These children have traditionally been provided with glasses       that under-correct their vision, on the assumption that because children       physically can partly compensate for long-sightedness by changing       their focus, they definitely do.
Horwood and Riddell's research       suggests, however, that children often do not change their focus, and       under-correction may result in blurred vision when focusing on near       objects, for example when reading and that a different approach to       treatment (full correction) is required in this context.
The clinical insights from the team's research have been incorporated       into clinical training in orthoptics and optometry in the UK, the USA,       Canada, the Netherlands, Norway, Sweden and Australia (in total       approximately 500 orthoptists each year [6]), equipping future clinicians       around the world with clear guidance on the management of infantile squint       and childhood long-sightedness.
This has been achieved through active       dissemination of the research findings to clinicians working with       paediatric vision problems in the UK and internationally in a number of       ways including (i) publishing the findings in the most widely read       journals among practicing ophthalmologists and optometrists in this       specialist field (the British Journal of Ophthalmology, the Journal         of the American Association of Pediatric Ophthalmology and Strabismus       and Optometry &amp; Vision Science) and (ii) presenting the       findings and their implications for practice at clinical conferences in 12       countries, reaching over 5000 practitioners since 2008.
Notably, Dr       Horwood has been invited to give eight keynote or named lectures at       international clinical conferences in the USA, Australia, Europe and the       UK in the past four years [7].
In order to assess how much the team's       research has led to changes in the clinical management of childhood vision       problems, Horwood and Riddell conducted an online survey of UK senior       orthoptists and paediatric ophthalmologists in 2012 [8].
Of the 130       respondents, 80% (100% of ophthalmologists) said the team's work was       "very" or "extremely important" in their field, and 77% said it had       changed the way they manage their patients.
Paediatric ophthalmology       consultant training is delivered by international opinion leaders, so by       influencing them, the team's work and its clinical implications also reach       junior doctors in this field [9, 10].
Children with binocular vision problems and their parents: In       addition to the beneficial effects on families of improving the management       of childhood squint and long-sightedness, Horwood and Riddell's work has       changed the information that is directly available for parents,       particularly in relation to infant squint.
95% of websites providing       advice for parents who notice that their infant has a squint now state       that infants often squint before the end of the third month, but squints       persisting beyond this should be checked by a professional [11].
Horwood       and Ridell are the only authoritative source of this information, being       the only group to have published on the topic.
The reach of their findings       to the general public has been expanded through coverage in radio and       newspapers [12].
Horwood and Riddell have provided information for parents       who want to know if their infants have problems with their eyes through       educational articles in popular parenting magazines [13].
Similar to the       education of general practitioners described above, this reduction of       anxiety about squint among parents is likely to have resulted in a       significant alleviation of pressure on the NHS in this area.
