     This case study demonstrates how research has (i) enhanced cultural       insights into and understanding of mixed racial and ethnic mixing and       mixedness in Britain, and (ii) had an impact on the social awareness of       and approaches to mixed race populations, through the following channels:     1.
Practitioner and Frontline Engagement:     The insights resulting from the three research projects were coalesced       into a permanent web- based resource, the Mix-d Museum (1) funded by the       AHRC (Lead: Caballero, &#163;24k, 2011-12).
The site has had 10,000 visits and       over 27,000 page views since its launch in July 2012.
Google analytics       shows that 45% of views come from 143 countries (2).
Independent consultants interviewed the founder of Mix-d, a social       enterprise supporting mixed race young people and a partner in the Mix-d       Museum project (3).
He stated that "Caballero's research has benefited the subject and his         organisation immensely".
He further commented: "We have drawn         heavily on Caballero's work which not only eliminates American bias,         displaces myths with up to date knowledge and understanding but allows         oral history to be captured and presented in a way that is digestible         and deliverable to various audiences including young people".
During 2012, Mix-d incorporated findings from Caballero's research in       their presentations to and work with over 350 school children and 40-50       teachers, influencing curricula, such as, history and citizenship.
The       Founder of Mix-d further indicated that "a good visual representation         helps in finding the correct vocabulary to talk about the subject in         greater detail" in reference specifically to teachers.
In 2013,       Mix-d also used Caballero's work in their engagement with 250 foster       carers to help them raise awareness of the potential issues facing mixed       race children and equip them with appropriate understanding and resources.
Educators and students have made extensive use of the Museum.
For       example, Whalley Range High School and Stretford Grammar School in       Manchester have incorporated the resource into their curriculum, while       students at Stretford have also produced a highly visible wall mural based       on the Mix-d Museum model to communicate their own understandings of       mixedness and family heritages to other students, teachers, parents and       visitors (3).
Other organisations, for example, BAAF (British Association of Adoption       and Fostering), have highlighted how they have drawn on Caballero's       research in their delivery of raising BME issues in adoption and fostering       to social work practitioners and carers.
The Director of Research, Policy       and Development at BAAF has recommended that a specific journal article       produced by Caballero should be required reading for social workers (4).
The publication featuring this article has sold over 500 copies in the UK       and further copies were sold at the International Fostering and Adoption       Conference in Bilbao in July 2013.
2.
Extensive Media Coverage and Engagement:     In 2010, the BBC approached Caballero to translate her research findings       from Project 2 into a single BBC4 programme.
Upon reviewing the depth and       richness of the findings, the BBC decided to produce a three part series       to be aired on prime time BBC2 (Mixed Britannia &#8212; was broadcast between       October-November 2012 at 9.00pm).
Caballero appeared in and acted as       academic consultant to the series (5,6) which was presented by George       Alaghiah and was well received by the public, gaining the second highest       recorded score (90%) on the BBC's audience satisfaction survey for a       current affairs programme.
It also trended on Twitter, attracting positive       comments from viewers, including celebrity viewers such as Boy George       (270,000 followers) (6).
The series received critical acclaim and extensive media coverage as a       result of its challenge of existing perceptions of mixed race people,       couples and families, featuring on Radio 4 (4th         October 2011) and in The Guardian (5th,         9th and 20th October         2011), The Daily Telegraph (5th, 6th         October 2011), The Times (2nd, 7th         October 2011), The Daily Mail (6th October         2011) and The Independent (21st October         2011).
The Guardian interviewed Caballero (4th       October 2011) for an article centring on the research and its       role in informing the programmes.
Impact from the series continues to       raise social awareness through broadcasts by the BBC World Service.
In October 2011, Caballero provided academic guidance to BBC2 Newsnight       with the content of their special feature on Mixed Race Britain.
The       producer commented on Caballero's input to the programme, saying that she       helped shape the programme's research on perceptions of mixed race       families in Britain (7).
Newsnight's viewing figures in October 2011       averaged 664,000 per night.
3.
Other Examples of Reach:     The British Academy has indicated that the research outcomes from Project       2 were `very valuable in helping to make the case' for the       continuation of its Small Grants Scheme (8).
Disbanded in April 2011, the       scheme was restarted in January 2012 with new investment (&#163;1.5 million       over three years) from the Leverhulme Trust.
In addition, the project was       highlighted as an exemplar of successful research enabled by the scheme       (9).
In February 2013, the Asian American Literary Review commissioned       Caballero to develop information cards for the Review's Special Issue on       Mixed Race (10) as part of their on-line teaching programme to       undergraduates and postgraduate students in 66 universities and colleges       across 9 countries.
