     1.
Increased recognition of importance of identification and         intervention for PND.
Cooper and Murray's findings highlighted the profound and wide-ranging       impact of PND on child development and the fact that it was a commonly       undetected problem.
We disseminated these findings widely to practitioners       working with mothers in the UK, Europe, and South Africa, highlighting the       importance of identification and treatment [1].
This work is of major       social and clinical importance [2] because those who have direct contact       with mothers and infants in the perinatal period (i.e.
GPs, midwives,       health visitors, psychiatric nurses) are now aware that PND is a common       complication of childbirth, and are required to direct their practice       according to guidelines informed by evidence that includes Cooper and       Murray's work [e.g.
NICE guideline, published 2007; 3].
Indeed, providing       support for PND is now a core part of health visitor services as       documented within the Health Visitor Implementation Plan [4].
The UK       government has committed to strengthen health visitor services and       increase the workforce by 4,200 (approximately 40%) between 2011 and 2015.
A key piece of evidence in arguing for this increase was the research by       Cooper and Murray showing the serious, long-term consequences of PND [5].
As health visitors are required to visit every new infant and mother after       birth, the reach of Cooper and Murray's work on PND is considerable.
In       addition, by engaging with radio, television and print media, Cooper and       Murray have informed the general public of the research findings and       provided advice on how to seek help [6].
2.
Direct influence on health visitor training     Cooper and Murray have been directly involved in healthcare training in       PND.
Between 2002 and 2010, in collaboration with a health care training       company (Pivotal Partners Ltd), they ran a biannual three-day trainers'       course for health visitors and other professionals (e.g., midwives and       psychiatric nurses) on the identification and treatment of PND.
A total of       113 professionals from the UK and abroad were trained between 2008 and       2010 [7].
This training programme produced a body of informed clinicians       who have since disseminated their knowledge and, on the basis of the       knowledge provided during the training, have effected change in their       local practices [7].
Since 2010, Cooper and Murray have run a similar PND       training course for clinicians at the University of Massachusetts, Boston,       USA [8].
3.
Enabling widespread public and professional access to critical         information on parenting and child development     To disseminate their research findings on infant development more widely,       Murray produced a book for parents and professionals (`The Social Baby'),       in collaboration with a health visitor colleague [9].
This book was       published in 2000, and over 30,000 copies have been sold, with over 10,000       sold since 2008 [10].
The book has now been published in the UK,       Australia, Greece, Germany and Italy.
The potential impact and       significance of the book for training healthcare professionals on       important aspects of parent-infant interactions was recognised by the       National Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children, who produced a       video version in 2004 [11].
Over 4,000 copies of the video have been       disseminated to professionals working with women vulnerable to PND [10]       and several consumer bodies actively promote use of the book (e.g.
National Childbirth Trust, Parenting UK, Barnados, National Family and       Parenting Institute) [e.g.
12].
Excerpts from the book have been used by       the Department for Children, Schools and Families in materials for Early       Years and Foundation Stage (EYFS) practitioners and the book is widely       recommended by health and social services across the UK [13].
Murray has       just completed a follow up volume (`The Psychology of Babies: how       relationships support development from birth to two'), to be published       early in 2014, aimed again at a lay and professional readership, with the       National Childbirth Trust actively involved in its dissemination, ensuring       continued public and professional access to the practical implications of       Cooper and Murray's basic research.
4.
Improving child development in the developing world     The psychological intervention for PND that Cooper and Murray developed,       and which was trialled in South Africa, has been adopted by a       Non-Government Organisation (NGO), the Parent Centre [14].
The therapists       trained by the team have been delivering the intervention to women in       impoverished communities (over 3,000 women have been treated since 2008)       and they themselves have trained further community workers (64 newly       trained therapists from 10 sites) [12].
The work of the Parent Centre,       based on Cooper and Murray's intervention, was adopted in 2012 by a major       child NGO, `Ububele', working with mothers and children in Alexandra, a       township in Gauteng province [12].
In 2013 Cooper and Murray were       consulted by the MRC of South Africa on the roll-out of early       mother-infant interventions and, as a consequence, are currently advising       groups in Tanzania, Kenya and Uganda on adapting their early parenting       intervention materials for use in intervention programmes within these       countries [15].
To ensure effective translation of their recent research to promote       children's cognitive development in South Africa, in 2012 Cooper and       Murray established a formal collaboration with a local literacy NGO       (Wordworks).
They are currently working with them to develop a range of       training programmes for national implementation [16].
The potential       relevance of the training to other impoverished populations in Africa (and       elsewhere) is clear.
To extend this work further Cooper and Murray are       currently collaborating with a WHO-funded group working with teenage       mothers in Cameroon.
