     A.
Contributions to the film:     I.
A physical role in the film.
Unwin featured in two stories, `Darwinopterus'       and `Robodactylus', filmed in London at the end of July 2010.
With the       exception of the host, Attenborough, this was the longest appearance in       the film by a contributor.
Unwin also appeared in the `Making of Flying         Monsters' (A).
II.
Unwin was the lead scientific consultant on the film and contributed       to the development of the script, assessment of ideas and story lines and       fact-checking.
He also provided critical feedback on animations and film       sequences.
Discussion of the central narrative and of several episodes,       e.g.
on Darwinopterus, took place during an all-day meeting in       London in early 2010 and subsequently by email and phone (B).
III.
Generation and provision, between December 2009 and April 2010, of       information on film locations (e.g.
Solnhofen, Germany; Crayssac, France),       an extensive list of contacts and advice on the suitability and       accessibility of specific objects (e.g.
specimens of Darwinopterus)       (B).
B.
Investment in the British Film Industry.
Approval of the film project by Sky brought considerable benefit to       Atlantic, the producer of FM3D, and its subcontractors (C).
Principal among these were: ONSIGHT 3D, responsible for postproduction and       editing services; Vision3 who supervised the 3D filming and provided       production support; ZOO , who generated the high resolution CGI suitable       for the very large screens found in Imax theatres; and FIDO, who developed       and built models used in filming and CGI production (C).
In total,       more than 130 people were involved in the project which spanned the period       late 2009 to late 2010 (D).
The primary benefit came in the form of financial funding (&gt;&#163;3       million) principally from Sky.
Work on FM3D provided Atlantic and its       subcontractors with a unique opportunity to develop high end 3D film       technology and processes, described by Atlantic CEO Anthony Geffen as `an       evolving tool-set' (E), and thus acquire expertise and experience       in this important and rapidly developing area.
`Flying Monsters' thus       became a `showcase for 3D moviemaking' as applied to documentaries (F).
Building directly on the financial and critical success of this project       (see below) Atlantic have gone on to produce a series of documentaries       (e.g.
`Galapagos 3D', `Micro Monsters 3D'), that have also met with       critical acclaim (F).
C. Revenue generation and distribution     Unusually, for a science documentary, FM3D has been a great financial       success.
By May 2013 it had generated more than ten million dollars in       revenue from Imax and other movie theatre ticket sales and this will rise       further as the film continues to be shown worldwide (G).
A unique, ground-breaking feature of FM3D, vastly increasing its       potential audience, has been its delivery across an array of platforms.
Through collaboration with National Geographic the film has been       distributed to film theatres across the globe (G).
The film can       also be streamed from the internet, is available on DVD and Blue Ray DVD,       was broadcast on terrestrial television (with a debut on Xmas Day 2010)       and content can also be viewed via an app for the iPad and Android (G).
The total viewing audience exceeds one million.
The film also has a very       large geographic footprint, having been shown in more than 75 IMax       theatres worldwide distributed across 20 countries (G).
D. Evaluation of `Flying Monsters 3D'.
To date FM3D has been awarded five prizes (H).
The most       prestigious of these, a BAFTA for the best specialist factual film, was       awarded in 2011.
The film also won a Special Award given by the       International Broadcasting Convention, for best science film, in 2011,       best Earth and Environmental Program at the Jackson Hole Wildlife Film       Festival in 2012, and a Panda Award for best 3D film at Wildscreen 2012.
The film has garnered a large number of positive reviews.
Mean       aggregations of these posted on the principal film review websites show       consistently high scores (e.g.
Rotten Tomatoes = 100%; IMDb = 7.0/10 for       279 reviews (I)).
E. Target audience and educational impact.
The principal target of this film was children of school age.
Many film       reviews comment positively in this respect ("the majority of the 3D       imagery is impressive enough to instill a sense of awe among its       predominantly school-age target audience", Timeout 03/05/11)       showing that this aim was achieved (I).
Audience       figures indicate that more than five hundred thousand school-age children       have already seen FM3D (G).
The positive educational impact of the       film is further demonstrated by National Geographic which has used their       web-site to deliver additional educational content, based on FM3D and       aimed at school-children (J).
Six hours of teaching material       introduces children to aspects of palaeontology and to broader concepts       such as biomechanics and evolution (J).
Principal natural history       museums, such as the AMNH, New York, have also been incorporating FM3D       into their educational programmes (J).
