     Background to Impact.
Two major wars in the Persian Gulf area in       1991 and 2003-2008 involved more than 1M allied military personnel and the       use of DU munitions; subsequent to the 1991 conflict, ~250,000 UK, US, and       Canadian veterans developed Gulf War Illness, the cause of which remains       elusive.
Possible culprits are the nerve gas Sarin, DU, excessive       pesticide use during the conflict, and post-traumatic stress.
During the       period 1997-2008 there was considerable concern that exposure of military       personnel (and collateral exposure of civilians) to DU munitions might       contribute to illness of veterans (Gulf War Illness, cancer, birth       defects, etc) and have other deleterious environmental effects.
These       concerns were documented by the Royal Society and the United Nations in       2001-2002.
In 2005 the UK Government appointed the Depleted Uranium       Oversight Board (DUOB) to commission a study to both develop a high       sensitivity assay and to apply this to veterans to find out if DU exposure       was widespread (7); the MoD also commissioned a joint NERC research       programme on the environmental impacts (6).
No such test was       available worldwide at that time.
At the same time, sites of DU pollution       from manufacturing munitions were poorly studied and understood in terms       of their environmental footprint.
A common thread in all of this science       is that a sensitive, reliable test to quantify DU exposure that took place       many years earlier had been lacking, unavailable to the environmental       health community.
No DU-exposed human cohort had ever been studied in       terms of aerosol DU particle exposure, and this question was also       addressed by the Leicester group.
Beneficiaries: Beneficiaries of this work are primarily the UK,       Canadian and US governments who have learned that the DU exposure       sustained by Gulf War veterans is more limited than thought.
Other       benefits are directly to those ~250,000 US, UK, and Canadian veterans with       Gulf War Illness who can achieve more clarity about whether DU played a       role in their illness.
Other beneficiaries are New York Department of       Health who have adopted the Leicester test and are conducting a more       comprehensive exposure and health study on the DU munitions factory site       studied by Leicester personnel.
As a follow up to this work, the Atomic       Weapons Establishment (AWE Aldermaston) sought collaboration with the team       and NIGL colleagues to develop a laser ablation ICP-MS method to analyse       uranium isotopes in tiny (~1 03bcm) particles to reduce the cost of       nuclear forensic testing in uranium enrichment establishments for the IAEA       and the UK government.
Direct Impacts.
The urine-testing research showed that no tested       veteran had detectable DU (none out of 466 tested, documented in final       report of the DUOB (7 section 4), allowing the UK government to       conclude the study without costly subsequent follow up and be satisfied       that significant exposure to veterans by DU could not be substantiated in       terms of a large group of veterans.
This allowed the UK MoD to largely       draw a line under this particular issue, and reduce future expenditure       related to DU-related issues.
This is substantiated by a letter from the       lead author on the 2001-2002 Royal Society Report on DU, stating "The         Depleted Uranium Oversight Board were particularly impressed by the high         performance of NIGL in testing for uranium isotopes ....which has         resulted in a much clearer view of the levels of exposure to DU on the         battlefield (which subsequently have been supported by uranium isotope         measurements by Harwell on urine from veterans of the 2001 Gulf War) and         have very largely eliminated further consideration of DU exposure as a         contributor to Gulf War diseases" (C).
The environmental study in New York (1-3) documented the long term       environmental legacy of DU pollution, uptake by plants and animals, slow       migration in soil, and very slow corrosion of highly oxidized DU aerosol       particles.
None of these conclusions were known until this work was done,       yet policy decisions need to rely on such evidence.
The research proved as       entirely incorrect the conclusions of the US Agency of Toxic       Substances and Disease Registry (ATSDR)which stated that the DU       contamination legacy surrounding the New York manufacturing plant could       not be quantified and that detection in humans after 20 years would be       impossible.
The method was applied to exposed individuals to show that DU       particulate exposure is still detectable after 20 years (4).
Arising from this work, the US Congress Committee on Science and       Technology sought testimony from Parrish on 12 March 2009 (A,B)       concerning the research in order to learn lessons about how to quantify       exposure and improve the performance of its own agency responsible for       health concerns in such sites (i.e.
ATSDR).
The long term health and environment effects of chronic DU-inhalation or       ingestion exposure are as yet un-quantified, because no health study has       been conducted on putatively-exposed humans, even though numerous animal       studies show mutagenic and teratogenic effects.
The Leicester study       directly prompted the New York State Department of Health to conduct in       2011-13 a larger (~$0.5M; cohort of 300) targeted DU exposure and health       study to address the continuing health concerns of that locality, and       Parrish is advising this group with parallel analyses to assess Quality       Control, advice on how best to conduct chemical separations, and in       critical evaluation of method publication.
He will likely be involved in       interpretation of exposure once data is acquired by that laboratory on a       cohort in New York.
Although the whole of the 1991 Gulf War veteran cohort is unlikely to       have had significant DU-exposure, it can only be eliminated as a cause of       Gulf War Illness in a proper study of veterans suffering from the illness.
A direct impact of the research is that testing for DU is taking place       during 2011-13 by Parrish on 160 intensively studied Gulf War Illness       sufferers whose medical conditions were the subject of a 10-year, $20M       study at the Southwestern Medical Centre, University of Texas.
This DU       exposure study will define the role, if any, of DU in this illness and       conclude in 2013, of considerable medical significance.
Finally, the AWE (Atomic Weapons Establishment Aldermaston) has consulted       Leicester and NIGL personnel in order to conduct collaborative development       and knowledge exchange to develop a more rapid and cost-effective       LA-ICP-MS method to analyse ~103bcm uranium particles in nuclear forensic       safeguard testing at AWE, who have a strategic regulatory national role in       this area.
This capability of using LA-ICP-MS for U particle isotope       composition is a priority topic of the IAEA (Vienna) and the nuclear       forensic safeguards community because of the very high cost and time-       consuming nature of doing this work by the alternative FT-TIMS or SIMS       methods, which are the only methods currently accredited by the IAEA;       LA-ICP-MS offers similar sensitivity, faster turnaround and more rapid       analysis including the minor uranium isotopes.
A further specific impact is that the Leicester PhD student who       participated in this work was then quickly employed by a major mass       spectrometry manufacturer as a key applications scientist.
He is now       involved in developing and marketing the type of instruments used in the       study to other scientific establishments worldwide including IAEA and AWE;       this is a tangible impact of the high-level training delivered as part of       the on-going research.
