     REACH:       The period of British history which saw the end of the Plantagenets and       the rise of the Tudors, especially the figure of Richard III himself, is       fascinating and meaningful to a great many people both in the UK and       throughout the world.
Our research was covered globally in newspapers and       magazines as well as on radio, TV and online (285 stories on the BBC       website alone) in at least 10,000 reports and interviews.
As a result of       this media coverage the core project team alone have been contacted by       over 5,000 individuals and groups from across the globe for further       information, permission to use images, or to ask questions, specifically       because the research changed or informed their views about the historical       and archaeological past.
The project was voted the 2013 `Research Project       of the Year' by Current Archaeology magazine, which aims at a       popular readership.
The Channel 4 (C4) TV programmes broadcast 4th       and 27th Feb 2013 reached 5.4 million viewers and were the       highest rating specialist factual documentaries ever shown on C4.
These       have now also been shown in Canada, the US and Australia (E1 &#8212; E         numbers relate to evidence listed in section 5).
Many of these       viewers contacted us directly, and many as a result of our research, have       explored the project website (625,000 hits by 31st July 2013)       and even visited Leicester.
Analysis of social media revealed that many       millions of Twitter users engaged with the project; peaks of impressions       were on 12 Sept 2012 (initial announcement: 39 million), 4 Feb 2013       (confirmation of discovery: 472 million) and 24 May 2013 (release of         Antiquity publication: 4.8 million).
Facebook engagement via the       University of Leicester page on 4 Feb elicited 2,598 responses from as far       afield as Australia and South America as well as a strong local response (E2).The       Bosworth Battlefield Heritage Centre (BBHC) has hosted at least 16       `Richard-related' media events since the discovery.
SIGNIFICANCE:       Our research has: 1. enhanced cultural understanding; 2.       informed public attitudes and values; 3. shaped teaching       curricula; 4. guided heritage policy; 5. stimulated museum       development and tourism packages; 6. brought considerable       socio-economic benefits to the region.
In addition, the find has opened       public debate and is actively changing attitudes and practice more widely.
For example, the issue of re-interment, particularly the place of       reburial, has been widely discussed, including in Parliament, and this has       also generated wider awareness of both the ethical and the scientific       considerations of dealing with human remains in archaeological contexts.
Another example is Shakespeare's Richard III, in film or on stage,       which will never be viewed in quite the same way again, now that we have       identified the circumstances of his death and burial.
Stephen Fry       mentioned our research in this regard in the 2013 BAFTA awards ceremony,       and actors have publicly stated that it will change the way they approach       the play and the part of Richard III.
Further, Richard III has now brought       scoliosis into the headlines and has served as a positive example of the       achievements of sufferers from this condition (E3).
For the people of Leicester and Leicestershire, the find has become a       symbol of local pride and identity for virtually all sectors of this       diverse, multicultural area.
Open days on the site both before and after       the initial announcement in September 2012 attracted over 5,000 visitors.
The team have given &gt;300 talks to local groups, excluding schools,       including two events at a local cinema showing Laurence Olivier's       depiction of Richard III which sold out on both occasions.
The emails and       comments online in response to press coverage, the views of callers to       radio talk shows and the thousands of conversations with members of the       public at open days and talks demonstrate clearly that the research is       enormously meaningful to people who live in Leicester and Leicestershire       because it feeds into their sense of place.
It is part of their connection       to the city and the region, enhances their identity as Leicester       residents, and makes people feel they belong to Leicester and its past,       whatever their background or socio-economic status (E2 &amp; E4).
It has infiltrated many different aspects of life in Leicester and       Leicestershire.
There has been a Richard III Beer Festival (20/3/2013) and       Richard III has become part of Leicester City football chants, appearing       on the `King Power' football shirts of fans.
Schools and teachers (primary and secondary) both locally and nationwide       have been particularly enthusiastic about incorporating our findings into       their curriculum.
The research has a direct impact on history teaching,       but also on science and English literature.
In response to the many       requests for outreach talks there have been 5 special events on campus for       schools (attracting 450 primary schoolchildren), on-line discussion and       Q&amp;A sessions with schools, where pupils can ask questions directly, as       well as 3 workshops in schools.
The AQA Examination Board have contacted       the University about using this research as a case study for A-Level       Archaeology since it shows how archaeology and history link up, as well as       demonstrating many scientific aspects of archaeology (E5) &#8212; this       is a direct impact on the school curriculum.
Looking to Higher Education,       as a result of the findings the University of Sydney is now teaching a       Richard III course.
City and county heritage policy and plans have been affected dramatically       by our research, the research results playing a significant role in       Leicester's successful bid to be short-listed for designation as UK City       of Culture 2017 (E7).
The small temporary museum exhibition in       Leicester's Guildhall attracted over 45,000 visitors in its first 8 weeks       which can be compared to the typical annual visitor numbers of       35,000.
The city has invested &#163;4 million on an historic building adjacent       to the Greyfriars site to develop as a visitors' centre focused upon       Richard III to open in 2014, and the visitor centre will serve as a core       element in the city's heritage strategy which seeks to promote social and       economic regeneration within the city (E6).
The Cathedral, where       the bones are expected to be reburied, is also developing a strategy for       dealing with the large numbers of visitors expected after re-interment &#8212;       it has already noted a significant increase in visitor numbers coming to       look at the memorial stone alone (E4).
The find has also increased visitor numbers to the BBHC.
February 2013       saw a 138% increase on visitor numbers compared to 2012, and the 2 months       following the public announcement on 4th Feb 2013 saw an       overall increase of 85%.
The interpretation at the visitor centre has also       been updated to take account of the discovery of Richard III's body.
BBHC       also produced a new temporary exhibition, Richard III: The Making of         the Myth which was scheduled to open at the same time as the       announcement, and held a special rose-laying ceremony with the Diocese and       Richard III Society in March.
New art work by artist Graham Turner was       revealed at BBHC in June, featuring a depiction of the battle based on the       wounds of Richard III following the excavation.
Further, the Ricardian       Boar badge discovered at the Battlefield site in 2009 forms a key part of       a new exhibition at another the county's flagship Snibston Discovery       Museum &#8212; Treasure!
Shedding the Light on Leicestershire's Past       (23/3/2013-3/11/2013) (E6).
Direct economic impact on the city of Leicester and the immediate       vicinity has been an outcome of our research.
The number of visitors to       Leicester has risen dramatically &#8212; visitor numbers to the Guildhall       increasing from 6,651 in Jan-Mar 2012 to 46,266 in 2013 (and from 9,819 to       50,269 in the comparable Apr-Jun period (E2)) and tourism is       expected to rise significantly (e.g.
E8 &amp; E9).
For example,       the Guardian newspaper has continuously advertised a 3-day Richard III       tour of the Leicester area.
Leicester Shire Promotions are currently       working with city and county museums to develop a new Richard III audio       tour to venues across the county, another focusing on Medieval       Leicestershire and walking tours joining up BBHC and Blue Badge Guides in       the city.
During the site's open days in August and September 2012, all       Leicester accommodation was fully booked bringing significant economic       impact with hotel bookings in Leicester rising by 20.5% with room-rates up       16.9% (E10).
In addition, the production of general books on       Richard III is on the increase as to date the UoA has had 50 requests for       permission to use images in popular, commercial books (beyond newspapers       and magazines or popular publications of our own).
A wide range of other       merchandise, from T-shirts and greetings cards to hobby miniatures       featuring Richard III bursting out from the car park, have also been       produced.
Meanwhile, sales of the Ricardian Boar Badge and other stock at       BBHC have increased significantly, with take-up of this emblem at other       venues including in the city.
At present, of course we have only the relatively short-term impacts of       the find, but the impacts on both public attitudes and values as well as       on the economy of the city and the region seem likely to be much longer       lasting.
