     The team's research has had three main impacts:     1.
The introduction of the hazard perception test in statutory driver         testing.
The identification of key factors related to hazard perception, including       effective ways to assess and develop this skill, led the authors to       campaign for hazard perception to be used by government agencies to set a       minimum standard of hazard perception for safe driving and an agenda for       training.
For example, prior to 2002, McKenna gave presentations to key       stakeholders such as the Department for Transport, the Parliamentary       Advisory Committee on Transport Safety, the Transport Select Committee       (Westminster and Scotland), Members of Parliament, and parties who would       be affected by any implementation, including the Driving Standards Agency,       driving instructor associations, and the Automobile Association (AA) [1].
This resulted in the team's hazard perception test being adopted by the       Department for Transport as part of all new driver assessments in November       2002 [1, 2].
The test used by the Department for Transport uses the same       methods as the one that was originally developed by McKenna and Crick and       this remains a core component of the driving test today [1].
Over a       million hazard perception tests are taken as part of the statutory driving       test in the U.K. every year (e.g.
1.3million hazard perception tests were       taken in 2012 [3]).
As the test is a requirement for all new drivers, the       proportion of drivers on the road who have taken the test will increase       year-on-year [4].
The research team has also actively and widely promoted their findings       and their implications for road safety to international audiences [5, 6].
When hazard perception was introduced into driver licensing in Queensland,       Australia (since 2009 [7]), the procedures based on the team's test were       used following lobbying by one of McKenna's PhD students at the University       of Reading, Mark Horswill.
The team's hazard perception test has also been       included in driver licensing in the Netherlands since 2009 following the       success of the test's introduction in the U.K. [8, 9].
The international       application of the test highlights the widespread impact of the research       on policy and road safety beyond the U.K.
The introduction of a statutory hazard perception test has led to changes       in driver training in the U.K., with the development of a wide range of       hazard perception training packages now available for use on PCs, mobile       phones and tablets [10] and hazard perception practice becoming a part of       the training delivered by major driving schools (e.g.
the British School       of Motoring, Automobile Association) [11].
Thus, an indirect effect of       McKenna's work, via the introduction of the hazard perception test in U.K.       driver licensing, is an increase in the availability of training in hazard       perception, particularly for learner drivers.
2.
A measurable decrease in road accidents.
As the ability to detect hazards has been identified as one of the most       important factors in reducing casualties among young drivers, setting a       criterion for passing the hazard perception test would be expected to       reduce road accidents and resulting casualties.
Indeed, independent       reports published by the Department for Transport indicate that the       introduction of the hazard perception test has reduced accident liability       for certain types of accidents in the first year of driving [12, 13, 14],       for example, introduction of the test has been associated with an 11%       reduction in all reported non-low-speed public road accidents.
Higher       hazard perception scores were also found to be associated with lower       accident liability, both for non-low-speed public road accidents generally       and for those non-low-speed public road accidents in which the driver       accepted some blame.
That is, drivers with better hazard perception skills       were less likely to be responsible for accidents [12, 13, 14].
These       independent findings verify the impact of McKenna's work on all road users       by increasing road safety.
3.
Increased public awareness of road safety.
The research and its application have led to McKenna being recognised as       a leading expert in hazard perception, in particular, and road safety in       general.
McKenna advises leading councils across the U.K. (e.g.
the Royal       Society for the Prevention of Accidents (RoSPA) [15]) and internationally,       about young drivers (including their hazard perception, risk taking       behaviour and speed) and promotes evidence-based decision making for road       safety.
To exemplify the scope of this impact, McKenna has (within the       impact period) spoken at a conference on Child Cyclist Safety (2011) [16],       co-authored a major report for the Department for Transport on education       and training for novice drivers [17], lead a discussion at a major Royal       Automobile Club (RAC) Foundation seminar (2010) [18], and was invited to       serve as an expert for the Safer Roads Partnership Board to develop speed       awareness training courses for drivers who had been penalised for breaking       the speed limit across the Thames Valley [up to 2011; 19].
This large       scale application of self-funding speed awareness training encouraged 13       other regions to apply speed awareness training across the U.K. [19].
The       team's research and their hazard perception test have also been featured       in a variety of media outlets including television (e.g.
BBC Breakfast       (2010), `How Safe are Britain's Roads' (2012)) and printed press (e.g.
New       Scientist (2011)) which has increased public awareness of the importance       of hazard perception.
In summary, the main beneficiaries of this research are all new drivers       in the U.K., and some other parts of the world, who now can access       training and are required to pass a statutory assessment on their ability       to detect potentially dangerous situations on the road.
All other road       users (the majority of the population) will also benefit from safer roads.
Anyone who wishes to obtain a driving license in the U.K., the Netherlands       and Queensland, Australia, has to demonstrate that they have met a minimum       standard for detecting potentially hazardous events on the road on the       basis of the test developed at the University of Reading.
It is likely       that the impact of this research will continue to extend globally; a       number of European countries, such as Germany and the Czech Republic, are       currently considering implementing hazard perception testing within new       driver licensing, based on the success of the test in the U.K [20, 21].
