     The impacts are cultural and financial, and derive from Ekserdjian's work       in the authentication of       paintings and the curating of exhibitions, as follows:     `Bronze' Exhibition       Ekserdjian devised the original idea for and curated the recent Royal       Academy exhibition `Bronze',       which ran from September to December 2012 and, along with the Leonardo       show at the National       Gallery, was one of the most admired and revelatory `Old Master'       exhibitions in the world within the       current census period.
Ekserdjian persuaded collectors, governments and       museums from around       the world to loan over 150 priceless sculptures, reliefs and other       artefacts, many of which had       never left their home countries before.
Indeed, in the example of a loan       from Austria, a change to       the country's export laws was required, which offers impact of a rather       different but nonetheless       substantial kind.
The Managing Director of Royal Academy Enterprises,       testifies: "Many people       commented on the fact that the show was a unique experience in the history       of art appreciation; it's       highly unlikely that such a quantity and a wide range of artefacts will       ever be brought together       again.
The exhibition certainly could not have happened without David's       breadth of insight...His       passion, determination and persuasive skills were instrumental in securing       many of the loans that       made this an exceptional exhibition" (A).
The exhibition and its innovative thematic approach garnered       international attention and       comprehensive acclaim from all the main news and media outlets, with       hundreds of published       reviews (B).
[text removed for publication].
Sales of merchandise,       the award-winning catalogue (5)       and catering revenues were likewise substantial, calculated [text removed       for publication], and the       Royal Academy estimates substantial domestic and international tourism as       well, with an estimated       9,000 foreign visitors.
The cultural and educational impact of the       exhibition was likewise extensive       and positive, in particular in relation to the RA's innovative events       programmes, including hands-on       bronze-making workshops, which reached out to a wide demographic and can       be evidenced in       visitor feedback and emails (C).
Attribution Cases       Ekserdjian was invited to devise the concept and curate the Royal Academy       exhibition on the basis       of a reputation built up over many years, which took in several other       exhibitions as detailed above,       as well as for his extensive connections at all levels of the art world.
But this work in the public eye       of the international art world is built upon and feeds back into       Ekserdjian's more private work,       particularly in the areas of attribution and auctions.
A prominent example is when Sotheby's consulted Ekserdjian in 2010-2011       to assess a piece now       entitled Virgin and Child with the Infant Saint John the Baptist,       which Ekserdjian confirmed was by       Correggio.
His endorsement of the attribution was published in their       subsequent auction catalogue,       and he was then contacted by a number of interested parties seeking advice       on the piece.
They       included its eventual purchaser, the Art Gallery of Victoria in Melbourne,       who relied entirely upon       Ekserdjian's assessment of the authenticity of the piece against the       "rumour mongers" who then       sought to discredit it: "Furthermore his expertise was imperative in that       it aided us to assure our       very generous donor who was funding the acquisition that the work was       indeed genuine...An       extensive technical examination and conservation treatment carried out       here in the ensuing       months absolutely confirmed Professor Ekserdjian's assessment of the       painting" (D).
Sold at       Sotheby's for [text removed for publication], this was "the highest priced       acquisition in the NGV's       150 year history" (E).
After conservation is complete, the painting       will go on public display there.
Another example is the Parmigianino Portrait of a Man, for which       Ekserdjian initially confirmed its       attribution to the dealers who were selling it (Hazlitt, Gooden &amp; Fox)       in 2006, whilst also informing       them that it would be published as a Parmigianino in his then-forthcoming       monograph (1).
This       made it possible for the dealers to market it as an extremely important       new discovery, which swiftly       led to its acquisition by its current owner, the business leader and       philanthropist [text removed for       publication].
[text removed for publication] confidence in the authority       of Ekserdjian's judgement led       him to spend a very considerable sum of money on the work, [text removed       for publication] (F).
"Without the endorsement by Professor Ekserdjian," the dealers confirmed,       "who is universally       regarded as the supreme authority on the works of Parmigianino, we would       not have been able to       offer it at anything like the same level of price" (G).
Ekserdjian       subsequently provided [text       removed for publication] with advice on other acquisitions, and ultimately       it is [text removed for       publication] intention that the best of the collection should end up in       public museums.
It is worth       adding that neither the Correggio Virgin and Child nor the       Parmigianino Portrait of a Man came       from a British collection, so their removal to Australia and the United       States respectively have had       no negative implications in terms of this country's national heritage.
As a final example: in the summer of 2010 Ekserdjian was put into contact       by Sotheby's with       another collector, [text removed for publication], and subsequently       advised him on the purchase of       the Portrait of Cardinal Lorenzo Pucci by Parmigianino for [text       removed for publication] (H).
He       also advised on other purchases subsequently from various auction houses       and galleries.
All of the       purchaser's most significant acquisitions, many of them advised by       Ekserdjian, including       Domenichino's Saint John the Evangelist and Goltzius's Jupiter         and Antiope, have been on loan to       the National Gallery, and it is the owner's expressed aim to bequeath them       all to the museum.
The       Director of the National Gallery testifies to the crucial importance of       Ekserdjian's authentication of       these and other loaned works for the museum's display programme, which       "obviously enhance the       permanent collection, and are therefore of great public benefit to the       millions of visitors we receive       every year."
As well as the likely commercial impact on the value of the       loaned pieces that they will       derive from being displayed in such an eminent museum, he continues, "what       matters most to me       is that the National Gallery's reputation as an international centre for       scholarship is supported not       only by its curators but by one of its Trustees [Ekserdjian]" (I).
These are the highlights of Ekserdjian's recent attribution work, and all       parties have expressed       confidence in relying on his expertise in the future (F, H).
Moreover, in the words of Hazlitt,       Gooden and Fox: "It is a source of particular reassurance to us &#8212; and       indeed to our clients &#8212; that       Professor Ekserdjian invariably insists on refusing any personal       remuneration for performing such       services" (G).
