     Approximately 7% of pre-school children have language impairments (e.g.
Tomblin et al., 1997), which translates to about 40,000 children who are       starting school in the U.K. each year, with over 5,000 of these children       having severe and complex speech and language difficulties (Bercow, 2008).
The ability to communicate underpins children's social, emotional and       educational development, and those who do not benefit from early       intervention are at increased risk of educational underachievement,       emotional and behavioural problems, and poorer employment prospects       (Bercow, 2008).
It is therefore, essential, that appropriate tools exist       to identify and diagnose specific speech and language difficulties in       early childhood and to monitor the effects of intervention.
The       international reputation of the University of Reading team's research on       typical and atypical language development [1], led to an invitation to       enter a competitive tender to produce a new language test using the brand       name Reynell (an author of an earlier language test) with the       publishers NFER-Nelson, a leader in the fields of health and education.
The team's successful bid led NFER-Nelson to commission the piloting and       standardisation of the test and a reliable assessment tool was       subsequently produced for use in clinical practice.
The test was unique in       that it included measures to assess the acquisition of key components of       linguistic structure, reflected advances in understanding the development       of child language (based on the team's underpinning research), tested both       comprehension and expression, was developed in the U.K. and provided       reliable norms of young children's language based on a large       representative sample of children from the U.K. and Republic of Ireland.
Prior to the development of this test, Speech and Language Therapists       (SLTs) in the U.K. and Republic of Ireland did not have access to an       assessment that provided robust normative scores for both language       comprehension and expression to guide clinical decision making [2].
The       test also provided clinicians with a standard for monitoring the       effectiveness of educational or medical intervention or building profiles       of specific clinical populations.
Thus, the publication of a valid,       standardised test of language development contributed to language       assessment of children, improved diagnosis, enabled clinicians to target       intervention, provided a means of calibrating effectiveness, and provided       a reliable tool for researchers measuring language change [2].
Members of the research team (Susan Edwards and Carolyn Letts) led       workshops across the U.K. for health and education workers to promote the       test and offer training for potential users on the purpose and       administration of the test scales.
Furthermore, the team were invited to       author a lead article for the journal of the Royal College of Speech and       Language Therapists, the Journal of Language and Communication         Disorders, and the authors gave presentations and workshops at       professional meetings in Norway, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Greece,       Germany, Canada, Hong Kong, Iran, Kuwait and the U.S.A.
The beneficiaries of this work have been children with language       impairment, their parents, clinicians (SLTs and related professionals),       and health and education authorities.
Wide and varied use of the test is       indicated by the large number of publications that cite the test within       clinical contexts [3], including evaluation of interventions for young       children who stammer, and also children from disadvantaged backgrounds.
Other populations where the test has been used include children with       Down's syndrome, pervasive developmental disorder, developmental delay,       hearing impairments, cochlear implants, and also children on the autistic       spectrum [4].
In line with the expansion of evidence-based interventions for language       impairment and associated conditions in the NHS, and in response to       demands for SLTs to provide scores from robust language testing during       legal proceedings, SLTs are increasingly required to justify their       diagnoses and demonstrate effectiveness to their funders (educational       and/or health authorities).
The robust underpinning research and       psychometric properties of the test have, therefore, made it the test of       choice for SLTs and related professionals [2] and this preference is       reflected in the high volume of sales of the test [5].
Since its       publication 5,259 copies of the RDLS3 have been sold.
As a test record       form is required for each administration of the test it is notable that       371,835 RDLS3 record forms have been sold (in addition to the 25 forms       that come with each test kit) giving a clearer illustration of the number       of children who have actually been tested.
Despite tests sold prior to the       REF period still being in use, sales have continued to be high in the U.K.       and increasingly overseas during the REF period.
Since 2008, 20,845       additional record forms have been sold, with about a third of these sold       overseas (6,080).
In fact most of the tests that been sold during the REF       period have been to overseas users (301 of 329 tests) [5].
The test has       also been translated for use by overseas clinicians (it is now available       in, e.g.
Finnish, Norwegian, Dutch and Malay) and it has also been used       within clinical research in countries including Sweden and Israel [6],       providing a resource for language assessment and diagnosis for children       with language impairments with substantial international reach.
As a result of the success of the RDLS3, in 2008 Susan Edwards (with       Carolyn Letts (now at Newcastle University) and Indra Sinka (now at Open       University)) were commissioned by Granada Learning (GL) Assessment       (&#163;300,000) to develop a new, re-standardised edition of the test, the New       Reynell Developmental Language Scales (NRDLS; published 2011 [1]).
Sales       of this new test have already reached 650 tests (plus a further 5,375       record forms), with 105 tests being sold in the EU and 163 in other parts       of the world.
The substantial ongoing sales of the record forms and the       commissioning of a revised version of the test are testament to its       outstanding reputation and enduring legacy.
