     Whilst there is no doubt that GPC is the single most valuable       resource available to scholars of the Welsh language and its literature       (its primary purpose) and the most frequently cited work in that field,       its impact reaches many other disciplines within HE in the Arts, Sciences       and Social Sciences, other areas of the education system generally, and       many spheres of public and commercial life.
This was reflected in a letter       from the former Chief Executive of HEFCW to the Editor of Geiriadur yr         Academi and Hon.
President of the Society of Welsh Translators (12       June 2012 (source 1)): `We share your high regard for the Dictionary and       recognise its importance to Welsh scholarship.
.
.
.
The value of the       Dictionary extends well beyond the world of higher education.
Translators,       lawyers, schools, colleges and the wider public of Welsh speakers are       among the many other users.'
Some idea of the broad range of GPC's impact beyond Celtic       Studies and linguistics can be gained by examining the 454 citations of it       listed by Google Scholar, including such titles as Audiological         Medicine, Cambrian Law Review, Folk Life, Information         Visualization, Journal of Historical Geography, Journal         of the Royal Musical Association, Mammal Review, Metropolitan         Museum Journal, Signs, Social History, and The         Chaucer Review, and the fact that the work is cited in works written       in French, German, Italian, Spanish, Dutch, Russian, Ukrainian, and       Japanese, amongst others.
GPC is the foundation for all contemporary Welsh lexicography, as       acknowledged by the editor of The Welsh Academy English-Welsh         Dictionary, and the editor of Geiriadur Gomer, Geiriadur         Gomer i'r Ifainc, A Shorter Welsh Dictionary, Geiriadur         Pawb, etc.
:     "Yn y pen draw, GPC yw sylfaen gwaith pob aelod o Gymdeithas y       Cyfieithwyr a phob cyfieithydd o bwys sydd a wnelo &#226;'r Gymraeg.
Dibynnodd       Geiriadur yr Academi'n drwm iawn ar GPC; yn wir, prin y       gallesid dychmygu creu GA heb gymorth GPC.
Bu pob testun       addysgol o bwys yn Gymraeg, boed lyfr, boed raglen gyfrifiadurol, boed       ffilm, yn ddyledus i GPC."
(source 1)     "There are numerous competing agencies involved in producing material of       a lexicographical nature.
Despite their differences, the one thing that       these agencies have in common is their respect for Geiriadur Prifysgol         Cymru and their acknowledgement of it as a unique, impartial,       authoritative and ready source of knowledge.
This common acceptance of Geiriadur         Prifysgol Cymru as a trusted agent, is a major strength and should       be used as the base for future development."
(source 2)     The Editor (Hawke) has been called upon to assist dictionaries of other       languages.
He serves as a language consultant (Welsh &amp; Cornish) for       the Oxford English Dictionary, on the Advisory Board of a new       Scottish Gaelic dictionary project, and as an adviser to the Cornish       Language Partnership's dictionary project.
He has also been asked to       advise on the revision of eDIL (the electronic edition of the Dictionary       of the Irish Language), and Scottish Language Dictionaries' revision of       their online Scots dictionaries.
He has received queries from the Dictionary         of Medieval Latin from British Sources (Oxford University, e.g.
rhodiawl,         sopae), the Dictionary of Medieval Latin from Celtic Sources       (Royal Irish Academy), the Anglo-Norman Dictionary (Aberystwyth) (cyfraith),       as well as from various Welsh dictionary editors.
He has also presented       papers about GPC and lexicography at a number of conferences, and has been       invited to contribute to various encyclopedias and handbooks on       lexicography and linguistics (including Oxford, Elsevier, and Springer).
(source 8)     OED (from 2008-present, advice has been given during the       drafting/revision of the following OED entries): aberdevine, acorn,       adder, addle, afanc, Albion, alienisparsison,       alienize, allobrogical, Almain, altar, alternity,       alum, amobr, anchor (= anchorite), anchoress,       baban, be, boat, Brett, Britain, Briton,       Brythonic, chemise, crown, demos, erw,       fair, fairy, faith, February, fortisparsison,       fosse, gravisparsison, hog, homelyn, Irish,       iron, lowrie, Rebecca, red book, remain,       rescue, resumption, rhandir, ring, ringild,       rock, rosland, ross, roucote, rough,       rouncy, rudder, rule-right, rux, slovan,       street, table-board, Welsh, west, zawn.
(source 10)     Until it was abolished in 2012, the Welsh Language Board requested the       Dictionary every year to nominate a member of staff to serve on the       Technical Terms Committee which supports all Government departments in       relation to Welsh terminology and maintains a central database called       TermCymru (http://www.termcymru.wales.gov.uk).
(See, e.g., letter dated 10/02/2011 from the Head of the Board's       Translation and Standardization of Terms Unit.)
GPC is specified as the standard for orthography, plural forms and       grammatical gender in the Welsh Assembly Legislative Translation Unit       house style guidelines (source 5), and it is used extensively in drafting       legislation bilingually in Welsh and English, as was highlighted by       Winston Roddick, the first General Counsel to the Welsh Assembly, in a       letter in Golwg on 31 May 2012 (source 4)): `Hoffwn felly dynnu       sylw at ei bwysigrwydd [GPC] i gyfreithwyr ac, yn arbennig, i       ddeddfwrieithwyr.
.
.
.
Mae'n amlwg felly bod rhaid cael geiriadur       arbennig ac un o'r safon uchaf i weithredu'r broses o gyd-lunio       deddfwriaeth ddwyieithog .
.
.
sef geiriadur sydd yn rhoi tarddiad geiriau       yn ogystal &#226;'u hystyr.'
The Chief Legal Translator will testify to the       importance of GPC as a standard for the work of his unit.
(source       9)       The use of GPC as an authority was mentioned by David Lambert and       Manon George of Cardiff Law School at the Constitutional Affairs Committee       Inquiry on `Drafting Welsh Government Measures: Lessons from the First       Three Years: Cardiff Law School' (24 November 2010, available on the Welsh       Assembly website).
(source 7)     GPC is an essential tool to professional translators such as those       in local government, the Welsh Government, and the Welsh Assembly who also       submit queries directly to the editorial staff (source 3).
A translator       for Rhondda Cynon Taf County Borough Council has stated: `Y ddau eiriadur       hyn [GPC a Geiriadur yr Academi] yw conglfaen ein gwaith       beunyddiol.
Yn ogystal &#226; hyn mae statws cyfreithiol yr iaith yn gwneud       cywirdeb a manylder diffiniadau geiriau ac ymadroddion yn hanfodol bwysig       am y tro cyntaf ers 1536.'
(e-mail, 15 May 2012)     GPC is also a source of statistical information about the       language.
Hawke assisted the publisher Leisure Trends of Brancaster to       produce a Welsh version of the game `Scrabble' (September 2005) and       `Junior Scrabble' (November 2010) by providing statistics on the relative       frequency of letters in Welsh, based on the content of the Dictionary at       the suggestion of The Welsh Books Council.
GPC is also important in the field of place-names, both in terms       of orthography and interpretation.
The Welsh Language Board (until its       dissolution in 2012) requested the Dictionary every year to nominate a       member of staff to serve on the Place-names Committee which advised local       authorities on standardizing the various place-names within their area.
A       Senior Editor and the Hon.
Editorial Consultant serve as officers of the       Welsh Place-Names Society.
(See, e.g., letter dated 10/02/2011 from the       Leader of the Board's Translation and Standardization of Terms Unit.)
The GPC editors engage with the public in numerous ways: they       receive enquiries by post, e-mail, telephone, Twitter, Facebook, as well       as assisting visitors in person at the GPC offices.
GPC       has nearly 800 `friends' on Facebook and a number of useful discussions       have been forthcoming.
(Source 6) Over 1,100 people follow the `word of       the day' tweet on Twitter which is often broadcast on a popular afternoon       radio programme with an audience of 40,000-50,000 and which inspired the       Children's Poet Laureate of Wales to produce a Breton `word of the day'       tweet.
Considerable feedback is received, and the project benefits from       generous voluntary contributions from users in the form of examples of       words, electronic texts, gifts of books, as well as comments and       suggestions.
Voluntary informants from all areas and occupations have       agreed to be consulted on their colloquial use of particular words.
A       number of societies and groups (including Cymdeithas Edward Llwyd (natural       history) and the Welsh Place-Names Society) contribute data to the       project.
The Welsh national press, radio, and television have shown interest in       the Dictionary's work (and concern for its survival).
The publication of       Part 11 of the second edition in 2012 was used to stimulate public       interest in the Dictionary and the Welsh language.
There was a       considerable response by the media with articles and news items appearing       in Y Cymro and Golwg, on S4C, and the BBC (TV, radio, and       English and Welsh websites), together with several interviews with the       staff and others (e.g.
a naturalist) from outside the University.
The       independent television company Cwmni Da also spent a day filming `Ar       Lafar' at the GPC offices (broadcast 12 December 2012) including       Hawke discussing the coining of new words including the word reu       which became popular in the 1980s and 1990s youth culture in Welsh.
GPC has had a bilingual website for over 15 years which receives many       hits from around the world, particularly the 6,497-page abridged version       of the dictionary, which can be downloaded for free for local searching.
It omits the etymologies and citations, but nevertheless has shown that       there is a strong demand for online access to the work.
This version was       released as a temporary measure whilst the full online version was being       prepared, which will be available from 2014.
Many thousands of copies have       been downloaded by readers.
Proofs of work-in-progress are placed       regularly on the website for readers to comment upon.
Online visitors       regularly send enquiries about specific words which the staff attempt to       answer.
