     Context:       In the UK, pregnant women are offered routine tests and checks as part of       their antenatal care, including screening for Down's syndrome.
Initial       screening methods are non-invasive to the foetus as they simply require a       blood sample from the mother.
These blood serum tests are used to help       evaluate whether there is a low or high chance that the baby has Down's       syndrome.
The results of the initial screens may prompt more invasive       diagnostic tests, including chorionic villus sampling or amniocentesis,       which can identify any chromosomal abnormalities, but also carry a 1%       chance of aborting the foetus.
Therefore, more sensitive non-invasive       screening methods are extremely beneficial in reducing the number of       invasive tests required, reducing risk to the foetus and providing       valuable information for parents and health care providers.
In 2003, the UK National Screening Committee (NSC) advised that the       benchmarks for detection of Down's syndrome be revised to a 60% detection       rate and &lt;5% false positive rate benchmark by 2004/05.
The benchmarks       were then further revised to a 75% detection rate and &lt;3% false       positive rate by April of 2007 as inclusion of the inhibin serum marker       would "achieve even better outcomes" [a].
The quadruple test can predict       approximately 75% of Down syndrome cases in women under age 35 and over       80% of Down syndrome cases in women age 35 years and older [Reynolds, T       (2010) Int J Womens Health, 2: 83-88].
In October 2003, the       National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (NICE) recommended the       quadruple test (which includes the inhibin-A immunoassay) be used for 2nd       trimester testing (14-20 weeks) and that the integrated and serum       integrated tests, which both include the inhibin-A immunoassay, be used       for testing between 11-14 weeks and 14 to 20 weeks as all of these tests       met the recommended benchmarks (NICE Clinical Guideline 6, October 2003).
Adoption in UK clinical guidance:       In 2008, NSC recommended revising these benchmarks again, setting a goal       of a 90% detection rate and &lt;2% false positive rate by April 2010.
They       recommended the quadruple test for 2nd trimester testing as       approximately 15% of pregnant women do not seek medical advice until the 2nd       trimester [b].
This recommendation was adopted in the clinical guidance       provided by NICE in 2008 [c] and remains the "[only] screening strategy       that is available for women presenting beyond 14 weeks and 2 days       pregnancy" [d].
In 2008, the Scottish Government amended their Pregnancy and Newborn       Screening Programmes to also include quadruple testing for all women       presenting in the 2nd trimester [e].
Personalised information for women in the 2nd         trimester:       Though the NHS is shifting toward a combined test carried out in the 1st       trimester, tens of thousands of women in the UK who meet with a health       professional later in their pregnancy benefit from the 2nd       trimester quadruple test.
Approximately 750,000 pregnant women are offered       NHS screening every year [g] and around 15% of these women (112,500) will       come in for testing during the 2nd trimester [b].
Around 60% of       these women will accept the screening [f], which means that approximately       67,500 women in the UK benefit annually from the additional information       provided by this 2nd trimester screen; this translates to over       370,000 women in the UK between January 2008 and July 2013.
Adoption internationally:       The inclusion of inhibin-A measures as part of the quadruple test in 2nd       trimester Down's syndrome screening has been adopted by other countries.
In Canada, the province of British Columbia made the Serum Integrated       Prenatal Screen (SIPS) available to all pregnant women (regardless of       age), which includes the quadruple test, in February 2009 [g].
In the       province of Ontario, nearly 67% of pregnant women chose to undergo       maternal multiple marker screening (2009-2010 data) [h], which includes a       measure of inhibin levels in the mother's blood.
Use of the quadruple test in the 2nd trimester was       incorporated into The Australian Handbook for General Practitioners       in 2007 [i, pg14] and is still the recommended test.
In the US, the quadruple screen is the most widely available and offered       test for women presenting in the 2nd trimester, with 86% of       surveyed US obstetricians offering the test [Reynolds, T (2010) Int J         Womens Health, 2: 83-88].
The quadruple test is also offered by the FetalCare centre of excellence       in Saudi Arabia, which was established in 2012 [j].
Pregnant women and public health service providers worldwide have       benefited from improved antenatal Down's screening programmes through:            enabling more informed decisions regarding likely pregnancy outcome,         particularly with the demographic trend in the developed world for women         to have children at a later age when the risk of having a Down's baby is         considerably higher; and informing decisions for further action (such as         invasive diagnostic tests or pregnancy termination).
