     Context     Gastrointestinal dysfunction and disease is the most common cause of       hospital admission in the       UK, making it a heavy burden for patients, the NHS and the economy.
The       cost to the NHS is over       &#163;2.3bn per annum, with associated non-NHS costs to society in excess of       &#163;7bn per annum       (Williams et al 2007.
Gut 56, 1-113,       doi:10.1136/gut.2006.117598).
Incidence of gastrointestinal       disease is increasing, which has major implications for healthcare needs.
Improving health of the       human gut through dietary intervention affords an excellent opportunity       for reducing the impact of       gastrointestinal disease, yet this approach remains relatively       under-explored.
The Reading work       has contributed to developing dietary interventions for gastrointestinal       dysfunction by examining       the prebiotic effects of a wide array of commercially available foods and       food ingredients, including       development of the novel prebiotic, Bimuno.
Gibson has been instrumental       in developing the       concept of prebiotics not only through his published output (the original       1995 publication that       introduced the concept has received over 2000 citations) but also as a       founding member of a       dedicated scientific organization with over 700 members (International       Scientific Association for       Probiotics and Prebiotics (ISAPP)).
ISAPP provides a forum for researchers       and food and       biopharma industry professionals to exchange research findings leading to       further opportunities for       collaboration and exploitation of the research.
Work on Bimuno has led to the formation of a new SME (Clasado) with       significant potential for       further growth and contribution to the economy.
The wider research on       other prebiotics has also       had direct commercial impact with the estimated total economic impact of       prebiotics to be &#8364;300m       per annum in Europe with an annual growth rate of 14% (http://www.food.frost.com       ).
There has       also been significant benefit to the health and welfare of consumers, as       well as a wider effect on       society through stimulating public debate and awareness of the role of       colonic bacteria in human       health.
Spin-out company expands with new products commercialised     Between 2003 and 2013, the Reading team led the generation, pilot       manufacturing and testing of       the Bimuno novel prebiotic food ingredient and supplement.
A worldwide       patent was granted for       Bimuno and the product is available in the UK as a range of retail       products and in North America       as a branded ingredient in dietary supplements and medical foods.
Since 2003, Clasado has continued to invest in an on-going programme of       research and       development at the University of Reading.
The research that assessed       Bimuno's effect on targeted       groups of people [3-6], such as sufferers of IBS and traveller's       diarrhoea, has led to the       development and commercialisation of several new products: Bimuno       IMMUNAID, to help maintain       immune health, Bimuno TRAVELAID, for gut health maintenance when       travelling abroad and       Bimuno IBAID to help main digestive function; all launched in 2008.
George Tzortis, first a PhD student, and later a post-doctoral researcher       working on Bimuno at       Reading (2005-2008), became Clasado's Research &amp; Development Manager,       further supporting       the extension of the research into the innovation and product development       chain.
Since Clasado       was established, it has "grown to employ over 20 people with extensive         outsourced operations for         manufacturing, packaging &amp; regulatory functions" [a].
In 2009,       the company was awarded the Frost       &amp; Sullivan 2009 European Food &amp; Beverage New Product Innovation       Award for the Bimuno       product [b].
The Bimuno brand is now firmly established in the market and Clasado is "enjoying         commercial         success through the Bimuno product range" [a].
The products are sold       in retail outlets across the       UK, such as Boots, Sainsburys and Tesco.
Bimuno products are also sold       online globally through       the Clasado website.
In the USA, Bimuno is included as a branded       ingredient in products such as       Medtrition National Nutrition's Banatrol plus (diarrhoea treatment) and       ArgiMent&#8482; (for dietary       management of pressure ulcers and wounds), and GMC's Preventive Nutrition&#174;       Healthy Digestion       Formula (health supplement).
The Company contracts out its manufacturing,       packaging and       regulatory functions thus allowing focus on its core business of being a       technology innovator.
Clasado is developing commercial partnerships with a number of worldwide       partners capable of       delivering a global leadership position in Wellness using Clasado's       current and future IP under the       Bimuno&#174; brand and other filed Trade Marks.
Public health and well-being improved     The Bimuno product range has beneficial effects on the health and       well-being of its consumers.
Benefits demonstrated through laboratory and clinical trials at Reading       include:            Reducing the risk of gastrointestinal dysfunction through prophylactic         means in persons         ostensibly free of disease [2];       Supporting immune defences in the elderly [3];       Supporting gut health while abroad, especially in high risk         destinations for gastroenteritis         [5];       Reducing symptoms of Irritable Bowel Syndrome [4];       Positively affecting certain markers of metabolic syndrome in obese         individuals [6].
As the products are over-the-counter dietary supplements for       self-selection it is not possible to give       specific evidence for the number of consumers that have benefited.
However, testimonials from       users indicate the Bimuno products have been life-changing, with IBS       sufferers claiming that "it is         no exaggeration to say [Bimuno] has turned [their] life around" [c]       and that after years of trying       other treatment options "[Bimuno tablets] are the only things that         have worked" [d].
Bimuno incorporated into health advice from medical and other health         professionals     In 2010, medical staff for the Welsh athletics team (175 athletes) and       the England bowls team (12       athletes) advised athletes to use Bimuno in preparation for and during the       2010 Commonwealth       Games in Dehli [e].
Bimuno also supported Team GB in the 2011 World       University Games in       Shenzhen, China [f].
A sports nutritionist who has worked with the England       Rugby Squad, England       Cricket, Chelsea Football Club and Welsh Rugby union also recommends       Bimuno Travelaid in his       work [g].
Bimuno is further validated and distributed through partnerships       with a range of       organisations, including the IBS network, British Global Travel Health       Association, British Dietetic       Association's specialist interest groups, Association of British Travel       Agents (ABTA) and       Eurochange.
Travel Health clinics have also partnered with Bimuno and have       incorporated it into       part of their regular advice to travellers: "Taking Bimuno is part of         the comprehensive advice we         offer our customers who are concerned about tummy trouble spoiling their         holiday abroad" [h].
Moreover, Oxfam, a leading charity offers Bimuno to its volunteers       involved with developing world       humanitarian assignments [a].
Impacts on public understanding:     The positive effects of Bimuno have been widely reported in the media,       including newspaper and       magazine articles as well as TV (e.g.
Horizon, Don't Die Young) and radio       (e.g.
BBC Radio 4 and 5       Live) coverage.
High profile written coverage included the Sunday Express       (9th October 2012,       average circulation 578,774), Full House magazine (9th November       2012, average circulation       150,168) and the Telegraph (21st January 2011, 651,184).
Media       coverage has contributed to the       public awareness and understanding of the concept of bacteria in gut       health and overall well-being,       as well as the role of prebiotics in improving intestinal health.
Gibson       and Rastall also presented       their prebiotic research at the prestigious Royal Society summer show in       2007       (http://royalsociety.org/summer-science/2007/digestion-journey/).
The Exhibition is the Society's       main public event of the year open to member of the general public,       students, teachers, scientists,       policymakers and the media, typically attended by over 12,000 visitors       with coverage on TV, in the       print media and online.
