     Children in care are a difficult population to reach because they       comprise only about 0.6% of the school population (with perhaps only one       looked after child in a school); many move address frequently, and many       children come in and out of care during each year.
The Letterbox Club is now established as a national programme that       improves the achievement in reading and numeracy of children aged 5 to 13       in public care in the UK, and provides an effective means of supporting       families.
It has significantly influenced a range of stakeholders,       including children, foster families and children's services.
The programme       was praised in 2011 by Edward Timpson MP, now the Children's Minister for       England, who said that Letterbox Club is "a very effective tool for       ensuring that children who need the support most in society are actually       getting it in a way that really does get to the heart of the issues they       face".
Professor Sonia Jackson described the programme in 2011 as both       unique and valuable, based on careful and detailed research at Leicester       that included consideration of the best materials, timing and organisation       of the intervention, leading to "strong evidence that it has really       changed things for children" (A).
Further endorsements have been       received from Fostering Network, Booktrust, OFSTED, the Centre for       Excellence and Outcomes in Children and Young People's Services, the       All-Party Parliamentary Group for Looked After Children and Care Leavers,       and other researchers in this field (B-G).
Feedback from children shows that participation in Letterbox Club is       enjoyable and practical.
Development of the scheme included consideration       of sustainability and provided quantitative and qualitative evidence to       those holding strategic and financial responsibility that Letterbox was       cost-effective.
The Northern Ireland Minister for Education, John O'Dowd,       said in 2013 that the cost of Letterbox Club was "money well spent".
Dissemination made full use of local and national press, professional       networks, a website, and individual advocates at all levels &#8212; from       children's author Jacqueline Wilson, who has spoken about the value of       Letterbox Club many times, to Ryan, aged 8, who said "It's brill!"
The Letterbox Club has expanded from 20 children aged 7 to 11 and one       local authority in 2003, to almost 6,000 children aged 5 to 13 and 130       organisations in 2013, in all four countries of the UK.
From 2008 to 2013,       over 25,000 children have been members of Letterbox Club.
Children can now       be members four times, every other year, receiving different materials       each time.
The project already reaches around 60% of eligible children       aged 7 to 13 in England, 100% in Wales and 100% in Northern Ireland, and       is still growing, with a funded pilot in Scotland.
A pilot based on       Letterbox Club is currently underway in Ontario, Canada, with 540       children.
The impact on children and their foster carers is substantial.
Each child       receives a parcel once a month for six months, addressed to them       personally.
Children are excited and pleased to receive a parcel and they       decide for themselves what to do with the materials provided.
Shaariq,       aged 11, said "I loved opening the parcels.
My hands shivered with       excitement to see what I got next".
The majority of children choose to       engage in reading and playing number games with their foster parents,       siblings and other family members, as well as using the materials on their       own.
Children's progress in literacy and numeracy has been very positive.
Using standardised/age-normed reading and number assessments,       greater-than-predicted gains were found in all evaluations, for all age       groups.
The Letterbox Club model is effective across different educational       systems: evaluations in Wales and Northern Ireland (2009 - 2011) revealed       above-predicted gains in both reading and number (H,I).
Questionnaires and interviews with children (evidenced in all evaluation       reports) showed high levels of satisfaction (&gt;85%) with the contents of       the Letterbox parcels across all cohorts, and immense pleasure at "being       remembered".
Interviews with children 6 months after they received their       last parcel showed lasting impact, as children were still using the       materials.
Responses from foster carers were equally positive, and equally       consistent over time and context, indicating high levels of approval for       the scheme: for example, one foster carer from Brent commented, "This is       the best thing my local authority has ever done" (J).
There has been considerable impact on children's social and emotional       development, reported by both children and foster carers, including:            children feeling validated (typically expressed as `feeling special'),         leading to improvements in pro-social behaviour and self-esteem;       greater engagement in learning/schoolwork;       improved relationships and attachment between children and carers         through joint exploration of Letterbox materials.
Many foster carers have commented on the contribution that the programme       has made to their own confidence in helping their foster child.
Many have       also said that the programme was especially important for children who had       moved frequently: for example, the foster carer of Kelly, aged 10, who had       moved three times in a year, said that "the Letterbox Club was the       continuity, something that stayed the same when she moved.
It was very       important to Kelly".
As another child (aged 9) said, "So somebody knows       where I live?"
Interviews with key personnel in involved agencies revealed that       Letterbox has acted as a catalyst for wider impact than initially       expected.
Participation in Letterbox Club induction events, reading       research reports and the experience of taking part in Letterbox have all       encouraged staff to change and develop their professional practice.
Some       local authorities have begun to hold "Letterbox Club" events, to give       children and foster carers a welcome opportunity to meet.
This has often       been in conjunction with library services; some authorities have added       materials to the parcels about joining the library and about library       events.
The focus of Letterbox Club has facilitated better       inter-professional collaboration (for example, between social workers,       virtual school teams and schools).
The scale of funding indicates confidence in the impact of the Letterbox       Club:                                2007-2008           DCSF, England           &#160; &#163;254,895                             2009-2013           Subscriptions, England and Scotland           &#163;2,264,224                             2009-2013           Northern Ireland Assembly           &#160;&#163;119,477                             2009-2013           Welsh Government           &#160;&#163;918,250                             2007-2013           Charitable funding           &#160;&#163;108,900                          Total direct funding was over &#163;3.5 million from 2008 to 2013.
In       addition, the programme receives support in kind from all of the major UK       children's publishers, who provide books at a high discount as part of       their charitable practice.
This support is equivalent to approximately &#163;1.25         million from 2008 to 2013 bringing the total support to almost &#163;5         million.
