     Research directly undertaken by Galloway, Melzer, Depledge, and       colleagues generated the first       large scale studies on the human health effects of BPA, which is one of       the most widely used       chemicals in the world.
Overall, their results indicate that the 25% of       the population with the highest       exposure to BPA have on average a 1.5-2 fold increased risk for developing       heart disease.
This       research has had identifiable impacts on national and international       policy, on public awareness,       and on investment in research and development by the plastics industry:     International policy debate     International policy debate has been stimulated.
Publication of the 2008       paper on BPA and CVD in       JAMA [1] provoked a large number of policy discussion documents; Galloway       and Melzer were       invited in person to provide verbal evidence to the FDA Congressional         Review of the Safety of         BPA, Washington, September 2008.
Policy papers discussing these       results and their impact on       legislation (see below) and the current advice on tolerable daily intakes       were published by many       countries including: the US FDA; European Food Standards Agency [a];       the Advisory Board of the       German Society of Toxicology; and Health Canada.
EFSA subsequently issued       further scientific       opinion and debate on the 2010 paper [b].
Depledge is a member of DEFRA's Hazardous Substances Advisory Committee       and is the chair of       the EU Science Advisory Group of DG-Research and Innovation and he works       with them to       explore how other environmental chemicals (perfluorinated, compounds [6],       pharmaceutical       residues, metals, etc.)
might be causing changes in the incidence of       various diseases.
International policy change.
The research outlined in Section 2 has directly influenced international       policy changes to restrict       the use of BPA in food contact materials.
In January 2010, federal       officials at the FDA stated       "some concern" about BPA's safety, particularly for infants and young       children.
This case study       research [key references 1, 2] was included in the cited evidence [c],       and there have been       associated changes in legislation world-wide.
Canada declared BPA a toxin       and banned it from       baby bottles in 2008, followed by France and Denmark in 2010.
Similar       restrictions have been       instituted across individual US states.
In July 2012, the FDA acknowledged       "substantial       uncertainties with respect to the overall interpretation of human health       studies and their       implications," and has banned BPA from infant feeding containers.
In       January 2011, the European       Commission adopted Directive 2011/8/EU, prohibiting the use of BPA in       infant feeding bottles, and       in 2013 has instigated a systematic re-evaluation of research to inform       current legislation further.
Public awareness of health risks.
Public awareness of health risks of plastics additives has been raised       through public debate and       critical media reviews.
The research described in Section 2 is described       in over 3000 items of       editorial and commentary material in the international peer-reviewed       literature, international media,       newspapers, popular scientific press [d] and podcasts [e],       general popular journals such as Marie         Claire, Men's Health, Women's Health, National Geographic, Elle, BBC         Food Magazine, National         Geographic [f] and national newspapers such as The         Independent, Times, Daily Mail, New York         Times, USA Today [g].
Galloway has appeared in a German TV       documentary by `3sat Nano' (the       German equivalent to Tomorrow's World) featuring this research which was       broadcast to a target       audience across Europe of more than 6 million.
The research also features       in an online popular       science blog from the BBC featuring an interview with Galloway.
The Sunday       Times Magazine took       up the story by publishing a special feature on Depledge related to the       BPA research, but also to       the wider issue of how environmental chemicals influence human health [h].
Industry investment in research and development.
In response to the research, plastics industries have invested in       research and development of       safer chemical alternatives.
The 2008 paper [1] is specifically referenced       as a major piece of       research influencing global market trends in several major market research       reports [i].
BPA is the       leading end-use segment for the phenol market, and drives the phenol       market globally.
Demand       for BPA in 2010 was 2,761,915 metric tonnes, generating revenue of       &#163;500,000 per hour.
The       intensive green chemistry approaches that have been stimulated to meet       this market need are       summarised in [j], most based on       2,2,4,4-tetramethyl-1,3-cyclobutanediol (TMCD) which is used to       make a copolyester marketed as Tritan (Eastman Chemicals).
