     The research outlined in Section 2 has influenced strategic policy       decisions by UK government agencies, the EU, and organisations globally.
Examples of this include: the &#163;40M UK National Endocrine Disruption       Programme [a]; the development of OECD Test Guidelines for the       detection of endocrine disrupters; and within REACH (Registration,       Evaluation, Authorization, and restriction of Chemicals) where       internationally the registration of new chemicals will now need to provide       evidence for a lack of endocrine disrupting activity [b-d].
Additional examples of the international influence of the work include the       development of chemical test guidelines by the US EPA [e] and the       significant investments (tens of &#163;M) in programmes of research into       endocrine disruption in Japan.
The research influenced the development of guidelines for the testing of       chemicals by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development       (OECD).
Research on fathead minnow has informed the development of several       tests adopted by the OECD.
A short-term screening test for estrogenic and       androgenic activity, and aromatase inhibition in fish was adopted in       September 2009 [b], an assay to assess early-life stage effects of       EDCs on fish sexual development was adopted in July 2011 [c], and       an in vivo reproductive screening assay, the Fish Short Term       Reproduction Assay, was adopted in October 2012 [d].
The US       Environmental Protection Agency's Endocrine Disruptor Screening Program       has based its general validation principles on the harmonized       scientifically peer-reviewed principles by the OECD [e].
The       Norwegian company Biosense commercialised the vitellogenin assay developed       by Tyler and his colleagues, developing them in accordance with the       recommendations from the OECD.
Gina Solomon, Senior Scientist for the Natural Resources Defence Council       referenced Tyler's research as part of her witness testimony before the US       Congress Committee on Energy and Commerce, Subcommittee on Energy and       Environment in February 2010, in the session addressing the risks of EDCs       in drinking water [f].
The research is listed as supporting evidence in the listing of the       chemical 4-(1,1,3,3-tetramethylbutyl)phenol, 4-tert-octylphenol as a       substance of very high concern.
The European Chemicals Agency adopted this       listing on 9 December 2011, stating that the conclusion was based on       "strong evidence from high quality studies of adverse effects in two fish       species, which are oestrogen mediated" [g].
In September 2012, The International Conference on Chemicals Management       (ICCM) adopted a resolution to include EDCs as an emerging issue under the       Strategic Approach to International Chemicals Management (SAICM).
Tyler's       work was presented by Professor Susan Jobling from Brunel University, as       part of the technical briefing on EDCs [h].
His work is further       explicitly mentioned in the United Nations Environment Programme and the       World Health Organization.
Report (2012) on the State of the science         of endocrine disrupting chemicals [i].
The Department of Environment, Fisheries and Rural Affairs (Defra) has       supported Tyler's research as it has direct relevance to policy needs.
A       spokesperson for the Chemicals &amp; Emerging Technologies Division at       Defra said the research "...informed our approach to implementing the       Water Framework Directive as it set the evidence baseline against which we       could objectively assess Commission proposals."
The research helped provide sufficient data to "act as a policy trigger       for taking action" (area manager at the Environment Agency).
The National       Endocrine Disruption Demonstration Programme was funded by the Environment       Agency and the water industry and was managed by UK Water Industry       Research (UKWIR); all ten water and sewerage companies in England and       Wales participated in the programme, which produced extensive data       regarding the occurrence, treatment and release of various EDCs from       conventional wastewater treatment works.
The collaborative programme was       considered to yield "valuable efficiencies" by "avoiding the need to fund       separate work programmes" [j].
The impact of the research has largely been facilitated by Charles       Tyler's active participation in expert panels, authorship of government       reports and as an advisor to government.
Tyler was the UK Coordinator for       the UK-Japan Joint Research on Endocrine Disruptors between 2005 and 2010       and is currently its Chief Science Advisor (2010-2015).
Tyler has been an       expert witness to the European Commission and has advised the US EPA, EA       and Defra.
Significant economic benefits have been realised in the UK as a result of       the work of Tyler's team at Exeter.
An independent evaluation of these       benefits, using HM Treasury "Green Book" methods, attributed the following       economic impact to the research produced at the University of Exeter: Long       term collaborative links between the Tyler lab and industry partners, such       as AstraZeneca, Syngenta and UK water companies, has resulted in an       estimated total of &#163;4.9M efficiency savings each year.
