     University of Glasgow research on Scottish rivers and coasts has shaped       policy and strategy and empowered communities to manage their environment.
These impacts are detailed below:     Influencing UK biodiversity policy     In the UK over 30% of priority species and 40% of priority habitats are       in decline.
A goal of the UN Environment Programme's Convention of       Biological Diversity Strategic Plan (2010) is that by 2020 all 190       signatory countries must have national plans in place.
These plans are to       protect biodiversity and integrate biodiversity values into national and       local regulatory, development and planning processes.
In 2011 Hansom was       lead author of the Coastal Margins chapter and contributor to the       Regulating Services chapter of the UK National Ecosystem Assessment       (NEA) which, for the first time, quantified the monetary value of the       natural environment, and recommended 30- to 100-year management       strategies.
The NEA quantified the value of the geodiversity of the UK       coastline at &#163;48 billion, thus clarifying its economic benefits and       encouraging policy-makers to give coastal geodiversity equal weight in       planning and management decisions.
This work has further contributed to the subsequent UK 2020 policy       document.
DEFRA's Biodiversity 2020: A strategy for England's wildlife         and ecosystem services (2012), commits the UK government to       reforming the planning system and `retain[ing] the protection and       improvement of the natural environment as core objectives' and promoting       `approaches to flood and erosion management which conserve the natural       environment and improve biodiversity'.
Erosion assessment, mitigation and adaptation     Glasgow research has influenced Scottish Government legislation on       flooding and coastal planning.
Hansom was responsible for the inclusion of       coastal erosion vulnerability in SEPA's Flood Risk Management strategies.
Hansom's research now informs the coastal erosion and flood risk       strategies of SNH, SEPA, Scottish Government and all Local Authorities in       Scotland.
In 2011, Hansom was appointed Coastal Science and Sustainability Advisor       to Oxfam.
He works with them on Scottish Government-funded pilot projects       providing funds to local communities for plans to slow erosion rates and       improve land drainage.
Hansom discussed the projects with five local       groups, including the Lochboisdale Amenity Trust, and sanctioned the       release of grants to them.
He ran several adaptation workshops with local       crofting groups and, at Castlebay High School on the Isle of Barra, gave       wave-tank model demonstrations to classes over a week-long workshop       programme.
Hansom also took part in a short video in partnership       with the Western Isles Council for Adaptation Scotland, a Scottish       Government programme reviewing a variety of projects under the theme of 	  `Scotland's         Climate Story', (see video entitled `Adapting         to Climate Change in the Western Isles &#8212; Jim's story').
As of 31       July 2013, there had been 5,500 video views on the project's Facebook       page.
The next phase of this programme will be an Oxfam-led full scale Scottish       Government Climate Challenge Fund project to build upon and extend the       success of the pilot.
Hansom will write the technical approach sections of       the bid and advise on the roll-out of programmes to slow down or mitigate       coastal erosion and flooding impacts, whilst advocating the introduction       of more radical adaptation strategies.
Mobilising communities to conserve the coastal environment     Drawing on his established expertise in mapping coastal development       trends, Hansom has led community engagement projects on coastal management       throughout Scotland.
He is one of the founding directors of SCAPE       (Scottish Coastal Archaeology and the Problem of Erosion), a registered       charity funded by Historic Scotland, the Crown Estate and the University       of St Andrews.
SCAPE mobilises individuals and communities to protect       sites of archaeological interest in Scotland's coastal areas.
Hansom       advises on SCAPE projects including SCH@RP (Scottish       Coastal Heritage at Risk), which uses a smartphone app (`ShoreUpdate') and       interactive map to enlist volunteer citizen scientists (there are       currently 460 volunteers) to help monitor `priority sites'.
As of 31 July       2013, 264 sites had been surveyed by volunteers, and they had donated       &#163;35,775 to the project.
Launching SCH@RP in 2012, Fiona Hyslop MSP, the       Cabinet Secretary for Culture and External Affairs in Scotland, stated:       "SCAPE has led the field in highlighting the erosion of coastal sites and       it is a credit to its members and research that it has found a way to use       incredibly accessible mobile technology to improve the national records       through the creative use of local expertise."
The ShoreUpdate app is       available for Apple and Android, and has been rated 4-star on Android; it       has been downloaded 200 times since launch.
The controversial proposal by Donald Trump to build a golf course on the       environmentally protected Menie Links in Aberdeenshire represented a       high-profile conflict between economic and environmental interests.
The       site was designated European Geological Conservation review status, as       recommended by Hansom's       2007 report for SNH.
This contributed to Aberdeenshire Council       turning down Trump's planning application for development work, which       would have destroyed the geomorphological importance of the site.
Following a public enquiry in June 2008 the Scottish Government       unprecedentedly reversed this decision, prompting a significant protest       campaign led both by local residents and organisations including SNH (whom       Hansom represented at the Trump public inquiry), the Ramblers Association,       RSPB and the Scottish Wildlife Trust.
This case inspired filmmaker Anthony Baxter to create the documentary 	You've       Been Trumped (2011).
The film includes significant       contributions from Hansom.
You've Been Trumped has won 15       International Film Festival awards, received more than 130 reviews and       features in newspapers around the world, and has been translated into       Chinese, Polish, Croatian, Czech, Italian, and Finnish.
A public petition       calling for a Scottish Government inquiry into the Trump case has gained       19,537 signatures.
BBC       Panorama broadcast a programme investigating the reasons behind the       approval of the Trump project which meant "sacrificing an environmentally       protected part of the Scottish coastline".
The Menie site's special       status, as defined by Hansom's underpinning research, was the starting       point for an examination of the planning and approval process in both the       film and programme in the public campaigns and international press       coverage.
