     The booklet5-2 was developed in order to make a significant       change in the materials available to A-level Philosophy teachers.
It was a       response to a problem identified by teachers during an engagement and       outreach consultation.
While independent critical thinking is an intrinsic       element of the A-level Philosophy syllabus, and the marking criteria for       the A-level examinations require critical engagement for gaining the       highest marks,5-1 there is a dearth of educational materials       able to foster it in relation to the set texts and topics.
The skills of       critical engagement are learned through practice, which requires an       appropriate framework for developing conclusions, drawn from careful       consideration of alternatives.
The insight for the Unit's research to       contribute in addressing this problem was that the contrasting positions       within some of the Unit's recent research publications on Nietzsche and on       moral philosophy naturally created such a framework.
These publications       bear directly on two popular modules of the AS and A-level syllabus: `Why       Should I Be Moral?'
(AS) and `Nietzsche's Beyond Good and Evil'       (A2).
As a result, the booklet simultaneously provides research input at       the topic level and, through a set of questions and puzzles after the       texts, draws out the disagreements and encourages students to develop       views on the debate.
Process: The booklet was developed on the basis of       information gathered at two one-day conferences for A-level Philosophy       teachers and students held at Cardiff University in November 2011 (20       students, 5 teachers) and March 2012 (50 students, 5 teachers).
The       conferences served two purposes.
One was to identify through targeted       discussion what the teachers most wanted from new teaching materials.
The       other was to gauge how sixth-formers responded to the ideas we presented,       so that we could calibrate explanations of our research at the appropriate       level of accessibility.
The booklet was developed particularly through       close discussion with two A-level teachers in very different educational       settings: Marc Bevan of Llanidloes High School in rural Powys,5-6       and Pamela Marshall of Exeter College, a combined further and higher       education institution.
Bevan used the conference handouts to structure       class discussion and Marshall tested first drafts of the booklet essays       with her students.
Marshall was the one originally to propose that a       booklet might be developed to help A-level students with their critical       evaluation of Nietzsche.5-5     During the summer of 2012, the booklet of six 1000-word essays was       produced.5-2 The first half of the booklet comprises essays by       Robertson, Tanesini and Webber, laying out the core claims in their       respective research papers.
These essays make the tensions between our       views apparent.
Each essay is accompanied by two comprehension questions.
They are followed by two puzzle pages that set up the tasks of critically       comparing and assessing the ideas.
The second half of the booklet deepens       the debate through three essays by the same authors that extend the       research discussions, again with comprehension questions.
The booklet       closes with further puzzles concerning the disagreements between these       essays.
This design allows teachers and students to engage with the booklet in       the ways they find most appropriate.
Teachers can use it to develop their       own teaching inputs or distribute it to their students.
Engaging with a       single essay will be beneficial, but working through the first half of the       booklet provides a solid basis for independent argumentation concerning       Nietzsche's critique of morality.
Students can check their understanding       using the comprehension questions, and can develop their own critical       views before they read the second essay set, so that, in effect, they gain       feedback on the ideas they have had.
The booklet was launched with a dedicated conference in December 2012.
It       was made available as a free download under a Creative Commons licence.
Teachers can freely distribute it to their students in paper form or       through virtual learning environments.
It was advertised through a network       of A-level Philosophy teachers, the Philosophy in Europe email list       (Philos-L), and our Twitter feed.
The change that this booklet has made to the set of available educational       materials is significant in that it not only informs students       about Nietzsche's work and opposing views of it, but also impacts on       students' meta-learning.
That is, critical thinking practised in relation       to Nietzsche can be transferred to other topics within and beyond       philosophy.5-5,5-6 The head of Exeter College describes the       booklet as "a great response to the problem I raised in discussion [with       the team]" and says that "the experience of working through the booklet       has improved my students' abilities to engage critically with philosophy       across the syllabus and generally to argue philosophically.
"5-5     Nature of impact: The booklet constitutes an effect on,         and benefit to, society in providing a new kind of study material       that influences the activity, awareness, capacity and understanding       of A-level students.
The impact is significant in making a       tangible and effective change to the quality of philosophy teaching at       A-level.
The booklet is a direct conduit of the research undertaken in the       Unit, which, in representing different philosophical views, creates the       basis for the critical discussion and evaluation that teachers reported       difficulty in achieving by other means.
As for its reach, although       the text was developed in consultation with teachers and school students       in Wales and SW England, the booklet is in use across the UK.
The AQA       Chief Examiner for A-level philosophy has approved the booklet for use as       a teaching and study resource (see below), and since the AQA offers the       only A-level philosophy syllabus, that means the booklet is a recognised       resource for every philosophy A-level student in the UK: some 2941 A-level       and 5129 AS level philosophy candidates in June 2013 (http://www.aqa.org.uk/exams-administration/about-         results/results-statistics).
Were the estimated 551 UK views and       downloads (see below) all from students, approximately one in 15 (6.8%) of       them (551/8070) would have accessed the booklet in its first year.
However, our evidence below indicates that most downloads are from       teachers, strongly suggesting that a considerably higher proportion of A       and AS level students were reached.
Making the booklet freely available       for download has reached an additional user group in 46 countries beyond       the UK (see below).
Evidence of impact:     Downloads: Between the Dec 2012 launch and 31/07/13 the       booklet was viewed or downloaded 1100 times.5-3 While views and       downloads beyond the UK (47 countries) are a welcome extra (see       illustration), ranging across the world from Mexico to Japan and Mongolia,       from Oman to Canada and Barbados, the primary target was the UK.
422 were       recognised as being from IP addresses within the UK.
Of the 258 IP       addresses of unknown location, a proportionate split attributes 129 more       to the UK (418/(1090-255) x 255), making a total of 551.5-3 	                          Screen grab from: http://bit.ly/Rap3f5+	31 July 2013           AQA approval of booklet: AQA passed the booklet to the       Chief Examiner for A-level Philosophy for his opinion.
He approved it as a       resource for the exam board to recommend, including on the AQA's       recommendations webpage.
AQA also recommended it to teachers who contacted       them directly for advice.5-4     Use with A-level students: We used an online survey in June       and July 2013 to gauge the impact of the booklet.
We advertised this       through the same channels as we had advertised the booklet.
Respondents       were A-level philosophy teachers in a variety of settings, including state       secondary schools, private schools, and sixth-form and further education       colleges in the UK, a charity school in Singapore, and a community college       in New Zealand.
Most respondents had used the booklet.
75% of respondents       said they would definitely use it next year.5-7 They reported       its use already as recommended private reading for students and as the       basis of classroom discussions.
Users praised it as a good framework for       students to develop their own critical perspectives through the activities       that draw out the disagreements between the essays.5-6,5-7       (These activities were also praised on Twitter by John Taylor (http://bit.ly/12BmRjj),       Head of Philosophy at Rugby School and author of Think Again: A         Philosophical Approach to Teaching, Continuum 2012.)
All survey respondents who had used the booklet considered it to have       improved their students' abilities to engage with philosophy more       generally, not just to have improved student work in the area the booklet       focuses on.
One respondent has contacted us to offer help with developing       further A-level teaching materials of this kind.
Marc Bevan, Subject leader of History, Philosophy, and Politics at       Llanidloes High School, liked how the booklet was able to "bring the       disagreement and argument of philosophy into the foreground", clarifying       the students' understanding of interpretations of Nietzsche, and       "presenting philosophy as a living discipline of debate."
He also       commented, "I do think that this work has improved my students' critical       engagement with philosophy quite generally, not just on these issues"5-6       He reports that one of his students particularly liked: "the cut and       thrust between professional philosophers.
"5-6     Onward endorsements: Our download webpage has been       onward-listed by an organisation dedicated to supporting the teaching of       A-level Philosophy (http://bit.ly/alphilresources).
Our booklet has also been praised on Twitter by Nigel Warburton, whose own       Philosophy Bites podcasts have been downloaded more than 18,000,000 times.
