     Route to impact       As well as being published in peer-reviewed journals, the results of the       Reading research were disseminated at public events held during regular       intervals across the EU between 2007 to 2013.
These events were attended       by a wide range of delegates including food manufacturers, processors,       retailers, health care professionals, policy makers and government       agencies.
Members of the media also attended bringing the research results       into the popular media, such as newspapers and radio broadcasts.
Research leads to development and sale of new product by leading UK         retailer       As a result of the dissemination events, the University of Reading       developed a working relationship with Marks and Spencer plc (M&amp;S) to       improve the health, welfare and sustainability in the retailer's milk       supply chain.
In 2010, M&amp;S launched the "Healthier Milk" project,       which used the research results from the University of Reading to develop       a feeding regime that reduced saturated fatty acids and increased       unsaturated fatty acids, and also reduced environmental impact by reducing       methane production by dairy cows and reducing reliance on imported       Malaysian Palm oil [a].
The University of Reading then helped M&amp;S       trial this feeding regime with milk producers, with positive results.
The       outcome was the launch of a `new' reduced saturated fat milk product in       October 2011, which was not a niche product but the mainstream milk retail       offering by M&amp;S. To date, M&amp;S is the only retailer to adopt this       approach [a].
M&amp;S benefits from increased sales of milk and improved corporate         social responsibility       M&amp;S is one of the UK's leading retailers with 21 million customers       visiting its 600+ UK stores each week [a].
Since the launch of M&amp;S's       Healthier Milk in 2011, sales have increased and the relationship with       their suppliers has strengthened [a].
Also, this initiative has met       several of the pillars defined in M&amp;S's corporate sustainability plan,       known as Plan A, and has been identified as the retailer's iconic food       sustainability product [a].
The public benefits from reduced saturated fat in milk products       M&amp;S sells 75 million litres of milk to around 1.5 million customers       each year [e].
Assuming there are at least 2 people per household, this       translates to an estimated 3 million people per year in the UK benefitting       from reduced SFA/increased unsaturated fat in their diet.
Indeed, M&amp;S       have estimated that 84 tonnes of saturated fat/year have been removed from       the diets of their customers due to the research and accordingly reduced       health risks associated with consumption of SFAs [e].
Longer term       benefits, such as improvements in risk factors for cardiovascular disease,       obesity and cancers, are yet to be realised.
Environment benefits from reduced greenhouse gas emissions and reduced         carbon footprint       M&amp;S estimates that the "Healthier Milk" initiative has reduced the       need for Malaysian Palm oil by 1000 tonnes per year.
The reduced demand       for palm oil means fewer Malaysian rainforests converted to palm       plantations and reduced carbon emissions associated with shipping to the       UK.
Reductions in harmful greenhouse gas emissions from the 10 thousand dairy       cows producing milk for M&amp;S amount to around 66-110 million litres of       methane per annum (18-30 litres of methane less per cow per day) helping       to reduce climate change and achieve UK targets for reduced emissions.
Milk producers benefit from increased payments       Since the 2011 launch of M&amp;S's healthier milk product, milk producers       who convert to the new feeding regime have benefitted from new payment       contracts that recognise the increased costs associated with the new diet       for dairy cows [b].
Cows benefit from improved diet     Farmer's Guardian also reported that cow fertility increased and that cows     had glossier coats and were generally calmer, which all suggest improved     health and well being for the animals [b].
There are 10,000 dairy cows that     produce milk for M&amp;S, all of which have benefitted from this research.
The development of commercial milk testing for fatty acids has provided a       new dimension to quality testing of milk for the dairy industry and paved       the way for incentive payments to producers according to fatty acid       profile (see supporting Arla letter).
The dairy industry and dairy farmers       more generally (i.e.
in addition to those 36 dairy farmers contracted to       M&amp;S who benefit from higher milk payments from the company noted       above) have very considerably benefitted from seeing and understanding the       scope to manage fatty acids in milk production and in the dairy supply       chain (see supporting evidence from National Milk Records plc and Arla).
The research has also helped all of these companies to further their       corporate social responsibility agendas and to gain commercial advantage       (for example, see letter from Arla).
