     The reach and significance of Wood's work on violence against       women is demonstrated by the       impact on the public perception of domestic violence through the       translation, staging and follow-up       public discussions of the play, Passi affrettati (Hurried Steps),       written in Italian by Dacia Maraini       and based on testimonies provided by Amnesty International, and translated       into English by Wood.
Wood also dealt with funding and budgeting, advertising and promotion,       location, communication       and liaison with domestic violence units and other local and regional       stakeholders as well as with       the theatre company New Shoes.
The play explores the worldwide       incidence of domestic violence       which Maraini has highlighted since the 1960s in her work on gender and       politics, culture and       violence against women.
Maraini was a candidate for the Nobel Prize for       Literature and finalist for       the International Man Booker Prize in 2012.
Maraini sought Wood's collaboration in 2008, and the play had its       English-language premi&#232;re, a       New Shoes Theatre Company production, at the University of       Leicester in March 2008 &#8212; the first of       many performances across the UK, the latest at the Cockpit Theatre,       London.
The project of       Hurried Steps is also the subject of a TED talk in December 2013       and is currently being published       as a performance text by Oberon Books.
Options for linking the play and       performance with Routes       into Language initiatives are currently being explored.
Each performance       has been followed by a       one-hour extensive discussion between the general public and a panel of       local stakeholders,       service providers and policy makers in order to bring into a local context       a phenomenon of global       importance that transcends social and cultural boundaries.
The production       is still on tour across       the UK and has now (to July 2013) been seen by over 4,000 people in 12       different venues.
The performance plus discussion format of the staging aims both to raise       awareness of this       significantly under-reported situation which transcends national, ethnic,       class and religious       boundaries, and to address issues such as funding, prioritisation and       service provision at a local       level.
The British Crime Survey, for example, reports that two women a       week are murdered by their       partner or ex-partner, while `femminicidio', the murder of women, has been       a topic of intense       debate in Italy over the past few months See The Guardian       12/2/2013 article by Jessica Abrams       with contribution from Wood's PhD student M. Turno: `Why Italy can't       forgive the priest who says       women provoke abuse').
The information, experience and contacts gained are       coalescing into a       broader partnership between the academy and service providers.
National       and local government       personnel are invited to performances, and in the context of widespread       cuts to services around       domestic violence, the play has acted as a conduit for discussion while       the theatre company's       website hosts links to key service providers, ensuring continuity of       access to information and       assistance.
Audience response is monitored through individual evaluation forms to       raise the awareness both of       practitioners and participants (5b).
The impact of Hurried         Steps, a dyptich of performance and       discussion, has been considerable.
Performances have been acclaimed in the       national press and       elsewhere (5a) `Nicolette Kay directs the often exhilarating       proceedings...a production of real and       moving character' The Guardian; `There are fine performances in       this gripping but measured       production' Evening Standard; `It's beautiful work from the       Finborough, the actors, director and       designers ...' Blanche Marvin, London Theatreviews.... `You cannot       help but feel sadness at the       stories, and that makes you want to go out and do something' Jafar Iqbal,       Extra!
Extra!
Audience feedback is overwhelmingly positive: 97% would recommend others       to see the show;       over 90% felt their understanding of the issues was deepened.
Respondents       also appreciated the       work as a piece of art, not merely agit-prop.
Average rating was 4.4 out       of 5.
Comments suggested       that audience members also re-evaluated their attitude towards live arts,       and this was particularly       significant among potentially excluded/ self-excluded audiences (5g).
`It       is very intense so makes       you think about women's rights in different cultures'; `I would like my       friends to see it so they can       be aware of the extent of violence against women'; `eye-opening'; `the       play gives you an       international insight into the whole issue'.
After seeing the play in       Brighton, a group of young       women from local housing estates worked with New Shoes to produce       a work of theatre which       would tell their own stories, staged in May 2012.
Fayard makes a significant contribution at an institutional level       to the way rape is understood and       dealt with, and highlights the significant and transformative political       power of support organisations.
Her article on the Jimmy Savile case, `Apr&#232;s le cas Savile', aimed at the       European lay audience,       has appeared on French NGO websites and been widely disseminated within       NGOs membership       infrastructure (5c).
Her identification of new areas of consensus       and contention around sexual       violence has led to plans for a pan-European network of organisations       concerned with the       prevention of violence against women and the provision of victim support.
This collaboration is       working towards the production of a dataset which will enable objective       transnational comparisons       interpretations of rape and its consequences, which will inform and       potentially influence EU       legislation.
International campaigns against rape will be initiated       through the sharing of good       practice, with Fayard, as bilingual researcher, strategically placed to       coordinate.
The network (Co-ordinated       Action on Rape in Europe &#8212; CARE) will enable groups to share knowledge and       expertise, enhancing understanding and improved policies and practices in       this field.
Practitioners       and support agencies working in this area have spoken of the benefits of       taking part in the       research and of joining the network, testifying to its value in terms of       shaping policy and legislative       debate, learning from international practices and experiences, and       challenging perceptions and       orthodox analyses of the issues underlying rape.
The work has already raised the awareness of the groups and key       individuals in this field, through       its identification of factors contributing to the continuing failure of       the socio-political processing of       rape including the justice system.
A representative of the French gender       equality pressure group       Mix-Cit&#233;s stated: "As a result of [our exchange] I feel I have come a         long way, I have asked myself         questions on things to which I did not use to give much thought before,         well, I would say as far as         the aggressors are concerned" (5e).
Fayard presented her work       at Mix-Cit&#233; to an audience of       activists and the general public October 2011 (5f).
The       trans-national nature of Fayard's research       has stimulated great interest and brought a fresh perspective: A       representative of the government       organisation Observatoire des Violences Faites aux Femmes said in an       interview concerning       Fayard's research findings and her link with Rape Crisis England and       Wales: "I'm very interested in         the work done by the UK because their work could be of help to us.
If we         can improve our links         particularly with Pakistan, India, Sri Lanka, to fight forced marriages,         then this would be a major         gain for us" (5d)     Fayard has also acted as a consultant for the prestigious BUILD (British       United Indian Liberal       Democrats).
This has included collaboration on two motions, one entitled       "Violence against       Women' and another on Female Genital Mutilation, which were both passed at       the Liberal       Democrat Conference in September 2013.
She was invited as a keynote       speaker to the Annual       Ghandi Commemorate Debate in June 2013, in collaboration with Women       Liberal Democrats       `Campaigning to stop Violence against women' at the National Liberal Club,       Whitehall, London.
The meeting was attended by political figures, journalists, activists, and       leading female       professional figures from the Asian community as well as the general       public.
