     The research at Reading into the development and evaluation of spectral       modification films has       involved a long term partnership with BPI-visqueen, with Richard Henbest       (former Technical       Director at BPI-visqueen) co-authoring many of the papers listed above.
The Reading team       provided expertise in crop physiology and designed, implemented and       analysed experiments at the       research facilities at Reading, which examined crop responses to different       film types.
BPI-visqueen       provided expertise in the development and production of the plastic films.
The collaboration       resulted in several commercial products that have been on sale during the       impact period 2008-2013.
These products offer tangible advantages to growers, which differentiated       BPI-visqueen       products in the market-place.
Development and sale of new commercial products       The first product developed from the work on light scattering film [1] was       Luminance THB (Thermal       Heat Barrier), launched in 2001 and marketed as a diffusing heat control       film for polytunnels.
The       research undertaken by Reading into the effects of light scattering films       provided BPI-visqueen       with a credible, scientific basis for their key communication messages and       marketing materials [a].
In 2013, Luminance continues to be a globally recognised brand of film       that BPI-visqueen sells in       over 50 countries worldwide [b].
Though specific sales figures for this       product are commercially       sensitive, in 2011 BPI-visqueen reported that more than one third of       sales, valued at &#163;508 million,       were in the agricultural sector, including their value-added agricultural       films [b, pg 18].
Luminance       THB continues to be one of the leading wide film plastic products       manufactured by BPI.Visqueen       and was the first diffuse heat control film for polytunnels &#8212; since then       other plastics companies have       developed similar products (e.g SunMaster superthermic from XL/Plastika       Kritis).
In February 2013 BPI-visqueen launched a new product, Lumisol, which is a       greenhouse film       designed to create an optimum growing environment by actively managing UV       light [c].
The       Lumisol film range includes both clear and diffused film formats and it       was the Lumisol Diffused       product that was developed using a formulation based on Luminance       technology [c].
Therefore the       original work undertaken by Reading [1] continues to provide effective       temperature control in this       next generation of diffused horticulture films.
In Lumisol, all of the UV       light is allowed through to the       plant to increase the secondary compounds in the plant, increase nutrient       quality, and improve fruit       colour and firmness [2-4] as well as promote the plants own defence       mechanisms against pests       and diseases.
This is a novel approach and has been built on work       conducted by Reading [2-4]       into the effects of UV clear films on the levels of plant secondary       compounds [d].Lumisol is sold for       greenhouse applications throughout BPIs domestic and overseas markets       including Europe       (France, Germany, Austria, Italy, Spain) Egypt, Turkey and some African       countries.
Reading's research on UV blocking for pests and diseases [5, 6] has been       used in products and       marketing for BPI-visqueen, including Lumivar, a UV blocking film [d].
Films from manufacturers       such as Plastika Kritis, Greece, now use UV blocking as a means of       reducing pest and disease       attack in greenhouses, in part influenced by the research done at Reading       as a highly skilled       individual from the Reading team became the exports manager for Plastika       Kritis in 2007 (see       below).
Industry invests in `smart-film' technology and creates job         opportunities       BPI-visqueen's success in horticultural film led to a &#163;7 million       investment in 2008 in new       manufacturing technology at their site in Ardeer, North Ayrshire to       produce these next generation       films with "optimum quality and efficiency levels" and with "increased       throughput and quicker       turnaround times" [e].
This investment provided 40 additional jobs in the       Scottish community of       Ardeer [e].
Advanced films enhance export sales       The benefits provided by Luminance have enabled BPI-visqueen to export       successfully into a       variety of overseas markets thanks to its unique advantages over standard,       locally available films.
The Sales Director at BPI-Visqueen said that "working with Reading has         allowed BPI-visqueen to         advance films from being merely covers that protect crops from the         elements to a range of spectral         filters that add significant value to the grower.
Reading helped us to         develop our range in a         methodical, scientific manner that gave us a head-start in the         marketplace with temperature control         films.
This allowed us to compete at an international level which in         turn has enhanced our export         sales" [f].'
New films increase strawberry production in the UK       The strawberry industry has seen a steady increase in production and       market value since the       widespread use of light diffusing, heat retaining and other spectrally       specific films [g].
Between       1991 and 2001, the average production of strawberries in the UK was 66.3       thousand tonnes [h,       table 10].
In 2002, after the introduction of Luminance THB, total       strawberry yield increased to 77.9       thousand tonnes and has steadily increased ever since [h, table 10].
Total       production in 2012       (provisional) was 145.1 thousand tonnes, nearly a 5% increase over       production in 2008 [h, table       10].
In 2011, the National Horticultural Forum acknowledged the       contribution of the collaborative       research conducted by the University of Reading and BPI-visqueen to these       improved yields[g, pg       3].
The development and commercialisation of novel films has helped extend       the British strawberry       growing season from eight weeks to one that now stretches from Spring to       Autumn.
Although there       are many factors responsible for increased strawberry yields in the UK,       Reading's research into       spectral films has been one of the contributing factors.
Highly skilled people trained at Reading take expertise to other         companies       Postdoctoral researchers and PhD students who worked on research into       spectral modification       films at Reading are now working at horticultural film/polythene companies       and are using their       knowledge on spectral films to improve their company's performance.
Dr.       Dimitris Doukas, who       worked with Payne on UV blocking and pests became Exports Manager,       Agricultural Films Division       at Plastika Kritis SA in 2007 [i].
Doukas has "re-directed the company       into this specialised area" [g,       pg 3] of horticultural films, making the company a major player in       horticultural films, including UV       blocking films for pest and disease control [f].
