     Research leads to significant industry investment       Spencer's pioneering research on flavonoids and their benefits attracted       significant investment by       leading US food manufacturers.
The initial grant of &#163;400,000 from Mars,       Inc in 2005 was based on       research conducted at Kings College London, the two subsequent grants       totalling &#163;735,000 were       based on the results of the research conducted at Reading.
Dissemination of the initial work with Mars, Inc gained the attention of       other multinational food       corporations including PepsiCo and Nestle.
PepsiCo has its own portfolio       of flavonoid-rich       products, most notably the Tropicana range of citrus fruit juices, which       are very high in a group of       flavonoids called flavanones.
Seeking scientific evidence of the health       benefits of their products,       PepsiCo invested &#163;500,000 in research at Reading to look at the impacts of       citrus juice       consumption on neuro-cognitive performance and cardiovascular health.
Florida State Citrus, USA       also invested &#163;187,000 in this research.
In 2012, Nestle, agreed to invest       &#163;280,000 in research       conducted at Reading to determine the impact of milk chocolate and coffee       consumption on       vascular health.
This brings the total combined industry investment to       &#163;1,652,000, (~&#163;1,200,000       since 2008) with several industry agreements with the University [these       agreements are available       upon request].
Research informs development of CocoaVia and Cirku products       The research conducted at Reading, which helped to understand the       physiological and molecular       actions of cocoa flavanols and evidence their effects in humans, informed       the development of       CocoaVia and Cirku.
[section 3;2] These two products were launched in the       US in 2010 by Mars       Botanical &#8212; the scientific business unit of Mars, Inc.
Both products are       lower in fat and sugar than       other chocolate/cocoa products available on the market, such as chocolate,       which is also high in       saturated fat.
The Global Director for Applied Health and Nutrition       Research, Mars Inc. said:       "Professor Spencer's work provided fundamental insights into the         effects of coca flavanol intake on         the gut microbiome, cardiovascular functions, as well as cognitive         performance, all of which were         relevant to MARS in the context of cocoa flavanol development."
[a]     Mars Incorporated benefits from sale of new products       The sale of foods and beverages marketed in the US on a cardiovascular       health platform was       worth US $3.1 billion in 2012, growing 22% between 2007 and 2012 [a].
CocoaVia took a 1%       share of this market in 2012 [b], which equates to US $31million.
Within       Europe the commercial       potential for such products will be significantly benefitted if       appropriate health claims are agreed by       EFSA.
In this context the Global Director for Applied Health and Nutrition       Research, Mars Inc. said       of the research findings: "....they provided information important to         product development as well as         data with significant utility in the context of applying for an         EFSA-approved health benefits claims."
[a]     Mars' CocoaVia product line and the associated research have received       international recognition       by industry through several awards.
In 2013, Mars Incorporated was the       winner of the 2013 Food       Technology Industrial Achievement Award for its research program on cocoa       flavanols [b],       including the research conducted with Reading and the CocoaVia Cocoa       extract supplement       received honourable mention in the Delicious Living 2013 Supplement Awards       [c].
Dissemination on the health benefits of plant flavanols through media       At the same time as this growing interest and investment from major       companies in the food       industry, the broad underpinning research into the health effects of Cirku       and other flavanol-containing       foods such as blueberries, has caught the attention of the public and the       media.
In       October 2011 and November 2012, Spencer presented the Reading work on       flavanols in relation to       the importance of blueberries and cocoa on human cardiovascular and       cognitive function, on       Channel 4's `The Food Hospital'.
More recently, Spencer filmed with BBC       One's `Britain's Favourite       Supermarket Foods' where the impact of cocoa and berries on human health       were discussed; the       episode aired July 2013.
Spencer's research has also been widely covered       in print and online       media, including: The Daily Mail (`A bowl of blueberries keeps the       brain active in the afternoon', 14       Sept 2009), with an average of nearly 8 million unique users online daily;       and Science Daily       (`Getting Forgetful?
Then blueberries may hold the key', 12 Apr 2008),       with an estimated 2.4       million unique monthly visitors.
