     The trial has had a number of important outcomes: not only did it lead to       the establishment of a       centrally funded national ECMO service and an international centre for       research and training in       Leicester, but it also served as an early template for evidence-based       research still relevant in 2013.
Setting up of a national ECMO service     The findings of the UK Collaborative trial informed the National       Specialised Commissioning Team's       (NSCT) Service Standards for the Neonatal Respiratory ECMO Service       (designated in 1997,       extended in 2005 to include children up to age 18) and the centrally       ring-fenced funding of a       national neonatal ECMO service based in Leicester, Newcastle, London       (Great Ormond Street       Hospital) and Glasgow.
Service standards and funding are reviewed annually       by commissioners       and providers.
The latest standards refer to 2012/13 (A), and the       budget for Leicester for this       period is just over &#163;4.3 million.
NSCT and providers have a commitment to working together to continually       improve the service       and react to innovative and dynamic ideas, such as developing a mobile       ECMO service for       neonatals and children in 2011/12.
This is now offered by Glenfield       Hospital (B).
The response to the CESAR trial has been to commission an adult ECMO       service: since 2011 this       has operated in five centres, with transport of patients on ECMO as part       of the contract (C).
Glenfield is the only one offering a neonatal, paediatric and adult       service.
Quality of life     The neonatal trial provided clear data of improved survival, reduced risk       of disability and cost       effectiveness.
These data remain unchallenged in 2013.
Survival rates: The most immediate impact has been on survival of       babies entered into the ECMO       programme.
Statistically, for every three babies with breathing problems       and lung failure treated       with ECMO rather than conventional ventilation, one more survived.
The       number of additional       survivors to 2013 can be estimated, based on 100 suitable cases per year       in the UK, at 340.
Paediatric and adult patients are also being successfully treated in       increasing numbers.
Reduced risk of disability: In the neonatal trial, overall rates       of impairment and disability were       approximately half that seen in survivors treated conventionally.
An       important feature of both       neonatal and adult trials was that the end-point was not survival; it was         intact survival after an       interval.
In the case of the neonatal trial it was 1-, 4- and 7-year       intact survival based on       neurological assessments.
In the case of CESAR it was functional       independence six months after       treatment.
An often unrecognised aspect of ECMO support is that the       quality of both neonatal and       adult survivors is excellent and there is limited long-term functional       disability.
Provided they are       otherwise healthy before needing ECMO, they go on to have long and       productive lives in society       (D).
Cost-effectiveness: In the period from discharge from initial       hospitalisation until 7-year follow-up,       there was consistently higher use of health care resources in the ECMO       arm, but this is largely       because of increased survival in this group.
Economic evaluations of ECMO       after 4 and 7 years       provided rigorous evidence of the cost-effectiveness of ECMO.
The measures       of benefit used were       the life-years gained and the disability-free life-years gained (E).
International renown     Since 2009, Leicester has been the largest centre in the world in terms       of the combined number of       neonatal, paediatric and adult cases annually.
The trial data have       influenced practice in Europe       (Sweden, the Netherlands, France and Germany) and further afield (US and       Australia), and many       practitioners have come to Leicester to train in the use of ECMO.
Glenfield has a reciprocal       agreement with European centres, particularly the Karolinska Institute in       Stockholm.
During the       H1N1 influenza A pandemic (swine flu) in 2009/10, which produced a number       of young adults       whose respiratory function was severely compromised, Glenfield treated 62       additional patients,       some from abroad, who showed significant benefit from being able to access       ECMO.
When Glenfield's ECMO unit for children was threatened with closure in       2012, the Director of the       ECMO unit at Karolinska, warned that 20 years' experience would be thrown       away, and that about       50 babies would die over five years if the unit was moved.
"Leicester         has one of the highest         survival rates for patients who need ECMO in the world," he is       quoted as saying.
Leicester and       Karolinska both have survival rates 10 to 20% higher than in other parts       of the world (F).
Beginnings of evidence-based approach     The novel neonatal trial recruited babies with a predicted mortality of       80%: it also incorporated a       prospective health economic evaluation, a follow-up programme and a review       of parent opinions of       the procedure and the trial.
Sir Iain Chalmers of the Cochrane Collection       says: "The trial provided         the opportunity to do some important social scientific studies exploring         the challenges of explaining         controlled trials to parents in the fraught circumstances of the birth         of a severely ill child."
(G).
It set an important precedent for how research trials should be designed       to reduce uncertainty and       provide better evidence to inform future decisions in clinical practice       and policy implementation.
It       is one of the earliest examples of direct engagement between NHS       Commissioners and academics       to assess a new technology prior to any `creep' into general practice.
Chalmers says: "The         example set by British neonatologists when they decided that ECMO should         only be offered within         the context of a multicentre trial until its effects were clearer         remains today a beacon showing the         way that clinicians should behave when there is uncertainty about the         effects of their practices."
(G).
