     Context     About half of the world's population eats rice daily.
Climate change       presents a major challenge to global rice producing regions by threatening       yields, farmer livelihoods and food security.
Modelling studies published       in 1997 by the International Rice Research Institute (IRRI) showed that       climate change could reduce Asian rice production by almost 4% by the       middle of the 21st century, at a time when population growth will increase       consumer demand.
For example, demand for rice could increase from 524       million tonnes now to 700 million tonnes by 2025.
When theoretical       heat-tolerant varieties were included in the IRRI simulations, rice yields       across Asia under climate change were restored to their normal levels.
The       research at Reading demonstrated the nature and importance of the heat       stress response in rice and other crops in practice and is making       theoretical heat-tolerant varieties a reality through its screening       protocols.
New rice screening protocols adopted by breeders and IRRI     Rice breeders became interested in the Reading team's phenotyping       protocols [5] following a presentation at a conference in Wuhan, China in       2007.
The Reading protocols were subsequently incorporated into the       testing procedures of the International Rice Heat Tolerance Nurseries       (IRHTN) of the IRRI &#8212; a non-profit independent research and training       organization located in the Philippines.
The Director General of IRRI       stated that "scientists at IRRI modified [Reading's] screening protocol       and put it out for use by plant breeders through the International Rice       High Temperature Network" [a].
The breeding team at IRHTN distributes a       range of different rice accessions to all rice-producing countries across       Asia and Africa.
The most promising are then tested for heat tolerance       using a simplified version of the Reading screening protocol.
Evidence is       provided from three example breeders in India who have adopted the new       protocol [b-d].
The IRRI is also investing in an advanced breeding programme for heat       tolerance based on Reading's identification of a heat tolerant rice       accession (N22) in 2008.
These nurseries have also confirmed the       heat-tolerance trait that Reading researchers identified in a different       genetic background (N22 x IR64 and others) and have tested the mapping       populations for high temperature tolerance under control chambers, again       using the Reading protocol.
Thus, Reading research has enabled rice breeders internationally to       undertake crop selection programs so that rice growers around the world       can better adapt to the temperature demands of climate change and be able       to maintain or improve yields to help feed growing populations in Asia and       Africa.
The immediate impact of the Reading research is on the       pre-breeding of rice for future climates, with ultimate benefits in the       form of new rice varieties for millions of growers globally, helping to       maintain yields, protect farmer livelihoods and food security.
Research informs international policy on climate change     In 2007, the Stern Review of The Economics of Climate Change used       figures of the temperature stress effect derived from Reading's crop       research data in relation to wheat and peanut varieties [e].
Although this       review was published prior to 2008, it remains one of the largest and most       widely known and discussed reports of its kind, and continued to be       greatly influential over the 2008-2013 period, remaining a subject of       debate in UK politics, e.g., [f-g].
The 2012 World Bank publication `Turn down the heat' includes the       high temperature stress effect in the Executive Summary [h] due to the       underpinning research at Reading.
This document, and the Reading research,       was used to support the inclusion of climate change in the top-level       Sustainability Goal of the World Bank Group [i, pg 31] which has       underpinned World Bank strategy and activities globally.
In this way, the       Reading research has contributed to the acceptance of the importance of       climate change in policy agendas because of demonstration of its effects       on crop yields, food security and sustainability.
It has provided robust       evidence to support the positions of international organisations working       on climate change.
