            Informing international policy debate and practice in areas of           urban planning       Shaping public awareness of ethical issues relating to urban           planning       Highlighting need for urban planning that takes the environmental           crisis seriously          Gorringe's research has impacted upon policy and practices in urban       planning at both national and international levels.
The Director of       Planning and Growth Management for the Metropolitan Council of       Minneapolis-Saint Paul, Minnesota (population: three million) and author       of a sustainable development plan for the area, writes of `the deep       intellectual and personal debt I owe to Professor Gorringe for his       valuable contribution to my work as a city planner'.
Referring to the       early influence on his thinking of Harvey Cox's famous The Secular         City, the letter continues: `But as the years and decades passed, I       never found within the realm of English language academic theology       anything comparable until I discovered Gorringe's Theology of the         Built Environment...which I regard as superior in wisdom and insight       to Cox's work insofar as it evidences a deeper grasp of both the Christian       theological tradition and city planning theory and practice' (5.1).
This publication (see 3.1 above) has also been cited by J. D. Simm       of the University of Nottingham and HR Water in a paper on flood risk       management which argues that even such practical and essential       construction projects as flood defence systems should be shaped by       aesthetic as well as functional considerations (5.2).
Research by Gorringe has further helped to shape public awareness of       ethical issues relating to urban planning, impacting in particular upon       church communities both in the UK and abroad.
In 2009, Gorringe gave a       public lecture on his research into ethics and aesthetics in planning and       public policy (see 3.1-3.4 above) as part of the `Radical       Abundance: A Theology of Sustainability' conference held at the Trinity       Institute, New York.
The lecture, which was followed by a question and       answer session with the audience, was streamed live to viewers throughout       the United States, and is now available to view on the Trinity Institute       website (5.3) &#8212; where it received 463 viewings in February 2009       alone &#8212; together with articles responding to the issues raised.
A review       of the lecture has been posted on the `God's Politics' blog maintained by       `Sojourners', a USA-based organisation for faith-based social action, and       Gorringe's research in this area has also been the subject of debate on       numerous other blogs, including that of the Cooperative Baptist       Fellowship, an Atlanta-based movement with approximately 1800 affiliated       churches (5.4).
An adult education course based on Gorringe's       research into theology and the built environment (see 3.1 above)       has been devised, and has the aim of raising public awareness of Christian       perspectives on urban issues (5.1).
The course was first run at St       Mark's Episcopal Cathedral, Minneapolis, in 2012.
In the UK, reviews and       recommendations of both Gorringe's 2002 and 2011 monographs (see 3.1         and 3.5 above) have appeared on the websites of both the Arthur Rank       Centre, which supports rural communities and churches in the UK, and       Christian Ecology Link, which seeks to foster links between the UK's       Christian churches and environmental movements.
Gorringe's research (see 3.5 above) has additionally served to       highlight the need for the environmental crisis to be taken seriously       within urban planning.
In March 2013, speaking at a seminar for Operation       Noah, a UK organisation promoting responsible Church engagement with       issues of climate change, Gorringe launched the Ash Wednesday Declaration       which, jointly-authored by Gorringe and informed by his research, has       been signed up to by all the major churches and commits them to action on       climate change (5.5).
A member of the Board of Operation Noah,       commenting on Gorringe's involvement with the Declaration, states that:       `Tim went away to produce a first draft statement which the group then       discussed.
It condenses a great deal of careful theology into an       accessible one-side document.
The final version follows exactly Tim's       outline, and the vast majority of his wording.
He was an essential factor       in its publication [and] Operation Noah is fortunate in having Tim's       support as a substantial theological and academic resource' (5.6).
Discussions of and responses to the Declaration, which has received the       support of Archbishop Rowan Williams, Archbishop Desmond Tutu, Oecumenical       Patriarch Bartholomew, and church groups from Australia, the USA ,and       continental Europe, have since featured widely in both national and       international media, including the Telegraph, in an article that       has attracted 314 reader comments (5.7), the Guardian, the       Church Times, the Church of England newspaper, Independent         Catholic News and the National Catholic Reporter (USA).
The       declaration has also been discussed on the websites of Eco-Congregation       and the European Christian Environmental Network, as well as in the blog       of The Tablet.
It has further provided the basis for recent       campaigns including, most notably, the attempt to persuade Christian       churches to disinvest from fossil fuels, and in this way has had       significant impact upon ecclesiastical investment bodies and their       decisions (5.6).
This research has also stimulated public debate, especially among church       congregations, about the importance of sustainability.
In 2011, Gorringe       delivered Operation Noah's Annual Lecture, speaking on the subject of       whether climate change, and its connection with the global economy, was a       matter for Church confession &#8212; a lecture that was significant in paving       the way for the development of the Ash Wednesday Declaration the following       year.
A response to the lecture was given by Christine Elliot of the       Methodist Church in Britain (5.8).
Additionally, in 2012, Gorringe       led workshops on his research into sustainable economy at the Christian       Ecology Link annual conference, the theme of which was `Spiritual Capital       and Sustainable Living', and, in 2013, he gave a paper entitled `Towards a       New Economics' at a theology seminar organised by Operation Noah and       attended by around 50 people, including clergy and members of the public       as well as academics.
Research led by Gorringe into the role of values in major social change (see         3.6 above) has impacted significantly upon the development of the       Transition Network, prompting thought among church communities and other       public organisations about responsible attitudes towards climate change.
Gorringe's research project on this subject (see 3.7 above)       included a `Values in Transition' conference, held at the University of       Exeter in May 2012, which brought together academic scholars and members       of the Transition community for discussion and debate about Gorringe's       research.
A report on the conference by members of the Transition       community has featured on the Transition Town Totnes website, and a public       discussion of the social vision underpinning the movement, including       contributions by Gorringe, has taken place on the blog of the national       Transition Network website (5.9).
In 2009, Gorringe was invited to       present his research as keynote speaker at the Christian Ecology Link       annual conference, the theme of which was the Transition Network, and, at       the 2010 conference of the National Justice and Peace Network, he led       workshops on Transition Towns and the future of food.
An interview with       Gorringe, in which he discusses his research in this area, featured in the       August 2013 edition of the Church Times, the leading Anglican       newspaper for clergy and church members.
Gorringe's research has also       influenced the development of Transition-inspired initiatives in the USA (5.10).
