     The Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations estimates       that the world needs to produce 60% more food by the year 2030.
Increased       production is needed to support a growing global human population and to       accommodate changes in diet.
However, our ability to maintain, let alone       increase, food production will be hindered by climate change; under a       `business as usual' scenario, levels of global productivity will steadily       decline.
Food security is further threatened by the negative impacts of       extreme weather, which is expected to become more frequent.
The University       of Reading's work on crops and climate change has informed international       policy related to measures to safeguard global food security by: i)       providing evidence to support the UK Government's position in       international climate change discussions, ii) providing key evidence for       the 2010 United Nations 16th Conference of the Parties       (COP-16), iii) developing new tools to support the training of farmers,       researchers and policy makers in the developing world, and iv) supporting       the International Treaty on Plant Genetic Resources for Food &amp;       Agriculture.
i) Advising UK Government     The GLAM crop simulation model has been used by Reading researchers to       explore the impact of a range of potential climate change mitigation       policies on crop production to inform policy decisions through the AVOID       programme.
The results of Reading's work on crop productivity, together with       projections of other potential impacts undertaken by collaborators within       the AVOID programme, have been made available to DECC.
These outputs have       included reports for DECC as well as presentations, posters and       information leaflets at key global conferences and meetings for policy       makers such as the 2009 United Nations Climate Change Conference (COP-15)       in Copenhagen, a pre-COP-16 briefing in Cancun in 2010, and the Planet       Under Pressure conference in London 2012 (over 3000 delegates plus 3,500       virtual delegates on the web).
According to an independent review of the       AVOID programme "the programme's outputs have been used by policy makers       in DECC and other areas of government" [a, pg 4] and have "helped frame       the UK position at negotiations and the Committee on Climate Change's work       on long term targets to 2050" [a, pg 4].
The AVOID outputs were used as       part of the evidence for the UK Climate Change Risk Assessment 2012, which       is "a major piece of evidence in Defra" [a, pg 6].
Reading research has also fed into the Commission on Sustainable       Agriculture and Climate Change [b, cites 4], which was chaired by the UK's       Chief Scientific Adviser at the time, Professor Sir John Beddington.
Sir       John has used outputs from both AVOID and the research of the Commission       as a source for speeches to a variety of audiences [a, pg 5].
ii) Evidence for international agreements adopted at COP-16     The GLAM crop model simulations were incorporated into evidence that was       distributed to approximately 15,000 delegates at the 16th       Conference of the Parties (COP-16) to the United Nations Framework       Convention on Climate Change at Cancun, Mexico in 2010 [c].
The evidence       presented in information packs demonstrated the potential impacts of       mitigated and unmitigated climate change, including the crop impact data       from Reading.
This included a comparison of impacts at 2f0b0C and 4f0b0C       global warming.
The outcome of COP-16 was an agreement adopted by the states' parties.
The agreement recognized that climate change represents an urgent and       potentially irreversible threat to human societies and the planet, which       needs to be urgently addressed.
The agreement further recognized that deep       cuts in global greenhouse emissions are required to hold the increase in       global average temperature below 2f0b0C above pre-industrial levels, and       that parties should take urgent action to meet this long-term goal,       consistent with the science.
The outcome of COP-16 and the agreement to       hold global average temperature at the 2f0b0C level was built upon a wide       body of scientific evidence, which included the Reading evidence on       impacts of climate change scenarios on crop productivity.
Whilst it is not       possible to attribute the outcome to any one source of information,       research from Reading made a material contribution to the larger body of       evidence that informed the decision making.
iii) Climate Analogue Tool used for training policy makers, farmers         and researchers in the developing world     The Climate Analogue Tool has been, and continues to be, implemented       through CCAFS.
CCAFS has used the tool to support training of regional       partners in the developing world, including National Agricultural Research       Systems, Non-Governmental Organizations, and policy makers.
The Tool is       informing the development of adaptation strategies to projected climates,       by ground-proofing abstract climate projections using comparisons based on       present-day conditions.
This allows potential options for adaptation to be       identified based on existing agricultural practices in the locations where       current climates are comparable with the projected future climate of the       region of interest.
Training and dissemination events for the Tool have       been held in Nepal, Senegal, Kenya (August 2012) and Ethiopia (October       2012).
This has also led to farmer-to-farmer exchange visits among       climatic analogue locations, enabling individual farmers to learn from       their peers about potential strategies to cope with their future climatic       constraints [d].
The Tool has also been used to support farmer-to-farmer exchanges among       climatic analogue locations, through the CCAFS Farms for the Future       initiative.
Farmers have already benefitted from the opportunity to learn       from their peers about potential strategies and practices to cope with       their future climatic constraints [d].
To date, Farms for the Future has       facilitated exchanges for partners from Nepal, Ethiopia, Tanzania and       Costa Rica.
iv) Supporting the International Treaty on Plant Genetic Resources for         Food &amp; Agriculture     The Climate Analogue Tool is supporting policy implementation of the       International Treaty on Plant Genetic Resources for Food and Agriculture.
No country is self-sufficient in plant genetic resources, and all depend       on genetic diversity in crops from other countries and regions.
International cooperation and the open exchange of genetic resources are       therefore essential for food security.
The fair sharing of benefits       arising from the use of these resources is being proactively implemented       at the international level through the Treaty and its Standard Material       Transfer Agreement.
The Tool is being used by Biodiversity International       to demonstrate the benefits of the Treaty and associated policies, and to       locate areas that need urgent conservation.
The scientist leading the Treaty implementation project for Biodiversity       International, is quoted on the CCAFS website as saying "Our work         helping countries implement the Treaty dovetails beautifully with the         Climate Analogue Tool, and use of the tool will be mainstreamed into the         research supported by the project" [e].
