     Industry invests in research     Pioneering research findings from Reading [1] generated enormous       worldwide interest from industry and from government departments concerned       with food safety and health.
Recognition of the impact of this research       resulted in significant funding for further research.
Initially a       consortium of major food companies (Cadbury, Cereal Partners, Danone,       McCain, Ryvita, United Biscuits) funded a collaborative research       programme, led by Reading, in conjunction with the Universities of Leeds       and Nottingham.
A 3-year BBSRC LINK project on minimising acrylamide in       potato products also received significant funding from food and       agriculture companies (ConAgra, Higgins Agriculture, Kettle Foods,       PepsiCo, Tesco, United Biscuits).
Individual companies have also sponsored       shorter-term research at Reading, while other major grants have been       provided by BBSRC, Food Standards Agency and the EU.
Reading has, therefore, played a pivotal role in bringing together       researchers in the UK, initially the Universities of Reading, Leeds and       Nottingham and, later, Rothamsted Research and James Hutton Institute.
The       outcomes of this collaborative research have had significant impact on the       approaches taken by the food industry all across the world for acrylamide       reduction.
Manufacturers adopt mitigation strategies       All large food companies preparing snack foods, biscuits, bread, coffee       and similar carbohydrate-rich foods have undertaken studies of their own       products.
These approaches, taken towards mitigation, were based on our       initial finding that acrylamide is formed though the Maillard reaction       involving asparagine and reducing sugars in the food.
European food       manufacturers have freely shared their findings and have produced a       "Toolbox", hosted on the FoodDrinkEurope website, which recommends       strategies for reducing acrylamide formation in different foods [a].
This       collaboration reflects the seriousness of the concern amongst food       manufacturers to mitigate acrylamide and the acceptance of our research by       the International community.
The Food and Drink Federation report that there has been a significant       impact of these mitigation strategies on acrylamide in food products with       reductions of 30-40% in potato crisps, 15% in potato fries, and 75% in       crispbread [b].
An analysis of over 40,000 acrylamide determinations in       commercial potato crisps from European countries showed a 50% reduction in       acrylamide levels from 2002 to 2011 [c].
Whilst the food industry has adopted strategies for lowering acrylamide       through modifying food processing, many manufacturers remain vulnerable to       fluctuations in the acrylamide-forming potential of the crops.
Developing       best practice for cultivation of particular crops, alongside variety       selection and improvement, has an important part to play in acrylamide       reduction strategies.
In this context, Reading's collaboration with       Rothamsted Research, has investigated the lowering of acrylamide       precursors in cereals and potatoes This has impacted on the understanding       of agronomic and genetic factors affecting asparagine and sugar levels in       cereals and potatoes and their influence on acrylamide.
The impact also       extends to crop producers, where research is leading to increased       awareness of how plant varieties and agronomy methods relate to acrylamide       formation [d].
Evidence in USA legal actions       In 2005 the State of California initiated action against major       manufacturers of potato crisps (chips) and French fries alleging they       "violated a State requirement that companies post warning labels on       products with carcinogens".
In 2008, Mottram acted as an expert witness in       the court proceedings, providing evidence that helped the court to reach       an appropriate and realistic judgement in which the companies agreed to       pay a combined US$3 million in fines and reduce the levels of acrylamide       in their products over three years rather than having all potato products       known to contain acrylamide carrying a health warning [e].
Public Awareness       Governments and the food industry need to provide consumers with       information about acrylamide and associated mitigation measures.
Our       pioneering research at Reading has been used in the provision of such       information to the public by highly respected and influential       organisations, such as the National Cancer Institute in the USA [f] and       the Food and Agriculture Organisation of the United Nations FAO [g].
Acrylamide formation is one of the biggest scientific issues ever to hit       the food industry and it continues to attract huge media interest.
Articles describing the Reading research have appeared in popular science       media outlets, for example:     Frying and baking explain potential carcinogen in crisps and bread.
Nature News.
Published online 1 Oct 2002.
DOI: 10.1038/news021001-1.
Food `cancer chemical' reaction identified.
New Scientist.
Published       online 1 Oct 2002.
&lt;http://www.newscientist.com/article/dn2860-food-cancer-chemical-reaction-identified.html&gt;     Taking the acrylamide out of wheat.
Nature News.
Published online 23       November 2006.
DOI: 10.1038/news061120-11     Davies, E. (2007).
Fries to go?
Chemistry World, 4, 46-50.
&lt;http://www.rsc.org/chemistryworld/restricted/2007/February/FriesToGo.asp&gt;     Reducing acrylamide levels in French fries.
ScienceDaily.
Published       online 26 Sept 2012.
&lt;http://www.sciencedaily.com/releases/2012/09/120926123804.htm&gt;
