     SUERC researchers have had wide-ranging impacts on the UK and       international nuclear industry.
Expert advice and data provided to government departments, security       organisations, the nuclear       industry, regulators, local authorities and charities has influenced       management and monitoring of       authorised discharges, accidental radionuclide releases and planned       disposals of radioactive       waste.
Findings have been disseminated to end users through direct       meetings, participation in       workshops, reports to funding bodies, conference presentations and       publication of research       papers.
Research outputs from 1993-2008 continue to have impact today.
For       example:     British Nuclear Fuels Limited (BNFL)-commissioned research contributed to       the development of       improved practices for the disposal of radioactive waste, and new       protocols for assessment of       human radiation exposure (BNFL report H73837B).
A review of the knowledge       of radioactivity in       the vicinity of the Dounreay site that was commissioned by the Scottish       Office is part of the       evidence base used by the Scottish Environmental Protection Agency (SEPA)       in its regulatory       oversight of Dounreay (SEPA report 32/98).
Research outputs since 2008 have been utilised in the planning for, and       response to, four       scenarios relating to the release of radionuclides into the environment:     (1) Authorised releases of radionuclides from nuclear facilities.
Expert advice was provided to Sellafield sites in 2010/11 on improved       detection methods for "hot       particles" in beach sediments.
Advanced modelling was used to assess       performance limits for field       based and airborne gamma spectrometry techniques.
This work has identified       future options for       extending the efficiency and range of searches for the highest activity       particles, which carry the       greatest radiological risks.
(2) Unplanned releases from nuclear accidents and military activities.
As a consequence of Sanderson's AGS research the importance of airborne       mapping as a frontline       emergency response has been internationally recognised, as highlighted by       the Royal Society       report `Detecting         nuclear and radiological materials' (2008).
Immediately after the 2011 Fukushima nuclear accident, the International       Atomic Energy Authority       (IAEA) asked Sanderson to provide specialist guidance on the       interpretation of environmental data       received from Japan and other IAEA member states (IAEA Special Service       Agreement BC       2892/1/3521).
In collaboration with scientists at Fukushima University,       additional specialist       equipment, assessment and analysis was provided directly to Japanese       institutions.
During five       trips to Japan in 2012 and 2013, Sanderson has employed a SUERC-developed       backpack gamma       spectrometer to map radiation levels in contaminated areas.
Findings were       presented at       Fukushima University, the National Institute for Environmental Science,       and through a Japanese-UK-Nuclear       Safety workshop at the British Embassy in 2012.
These results have since       been       published (`Validated Radiometric Mapping in 2012 of Areas in Japan       Affected by the Fukushima-Daiichi       Nuclear Accident' ISBN 9780852619377).
In response to a perceived gap in knowledge and understanding, the       Ministry of Defence (MoD)       commissioned a research programme, run by the Natural Environment Research       Council (NERC)       (2004-2008), into the environmental behaviour of depleted uranium (DU)       released in the use of       armour-piercing munitions.
SUERC provided specialist analytical data and       conclusions on the       occurrence and behaviour of DU in soils at two UK military sites.
Outputs       were provided to MoD       and Qinetiq via workshops, the DU Programme final report (NERC, 2008), and       published papers       (e.g.
ref 4).
(3) Potential terrorist radiological threat.
SUERC researchers produced a series of confidential reports (2009-2011)       for the Home Office on       detection of radioactive sources using airborne radiometrics in       preparation for the Olympics in       2012.
(4) Planned long-term disposal of radioactive waste in geological         facilities.
Studies of natural radionuclides in environmental contexts have been used       to inform performance       assessments in several waste disposal programmes, and to help define       research strategy of       various radioactive waste disposal organisations, as outlined below:     i.
Advice was provided, via Nexia Solutions, to the Nuclear       Decommissioning Authority (NDA)       in 2008 relating to the behaviour of 14C in the UK       intermediate level waste repository,       contributing to NDA's current research strategy.
ii.
As part of the Swedish Nuclear Fuel and Waste Management Company       (SKB) programme to       select a site for the Swedish high level radioactive waste repository,       SUERC was       commissioned to carry out research on natural decay series disequilibrium       in rock and       groundwater samples.
The SUERC work was also used to evaluate the risk       that potential       future glaciations would force oxidising groundwater into the repository.
Provision of findings       and expertise to SKB was via Terralogica Consultants (Sweden) in       coordination meetings       (Sweden, Finland, UK) and via reports and published papers (ref 5).
iii.
Research on natural radionuclides was used in the International       Cyprus Natural Analogue       Project to characterise radionuclide uptake by bentonite, which is a key       component in       planned repositories.
Reports from this work (2011, 2013) to Posiva       (Finland) and the NDA       were central to the repository performance assessment programmes.
