     The GWP tables produced in the 1996 IPCC Second Assessment Report (for       which Shine played a major role in compiling the REs7,8 and       which also included calculations performed in the Unit1) are       now enshrined in international law, in the Kyoto Protocol to the UNFCCC.
During the first commitment period of the protocol (2008-2012),       signatories were required to convert their non-CO2 greenhouse       gas emissions to CO2-equivalent emissions using these tables,       and then report these emissions to the UNFCCC, as part of the monitoring       of the extent to which individual country commitments were being met.
In       addition, the GWP values are used within the Clean Development Mechanism       of the Kyoto Protocol that enables industrialized countries to fund       emission-reduction projects in developing countries, and to claim credit       for these reductions in meeting their own targets.
Where these projects       involve reductions in emissions of gases other than CO2       (historically this constitutes about 20% of the total number of projects)'       the GWP is used to calculate CO2-equivalence.
The same GWP       tables are also used within the UK Climate Change Act (2008) to calculate       CO2-equivalent emissions to assess the extent to which the UK       is meeting its own commitments under this Act.
The UNFCCC negotiations, starting in 2005 and continuing through the       REF2014 assessment period, which led to the agreement on the second       commitment period of the Kyoto Protocol (2013-2020), have recommended the       adoption of the GWP tables listed in (the errata to) the IPCC Fourth       Assessment Report.
Of the 69 gases in this table that are covered by the       Kyoto Protocol, inputs to about one-quarter can be traced directly to       research in the Unit (including those publications given in Section 31,2,3,4),       and about half originate from previous IPCC or WMO Ozone assessments where       Shine was the lead author of relevant sections of the assessment and       played a major role in the compilation of the lists of REs 7,8,9.
Reading's work includes the first detailed RE value for nitrogen       trifluoride4, a compound widely used in the electronics       industry and also for trifluoromethyl sulphur pentafluoride; emissions of       these gases were not included in the first commitment period of the Kyoto       Protocol, but are now part of the second commitment period.
Hence the       Unit's research helped enable the UNFCCC negotiations during the REF2014       assessment period; specifically its work helped enable the production of       the updated GWP tables in the IPCC Fourth Assessment Report and the       inclusion of additional gases in those tables.
The Unit's work on alternatives to the GWP has impacted public policy by       enabling a policy debate on the most appropriate metrics for use in       climate conventions.
The work has led to debate within the IPCC and       UNFCCC, with requests from parties to the Convention to assess the       appropriateness of metrics to calculate CO2-equivalence.
As a       specific example, because of the scale of its agricultural activity,       Brazil has relatively high methane emissions.
Using the standard GWP       metric to place emissions on a CO2-equivalent scale, Brazil's       methane emissions account for about 17% of their total CO2-equivalent       emissions.
By contrast, using the 100-year GTP metric, developed at the       Unit5, the methane emissions would account for only 5%.
Brazil       have stated (in their 2010 National Contribution to the UNFCCC) that "they       object to the use of the GWP... [and the] .. option for aggregating the       reported emissions into carbon dioxide equivalent units using the GWP ...       was not adopted".
The same report states that "the use of GTP allows for       more appropri-ate mitigation policies".
The UNFCCC's Subsidiary Body for       Scientific and Technical Advice (SBSTA) continues to discuss and debate       the issue; for example, in 2012 it organised, a workshop on the issue,       bringing together policymakers and scientists, at which Shine was a       speaker.
