     The Unit's research was key to the implementation of flexible emergency       procedures that minimise disruption to air traffic without compromising       safety, during volcanic ash emergencies.
Contribution of the Unit's radiosonde measurements     Flight bans were brought into effect during the crisis by nations across       Europe because volcanic ash can seriously damage jet aircraft engines.
The       aviation industry's standing instructions for dealing safely with volcanic       ash, published by the UN's International Civil Aviation Organization       (ICAO), are to avoid all encounters with ash.
During the initial       phase of the Eyjafjallaj&#246;kull eruption, the UK government adopted this       "zero risk" approach and the Civil Aviation Authority (CAA) published a       (non-zero) safety limit for volcanic ash particle concentration.
The       no-flight ban that had been imposed was quickly confirmed as appropriate       by the Unit's radiosonde measurements.
Our balloon flights were crucial       because remote sensing observations cannot give the necessary detailed       information on particle concentrations, size spectrum and composition that       are essential to assessing the hazard (see Annex 1a of Zehner (2010)9)       and the ban prevented manned research aircraft flights.
Furthermore,       because NAME could be run back-wards to define the ash source       characteristics, the early use of balloons was useful in defining the       source characteristics.
After the eruption, as part of ensuring national       readiness for future such emergencies, the Met Office contracted the Unit       to produce more instruments (to date 20) to train Met Office staff to use       them and the associated analysis software developed at the Unit.10       The success of this is evident in the Met Office deployment of the       equipment during the May 2011 Gr&#237;msv&#246;tn eruption in Iceland.
They       successfully measured ash above Fort William on 24 May 2011.11     Contribution of the NAME model testing and analysis     The Met Office has international commitments to provide dispersion       modelling in emergencies caused by the releases of hazardous gases and       materials into the atmosphere.
It has been designated a VAAC (Volcanic Ash       Advisory Centre) to provide forecasts and guidance to the CAA, National       Air Traffic Services (NATS), airports and airlines in order to support       their decisions on whether aircraft can fly safely.
The London VAAC is       particularly important for European aviation as it is responsible for       monitoring and forecasting the movement of volcanic ash from Iceland.12       The decisions for European nations were based on scientific advice       provided by the London VAAC, relayed by the European Organization for the       Safety of Air Navigation (EuroControl).
However, national authorities soon       came under pressure from European airlines, several of whom claimed that       test flights in the supposed danger zone "showed that the models were         wrong"17.
After the bans had been in place for three days       all major airlines claimed that authorities had been excessively cautious       in their approach.
In particular, the airlines disputed the validity of       the NAME model in use by the VAAC and dismissed the estimates it gave on       the ash cloud extent as "based on theoretical models, not on facts".17       The UK authorities defended their "zero risk" regulatory response,       pointing out that it was consistent with the guidelines by ICAO in their       2007 Manual on Volcanic Ash, as well as with the Volcanic Ash Contingency       Plan (EUR Region).16,18 Thus the validity of NAME became one of       the two central issues (the other being the safe ash concentration limits       for a jet engine) and its testing became an urgent requirement.
Consequently, the Met Office requested urgent additional testing of the       model be done, and in particular its performance during the       Eyjafjallaj&#246;kull event.
This was organised by the Met Office Chair at       Reading (at that time, Prof. S.E.
Belcher) as part of the newly-formed       research partnership between the University and the Met Office.
Emergency       funding for the work was negotiated from NERC's NCAS.8 Quoting       VAAC staff:13 "...to achieve maximum benefit the data         needed to be analysed, compared with the model predictions, and         appropriate lessons learnt regarding how much material was actually         being emitted from the volcano and how much material survived the         near-source fall-out processes (sedimentation of large particles,         aggregation and sedimentation of fine ash, wash out, etc.)
to reach the         far field.
Dacre et al (2011) was the first example of such an analysis         and hence played a key role in the development of our ash modelling         approach, both during the event itself using preliminary results which         were made available to us, as well as after the event when our approach         was revised further.
The revised approach was deployed to good effect         during the eruption of Grimsvotn in 2011."
The key element of the       revised model which was used during the Grimsvotn eruption was a       parameterisation quantifying fall out of large particles and aggregation       and subsequent fall out of small particles.
This parameterisation allowed       quantitative predictions of volcanic ash to be made.
New procedures and the lifting of the flight ban     Based on the results from, and the additional tests of the NAME model and       on the national risk management procedure, EU Member States, national air       safety authorities, national air traffic controllers, and EuroControl       realised that a more differentiated assessment of the risk posed by the       ash cloud was needed than the "zero risk" blanket response.
Using the work       done by the Unit, the VAAC were able to divide NAME-predicted maps into       three zone types (depending on the degree of contamination) such that       flight bans could be restricted to smaller regions.
On 20 April 2010 (day       6 of crisis) new procedures were defined, which led to a partial reopening       of European airspace.
By 22 April 2010 (day 8) regular flight schedules       resumed.14 This experience allowed more precise risk assessment       procedures to subsequently be put in place in Europe "allowing for a much       more graduated response and minimising closure of European airspace".15       Specifically, these procedures are credited as ensuring the subsequent       eruption of Gr&#237;msv&#246;tn, which began on 21 May 2011, caused proportionally       much less disruption.
(The Gr&#237;msv&#246;tn event actually produced more ash than       the Eyjafjallaj&#246;kull event, but direct comparisons are difficult because       weather conditions, and hence dispersion, was different).
Europa.eu (the       official website of the EU) states: "This is partially due to the         different nature of the Gr&#237;msv&#246;tn volcano as well as different weather         conditions.
But to a much greater extent it is due to the more precise         risk assessment procedures that have been put in place in Europe &#8212;         allowing for a much more graduated response and minimising closure of         European airspace".15     The Eyjafjallaj&#246;kull eruption caused prolonged closure of European       airspace.
The International Air Transport Association (IATA) estimated the       airline industry worldwide lost &#163;130 million per day as a result.
The more       flexible flight restrictions made possible by our research allowed these       losses to be cut during the latter days of the crisis and during the       Gr&#237;msv&#246;tn eruption.
In addition to the economic impact on passengers,       airlines and cargo there is saved human cost, as flight bans cause       disruption to the schedules and plans of individuals from all walks of       life and nationalities.
100,000 flights were cancelled, with over 10       million people affected.
42,600 flights were cancelled on the first three       days of the crisis whereas only 900 were cancelled in the corresponding       interval for the Gr&#237;msv&#246;tn eruption.
