     Pathway to Impact.
The National Severe Weather Warning System (NSWWS) is a free warning       service, originally       established by the Met Office in response to the enquiry set up by the       Secretary of State into the       forecasting and impact of the 1987 Great Storm.
Warnings of forecasts of       severe weather enable       Civil Contingencies Category 1 and 2 responders to plan and implement       action needed to reduce       the impact of the severe weather.
Warnings are also issued to the public       at large via the broadcast       media, and other authorities when appropriate.
The warnings also make the       tasks of the       emergency services easier by providing reliable updates of the current       situation and prognosis.
The system was radically overhauled in 2011 and the Unit's research into       sting jets provided the       Met Office with the means to incorporate more accurate predictions of the       likely impact of a sting       jet into their severe weather warnings.
The ultimate beneficiaries are the       inhabitants and       businesses of the UK.
In addition, timely warnings reduce losses and       damage to infrastructure and       property so local and national government and insurance companies also       benefit.12     The Met Office was involved closely in the research and its application       from the outset.
The       realisation that the most destructive winds are associated with a       characteristic cloud formation       produced an immediate benefit in terms of diagnosing current weather       patterns: by 2005, the Met       Office had started to use satellite images to issue warnings to locations       likely to be in the path of a       sting jet but with warnings only one to two hours in advance of the storm       (as reported in media       articles of the time13).
Joint work by the Unit and the Met       Office established what was needed to       predict the occurrence and severity of sting jets further in advance.
As a       result, the Met Office       introduced the capability of issuing warnings of sting jet via the NSWWS       in April 2011.14 The first       explicit forecast taking account of a sting jet was issued for the storm       of 8 December 2011, and the       term `sting jet' was used for the first time in a televised public weather       forecast on 3 January 201214       with full explanation of the term appearing on the Met Office web site,15       in Met Office leaflets16 and       in press reports.17     Impact on Met Office and European severe weather warnings      The importance of the Unit's research in issuing severe weather warnings       is made clear on the       Met Office website:23 "one feature of the 1987 storm was         the presence of 'sting jets'.
.... At the time         of the storm, however, no-one knew they existed or how they worked.
Today they are well         understood and represented in forecasting models so we can warn about         them in advance".
In       addition, the head of Numerical Weather Prediction at the Met Office at       the time has said "The         work of Browning and others at Reading was very helpful to the Met         Office in making reliable         forecasts and warnings of hazardous weather, in that it led to us         gaining the capability to identify         damaging sting jets, predicting their evolution and issuing timely         warnings.
The collaboration         between Reading and the Met Office was very effective in bringing this         about".24 France, Germany,       Switzerland, Scandinavia and the Baltic countries have also started to       issue warnings of sting       jets.25,26 Since summer 2012 work is underway in the US to       similarly upgrade their capability based       directly on this research.27     Applications in windstorms Friedhelm and Ulli     The benefits of sting jet prediction are demonstrated by warnings the Met       Office issued on 8       December 2011 and 3 January 2012 for storms "Friedhelm"18 and       "Ulli"19, respectively.
In both       cases, the Met Office forecast that particularly ferocious winds would       affect parts of Scotland and       issued the strongest possible severe weather warning on the basis that       these had been identified       to be sting-jet storms.28 Agencies acted on the advice: schools       were closed, police warned people       not to travel unless absolutely necessary, and emergency services were put       on alert.
The       Kingston, Erskine, Tay and Forth bridges were closed, and many bus, rail       and ferry services were       cancelled.18,19,20,21 Furthermore, the Met Office forecasts of       these two storms were incorporated       into warnings issued by various European and Scandinavian Meteorological       Institutes, and       triggering the cancellation of North Sea ferry services and the closure of       several bridges.
The preventative action minimised the impact of these storms, which       brought gusts of wind up to       164 mph and widespread disruption including uprooted trees, damage to       power lines (e.g.
150000       homes without electricity in the 8th December storm) and       overturned vehicles (including a school       bus that was not in use because schools had been closed because of the       alert).
Importantly,       nobody was killed.
How the outcome would have differed had the warnings       not been issued cannot       be known and reliable statistics, that allow comparison with events that       took place without the       warnings, will require analysis of many such cases.
Scotland's Deputy       First Minister Nicola       Sturgeon said: "The conditions are exactly as predicted when the Met         Office issued its red         warning",19 Central Scotland Police Emergency Planning       reported "spot on forecasting over the         last 2 days" and Grampian Police said: "thanks as always for the         updates, they are vitally important         to us and are a great source of detail for warning and informing our         communities".20 Angus Bruce,       Bridge Manager at Amey, added: "I would complement the Met Office for         the accuracy of their         information, this helps to give us confidence in the information we         receive and allows us to plan         things such as the re-opening of the Erskine Bridge with confidence and         accuracy".21 That sting jet       science was at the heart of these warnings and the benefits achieved using       those warnings       discussed in a Met Office review of the Freidhelm and Ulli events (Fox et       al.
(2012).23     It is not yet possible to quantify the benefits that arise from the       improvement to warnings       brought about specifically by sting jet science.
However, the savings       resulting from the Met       Office's severe wind warnings in general give an indication of the scale       of the potential savings for       the most damaging (sting jet) events.
The total savings were evaluated in       a 2007 report by the Met       Office, working with the Cabinet Office.22 At that time, sting       jet warnings were still in their infancy       (specifically, satellite images were used to warn of locations likely to       be in the path of a sting jet but       only one to two hours in advance); nevertheless, severe wind warnings were       estimated to save 23       lives and &#163;34m per annum in the UK construction industry, &#163;41m efficiency       savings in the       emergency services and &#163;95.5 million saved in the UK through improved       aircraft routing and a       further &#163;3.6 million reduction in flight delays.
The prediction of sting       jets is also finding applications       in severe weather warning around Europe and in France, Germany,       Switzerland, Scandinavia and       the Baltic countries in particular.
The Unit's research led to the understanding that sting jets are a       feature of many, but not all,       rapidly developing storms.
It has been estimated that if the Great Storm       of 1987 had recurred in       2007, it would have caused between &#163;4 billion and &#163;7 billion in insured       loss Europe-wide,2 over       70% of this generated in the UK.
Discussions have been held between the       Unit and a number of       insurance, re-insurance and CAT (Catastrophe) modelling companies       (Willis-Re, RMS, AIR-       Worldwide and Axa) to appraise them of the need to include the impact of       sting jets in their       statistical cyclone databases.
Most insurers rely on "vender" models from       sub-contractors but for       reasons of commercial confidence, they do not know if these incorporate       sting jets (and associated       losses) or not.
By making them aware of the science and its implications,       the Unit has already had       an influence on both the insurers and the CAT modellers demonstrated, for       example, by KT       partnerships funded by Axa.29     Background Information     12.
e.g., P. Heneka, B. Ruck (2008) A damage model for the       assessment of storm damage to       buildings, Engineering Structures, 30, (12) 3603-3609     13.
The Telegraph 13/1/2005.
`Sting Jet' blamed for Winds.
http://www.telegraph.co.uk/education/3349225/Sting-jet-blamed-for-winds.html     14.
T. Hewson (2012) Forecasting Extreme Weather, Presentation       at "Understanding the Weather       of 2011" Royal Met Soc Meeting, Birmingham, 4 Feb 2012.
Available from the       Unit or from       http://www.rmets.org/sites/default/files/pdf/presentation/20120204-hewson.pdf     15.
Met Office website (posted Oct. 2012): The 1987 Great       Storm &#8212; What is a Sting Jet?
http://www.metoffice.gov.uk/news/in-depth/1987-great-storm/sting-jet     16.
Met Office (2012): "The sting jet: Forecasting the       damaging winds in European Cyclones"       http://www.metoffice.gov.uk/media/pdf/2/p/Sting_Jet_Flyer.PDF     17.
Guardian 16/10/2012 http://www.guardian.co.uk/uk/2012/oct/16/sting-jets-hurricane-michael-fish     18.
Willis Re Analytics, Event Response, December 9th 2011       Windstorm Friedhelm       http://bit.ly/1glurKP A collection of       media reports: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cyclone_Friedhelm     19.
A collection of media reports is available at http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cyclone_Ulli     20.
D.Cotgrove (2012) Risky business of weather forecasting,       The Barometer, issue 20, Met Office,       http://www.metoffice.gov.uk/media/pdf/k/0/Barometer_Issue_20.pdf     21.
Met.
Office Website (2012) Atlantic storm case study &#8212;       December 2011. http://bit.ly/1alxVVg     22.
"The Public Weather Service's contribution to the UK       economy", Met Office, 2007, produced PA       Consulting Group.
http://www.metoffice.gov.uk/media/pdf/h/o/PWSCG_benefits_report.pdf
