     The research of members of the International Centre for Crime,         Policing and Justice, and particularly Sinclair, into UK       police deployments overseas since 1945 has had significant impact on the       ongoing work of various UK agencies involved in overseas policing.
Sinclair's       expertise and advice have been sought frequently, and this has helped to       focus collaboration and planning among these agencies.
In addition, Sinclair's       research findings, which link academic theory with operational practice,       have had a significant impact on the development of overseas policing       strategy at national level and have enhanced expertise among UK officers       deploying abroad.
As a result of the research as outlined in (2) above, and the contacts       made while conducting that research, Sinclair has since 2010       advised a range of policing bodies, including the Association of Chief         Police Officers International Affairs (ACPO IA), the Ministry of         Defence Police (MDP) and members of the International Policing         Assistance Board (IPAB).
Initial briefings requested by Chief Constable Colin Port (ACPO portfolio       holder for International Affairs, 2009-13) on the ways in which       historically-based research could inform international policing undertaken       by UK forces led to Sinclair's appointment as the sole academic       adviser to ACPO IA and IPAB.
Following her assessment of the fragmented       delivery mechanisms for overseas policing across UK government departments       and police, a decision was reached by ACPO IA to develop a new information       and media strategy.
Sinclair then worked extensively with ACPO IA       (e.g.
27 meetings between May 2010 and November 2011) to develop a       dedicated website housing open-source documents and all `need-to-know'       information for UK police officers interested in an overseas deployment       [5.1].
The positive reception of this initiative on the part of UK       officers in turn led to an invitation for Sinclair to serve as       editor for a newly-created ACPO IA newsletter, circulated to all UK police       forces and appropriate government departments, and designed to disseminate       information about overseas deployments for the benefit of serving officers       [5.2].
Following the success of this new communications strategy, Sinclair       was asked to contribute to high-level discussions of future policy at, inter         alia, the Association of Chief Police Officers 2011 conference.
She       also represented the UK at a range of police-practitioner forums       internationally (USA, 2011; Australia, 2010, 2012; Hong Kong, 2010, 2012).
Following her appointment in 2011 as the only academic member of the       International Police Assistance Board (IPAB), a senior cross- governmental       and policing body which promotes the coordination of international       policing referrals, she again intervened in a range of policy discussions.
For example, she accompanied Colin Port to discuss the provision of UK       police in the Middle East and Georgia with the Home Affairs Select       Committee (November 2011).
Her work contributed directly to raising awareness within government of       the importance of international policing assistance.
In 2012, the ACPO IA       lead was appointed (for the first time) to the Building Stability Overseas       Board (a cross-governmental committee concerned with stabilising fragile       and conflict-affected states), and Sinclair worked with Foreign and       Commonwealth Office staff and Colin Port to prepare a brief for       presentation to the National Security Council.
While not yet submitted,       this activity shows the extent to which Sinclair's research has gained       traction at the highest levels of government and will continue to generate       impact in the future.
The impact of the research was not confined to improving communication       between the various agencies and raising awareness of the UK's       international policing activities among members of the UK government and       the military.
As an IPAB member with security clearance, Sinclair has been       actively involved in work designed to generate enhanced capability in       officers deploying overseas.
For example, the Ministry of Defence Police       (MDP) has drawn on her research findings which demonstrated both the need       for and the value of developing an institutional memory of overseas       engagements.
Previously, little or no information was retained centrally from overseas       deployments but as a result of her guidance there has been a drive within       MDP to collect and coordinate material relating to international       deployments that have taken place in the past, and to harness the overseas       experiences of MDP officers to produce training material used for future       pre-deployment.
She has also made a distinctive contribution to Policing         the context: principles and guidance to inform international policing         assistance, a manual of best practice currently being drafted by the       Stability Unit, which will replace the single 2007 Peace Support         Operations Manual (Foreign and Commonwealth Office).
Thus, assisted by a combination of Open University and RCUK funding Sinclair,       in conjunction with Emsley and Williams, has demonstrated       the way in which historical research into policing can have contemporary       utility.
The theories and expertise generated by an extensive programme of       research were drawn on by a range of police organisations, assisting them       both in understanding their need for change and in achieving that change.
