     Historians in History generate impact with their research through The       Open University's unique, four-decade long partnership with the BBC.
The       two partners collaborate to ensure that academic expertise informs       programme-making, and jointly-produced series are linked to an OU       `Learning Journey'.
The programmes end with a `call to action' that       invites viewers to access specifically developed OU online material via       the OU's unrivalled OpenLearn public education site (free, online,       quality-assured, outcome-specified learning materials which attract nearly       6 million visitors a year), and to request free print items with academic       content (in the case of Empire, a double- sided A1 poster which       shows how the Empire was re-invented as a Commonwealth, and explores how       the idea of empire was sold to a nation, the colonies and the world).
Visitors are also offered pathways to appropriate OU study.
The reach of such programmes is translated into public understanding of       the past through this learning journey.
In this example, the impact       strategy was designed to ensure that a large audience would understand the       complexities of the history of empire and be able to study the topic       further.
This was achieved by Hack shaping the making of the programme       from the inside, and by designing a `Learning Journey' that linked the       programme with educational tools made freely available to viewers.
The OU and BBC series Empire, fronted by Jeremy Paxman, drew       extensively on the research expertise of Hack who was bought out from       other duties to serve as adviser for the series.
Hack's research on the       British Empire impacted on both the content and scope of the series,       contributing to the quality of BBC historical programming/public service       broadcasting.
This was achieved by introducing specific themes, locations       and approaches, as well as ensuring balance and accuracy.
Regular meetings between Hack, the BBC Series Producers, the main BBC       researcher, and the Series Executive Producer, Julian Birkett [5.1], were       held from programme conceptualisation in late 2010 until the final editing       of rushes, allowing Hack's research to feed into the programme throughout       the production cycle.
Birkett commented after the production process:     Input from the OU academic was crucial from day one [...] we had       discussions with them, both before and after filming.
There were several       areas where we shifted our emphasis accordingly.
Perhaps the biggest one       was the sense that the Empire was predominantly a commercial rather than a       political phenomenon (the latter being a commonly accepted view).
Another       was that we were persuaded that relations between the ruling and the       subject races could be a complex and subtle affair, and we tried to show       this in the programmes.
Hack also countered the non-specialist presenter's impression that the       Empire was all but over by 1948.
This resulted in a more realistic       portrayal of ongoing struggle informed by academic research which was made       accessible to a general audience in order to enhance public understanding       of this sensitive and controversial historical topic.
The OU's involvement in the series led to an expansion from the planned       four to five episodes.
Hack's regional research expertise also informed       the selection of sites in Singapore as a location, and his expertise       ensured nuance, rigour and accuracy, particularly in the Egyptian, South       Asian and decolonisation sections.
For the OU (and the BBC), a rigorously-produced television series is the       starting point for creating impact on people's understanding and views.
To       be judged a success, a series must also persuade tens of thousands of       viewers to begin a longer `Learning Journey', seeking out and using       directly-produced OU educational materials based on our research.
Hence       the series' `call to action' directed viewers to the OU's online and print       resources prepared to accompany the programme, and to further OU teaching       and research materials related to Empire (such as on the Bengal       Famine [http://www.open.edu/openlearn/history-the-arts/history/social-economic-         history/the-legacy-empire-the-bengal-famine], Slavery [http://www.open.edu/openlearn/history-the-         arts/history/the-rise-and-fall-the-slave-trade], Dundee, Jute and       Empire [http://www.open.edu/openlearn/history-the-arts/history/heritage/dundee-jute-and-empire/content-         section-0]), as well as to history research more generally.
Public understanding of a complex and contested historical topic was       achieved.
For example, by March 2013, 63,700 hard copies of the printed       poster Empire had been requested, with a further 18,000 copies       available for future distribution [5.4].
The poster combines content,       written by Hack, with visually stunning and sophisticated representations       of the British Empire at its height in the 1920s, compared with the modern       Commonwealth.
Additional free digital downloading was also provided, to       continue for up to 10 years (2811 downloads to end of July 2013).
Since the series aired in 2012, Hack has further expanded the online       material by adding six freely- available `Selling Empire' lectures [http://www.open.edu/openlearn/history-the-arts/history/world-         history/selling-empire] (702 unique visitors between January and       July 2013), with an annotated and hyperlinked bibliography [http://www.open.edu/openlearn/history-the-arts/history/world-         history/selling-empire-further-resources].
Public interest in the       topic was also engendered by an online Empire Game (c. 2200 unique       visitors), which was available throughout the screening of the series.
The       print item and online lectures remain freely available via the OU's       OpenLearn website.
This landmark series attracted an audience of up to 2.96 million viewers       per episode when screened from February to May 2012.
Between 8% and 11% of       the adult viewing population watched at least one episode in this series       on the BBC.
The BBC iPlayer recorded 1.2 million additional views.
'[text       removed for publication]' and impact was also measured with OU surveys of       viewers who have watched at least one episode of a series.
Immediate       impact is evidenced by the fact that 53% of respondents to such an OU       survey felt they had `learned a lot' from the series [5.3].
Longer-term impact is evidenced by the high demand for print items and by       the fact that 98,660 unique visitors have viewed some part of the Empire       content on OpenLearn [5.3] and were thus motivated to find out more about       Empire with the OU as a result of this series.
The programmes will continue to be available on worldwide DVD, and the       print item and lectures will remain freely available for up to a decade,       ensuring enduring impact, outreach and accessibility.
