     Impact on EU policy, legislation and standards 	HARMONAC was the       major reference source used as evidence concerning the impact of the       original Energy Performance of Buildings Directive (EPBD) 2002 on energy       efficiency in HVAC systems in practice [5.1, 5.2].
The EPBD is the primary       European Directive governing energy efficiency in buildings for EU Member       States.
From research undertaken during HARMONAC, and presented by Ian       Knight on 3 separate occasions [5.3] to EU Member State legislators, the       EPBD was accordingly amended during its recast in 2010 to allow automatic       monitoring and feedback systems to be used to complement or replace       inspection.
Gordon Sutherland, Senior Project Officer for the European Commission       Executive Agency on Competitiveness and Innovation identified HARMONAC as       `instrumental in demonstrating the feasibility of monitoring       air-conditioning systems'.
[5.2] .
This influence on the legislative agenda continues with the iSERV       project, presented to the Concerted Action 3 project in April 2011,       December 2011 and October 2013 [5.4] as part of aiding EU Member States to       transpose the recast EPBD.
Data from real buildings (including major       multi- nationals, see table 1) is informing energy savings achieved.
HARMONAC has also had a demonstrable impact on the current revisions to       the European Committee for Standardisation (CEN) Standards in this area -       EN 15239 and 15240 (on which the relevant British Standards are based):     "... HARMONAC and iSERV and their impact on the further development of         CEN Standards EN 15240 and 15239 ... have created a solid basis for many         developments that have been found necessary..." &#8212; Jorma Railio (CEN       member, and former CEN Convenor).
[5.5].
Information for tenderers for rewriting the revised CEN standards in 2013       onwards refers explicitly to the HARMONAC work when considering the       standards updates required for EN15239 and EN15240, which refer to the       elements needed to be present in Inspecting Air Conditioning and       Ventilation systems [5.6].
Practitioner impact: professional guidance to the building services         industry and building designers       The UK Building Services Professional Body (CIBSE) and REHVA (the umbrella       body for the European Building Services Professional Bodies) are full       partners in iSERV, and are promoting the project to their 110,000 Building       Services professional members.
Their participation in iSERV follows       presentations on HARMONAC to REHVA and the EU Professional Bodies [5.7].
These bodies, in turn, have disseminated the findings and associated tools       and guidance to date from the iSERV project to their members in Journal       Papers, Workshops and Articles [5.8, 5.9].
Both CIBSE and REHVA intend to       publish professional guidance documents based on the project findings but       these will not appear until after the project finishes in 2014.
The UK Education Funding Agency, which provides capital funding for       schools in England (&#163;2 billion in 2012-13), including building projects,       now requires all new Schools built in England using their funding to use       the iSERV spreadsheet as part of the design and operation of new       buildings.
[5.10]     Economic impact: reducing EU energy consumption       In 2007, the 27 EU Member States used around 2,800 TWh of electricity, of       which Building HVAC systems consumed 11.1%.
HARMONAC [3.2] concluded that       2% of the total electrical energy use could be saved across the EU Member       States from energy efficiency improvements in HVAC systems.
These savings       would be worth around &#8364;6Bn/annum at current costs.
iSERV provides, and demonstrates, a process to allow these savings to be       achieved in practice.
Initial results concerning 3 buildings from HARMONAC       show that these savings may have been underestimated by up to a factor of       10, although this will not be conclusively shown until all 1000+ iSERV       systems buildings have been evaluated.
The beneficiaries of HARMONAC and iSERV range from Building End Users       (via reduced operating costs and improved internal conditions), Building       Services Designers, Operators and Maintainers (better understanding of the       operation and maintenance of AC systems in buildings), through to       Professional Bodies and EU Member State Legislators.
Table1 lists the range of Multinational companies participating in iSERV       as both data providers and receivers.
This shows breadth of impact being       achieved across Europe.
Tesco            British Telecom           WALDNER           Rhoss           Lennox                             FNAC            First Facility           Siemens           ArCotel           McDonalds                             Baxter           Schneider Electric           SKANSKA           Socomec           Vodafone                             Allianz           Johnson Controls           Media markt           Eversheds           Metro AG                             Cofely           LG Electronics           Marriott           DAIKIN           Honeywell                             Spar           Best Western           NH Hoteles           Unicredit           Carrier                             H&amp;M           Falkensteiner           Ibis Hotels           France Air           Eurobank                             ALDI           Relais &amp; Chateaux           Mercure           MITIE           Toshiba                             IKEA           Grupo Inditex (ZARA, MANGO etc)           Swegon           Santander           Trane
