     The commercial value of Dr Thornton's research in fungal       immunodiagnostics has led to protection of his intellectual property       through a patent application in 2008 (section 5; source 1), and commercial       exploitation of the Aspergillus LFD through establishment of a       University of Exeter spin-out company, Isca Diagnostics Limited (www.iscadiagnostics.co.uk,       section 5; source 2-4), and a global distribution agreement with OLM       Medical (www.olmmedical.com,       section 5; source 5).14 Dr Thornton, as CEO of Isca, was also       awarded&#8364;1.4M as an SME participant in a 5 year FP7 HEALTH-INNOVATION-1       consortium grant in 2013.
Dr Thornton's role is to generate JF5 antibody       fragments (Fabs, scFvs, minibodies) and a humanised JF5 antibody for       radio-immunotherapy and Positron-Emission-Tomography/MRI imaging of IPA in       animal models and in human clinical trials (http://www.mathias-imaging.eu).
1.
Intellectual Property Protection and Patenting of the LFD and mAb         JF5       A patent "New Method of Detecting and Diagnosing Invasive Aspergillosis",       with Dr Thornton as the named inventor, was filed by the University of       Exeter in the US in Jan 2009 (US61/145,282), and PCT filing       (PCT/GB2010/000064) in Jan 2010 (section 5; source 1).
Regional and       National Phase registration was initiated in July 2011, with protection       being sought in the US, EU, Russia, China and India.
In line with the       Budapest treaty, the variable heavy and light chains (VH and VL)       and Complementarity Determining Regions (CDRs) of mAb JF5 were sequenced       and published, and the hybridoma cell line deposited in the European       Collection of Cell Cultures (ECACC).
The sequencing and deposition work       was funded by a HEIF 4 grant to Dr Thornton.
2.
Establishment of University of Exeter Spin-Out Company Isca         Diagnostics Ltd.       On 29th March 2012, Dr Thornton, with financial and legal       support from the University of Exeter and funding of &#163;85k from private       investors (section 5; source 3), established a spin-out company Isca       Diagnostics Ltd. (section 5; source 4), for commercial exploitation of mAb       JF5 and the Aspergillus- specific LFD.
Subsequent funding in 2013       through an EC FP7 consortium grant has enabled Isca to expand its       portfolio of diagnostic and therapeutic agents for IPA over the next five       years (2013-2018).
It has also enabled Isca to employ a full-time R&amp;D       scientist and for Dr Thornton to spend 0.33FTE as an Isca employee       (2013-2018).
3.
Distribution and Sales of the Aspergillus LFD         as a CE marked medical IVD.
MHRA CE marking of the LFD for use as a general medical IVD in the       European Union was obtained in 2013 and external US evaluation of the LFD,       conducted by the NIH/NIAID-funded Aspergillus Technology       Consortium (www.astecdiagnostics.org),       will commence in Nov 2013, providing the data for a 510k FDA approval.
An       agreement with OLM Medical has been signed for distribution and sales of       the LFD worldwide (section 5; source 5).
Prior to September 2013, purchase       orders of the CE marked device had been received from Australian and       Canadian hospitals (section 5; source 6), and internal validation audits       of the LFD, prior to order placement, are currently being undertaken in       hospitals in the UK, US, France, Germany, Austria, Israel, Turkey, Peru,       Iran, and South Africa.
In addition to its commercial activities, Isca is a sponsor of the Global         Action Fund for Fungal Infection (www.gaffi.org/our-partners/),       a Geneva-based foundation whose vision is to reduce illness and death       associated with fungal diseases worldwide.
As a GAFFI partner, Isca       supplies the Aspergillus LFD as a research tool for use by       resource-limited countries.
Dr Thornton also entered into an IPR agreement with Pfizer Ltd. in       November 2013, allowing Pfizer to promote the LFD alongside its antifungal       voriconazole, VFend&#174; (section 5; source 7).
The success of the LFD device, prompted by Dr Thornton's research and the       subsequent incorporation of Isca Diagnostics Ltd has stimulated a large       amount of interest in the media.
A list of web references to these are       included as section 5; source 8.
