     The research directly undertaken by Galloway and colleagues generated the       first large-scale studies on the human health effects of BPA.
This       demonstrated that the 25% of the population with the highest exposure to       BPA had on average a 1.5-2 fold increased risk for developing heart       disease.
This finding has had a direct impact on governmental policy,       raised public awareness of the health risks associated with environmental       chemicals and has increased industrial interest in safer alternatives.
It       has had the following specific identifiable impacts:     International policy debate has been stimulated.
Publication of       the 2008 paper in JAMA [1] provoked a large number of policy       discussion documents and Galloway and Melzer were invited in person to       provide oral evidence to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA)       Congressional Review of the Safety of BPA (Washington, September 2008).
Policy papers discussing Galloway's results and their impact on       legislation and the current advice on tolerable daily intakes have been       published by the US FDA (section 5; source 1), European Food Standards       Agency (EFSA) (section 5; source 2, 3), the Advisory Board of the German       Society of Toxicology (section 5; source 4) and have been highlighted in       policy maker briefings to the US congress (section 5; source 5).
International policy changes to restrict the use of BPA in food       contact materials internationally have been directly influenced by the       research.
In January 2010, federal officials at the FDA stated "some       concern" about BPA's safety, particularly for infants and young children.
This research [1, 2] was included in the cited evidence ( section 5;       source 1 ).
In July 2012 FDA acknowledged `substantial uncertainties with       respect to the overall interpretation of human health studies and their       implications', and has banned BPA from infant feeding containers.
In       January 2011, the European Commission adopted Directive 2011/8/EU,       prohibiting the use of BPA in infant feeding bottles and has instigated a       systematic re-evaluation of research by EFSA to inform current legislation       further.
Public awareness of health risks associated with plastics additives       has been raised through public debate and critical media reviews.
There       are over 3000 items of editorial and commentary material discussing the       research described here in the international peer reviewed literature,       international media, popular scientific press, podcasts, popular journals       e.g.
Marie Claire, Men's Health, Women's Health, National Geographic,         Elle, BBC Food Magazine and newspapers e.g.
The Independent,         Times, Daily Mail, New York Times &amp; USA Today (section       5; sources 6-8).
Galloway has appeared in a German TV documentary by `3sat       Nano' (the German equivalent to Tomorrow's World), which featured       this research and was broadcast to a target audience across Europe of       &gt;6 million.
The research also features in an online popular science       blog from the BBC (section 5; source 5), featuring an interview with       Galloway.
Industry investment in research and development of safer chemical       alternatives.
The 2008 paper [1] is specifically referenced as a major       piece of research influencing global market trends in several major market       research reports (section 5; source 9).
BPA is the leading end-use segment       for the phenol market and drives the phenol market globally.
Demand for       BPA in 2010 was 2,761,915 metric tonnes, generating revenue of &#163;4.4       billion per annum.
The intensive green chemistry approaches that have been       stimulated to meet this market need are summarised in (section 5; source       10), with much interest in 2,2,4,4-tetramethyl-1,3-cyclobutanediol (TMCD)       which is used to make a copolyester marketed as Tritan (Eastman       Chemicals).
