     Informing conservation agency decisions:       Data from the group's long-term monitoring projects in the UK Overseas       Territories and Cyprus       have been used in both local conservation and global IUCN Red List       Assessments and in support       of a change to regional assessments for marine turtle species (section 5;       source 1).
In Cyprus,       data have provided the basis for the designation of five Special       Environmental Protected Areas       (SEPAs) containing turtle nesting beaches.
These sites have also been       identified as potential       Natura 2000 sites and are awaiting designation to this ecological network       of protected sites by the       European Union (section 5; source 2).
Research in Gabon has been influential in the rescheduling of       multi-million dollar seismic surveys       (section 5; source 3); published tracking data were used to create maps of       risk highlighting that       planned seismic work held potential for high levels of interaction with       breeding turtles and moves       afoot to increase the size of marine protected areas.
It has also       galvanized the inception of a       marine fisheries observer programme funded by governments of UK and USA       and the NGO WWF.
Informing policy debate and influencing policy change       In the UK Overseas Territories (OTs) the University of Exeter group have       worked with       governments across the region (Anguilla, British Virgin Islands, Cayman       Islands, Montserrat, Turks       and Caicos Islands) to create a baseline to inform local conservation       policy and the UK       Government's position with regard to key biodiversity agreements such as       the Convention on       International Trade in Endangered Species of wild fauna and flora and the       Convention for       Migratory Species (section 5; source 4).
This resulted in a major       report commissioned by       Defra/FCO (section 5; source 5), subsequent associated peer reviewed       articles (eg Bell et al 2007       Section 3) and a National Biodiversity Action Plan for the Cayman Islands       (http://www.doe.ky/nbap/       See section 5; source 6) and Letter and an Action Plan for the       Coastal Biodiversity of Anegada,       British Virgin Islands (section 5; source7).
Recommendations to the Cayman Islands Government (section 5; source 5)       were adopted by the       Cayman Islands Department of the Environment (section 5; source 6) and in       2008 legislation was       amended to extend the closed season and include a maximum size limit as       recommended by our       group (section 5; source 8).
These measures have undoubtedly contributed       to the upward trend       now seen in this population (communication from Scientific Research       officer, department of the       environment Cayman Islands government).
In Anguilla recommendations resulted in an extension to an existing       moratorium prohibiting harvest       until long-term studies support changes to legislation and in the Turks       and Caicos Islands, in       conjunction with the Marine Conservation Society (UK), research by the       group has been used in a       draft management plan to introduce a closed season and maximum size limit       for harvest.
Increasing capacity for conservation       The establishment of STAT (Satellite Tracking Analysis Tool) has empowered       workers without       access to GIS, many in developing nations, with advanced spatial analysis,       oceanographic       expertise and web design skills.
This has been a huge success and has now       facilitated the work of       a global network of 300 projects involving &gt;7600 animals of 118 species       from a wide range of taxa.
The public facing pages of STAT (www.seaturtle.org/tracking)       have been visited over 16 million       times since 2004.
This has allowed tracked animals to be adopted online,       provided data to schools       for use in lessons and has seen &gt;&#163;200,000 raised for conservation.
The       paper describing this tool       (Coyne and Godley 2005) has been cited as the methodology of an       ever-increasing number of       studies (160+ cites Oct 2013).
In addition, Broderick and Godley have supervised over 20 international       post-graduate students       (including 6 from the UKOTs for whom full scholarships were secured from       DfID/FCO), many from       developing nations, where building capacity for biodiversity conservation       is critical.
