     Impacts (detailed below) have been multiple for several specified groups,       including both individual and closely focused examples as well as       cumulative and wide-ranging ones.
REACH:     The impacts have had relevance both nationally (in terms of       heritage documentation, protection and management; education; capacity       building within Libya) and internationally (with regard to the       management and exploitation of desert environments and mitigation       practices involved in oil industry prospection and extraction).
Through       public lectures, TV broadcasts and other media exposure, the research has       informed Libyans about their regional and national cultural heritage and       underpinned popular dissemination of key results to a global audience of       many millions; it has provided the DoA and foreign consultants carrying       out archaeological mitigation work with fundamental archaeological       datasets and dating and typological frameworks; it has presented Libya's       desert heritage to a large global audience and helped international       organisations like Blue Shield (an international body charged with the       protection of cultural property during armed conflict) to preserve that       heritage during the 2011 civil war by contributing to the `no strike' list       of sites and monuments supplied to NATO command.
SIGNIFICANCE:     Mapping heritage sites in Libya: A major problem for the DoA is       their lack of a national monuments record (E1 - E numbers relate to         evidence listed in section 5).
For the Tripolitanian pre-desert zone       and Fazzan, the results of the Leicester surveys provide the fullest       current listing and mapping of sites.
The dating frameworks and site       typologies have been widely adopted by others working in these regions (a       recent World Bank report included a catalogue of Libya's most significant       heritage sites, c.36% of which identified the Leicester surveys as the       primary reference point).
The wider mapping of Classical sites across       Libya published in the Barrington Atlas (item 3 above) has subsequently       been adopted as the basis for the primary online mapping facility and       digests dealing with the Classical World (Pleiades) (E2).
After the       Libyan civil war broke out in February 2011, the US Committee for Blue       Shield enlisted the assistance of archaeologists with Libyan expertise       (including Mattingly) to compile a list of the co-ordinate locations and       brief descriptions of Libya's most significant heritage sites (E3).
The eventual key list of c.250 sites was largely based on Mattingly's       mapping work (sites included in Pleiades and regional surveys) and he was       one of two main contributors of site descriptions (E3).
The list       was passed to NATO and other interested parties.
Subsequent Blue Shield       inspection and reports have confirmed that war damage to monuments by the       NATO bombing mission was largely avoided in contrast to what happened in       Iraq (E4).
Classifying heritage sites in Libya: the typologies devised by the       Leicester-based projects have been adopted, or influenced the descriptive       categories used, by other archaeologists.
The Libyan DoA calls it "one of       the best studies in the field of documentation, researching and protection       of the Libyan Saharan heritage" (E5).
In addition, oil industry       related archaeological mitigation work (E1 and E5) has made       use of these typological frameworks in designing their own surveys       (Mattingly has worked both through consultancy and unpaid advocacy with       OXY 2008-2009; Shell 2008-2009; BP 2010-11).
The Principal Historic       Environment Consultant for RPS (one of the major players in Environmental       Impact Assessment and Archaeological Mitigation work in the oil sector in       Libya) confirms that the "methodological template ... archaeological       datasets, typologies and chronologies of UL's Fazzan project provided an       essential basis for the research and recording methodologies used during       our surveys in Libya" (E1).
Economic Benefits: RPS has carried out work for oil companies       (worth &#163;330K to RPS) utilising the Leicester site data and typologies and       notes that "the results of the research carried out by UL in the Fazzan       under Professor Mattingly were instrumental in making our work effective       and successful, and have had a significant beneficial longer-term effect       on our business and methods" (E1).
Oil companies operating in Libya       have a legal responsibility to mitigate damage to heritage, with       potentially serious financial liabilities for non-compliance.
Completion       of such mitigation work on schedule also effectively saves oil companies       multi-million dollar sums in costs.
As well as helping preserve vital       information on heritage that would be lost or damaged in exploration and       field development, the raising of the standard of mitigation work has also       enabled oil companies to fulfil better their community engagement       responsibilities, as in the case of BP's Ghadames heritage project (E5).
On a different note, book sales within the REF period of the publications       cited in section 3 above, plus subsidies received from commercial partners       for several of them, totalled c. &#163;67,000 for the Society for Libyan       Studies (a significant proportion of its publications-related income in       the period).
Contributions to several TV programmes have likewise given       important support to the profits of UK broadcasters such as the BBC (E10).
Educational impacts: Mattingly delivered 12 lectures in Libya to a       combined audience of c.600 people (expat and Libyan: al-Graifa, Fazzan       2009, OXY camp Fazzan 2008, OXY offices Tripoli 2008, 2009, other Tripoli       2010 (x 4), Ghadames 2010, 2011, BP offices Tripoli 2010).
He was       interviewed by Libyan media in 2010 following two lectures to 200 invited       Libyan and VIP guests in Tripoli on his work on the Garamantes (E6).
At the British Foreign &amp; Commonwealth Office (FCO)'s invitation, he       made a briefing presentation on Libya's heritage to the incoming British       ambassador, Richard Northern, in May 2010.
In July 2011, Mattingly       provided an interview to a newly founded archaeological online journal in       Benghazi highlighting key educational possibilities for the new era (E7).
Protecting heritage sites in Libya: An important result of a       conference on Desert Heritage organised by Mattingly and held in Tripoli       in 2002 was the drafting of a Sahara Code (like UK Country Code) to       promote sustainable use of the Sahara and preservation of its culture and       environment (publication (6)).
This has been adopted and printed on       tourist maps and in guidebooks (E8).
The letter from the DoA notes       that the publications mentioned in this case study "drew the attention of       the oil companies working in the area and obligated them to respect       heritage of the areas of their concessions and they started contacting the       Department asking for archaeological surveys prior to the start of their       work" (E5).
TV programmes and magazine/web dissemination: The 2008-13 Libyan       work of the Leicester team has featured in &gt;100 media outlets in &gt;30       countries worldwide (TV and radio news, newspapers and magazines -       including Science Magazine, Nature Magazine, National Geographic Magazine,       New Scientist, Current World Archaeology (E9).
TV programmes       include Jeremy Keenan's Sahara trilogy, BBC2/Iain Stewart, How Earth Made       Us (water episode with 3.1 million and a 12.5% share of viewing in UK and       many more than that for worldwide version) and Rome's Lost empire (4.3       million UK audience) (E10).
In 2000 there were c. 300 weblinks to       "Garamantes" on Google, there are now 118,000+, largely linking to the       work of the Leicester team.
Capacity building in Libya: The most recent President of the DoA       was a Leicester graduate and two more of Libya's most prominent       archaeologists also did postgraduate study at Leicester; one is setting up       Libya's first Centre for Archaeological Data Collection.
The UoA's Fazzan       Project/Desert Migrations Project and British Petroleum (BP) projects have       provided enhanced skills training for c.40 Libyan archaeologists and       another 12 have been trained on oil company surveys led by Mattingly.
The       significance of the training work is attested in the letters from the       Department of Antiquities and from BP (E5).
