     The United Kingdom is a signatory to the United Nations Framework       Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC), which commits countries to reduce       greenhouse gas emissions in order to avoid dangerous human interference       with the climate.
As part of this commitment, the UK adopted the Climate       Change Act in 2008 which requires the government to set and meet targets       for the emissions of greenhouse gases.
Research in the Unit has had a       direct impact by: (i) providing the scientific basis for the reduction in       emissions needed to meet the UK government's target temperature increase       of 2f0b0C above pre-industrial levels, and (ii) providing policy-relevant       information to the UK's negotiators at international climate policy       conferences.
As detailed below, this has been based on underpinning       scientific research conducted at the Unit, together with research       specifically commissioned by DECC and the Committee on Climate Change       (CCC).
The first task of the CCC, set up in the 2008 Climate Change Act14,       was to propose a target reduction in emissions for the UK.
The CCC first       selected a `climate target': UK policy should seek to achieve a 50:50       chance of keeping the rise in global mean surface temperature below 20C       above pre-industrial levels, with only a small chance of an increase above       40C.
It commissioned the Unit (through Lowe) to identify and       assess emissions trajectories which would meet this target.
Lowe used an       energy balance model with systematically-varying emissions scenarios to       conclude that global emissions needed to be reduced by 50% by 2050       (relative to 1990) in order to achieve the specified climate target15.
The CCC translated this to a UK target of an 80% reduction in emissions 16-17,       taking into account historical responsibilities and equity considerations.
This target is legally-binding, and informs the setting of successive       5-year carbon budgets.
The Climate Change Act has become the focus of       political debate about its relative costs and benefits over a range of       timescales.
It influences every inhabitant of the UK and, by leading by       example, has the power to have great influence internationally.
The CCC's       advice on carbon budgets and targets is directly reflected in legislation       and the Government's carbon strategy18.
The UK government plays a key role in international negotiations over       climate policy through the UNFCCC19.
These negotiations       consider both the targets for climate policy and mechanisms for achieving       these targets.
The focus of current negotiations is around a replacement       for the Kyoto Protocol adopted in 1997, with a target agreed in the 2009       Copenhagen Accord20 of keeping the increase in global mean       surface temperature to 2oC above pre-industrial levels.
The       Unit has provided information and evidence to the UK government to support       its international negotiations.
This has largely been through the AVOID       project, awarded by DECC in 2008 through open competition to a consortium       led by the Met Office (Lowe was principal scientist) and including the       Walker Institute at the University of Reading.
The initial AVOID contract       had a value of &#163;800k, and additional funds were subsequently awarded to       project partners for additional work requested by DECC and Defra.
AVOID       built explicitly on work in the Unit on the relationship between emissions       and temperature changes (Lowe) and on the global-scale impacts of climate       change (Arnell).
The AVOID project actively sought engagement with       stakeholders (largely in DECC and Defra), and presented results not only       directly to DECC but also publicly through newsletters, factsheets and       presentations at climate negotiation conferences.
The research undertaken       at the Unit13,5 demonstrated the likelihoods of achieving       climate targets with different emissions pathways, and showed the benefits       of achieving these targets in terms of impacts avoided (with a particular       focus on water availability, river flooding, crop productivity and the       energy requirements for heating and cooling).
The research demonstrated       how reducing emissions will give extra time to install buildings,       transport systems and agricultural practices that are more resilient to       climate change.
Of the AVOID programme as a whole, the Minister for Energy and Climate       Change said in 2013 22 "This has been a unique         multi-disciplinary research programme ..... it has been an impressive         demonstration of successful collaboration between academia and         Government.
And it has had concrete outcomes.
For example, materially         supporting the UK's international engagement and informing our         negotiating position at Copenhagen and beyond; Contributing to the UN's         Environmental Programme with robust, credible and timely research; and         supporting the setting of our carbon budgets".
A formal review of       the AVOID programme in 2012 by Risk Solutions23 concluded that       "The AVOID programme is delivering interesting and useful, policy         relevant work.
It helped frame the UK's position going into the         Copenhagen COP and supported work internationally including work by the         European Union and United Nations Environment Programme.
It has helped         inform policy making across government, for example the Committee on         Climate Change has used outputs from AVOID to help inform its work on         long term (2050) targets for the UK".
With reference to the       particular work of the Unit on estimating the impacts avoided by climate       policy13, the Secretary of State for Energy and Climate Change       said24 "We can avoid many of the worst impacts of climate         change if we work hard together to keep global emissions down.
This         research helps us quantify the benefits of limiting temperature rise to         2f0b0C and underlines why it's vital we stick with the UN climate change         negotiations and secure a global legally binding deal by 2015".
The research has not only been used by the UK government to inform       target-setting, but is also contributing directly to international       discussions.27 For example, Lowe was an author of a report       produced in 2010 by the EU Climate Change Expert Group Science,       completed under the Belgian EU presidency and presented at the climate       negotiation conference in Cancun in 201025; the aim of the       report was to inform delegates of the latest scientific evidence on the       chances of achieving the 2oC target specified in the Copenhagen       Accord.
Lowe also made a presentation on the results of the Unit's       research to the first meeting in 2013 of the "Structured Expert Dialogue"       on the UNFCCC's 2013-2015 review of the 20C target (the "Long       Term Global Goal").26     Background information     14.
Committee on Climate Change http://www.theccc.org.uk/about/     15.
Smith,S et al.
(2009) Chapter 1 Technical Appendix:       Projecting Global Emissions, Concentrations and Temperatures.
Committee on       Climate Change.
http://bit.ly/16DJSbP     19.
United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change:       UNFCCC http://unfccc.int/2860.php     20.
Copenhagen Accord: https://unfccc.int/meetings/copenhagen_dec_2009/items/5262.php     25.
Scientific Reference Document produced by the EU for the       Cancun climate negotiation conference.
http://bit.ly/1gpIfDW     26.
First Meeting of the Structured Expert Dialogue for the       2013-15 review (of the UNFCCC long-term climate goal): https://unfccc.int/science/workstreams/the_2013-2015_review/items/7803.php
