     The `Longer view of contact' project has received widespread attention,       especially in the context of proposed legislative reform.
In a letter of       January 2013, the directors of the Nuffield Foundation noted that:     This has been a particularly thorough and carefully presented piece of       research, which addresses an important gap by giving a voice to young       people affected by parental separation, and is particularly timely given       ... the government's intention to legislate on shared parenting.
We are       particularly pleased to see that you have ensured the study has been       picked up by relevant interest groups, and in particular by the Justice       Select Committee and the Family Justice Board' [see Section 5, C1].
Examples of impact include:     The research findings have influenced (by rebutting `populist'       assumptions concerning the quality of contact of parents in differing       circumstances etc.)
the current campaign opposing the present government's       controversial aim to amend the Children Act 1989 (a matter which is       on-going) through the introduction of a legislative presumption favouring       shared parenting arrangements.
Notably, the House of Commons Justice       Committee, which opposes this legislation [C2] - see (2012) HC 739, Pre-Legislative         Scrutiny of the Children and Families Bill, Fourth Report of Session         2012-13, TSO - quoted from Fortin's findings as supporting its own       opposition (at paragraphs 163-4).
The influence of Fortin's debate is also       expressly acknowledged in correspondence with the University by Sir James       Munby, the President of the Family Division within the Judiciary [C3].
This impact is evidenced by the debates in Parliament about the Children       and Families Bill.
The Nuffield project and the University of Sussex's       involvement in it is explicitly referenced (Col 96) by Elfyn Llywd, Plaid       Cymru's Westminster Parliamentary Group leader [C2].
Fortin's Nuffield research was explicitly relied upon by The Children's       Commissioner in (27 February 2013) A Child Rights Impact Assessment of         the Children and Families Bill, 41-2 [C4] in arguing against the       proposed changes in the Bill where it was stated:     Recent qualitative research [full title of Fortin's research cited in a       footnote to this paragraph] with young adults about their experience of       contact when children suggests that problems with contact are rarely the       result of obstruction by resident parents, and highlights a range of       different factors which underpin successful contact.
It demonstrates the         importance of basing decisions about contact on the specific         circumstances of each child, allowing for arrangements to be       flexible and evolve.
Critically, the research shows that children were       often very clear about their own needs, that their involvement in       decision-making is associated with positive contact experiences, and that,       if children resist contact with non-resident parents, it is often for       their own reasons and related to the behaviour of the non-resident parent.
Caroline Willow, former National Coordinator of the Children's Rights       Alliance for England, noted that the research influenced debates on       `shared parenting' during the reading of the Bill, in particular eliciting       comments from Liberal Democrat for Home Affairs Baroness Hamwee and       Baroness Butler-Sloss [C6].
In a letter to the University from a leading practitioner in the field,       Alistair MacDonald QC, it is stated, among other things, `It is plain that       the research conducted by Professor Fortin has already had, and will       continue to have, a positive impact on policy and practice in the field of       law relating to children' [C5].
In an email to the University, Sir James Munby, President of the Family       Division of the Judiciary, states, among other things, that Professor       Fortin's research described herein `was of great practical importance to       judges and legal and other practitioners in the family justice system'       and, in the context of this impact audience, Sir James Munby also says the       research's message `has been absorbed by everyone and has influenced many       people's thinking' [C3].
