     The underpinning research has had a direct impact on European policy       towards security and defence issues, particularly in terms of response to       situations involving conflict and natural disaster.
It has influenced       European Security and Defence Policy (ESDP, now Common Security and       Defence Policy (CSDP)) both in terms of generating debate across Europe       about the nature of European security [A] and in terms of the design of       Europe's security capabilities [B,C,D,E].
It has also had a direct impact       on the national security and defence policies of at least five European       countries: Sweden, Spain, the Czech Republic, Belgium and the UK [e.g.
F].
The influence of the research has moved beyond Defence Policy into two       areas of significance to international development: space technology and       the relationship between the EU and Russia.
In 2006 the research team were       asked to assist the European Space Agency in preparing a report on future       technology for human security, based on research into mission needs in       such conflict-affected countries as Afghanistan and Somalia and taking the       Barcelona Report as its official position.
The report [G] has been       formally adopted, has already influenced the technology used to respond to       the Haiti earthquake in 2012, and is feeding into space R&amp;D planning,       in particular around satellite imagery and communications relevant to       conflict and emergency situations.
In response to Russian President Dmitry Medvedev's call for a treaty on       European security in line with the Helsinki accords, Javier Solana also       called upon the Study Group to reconvene and develop proposals for a       'human security architecture' that would govern the Euro-Atlantic region       and particularly the relationship between the EU and Russia.
In 2010       Professor Kaldor convened the group with the active involvement of Javier       Solana (now ex-High Representative), former Spanish Minister of Defence       Narcis Serra and a number of Russian scholars.
The group's third report,       titled Helsinki Plus: A Human Security Architecture for Europe       [H], was commissioned by the Spanish Presidency of the EU and delivered to       President Medvedev and the High Representative of the Union for Foreign       Affairs and Security Policy, Lady Catherine Ashton.
The research team also became directly involved in the transfer of the       human security doctrine to ESDP missions when they were asked to develop a       human security training module for the European Crisis Management Centre       in Finland.
In 2008 members of the team (Mary Kaldor, Mary Martin, Vesna       Bojicic together with Generals Andy Salmon and Klaus Reinhardt) undertook       a week's training for EU personnel (both military and civil) expected to       be deployed in Kosovo.
It was the first time military and civilian       personnel had been trained together.
Subsequently the crisis management       centre produced a human security training manual based on the module for       use in preparing personnel for other missions [I].
An estimated 600       participants have been trained in human security, many of whom work in       missions such as EUPOL Afghanistan.
Course evaluations have revealed that       many of these participants welcomed the new way of thinking about       security.
Since that training, substantial evidence has accumulated demonstrating       that application of the human security doctrine can, in fact, produce a       significant and sustained impact on operations and results at the mission       level in countries experiencing conflict and emergency situations.
According to Javier Solana, the doctrine has "had a direct influence on       ESDP missions, for example in DRC or Aceh, where we introduced human       rights monitors and held extensive civil society consultations.
Moreover       the impact has been long-term" [A].
Below is a range of examples of how       the human security doctrine has become "a guiding principle for actual       operations" [E, p592] in developing countries and the various kinds of       impact that it is producing:     Chad and Central African Republic (2008): Human security strongly       influenced the European security approach in Africa as "an extremely       useful tool to avoid a deemed excessive militarisation" [E, p592].
For       example, the EUFOR Chad/CAR mission was focused on mobilising non-military       resources - financial, diplomatic and political - to train and equip       police, institute justice reforms and sponsor a peace process.
Although       not a success in terms of civilian protection or repatriation, EUFOR was       deemed to have contributed to an improvement in regional security       infrastructure [E].
Iraq (2008-2009): The EU has emphasised human security through       reconstruction, rule of law and the political process in its approach to       Iraq [B].
A human security approach was also explicitly adopted by the UK       Commander of multinational forces in Southern Iraq after discussion with       members of the LSE research team, and put into direct practice from August       2008 to April 2009.
Violent deaths declined dramatically - about 80% - in       the first three months as a direct result of this approach, which involved       taking British soldiers off the streets unless they were accompanying       Iraqi soldiers, removing weapons and arresting militants house by house       instead of using more kinetic approaches, and putting more emphasis on the       economic, social, political and cultural aspects of the situation [J,K].
Local elections produced a large turn-out and a majority perception that       the elections had been fair.
Polls in 2009 showed that citizens' concerns       had shifted from militias, security and violence to jobs, healthcare and       utilities.
US Ambassador Ryan Crocker called the change "a radical       transformation", and US General Petreus acknowledged the influence the       human security doctrine had had on the new COIN manual, "which accompanied       the surge back in 2007 and game-changed in Iraq" [J].
Afghanistan (2007-2010): In 2007 Brigadier Commander Mark       Carleton-Smith officially named Helmand a "Human Security problem".
Following a conference on human security at Sandhurst involving Professor       Kaldor, UK military officials used the 'inspiring' concept of human       security in planning and scenario analysis for Helmand Province.
Analysis       revealed that the previous UK stabilisation strategy had been flawed       because it undermined consent and legitimacy from the Afghani people,       leading to 'perverse outcomes'.
The human security concept was       incorporated into concrete plans for training and deployment, with       emphasis on "equipping our commandos with the mind-set and toolkit to look       through the lens of the people, rather than enemies" [J].
This approach       was credited with playing a critical role in the success of the 2009 tour       involving 45 commandos and has influenced ongoing decisions of the       reconstruction team.
Libya (2011): The EU's initial public response to the Libyan       crisis in February 2011 placed an emphasis on human rights, and       consequently the EUFOR Libya operation focused on safe movement and       evacuation of displaced persons and the delivery of humanitarian aid.
The       EU interventions were considered successful in protecting both nationals       and EU citizens, in delivering humanitarian aid and in imposing       restrictive measures against the Libyan regime.
EU officials confirmed       that human security had been the rationale behind the EU response [D].
Somalia (2008-now): For at least five years the EU has been       attempting to break the cycle of ongoing conflict and weak governance in       Somalia through development assistance combined with security measures and       reforms [B].
An explicit human security focus has been adopted by the EU       anti-piracy mission, with an emphasis on helping isolated and remote       communities badly affected by pirate activity, establishing a fishing       licencing scheme to rebuild the local fishing industry, and marginalising       or making irrelevant the pirates rather than defeating them in a       traditional military fashion.
UK Rear Admiral Bob Tarrant, the Commander       of the EU anti-piracy mission, considers the human security approach       essential "in reaching out to these communities and in being able to deal       with the permissive conditions that allow pirates to thrive unchecked"       [L].
Burma (2013): In its current mission in Burma, the EU is insisting       that its training for riot police be accompanied by efforts to strengthen       community policing and produce better understanding of the concerns of       local communities.
In addition, the primary author of the formal Inquiry       into the sectarian violence in Rakhine State has stated that the       perspective of human security is the only way to approach that problem       [M].
Wider Implications: Javier Solana's former chief of staff, Robert       Cooper, contends that, already, "The concept of human security informs       almost all operations the EU undertakes, directly or indirectly" [M].
Rear       Admiral Bob Tarrant predicts that it "will be a central consideration in       military operations and humanitarian response tasks in the future" [L],       while former Spanish Minister of Defence and Vice Prime Minister Narcis       Serra believes that it "will be progressively accepted by nations and by       international organisations...And probably will become the only concept of       security accepted by our public opinion" [N].
