     Cardiff University research into caprocks, building on the       paradigm-changing work by Cartwright on polygonal fault systems and seal       integrity (awarded the Wallace E Pratt Medal in 2009) and Alves's       subsequent research, has had a direct impact on the global petroleum       industry.
This has led to:            Economic gains, through a more effective approach to oil and gas         exploration and extraction, building on more effective risk analysis       Changes in professional practice in the petroleum industry, including         a new approach to the risk analysis of caprock seal integrity       Environmental benefits, through improved location of sub-surface gas         accumulations, and identifying potential CO2 sequestration         sites.
Economic impact     Cardiff's work has been focused on the development of models for the       formation of polygonal faults.
Of key importance was establishing the       effect that these faults would have on the integrity of caprocks and the       compartmentalisation of reservoirs.
Caprocks are especially important for       resource exploitation (hydrocarbons, groundwater and subsurface CO2       sequestration) because they have intrinsically low permeability, hindering       the movement of fluids in the subsurface and providing potential barriers       for the escape of resource or toxic fluids to the Earth's surface.
This work allowed Cardiff to capture new investment from major       international hydrocarbon exploration companies.
An example is the new       Block 17/06 oil field in offshore Angola, the largest oil field in West       Africa and one of the largest in the world to be affected by polygonal and       associated fault families.
In 2012 TOTAL, Sonangol P&amp;P, Partex Oil and       Gas, SSI Seventeen, Falcon Oil and ACR funded a new large Cardiff-led       consortium to analyse the interaction between deeper fault families and       the polygonal faults dissecting caprocks that develop within reservoirs in       the Angola Block.
In presenting a new model for the formation, evolution       and sealing properties of polygonal and other types of faults, data       produced by Cardiff is directly informing the development planning for       this major resource, part of a project costed at in excess of $10Bn.
The Block 17/06 project is working to minimise the geological       uncertainties of key reservoir succession in offshore Angola.
The study is       looking at the role of fault systems in the migration of fluids between       pre-salt, Albian rafts and Oligo-Miocene channels, in which some of the       largest oil fields in Angola are located (such as CLOV, Girassol, Dalia,       Rosa), and indicating the regions of larger connectivity between reservoir       intervals.
This involves investigating distinct structural architectures       and styles of compartmentalization as these may cause significant       variations in reservoir volumes, wettability and pressures that can have a       profound impact on CO2 production and underground injection.
The project follows the methods extensively proven in the pioneer work in       rafts from SE Brazil by Alves (2012) and provides the consortium with a Connectivity         Index to assess exploration risks prior to drilling.
Professional practice     The risk of seal failure is difficult to assess and is a significant       concern for the hydrocarbon industry; it is responsible for many failed       exploration boreholes, and accounts for billions of dollars annually.
The       research on polygonal faulting has shifted the risk assessment approach       from a laboratory-scale investigation of the physical properties of       samples of seals to a more holistic approach in which petrophysical data       is used to calibrate three-dimensional seismic data.
Through its       geological analysis of seismic data to characterise seal integrity,       Cardiff has been fundamental in this shift of emphasis within the       industry.
The methodology established by Cardiff has been disseminated to industry       through the CAPROCKS and Block 17/06 consortia.
CAPROCKS was originally       funded by ten major oil companies (including Shell, BP, ExxonMobil,       Statoil, BG Group and Total).
Block 17/06 is sponsored by five major oil       companies.
These companies apply the results produced by Cardiff to       redesign workflows used to assess the quality of caprock seals, and       develop new software and models of reservoir and seal units.
Environmental impact     The wider societal and environmental impacts of this research include       identifying sites for the underground disposal of CO2 as a       climate change mitigation activity.
For underground CO2       disposal, the long-term containment capability is predicated on seal       integrity to prevent the leakage of CO2 back to the surface.
It       has the potential, according to the International Energy Agency (2008), of       reducing greenhouse gas emission by 20% by 2050.
The Cardiff approach to assessing seal quality has also helped secure       funding for a consortium of twelve academic and civil protection       institutions, sponsored by the European Commission, to assess oil spill       risks and set up workflows for marine pollution accidents in the Eastern       Mediterranean (Cyprus, Israel, Lebanon and Greece).
The work of CAPROCKS       and Block 17/06 consortia on seal quality is also being used to predict       the areas where the possibility of seal fracturing as a result of CO2       injection is much reduced.
