     The development of an improved sex and relationship education service is       a key priority in the       South West where rates of sexually transmitted disease infection are       increasing, and the teenage       pregnancy rate is both higher than the national average in many areas       (especially Torbay and       Plymouth) and not reducing in line with national targets.
Agencies in the       South West have       highlighted the need for such education to take place not only in formal       educational settings, but       also within the wider community (youth groups, drop-in centres, museums       and libraries) and to       include a broad range of issues to do with emotional health and       well-being, including self-esteem,       communication skills, life skills, understandings of power and consent,       positive relationships, and       social pressures.
Recent Department of Education guidelines highlight the       importance of sex       education which helps `children and young people develop confidence in       talking, listening and       thinking about sex and relationships'.
The research of Langlands and       Fisher speaks directly to       these agenda and through the Sex and History project is having a direct       impact on mental and       physical health (with particular relevance to sexual health) in Devon and       Cornwall in two distinct       ways: directly (through work with young people and their       teachers/educators) and indirectly (by       making a contribution to policy discussion).
In December 2008, Langlands       and Fisher established       Sex and History, and developed their particular methodology of using       museum objects to facilitate       the exploration of contemporary issues around sex, gender and personal       identity, in collaboration       with five regional museums, in excess of 30 schools and colleges, sexual       health charities, sex       education experts, local authority youth services, young people's       charities and arts organisations.
The project's methodology has since been implemented in a variety of       settings, with positive long-       term impacts.
Sex and History has involved museum-based workshops,       creative responses (linked       in some cases to coursework, including film making, soundscapes, dance,       animation), museum       visits, intergenerational discussion, exhibition curation, sex education       sessions within schools       (totalling in excess of 1,000 young participants), and a sex education       resource pack, developed       with Royal Cornwall Museum, Truro, trialled in 20 schools in Cornwall       (totalling in excess of 15,000       pupils).
An independent evaluation by Hope Stone Research [1] (drawing on over 100       interviews) has       concluded that the project has delivered significant social outcomes for       the young people involved:       `it empowered participants to talk honestly in a trusting environment       (through the projective       techniques - discussing in the third person, and exploring historical       objects and behaviour in the       past, rather than the embarrassment of talking about sex directly); opened       up discussion of topics       that are particularly difficult to address, concerning issues such as       consent, pornography and       power within relationships; provided young people with an awareness of       historical difference that       encouraged them to challenge contemporary attitudes or resist peer       pressure; fostered greater       understanding of cultural difference; encouraged social and familial ties       (many reported that they       were able to have discussions with their peers and in particular their       parents, often for the first       time); encouraged healthy lifestyles and contributed to mental and       physical well being (some       projects had a noticeable impact on participants' body image and       self-esteem) [1, 3, 7].
A       participant from Exeter's state tertiary education college stated: "We         found it inspirational...The         historical objects opened our minds to new ideas.
It made us more mature         in the way we thought         about sex.
We all discovered things about ourselves."
A Team Leader       from Plymouth Youth       Service commented: "In every young person in our group we can see how         this project has         developed and moved them to a different place."
The effect of using the Sex and History methodology in projects with       vulnerable young people was       particularly profound.
A long-term evaluation report [3] which traced the       lives of 35 participants       referred by Plymouth Children's services over a 3 year period, concluded       that the Sex and History       methodology had enriched their lives, ameliorated some of the effects of       structural disadvantages       and provided a sustained transformation in future opportunities and       personal well-being.
One, who       was in trouble for shoplifting, was deemed by a magistrate to have       successfully turned his life       around, as a result of his involvement in Sex and History, and       subsequently obtained work as a       child-care apprentice.
Another, who enrolled in a media course and secured       employment as a       producer with an arts company, commented: "It gave me direction; it         showed me what I was         capable of.
It changed me to the person I am now.
It was a major turning         point in my life."
A report on the trial of a sex education resource pack [2] found it to be       attractive and useful, and       this initiative is now informing policy debate.
A teacher from Exeter       Academy of Music and Sound       said: "We have to deliver certain SRE targets in college and we use         college tutorials ... [but] it's         hard.
This provided a new way of meeting these requirements.
The objects         are surprising...
They         facilitate discussion, they make it okay to talk about sex...We've never         found a better way to do it.
It was a revelation.
...." Langlands and Fisher are continuing       develop the methodology and       methods of delivery, and work towards embedding it in national sex       education policy and delivery,       in collaboration with regional co-ordinators of PHSE and SRE in Bristol,       Cornwall and Devon and       with the newly-formed national RSE Hub, and have recently been invited to       showcase the project       at the national Sex Education Forum.
In all its many manifestations (object-based workshops in schools and       colleges in Devon and       Cornwall, museum/archival visits, exhibition curation and creative       object-response projects [1, 2, 5,       6, 7, 8, 9, 10]), the Sex and History project has brought young people       into close collaboration with       five regional museums (Bristol Museum and Art Gallery, Plymouth City       Museum, RCM Truro,       RAMM Exeter, Russell Coates Museum, Bournemouth) their collections, and       the Wellcome Trust       collection in London.
A third party report concluded that the use of the       Sex and History       methodology in museum settings transformed relationships between museums       and young people       (already identified as an important but hard to reach audience).
Young       people reported a change in       their attitudes towards what museums can offer, a new appreciation of the       value of historic objects       and their relevance to their own lives, and some are now working towards       future careers in the       cultural sector [3, 10].
Museums reported a change in the ways in which       they use their collections,       a rethinking of their archiving and cataloguing practices, and new       learning about their objects from       the research.
Museums found the methodology a refreshing and effective way       of working with       young people, engaging them on a deep level, e.g.
through co-curation,       which produced       impressive creative outputs that enhanced the museums' displays and       reached new audiences [1].
In Truro the methodology informed a reshaping of the ways in which the       museum staff work with       their collections.
Staff were retrained and a report published by Truro       has been promoted nationally       by the Collections Trust as an example of best practice within the       nationwide Revisiting       Collections' agenda [10].
Through the Sex and History project, Exeter University, young people's       charities, sexual health       agencies, arts organisations and museums have developed new, mutually       beneficial long-term       connections and partnerships.
The Sex and History project has received       positive media attention, it       won an award for Outstanding Social and Cultural Impact at the Exeter       Impact Awards (2011) and       was put forward for an EngageU award for European innovation in university       public engagement.
Since 2009 Sex and History's innovative methodology has been widely       recognised as an effective       and adaptable model, and has attracted a wide range of partners who seek       to make use of it.
The       third party report also highlighted the economic benefits to partner       organisations of working with       the Sex and History methodology: Fictional Projects is using the       methodology to construct a       marketable games-based resource, youth facilitators have used to project       to develop consultancy       work, and the dynamics arts company Effervescent attributed the       increase of its turnover by 320%       between 2010-11 and 2012-13, its increased regional visibility and its       showcasing by the Arts       Council to its work on the Sex and History project.
[1] The methodology is       currently being       developed with leading children's charity Barnardos as a way of working       with very vulnerable       young people.
The Arts Council has showcased the project as a model for       using the arts to       enhance health and well-being.
It was presented at a workshop on Strategic       Commissioning for the       Arts, Health and Wellbeing, a keynote provocation on Next Steps in       Commissioning Arts and       Health practice to symposium of regional experts in Health, Wellbeing and       the Arts, and       showcased at the Devon Museums Forum 2013.
