     The UK government is committed to delivering a mixture of energy sources       that will provide a secure, affordable, low-carbon supply of electricity       in the future.
Given finite fossil-fuel resources, the pressing need to       reduce carbon emissions worldwide and the inadequacy of alternative means       of electricity generation, such as wind and wave power, nuclear power       represents a major viable source of electricity.
In 2012, nuclear energy       accounted for 19% of electricity supply (Digest of UK Energy Statistics       2013, Department of Energy and Climate Change).
Given the UK's target of       reducing emissions of greenhouse gases to 20% of their 1990 levels, by       2050, nuclear energy is expected to become increasingly important.
By       2050, up to 49% of the UK's electricity generation could be provided by       nuclear power (House of Lords report on Nuclear Research and Development       Capabilities, 2011).
The UK currently has about 4.7 million cubic metres of nuclear waste, of       which 1000 cubic metres is classified as high-level radioactive waste       (Radioactive Wastes in the UK, 2010 Inventory, Nuclear Decommissioning       Authority).
This will grow as the UK invests in new nuclear build.
The UK,       along with France, currently reprocesses its spent nuclear fuel to recover       unused uranium and plutonium, which can then be used again as fuel.
The       residual waste contains highly radioactive minor actinides (americium,       curium and neptunium) as well as corrosion products and non-radioactive       fission products such as lanthanides.
Whilst comprising less than 0.1% of       the mass of the spent fuel, the minor actinides constitute the major       long-term hazard, posing extreme, long-term storage problems.
They emit       highly penetrating gamma-radiation and generate large amounts of heat,       requiring deep geological storage for more than 300,000 years.
Reducing       this nuclear-waste burden would make nuclear power far more sustainable.
One approach to this is through the development of strategies to separate       (partition) and inactivate (transmute) the highly radioactive minor       actinides.
The group in Reading developed the CyMe4BTP ligand during the PARTNEW       programme (2000 - 2003, budget &#8364;2.2M, 10 partners) and this led to the       EUROPART (budget &#8364;6M, 26 partners) and ACSEPT programmes (budget &#8364;9M, 34       partners).
During these programes, further research at Reading led to the       discovery of the CyMe4BTBP and CyMe4BTPhen ligands.
Within EUROPART and       ACSEPT, partner organisations including the French Atomic Energy       Commission were involved in assessing the minor-actinide selectivity of       the ligands and in measuring their rates of actinide extraction, stripping       qualities, solvent loading and hydrolytic and radiolytic stability.
The       European Commission continues to support this work through the SACSESS       programme (&#8364;5.5M, 24 partners).
[a] The ligands developed at Reading have       been shown to be highly selective for extraction of the minor actinides       (relative to the lanthanides), and they also exhibit significant stability       under the extremely radioactive and highly acidic reprocessing conditions.
Furthermore &#8212; and crucially in terms of impact &#8212; the CyMe4BTBP ligand has       been shown by workers at the European Commission's Joint Nuclear Research       Centre in Germany to effectively "clean up" real nuclear reprocessing       waste.
[b]     The success of the work to develop selective extractants has impacted on       French nuclear policy, as noted in the "National Plan for Management of       Radioactive Materials and Nuclear Waste 2013-2015" where it is stated (p.       214) in Section 4.2.
"Separation of minor actinides":     "Research has led to the development of specific extractants and methods       of separation, successfully tested on the laboratory scale for each       process considered: extraction of Americium (EXAM), extraction of       Americium and Curium (SANEX) and group extraction of all actinides       (GANEX)".
"In the period 2013-2015 a full scale experiment should be       pursued, from the extraction of several kg of spent fuel obtained from       actual, current processing operations, right through to the production of       pure pellets of Americium dioxide, AmO2.
This experiment will       test, across several nuclear laboratories, the sequence of the various       unit operations (separation, isolation, conversion to oxide, pellet       fabrication), and also various related operations including the management       of effluents and by-products.
"[c]     For use in an industrial setting, these ligands need to be synthesised on       a tonne scale.
The Reading group has developed a scalable synthesis of the       CyMe4-diketone, a key precursor to all of the ligands, demonstrating for       the first time the potential for large-scale industrial production of       these compounds.
This led to the filing of a patent [d] and the licensing       of intellectual property in this patent from the University of Reading to       TechnoComm Ltd, a company specialising in technology commercialisation in       the chemical sciences.
[e] The CyMe4-BTP, CyMe4BTBP and CyMe4-BTPhen       ligands are now manufactured and sold by TechnoComm Ltd.[f] These ligands       have been purchased for process evaluation by leading national and       international nuclear centres such as the NNL (UK), the European       Commission Joint Research Centre (Germany), and the Idaho and Oak Ridge       National Laboratories (USA), demonstrating that these organisations       recognise the potential of the new compounds for effectively treating       nuclear waste.
Funding to develop a full-scale industrial process for separating minor       actinides from nuclear reprocessing waste awaits EU approval.
However, the       demonstration that CyMe4BTBP shows excellent efficiency and selectivity       for the minor actinides on real nuclear reprocessing waste has provided       first proof of concept for industrial scale chemical partitioning of the       minor actinides and demonstrates the potential to revolutionise nuclear       waste management.
Not only does it promise to dramatically reduce the       levels of radiotoxicity and waste-heat production, but it also paves the       way to more efficient use of geological nuclear-waste repositories.
This       will help to make nuclear power more sustainable, strengthening its role       as a genuine alternative to fossil fuels and helping the UK government to       meet its 2050 greenhouse-gas emission targets.
Reading's position within       UK partitioning and transmutation capability has been recognised in a       report by the Select Committee on Science and Technology.
[g]
