     The research has already had, and will continue to have, a far-reaching       and significant impact on the lives of patients with depression.
Other       beneficiaries include health service commissioners and providers, mental       health workers, and the wider populace through the economic benefits of       increased productivity and reduced welfare costs.
(In 2010, depression's       annual costs in England were estimated at &#163;1.9 billion service costs, &#163;9       billion lost earnings).
(1) Our experimental and clinical research has directly led to       innovations in treatment that address key priorities in treating mood       disorders (tackling treatment-resistant depression; preventing relapse;       increasing access), and improving patients' health and quality of life.
The RFCBT and COBALT research has provided valuable and effective adjuncts       to existing treatments for treatment-resistant patients.
The MBCT research       provides patients with a viable alternative to long-term pharmacotherapy       for relapse prevention.
The internet and guided self-help research       provides viable high-volume, low-cost treatment options.
(2) These innovations have been implemented nationally and       internationally, providing treatment options for patients, and informing       service and training provision through the following processes:     (a) Wide dissemination of findings nationally and internationally       through publication, conferences, manuals (first international textbook on       low intensity CBT, Farrand1; case       conceptualisation, Kuyken2), self-help booklets, and       frequent workshop training (over 1000 clinicians annually).
(b) Direct influence on formation of national policy:     (i) Evidence from the MBCT trial#7 influenced NICE's       Depression Update (2009)3 recommendation that MBCT be offered       as a relapse prevention programme in the NHS.
The ongoing COBALT and COBRA       trials directly address NICE's 2009 research priorities to inform the next       NICE guidelines.
(ii) Kuyken was a member of the 2009 NICE Depression Guideline       group (chair of psychological therapies group)3,9, O'Mahen       of the 2014 NICE Antenatal and Postnatal Mental Health Guideline group, Farrand       of the low-intensity CBT for Long-Term conditions Department of Health       Pathfinder group, and Watkins reviewed the OST Foresight Mental       Capital documents.
(iii) The Depression guideline explicitly referenced papers by Kuyken       and Watkins3.
MDC research has directly impacted       the revision of UK NICE treatment guidelines for depression (2007-9)3,9,       determining the blueprint of service level and treatment models referred       to nationally by all Primary Care Trusts (PCTs) and their replacement       commissioning groups.
(c) Influence on service provision locally, nationally, and         internationally.
Our RCTs indicated the value of MBCT and RFCBT and       trained specialist therapists in Devon and Cornwall, resulting in MBCT       services in North Devon and the local PCT commissioning a MDC treatment       clinic to provide MBCT, RFCBT, and perinatal treatment services in Exeter.
Our work has informed national approaches to training and implementation       of MBCT in the NHS, including frequently-accessed implementation resources4.
Internet-RFCBT is implemented within the University of Exeter Student       Wellbeing Service and from 2014 will be an integral element within the       Cornwall Foundation Trust IAPT service (10k depressed and anxious patients       referred annually).
The Netmums internet therapy is being implemented       within Torbay IAPT and Camden and Islington IAPT, providing the first       specific perinatal treatment in IAPT services.
Our low-intensity treatment       research underpins our partnership with Help for Heroes in their &#163;7.5m       (Libor-funded) "Hidden Wounds" programme to develop psychological support       for veterans and their families (Watkins, Mullan, Farrand).
Our research-led interventions have been implemented abroad: low-intensity       CBT is now trained and adopted in Hong Kong and the "Beyond Blue" national       Australian Depression Initiative (http:beyondblue.org.au), and RFCBT       implemented in clinical services in Western Australia and Denmark.
There       are 350 Mindfulness In Schools Programme trained teachers in the UK, Asia,       Australia, New Zealand, Europe, and North America.
Research has produced       direct benefit for over 2400 local Devon patients who have received       treatments from the MDC (1200 clinic, 1200 research trials).
The Netmums       therapy treated over 600 mothers with depression nationally.
(d) Influence on the nature and content of national therapy provision         and training (IAPT).
The MDC has led design, delivery, and quality       control of the training for the &#163;700m IAPT programme, which aims to       provide every individual in England with depression or anxiety the option       of an evidence-based psychological treatment, and underpins the current       coalition government's `No Health without Mental Health' and       talking therapies strategies5 (see also "Improving Treatment       Delivery for Depression" case study for UoA2).
Since starting in 2008,       IAPT has trained 4,900 new practitioners, 1.73m patients (1m by March       2012) have accessed treatment, over 45% recovered from depression and       anxiety disorders, and over 70.6k (45k by 2012) discontinued sick pay and       benefits5,6.
Farrand was in charge of the national       course accreditation programme, a member of the IAPT Education and       Training Committee, and prepared the low- intensity national curriculum7.
We are the sole provider of IAPT training in the South West since 2011,       training 245 Psychological Wellbeing Practitioners and 100 high-intensity       IAPT therapists since 2008.
Our research is incorporated into the       evidence-based training delivered to the workforce.
Exeter's is also one       of only 3 UK courses providing accredited MSc training in MBCT.
(e) Our research has contributed to public knowledge about mental health       issues, increased awareness of treatment options, and reduced stigma       through significant and positive media coverage (e.g., the Daily Telegraph8,       Daily Mail, The Herald, BBC News website, Radio 4, BBC World Service; The       Metro, Irish Independent, New Scientist, the Guardian).
(3) In recognition of our psychological treatment and research expertise,       the MDC has garnered national awards and been used as an exemplar of good       translational clinical research by the MRC in presentations to NIHR (Watkins).
