     This project has had impact on two levels: impact produced by direct       dissemination to the general public through the electronic edition and       through public events and school visits, and impact produced by supporting       cultural organisations to enhance promotion of the sites and collections       in their care.
From the outset the project has been undertaken in       collaboration with cultural organisations, the National Library of Wales       [NLW] and the Royal Commission on Ancient and Historical Monuments in       Wales [RCAHMW] being formal partners in the AHRC application.
NLW have provided several hundred digitised images of manuscripts from       their holdings, and we have worked with the Head of Digital Development       and his staff to link our electronic edition directly to the images in the       NLW digital repository, thus enhancing their resource by providing       transcriptions and context.
NLW now uses the Guto'r Glyn Project as a       standard of good practice in their provision of digital images for       manuscript-based research projects.
RCAHMW has custody of records relating to the built environment of Wales,       including a number of the houses which were the locations for and subjects       of Guto's poems.
The project has benefitted from their expertise and has       also contributed new knowledge to their records.
Cross-references to sites       mentioned in the poems have been added to Coflein, RCAHMW's online       database which received 300,000 page hits in the first quarter of 2013,       and RCAHMW produced an exhibition panel on houses described by Guto for       use at the National Eisteddfod, the Royal Welsh Show and other public       events (2011-13).
Richard Suggett, RCAHMW Senior Investigator Historic       Buildings, has used texts produced by the project in his publications on       interpretation of fifteenth-century houses: `Living like a lord: greater       houses and social emulation in late-medieval Wales' in The Medieval         Great House, ed.
Malcolm Airs and P. S. Barnwell (Rewley House       Studies in the Historic Environment I, 2011), pp.
81-95, and `Creating the       architecture of happiness in late-medieval Wales' in Essays on Guto'r         Glyn and Fifteenth-Century Wales, pp.
393-428.
This impact was the       result of detailed discussions with members of the project team comparing       RCAHMW records and drawings with descriptions of houses and furniture in       the poetry.
Richard Suggett collaborated with our project team in the design of the       Cochwillan animation, which represents a significant advance on previous       computer-generated depictions of medieval houses in that it shows the       building in a living cultural context with accurate reproductions of       contemporary furniture.
The animation was produced by the commercial       graphic design company See3D, with interactive resources developed by       Technoleg Taliesin providing text and translation of the poem recited and       information on artefacts produced by members of the project team.
The animation was presented to an audience of heritage practitioners at       the RCAHMW's `Digital Past' conference in 2012.
It is available on YouTube       (http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=620m8--EP5U)       as well as on the `Guto's Wales' site, and has been used in 2012/13 by       Eurig Salisbury, Children's Poet of Wales, in his sessions in five schools       (involving a total of about 125 pupils) to demonstrate the original       context for the performance of Welsh court poetry.
Responses from schools       indicate that it helps pupils to imagine a real setting for a bardic       tradition which can otherwise be quite abstract.
For a report on sessions       in two schools local to Cochwillan, Llanllechid Primary School and Tryfan       Secondary School, see Salisbury's blog on the `Bardd Plant Cymru' website,       http://barddplantcymru.co.uk/ysgol-llanllechid-ysgol-tryfan-a-gutor-glyn/,       which reports on the creative work done with pupils on the basis of Guto'r       Glyn's poetry.
In addition to their intrinsic cultural value, these       sessions can also be seen to have a positive effect on pupils' attitudes       towards the Welsh literary tradition by enabling them to experience it       through the medium of the latest digital technology.
Salisbury also led a tour of Anglesey in June 2013 on behalf of the       literature promotion agency Llenyddiaeth Cymru, visiting sites of houses       which feature in Guto'r Glyn's poetry, some of them identified and located       for the first time.
One of the new poems published for the first time by       this project (Guto'r Glyn.net poem 64) enabled him to provide location and       context for Guto's famous bardic contention with Llywelyn ap Gutun.
Throughout the five years of the project the team held public conferences       and fora to raise awareness of the research, initially in Aberystwyth       (2008 and 2009), and then in three locations which feature significantly       in the poetry, Llangollen (2010), Raglan (2011) and Strata Florida (2012),       attracting audiences of 60-70 on each occasion.
Each of these events       included a visit to a site in the care of Cadw, Valle Crucis Abbey, Raglan       Castle and Strata Florida Abbey, supporting Cadw's mission to promote       appreciation of such monuments.
The programmes brought architectural       historians into dialogue with literary scholars in order to contextualise       the poetry associated with the site.
Cadw's Lifelong Learning Manager has       testified that our forum at Raglan in 2011, and specifically Edwards's       paper on feasting in Guto's poetry, inspired her to put on a medieval       wine-tasting at the castle, and to propose joint organisation of the open       day at Strata Florida in May 2012 (an event repeated in September 2013).
Edwards subsequently provided information on wines mentioned in the poetry       to the wine merchant responsible for the wine-tasting event at Raglan       Castle in 2012.
The final project conference in September 2012 included an evening of       performances of some of the new texts of Guto's poems by Datgeiniaeth, a       group specialising in recitals of medieval Welsh strict-metre poetry to       accompaniment based on the music of the Robert ap Huw manuscript.
This       event built on a workshop on performance of poetry held at Bangor       University in May 2009 which was co-organised by Dafydd Johnston under the       AHRC `Beyond Text' scheme (see articles by Johnston and Peter Greenhill in       Studia Celtica 45, 2011).
The project has thus helped performers to       develop and promote their work.
The conference in September 2012 was also the occasion for the launch of       the electronic edition, Guto'r Glyn.net.
Although this website has only       been available for less than a year of the impact period, statistics from       Google Analytics indicate that usage has been increasing gradually, with       1,750 unique users from 38 different countries around the world.
Students       of Celtic Studies from outside Wales particularly appreciate the bilingual       site, the option to view text and translation in parallel, and to listen       to a reading showing how the poem would have sounded (testimony from       Professor of Celtic Studies at University of California Los Angeles).
The edition is also being used in HE teaching in Wales (Cardiff,       Aberystwyth, Swansea), increasing the resources available for the study of       medieval Welsh poetry and providing students with the material for       independent in-depth study of various aspects such as manuscripts,       language and historical background.
A module on 15th-century       Wales based on Guto'r Glyn.net and Guto's Wales has been introduced by Dr       Rhun Emlyn of the School of History and Welsh History at Aberystwyth       University, 'Dweud y Gwir?
Ceisio Lleisiau'r Oesoedd Canol' (code       HA32120).
The value of Guto'r Glyn's poetry for understanding of attitudes towards       rivers and flooding in medieval Wales and potential lessons about human       responses to natural disaster has been demonstrated by the collaboration       between Eurig Salesbury and Dr Hywel Griffiths of the School of Geography       at Aberystwyth which resulted in a joint article in the Journal of         Historical Geography (available online from 6.12.12, see references       above), and presentations by Salisbury at the Climate Change Consortium of       Wales workshop at Gregynog in April 2013 and at the Future Climate       Dialogues symposium in Aberystwyth in June 2013.
The Guto'r Glyn website was on a short-list of three online resources in       the 16-19 age-group category of the Welsh Government's National Digital       Learning Awards in June 2013.
Non-academic user responses to the website include enquiries from family       historians, and we have established a partnership to exchange information       with the `Dating Old Welsh Houses Group', a volunteer organisation       recording historic houses in Gwynedd (www.datingoldwelshhouses.co.uk).
The discovery of King Richard III's skeleton in 2012/13 led to increased       interest in our work on Guto'r Glyn, since Guto's poem in praise of Sir       Rhys ap Thomas (Guto'r Glyn.net, poem 14) contains contemporary evidence       relating to Richard's death.
When the wounds on the skull were revealed in       February 2013 Johnston realized that Guto's account of `shaving the boar's       head' could be understood literally as a reference to a ritual cutting of       the hair of a man whose emblem was the white boar.
This information was       passed on to the team working on the skeleton at Leicester University, was       reported on the BBC Wales news, and was published by Johnston in the Welsh       Poetry Society journal Barddas (April 2013).
Barry Lewis is quoted in an article in The Observer (10.2.13) on       the threat posed by the HS2 line to the site of the battle of Edgecote       (Banbury), citing the poetry of Guto'r Glyn and others as evidence of the       historic significance of the site for the Welsh.
