     Understanding the fundamental controls on mineralization and locating the       host phases that control the distribution of the PGE in ores provide key       insights for companies carrying out exploration and/or mineral processing       of PGE.
The combination of specialist knowledge and analytical facilities       at Cardiff allows the total distribution of PGE within ores, metallurgical       products or other samples to be mapped and quantified; impacting both on       exploration efficiency and reducing costs at deposits such as Aguablanca       and Sudbury5.1,5.2.
The evolution of these research- led       technologies has led to collaborations with major PGE producers and junior       exploration companies.
Examples of these industrial impacts include:     Collaboration with Anglo Platinum Ltd (McDonald) resulted in the       identification of staging chambers below the world's third largest PGE       deposit (the Platreef) where highly PGE-rich sulphide liquids were       concentrated3.3.
Evidence for this sulphide liquid is preserved       as inclusions trapped in the earliest Platreef minerals3.4.
This new understanding has been used by Anglo Platinum to understand the       development of the Platreef orebody and the underlying factors that affect       the distribution of mineralisation in areas being mined and explored by       the company5.3.
Periodically, certain PGE deposits have been revisited to apply new       analytical methods to solve long-standing problems.
Prichard's research on       PGM at the Aguablanca Ni-PGE deposit in Spain began in 2000 and since 2009       this work has been extended through a study of PGE behaviour in the       gossans (siliceous iron oxide caps developed from weathering) in       collaboration with the mine operators, Rio Narcea Recursos S.A3.2.
This research has helped Rio Narcea Recursos S.A understand the ore       mineralogy in a way they would not have been able to do themselves and has       helped the company "add value to the base metal product through the       processing of precious metals within our ores and helped us deal with       smelter credits for precious metals in the ores" 5.1.
In recent years there has been strong activity in the mining sector for       exploration at craters, formed via the impact of asteroids or comets with       the Earth.
This is due to the high probability that medium-giant sized       craters will host significant mineral or hydrocarbon resources.
For       example, in 2005 it was estimated that in North America alone over US$ 18       billion worth of natural resources were extracted from crater sites each       year.
The research carried out by Prichard on the behaviour of PGE in the       sulphide ores at the Sudbury impact crater3.1 has been used by       nickel company Vale to improve extraction efficiency of PGE in their ore5,2.
A major research milestone during the REF period has been the discovery       of the giant Maniitsoq impact crater in West Greenland3.5.
Due       to the highly eroded nature of the crater it took three years from       2009-2012 to establish the validity of the Maniitsoq crater among the       scientific community3.5.
However the mineral exploration       industry was quicker to grasp the significance of the discovery and       exploit it before the research was formally published.
The opportunity was       taken up in late 2010 by two mining consultants, John Ferguson and John       Rowntree, who recognized the potential of the impact model and used it to       prepare an outline programme for a mining company to acquire a licence and       carry out exploration for nickel and PGE at Maniitsoq5.4.
They       recognised that the key targets were supercooled magmas (termed norites)       carrying nickel and copper sulphides (with by-product PGE) that were       produced shortly after the impact and which invaded the fractured target       rocks.
Modelling carried out by McDonald and his colleagues in 2011       identified the likely size of the crater and the limits of shock       metamorphism, which could be used to optimise the size and geographical       spread of the likely licence area.
The size of the crater predicted by the       impact model indicated that there should be many more of these mineralized       norites than had been discovered by ground surveys in the 1970s and by       fixed wing aeroplane geophysical surveys in the 1990s.
In August 2011       North American Nickel Incorporated (NAN) acquired the intellectual       property rights for the Ferguson-Rowntree exploration plan5.6       for cash and share warrants worth CDN$ 2.1 million plus a 1.25% net       smelter royalty each - reducible to 0.5% upon payment of CDN$ 1 million       each to Ferguson and Rowntree5.8.
NAN committed $CDN 7.7       million in 2011-12 to prospecting the site and in late 2011 a       helicopter-supported electromagnetic survey discovered 17 new norite       targets for test drilling, consistent with the model.
This had risen to       102 targets by June 20135.9.
NAN management have fully       incorporated the impact model5.7,5.9, been involved in       follow-up research3.6 and have expressed the view that now the       science is confirmed3.5, 3.6, they stand the best chance of       success if they explore "from an impact point of view"5.5.
