     Models of ocean circulation, in conjunction with numerical weather       prediction models, are essential       in forecasting over long time periods, from one week to many decades,       because ocean transport       accounts for much of the energy that drives weather and climate systems.
The initial beneficiaries       of the research are forecasters using oceanic models, since the correction       reduces or eliminates       spurious overturning circulations and other imbalances caused in previous       data assimilation       schemes by systematic model errors.
Between 2000 and 2004, the correction for the pressure gradient term       developed by Nichols and       Martin, together with Bell, was successfully implemented into the Met       Office's Forecast Ocean       Assimilation Model (FOAM).
FOAM forms its operational ocean forecasting       system.
Significant       improvements in the accuracy of the ocean forecasts were achieved as a       result of incorporating       the error correction process into FOAM.
Results showing the impact of the       pressure correction on       the ocean assimilation are shown in Bell et al (2004).
At the end of 2008       the FOAM system was       transitioned to use a different core component for its ocean model.
This       new component is NEMO       (Nucleus for European Modelling of the Oceans - http://www.nemo-ocean.eu/),       a community ocean       modelling system for oceanographic research, operational oceanography,       seasonal forecasting       and climate studies.
The significant impact of Reading's pressure bias       correction technique on the       accuracy of forecasting continued to be recognised and the correction       technique was again       implemented into the FOAM data assimilation system using NEMO.
This system       is used for       producing short-range forecasts of the ocean and sea-ice state (out to 7       days), and is now also       used directly to initialise the ocean component of seasonal forecasts.
In addition to the Met Office implementation, the correction technique       was also adopted by       ECMWF and incorporated into their ocean assimilation system, resulting in       improved predictions of       ocean circulation.
ECMWF also built on the original correction method of       Reading, extending the       scheme to allow for temporal variations in the bias error.
Between 2008       and 2009, the ECMWF       also transitioned to NEMO as the ocean modelling element of its       forecasting system and the       pressure bias correction technique was again found to be an important       component needed for       assimilation with the new ocean model.
In practice ocean and weather forecasting assimilation systems have been       used separately to       provide input data to each other, but recently data assimilation systems       for coupled oceanic and       atmospheric models have been under development at ECMWF and the Met       Office.
Although it       was expected that for coupled models, the pressure correction technique       might not be required, it       was found that the bias error correction scheme is still needed to avoid       spurious ocean dynamics       and maintain balances in the coupled systems.
Forecasting systems, such as those relying on the correction schemes       developed by the University       of Reading, require a vast quantity of input data collected from       satellites, ocean buoys, aircraft and       shipping, radiosondes, and radar, as well as ground stations.
These data       are assimilated into       complex multi-scale models of the ocean and atmosphere.
Improvements to       data assimilation       techniques, such as those developed at Reading, enable better use of this       expensively acquired       data to give more accurate weather and climate predictions.
Good forecasts       enable good planning       and the research on data assimilation at Reading continues to bring       significant benefits to the       whole community.
Accurate seasonal forecasts, extending for a decade or more, are       particularly important for       understanding the effects of climate change and in developing strategies       for living with changes in       our environment as well as for mitigating hazardous conditions that may       arise, such as flooding,       drought, intense rainfall, heavy snow and ice, or excessive temperatures.
Improvement in the       accuracy of ocean, weather and climate forecasting has impacts on       economic, commercial and       organisational elements of society as well as on the environment.
The       development from the       University Reading, and the improvement in accuracy it has allowed, has       made an important       contribution to such advances.
