     Informing international policy       The main impact of the research has been to provide the substantive       quantitative data that has informed international policy decisions both on       the regulation of trade in elephant products and on law enforcement       regarding the illicit ivory trade and the illegal killing of elephants.
Research findings (references 3.1 and 3.3) formed the main evidence in       mandated reports by MIKE (reference 3.2) and ETIS (reference 3.4) to the       last two CoPs respectively.
These reports provide the evidence framing       much of the discussion between non-governmental organisations, governments       and pressure groups.
For example, at the 15th CoP in March       2010, partly as a result of the MIKE report, the decision was made not to       allow regulated sales of ivory from Tanzania and Zambia.
At the 16th CoP in Bangkok in March 2013, there was "unprecedented         uptake of the ETIS results... and motivation to seriously tackle         outstanding problems for the benefit of elephant conservation" (as       reported in Pachyderm magazine).
The ETIS report identified three       groups of countries most heavily implicated in the trade, including       Thailand, the host country.
At the opening ceremony the Prime Minister of       Thailand announced that her country would be pursuing "the goal of         putting an end to ivory trade and to be in line with international norms".
CITES adopted a separate decision for each of the three groups of       countries identified by ETIS, impacting over twenty countries from Africa,       Asia and the Middle East.
These decisions include the creation of a CITES       Ivory Enforcement Task Force to review law enforcement strategies for       combating illegal trade in eight countries in partnership with       international organisations such as the World Bank, the World Customs       Organization, the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime and INTERPOL.
Raising         public awareness     The research outputs, in particular the bias-adjusted indicators, have       been used by environmental organisations to raise awareness of the       increasing threat to elephants from the illegal ivory trade.
For example,       a major report Elephants in the Dust &#8212; The African Elephant Crisis       by United Nations Environment Programme, CITES, International Union for       Conservation of Nature (a global environmental organisation) and TRAFFIC,       drawing together all the recent research on elephants, was released at a       press conference at the 16th CoP in March 2013.
The statistical       contributions of this research form much of the evidential basis both for       MIKE and ETIS.
The headline result of the ETIS analysis was the primary       lead in a plethora of news stories generated by the international media.
The PIKE indicator is also referenced in the World Wide Fund for Nature       Crime Scorecard produced in 2012.
Improving monitoring systems and informing best practice       Both monitoring systems have been refined and improved as a result of the       research.
For example, in developing the analytical framework for ETIS it       became necessary to restructure the ETIS database to ensure that the data       being collected are of the highest quality and the most relevant for the       required analytical purposes.
The fields in the database were therefore       revised and data collection methodologies improved.
In particular, an       online, government-restricted mechanism enabling countries to directly       enter and access data on illegal ivory seizures data is expected to be       launched by the end of 2013.
This is a significant development that will       impact all countries that report to CITES (typically about 80 countries       from Europe, America, Africa, Asia and Australasia report seizures to       ETIS).
More generally, the long-term involvement of Mr Burn and Dr Underwood in       guiding the development of MIKE and ETIS since their inception has led to       a strong statistical underpinning to the two monitoring systems and has       helped shape their overall direction and identify their limitations.
This       influence has, in part, been made via the MIKE-ETIS Technical Advisory       Groups (a group of experts working in elephant conservation and the       illegal ivory trade), where the research methodologies and results have       been presented and discussed.
During the period of the Darwin Initiative project, research       methodologies, results and the new database were presented in 2012 to the       United Nations Environment Programme's fourth African Elephant Meeting       held in Nairobi, to the 62nd CITES Standing Committee and to a       training event for African CITES Parties involved in reporting ETIS data       to CITES.
Mr Burn and Dr Underwood also initiated a workshop on the       drivers of the illegal ivory trade, the results of which have informed       UNEP's Elephants in the Dust report.
In a press release from TRAFFIC in June 2012, Tom Milliken, who manages       ETIS, stated: "Since 1997, our long-term collaboration with Bob Burn         and Dr Fiona Underwood from the University of Reading has progressively         scaled up the science behind ETIS and made it a `best practice',         state-of-the-art monitoring tool for the global conservation community".
During the 62nd CITES Standing Committee, the Secretary General       of CITES also publicly recognised Mr Burn's contribution to the scientific       underpinning of MIKE and ETIS.
MIKE and ETIS are unique global databases.
Reading statisticians are the       only researchers who have been given access to the raw ETIS data and,       until 2010 (when Mr Burn stood down from the MIKE Technical Advisory       Group), the only statisticians who had been given access to the MIKE data.
