     The research was used in collaboration with digital media agency Bloom       Media Ltd. to develop Whisper, a new data analytics tool capable of       analysing social network data in real time as a framework for return on       investment (RoI) measurement.
Applying the research       In 2011Bloom were looking to speed up the market research cycle and       measure return on investment (RoI) for their clients, something not then       possible for social media campaigns.
Bloom's Head of Data Insight, Mr       Peter Laflin, approached Prof Grindrod to discuss a collaborative approach       for commercial development of the research [6] (which he had read about in       [3], Section 3).
Initially, the researchers assisted Bloom to secure funding through the       Technology Strategy Board to develop a proof of concept that       communicability could be used to effectively measure social media       marketing campaigns.
Ultimately this led to the creation of Whisper [1],       described as a world class platform for analysing Twitter and other social       media data feeds and which incorporates algorithms generated by the       research within its engine.
Whisper is marketed by Bloom [2] as an entirely new planning tool that       allows their clients to monitor the opinions, stories, emotions and       affinities of social media communities discussing topics that resonate       with their clients' products or values.
This is achieved using algorithms       developed by the researchers that enable visualisation of the structures       of these communities as they adapt in real time.
This enables Bloom to       assess huge data sets and identify the key influencers within these       communities and allows Bloom's clients to engage efficiently with these       communities in real time, giving them insight into their customers' brand       affinity, mood, device use and location.
In a letter to Prof Grindrod [5], Mr Laflin describes the key role of the       research: "Whisper is the world's first data analytics tool that can       accurately measure the impact and RoI from social media.
At the heart of       Whisper is a specific implementation of your work and the measure of       `influence' is a proxy for your communicability ideas".
Mr Laflin       highlighted that by the end of 2013, Bloom will have invested over &#163;200k       in this work, and intend to continue investment and development in order       to stay "at the cutting edge of the scientific measurement of marketing".
Impacts within Bloom       The unique insight provided by Whisper has enabled Bloom to alter their       brand direction.
As a result of exhibiting the technology, they have       developed substantial new business opportunities, including significant       growth and a range of new clients such as Anglian Home Improvements, ADT       and LA Fitness[9].
Income has doubled to &#163;2.4m and staff numbers have       doubled to 60 during the financial year 2012-2013[8].
Additionally, Bloom       now employs highly skilled mathematics graduates and postgraduates to       develop and grow this increasingly important area.
The company have also       developed additional market opportunities by providing analytics services       to other marketing agencies for use under their own names.
This work has significantly raised the profile of the company within the       industry.
For example, they have been nominated for the 2013 DADI awards       and the Innovation category of the 2012 Some Comms Awards for their use of       Whisper with Anglian Home Improvements [9].
Impacts on Bloom's clients       A key aim for Bloom was to provide their clients with clear evidence of       RoI for social marketing activities.
The tool and framework have enabled       Bloom to identify the true influencers within a social network, and then       use this information to plan viral content for their clients.
This has       enabled Bloom's clients to gain greater value from their marketing       activities and an improved understanding of their customers, leading to       better targeting and changes in their digital marketing approach.
[11]     Raising public awareness       Graphics produced by Whisper, which show the evolving networks in a clear       and simple format and demonstrate how network members interact and the       relative influence of individuals, have contributed to the public       understanding of social network interactions.
An example was on show at       the Royal Society 2013 Summer Science Exhibition and was runner up in the       Infographics category of the Exhibition's image competition [7].
The       exhibition attracted over 10,000 members of the public including 2,000       school students[10], with many more reached through coverage on TV, in the       media and online.
Wider impacts       The benefits of the research within social media were immediately       recognised, as the methods work efficiently and for large matrices.
However, applications for other sectors are also being developed by the       researchers, and early work with the defence sector has led to a 2011 TSB       grant to develop a proof of concept.
