     Eltringham's research has contributed to the development of early-warning       mechanisms to prevent genocide and other mass-atrocity crimes in the Great       Lakes Region, South Sudan and Kenya.
In 1994 an estimated 937,000 Rwandans, the vast majority Tutsi, were       murdered in a genocide committed by militia elements of the army, often       with the participation of the local population.
The repercussions of the       Rwandan genocide led to conflict in the neighbouring Democratic Republic       of Congo, where more than 5 million people have died since 1996 as a       result of the fighting.
In Uganda, the insurgency of the Lord's Resistance       Army (which began in 1988) has killed an estimated 100,000 people,       displaced 2.5 million people and involved the abduction of up to 100,000       children.
In Sudan, in the Darfur region, it is estimated that, since       2003, between 200,000 and 400,000 people have been killed and 2.3 million       have been displaced.
In Kenya, 1,300 people were killed and up to 600,000       displaced in post-election violence between December 2007 and January       2008.
Since 2010, the Office of the UN Secretary General's Special Advisor for       the Prevention of Genocide (OSAPG) has been working with the International       Conference of the Great Lakes Region (ICGLR; an inter-governmental       organisation of eleven member-states) to implement the 2006 `Protocol for       the Prevention and Punishment of the Crime of Genocide, War Crimes and       Crimes against Humanity and all Forms of Discrimination.
Eltringham was       asked to participate in training at the regional and national levels,       where findings from his research on the Rwandan genocide are employed to       explain the key characteristics of mass-atrocity crimes and the ways in       which they can be prevented.
South Sudan     Acting as a consultant-trainer for the OSAPG, over four days in mid-July       2011, Eltringham delivered a knowledge-exchange programme on genocide       prevention to civil-society representatives and government       officials/military officers in Juba, South Sudan.
Eltringham delivered two       presentations in which he drew directly on his research on the Rwandan       genocide and its aftermath.
The issues covered included perpetrators'       fantasies, paranoia, the use of euphemisms and dehumanisation, the use of       history to claim victimhood, the dangers of collectivising guilt and the       role of international criminal justice.
Alongside another expert who       presented on the role of the media in genocide, Eltringham led group       discussion and facilitated group exercises.
The training was attended by       the Chairperson and members of the South Sudan Peace and Reconciliation       Commission (SSPRC).
At the initiative of the SSPRC, in response to the       workshop, the South Sudan government established a national Conflict Early       Warning and Response Unit (CEWERU) in May 2012 [see Section 5, C1].
Mr       Castro Wesamba, OSAPG Political Affairs Officer, reported that, since the       training, `The government has established an early warning mechanism for       the prevention of violence and related mass atrocities [and] has       prioritized joining ICGLR with particular interest in the Regional       Committee for the Prevention of Genocide and Mass Atrocities' [C2].
South       Sudan proceeded to join the ICGLR on 24 November 2012 and Eltringham       returned to Juba in September 2013 to participate in the official launch       and training of the South Sudan National Committee.
ICGLR regional committee     Over two days in February 2012, Eltringham delivered, in Dar es Salaam,       Tanzania, genocide prevention training to the Regional Committee of the       ICGLR based on his research.
Additional training was provided by a Kenyan       expert (Raymond Kitevu) on Early Warning Systems.
At the end of the       training the Regional Committee announced the creation of a coordination       office at the ICGLR secretariat to analyse reports and mappings from       member-states to enable Early Warning to the Heads of State [C3].
Mr       Nathan Byamukama, Secretary to the Regional Committee on Prevention of       Genocide, has stated that 'Having acknowledged the value of the training       in its official communiqu&#233; of 8 February 2012, the members of the       committee have continued to draw on Nigel's and Raymond's training as they       continue their vital work of bringing an end to genocide and mass-atrocity       crimes in the Great Lakes Region' [C4].
Tanzanian national committee     Over two days in February 2012, Eltringham worked with the Tanzanian       National Committee in Dar es Salaam and used his research on the Rwandan       genocide to assist in the creation of a twelve-month work plan for the       Tanzanian national committee [C5].
With the increase in inter-religious       tension in Tanzania (riots in Zanzibar in October 2012 and the bombing of       a church in Arusha in May 2013), the Tanzanian National Committee held       (between June and July 2013) three Peace Forums, targeting religious       leaders as an important group in building peace and social cohesion in       Tanzania [C6].
Ms Felistas Mushi (National Coordinator and Chair of the       Tanzanian National Committee for the Prevention of Genocide) has written       to Eltringham stating that 'The initial training that you (and Raymond       Kitevu) provided ... is in fact the foundation of our work, as it informed       the planning and implementation of the peace forums' [C7].
Kenya     In August 2012, Eltringham delivered, in Naivasha, Kenya, a two-day       workshop on genocide prevention to the Kenyan National Committee and       assisted in the creation of a twelve-month workplan for the committee.
Additional training was provided by a Kenyan expert on Early Warning       Systems.
At the end of the training, the national committee announced the       creation of a `Public Awareness and Advocacy Programme on the Prevention       of Genocide and Mass Atrocities' [C8].
With a new election due to be held       in March 2013, the Kenyan National Committee organised a sensitisation       workshop for Coast Province [C9].
