     The impact of the research has taken place through three routes: i) the       uptake of the methodology in the implementation of clinical trials by two       pharmaceutical companies, ii) citation of the research in the regulatory       guidance on adaptive clinical trial design, and iii) increased awareness       by clinicians and other medical professionals of the benefit of the       adaptive design methodology in their patient groups.
i) Uptake of the research by pharmaceutical companies     The underpinning research was initially disseminated through conference       presentations attended by industry professionals.
The full publication of       the research in the statistical literature in 2003 and 2005, led to two       companies independently approaching Drs Stallard and Todd to discuss the       research who each subsequently adopted the phase II/III adaptive design       approach proposed by the Reading team in their drug development       programmes, as outlined below.
AstraZeneca:     Based on the Reading team's approach, AstraZeneca designed a phase II/III       multi-national pivotal trial ([1,2] in Section 5), HORIZON III, for       cediranib (Recentin).
The impact of the team's work in this setting was       illustrated in a press release ([3] in Section 5) to the investment       community in February 2008, which contained a quote by John Patterson,       AstraZeneca's Executive Director for Development, who said: "Due to the         Phase II/III trial design, HORIZON III is able to move directly into         Phase III utilizing all the Phase II data and this saves valuable time         in assessing the potential benefit of RECENTIN in the first line         metastatic colorectal cancer setting".
By adopting this new       methodology there is clear utility for pharmaceutical companies in terms       of greater efficiency in clinical trials via potential for reducing the       numbers of patients entered into trials with significant ethical benefits.
The AstraZeneca development programme continues today through further       clinical trials, although cediranib is not yet available in the UK.
The study by AstraZeneca was, to our knowledge, one of the first seamless       phase II/III trials to be conducted by any pharmaceutical company.
To date       the total number of seamless phase II/III studies remains small whilst       companies assess the benefits of these new approaches.
The results of the       completed trial have been presented by AstraZeneca at international       medical conferences ([4] in Section 5) and in 2012, a presentation was       given at the PSI (Statisticians in the Pharmaceutical Industry) annual       conference entitled "Adaptive Trial Designs: Lessons Learned in Oncology       in AstraZeneca" ([5] in Section 5).
Through this outreach the concept of       seamless adaptive designs as a plausible approach to clinical trial study       design has been highlighted to the medical community and to industry.
AstraZeneca have indicated that they would consider the adaptive design       approach in future trials and have developed their own code for       implementation, based on the methodological concepts described in       Reading's underpinning research.
Avexa:     Avexa, an Australian company, was the second pharmaceutical company to       implement a trial design based on the underpinning research in the       development of apricitabine, a treatment for drug-resistant HIV ([6] in       Section 5).
The study, AVX301, began recruiting in February 2008 and       closed recruitment in January 2010.
It was stopped for reasons not       associated with the trial design.
Avexa press releases discuss the       progress of the study, with positive reference to the adaptive trial       approach ([7] in Section 5).
ii) Use in regulatory guidance on clinical trial design     Novel adaptive designs and the associated analytical frameworks, such as       those developed by the team at Reading, are having an increasing impact on       current thinking in clinical trial design within the pharmaceutical       industry.
Indeed, two key regulatory authorities have recently produced       guidance documents on adaptive designs (US Food and Drug Administration       (FDA), 2010; European Medical Agency, 2007); both organisations anticipate       that more clinical trials will be designed using this framework and the       FDA cite the Reading work ([4, 5] in Section 3) in their guidance document       ([8] in Section 5).
Whilst it is incorrect to state that the research       undertaken at Reading was the sole catalyst for driving such change in       clinical trial approach, the citation of our work in global guidelines       such as these provides indication of our contribution.
iii) Increased awareness by clinicians and other medical professionals         of the benefit of adaptive design methodology in their patient groups.
The Reading team developed a Continuing Professional Development course       entitled "Phase II/III Clinical Trials".
This was delivered at Reading in       November 2006 to disseminate adaptive trial methodology in general and the       research undertaken at Reading in particular.
Dr Jeremy Chataway (St       Mary's Hospital), a Multiple Sclerosis (MS) specialist participated in the       course.
Several years later, Dr Chataway contacted Dr Todd about the       possibility of initiating work on adaptive designs in this therapeutic       area.
A colleague of Dr Chataway's, Dr Richard Nicholas was tasked with       the asking the same question of the team at Warwick University (where       Professor Stallard is now working).
The joint Warwick-Reading team was       commissioned by the Multiple Sclerosis Society to conduct further work on       adaptive design methodology in the specific setting of Secondary       Progressive MS.
The Society funded two projects to develop a bespoke       adaptive trial design that could be used for a study of MS.
The results of       this work have been published and presented in several conferences in 2009       ([9] in Section 5).
Clinicians in the MS field are, therefore, being made       more aware of adaptive designs and their advantages.
