     From October 2010 to December 2011 Wyke collaborated with the Zion Arts       Centre on a research       project designed to celebrate the centenary of the former chapel, which is       now the permanent       home of the Centre.
The research was supported by a grant of &#163;49,800 from       the Heritage Lottery       Fund and won the inaugural Manchester Community History Award at the       Manchester Histories       Festival in 2012 [A].
Due to his widely recognised expertise as a       local historian, and his role as       curator of the exhibition of Hulme photographs referenced in Section 2 [B],       the Director of the Zion       Centre invited Wyke to act as historian-in-residence for this project,       which would explain the history       of the building to local residents.
Wyke's findings inspired and       underpinned a yearlong programme       of activities.. Wyke's work was supported by his colleague Pat       Ayers, Senior Lecturer in History at       MMU, who delivered oral history training to a group of 12 `young leaders'       from the Zion Arts Centre       (a group of 10-25-olds who worked for 18 months with Zion 100 staff to       develop leadership skills)       and by three MMU undergraduate students (Forrest, Hartley and Walker).
Other collaborators       included: the Hulme History Society, four local schools, MMU's North West       Film Archive (NWFA)       and Manchester City Council, which provided funding and publicity support.
The primary objective was to increase community cohesion by involving       local people in research       processes in an effort to improve their understanding of, and cultivate       their interest in the       conservation of the history of their community.
Rather than being passive       observers, local       residents were encouraged to become active participants in the research,       conservation and       reproduction of the history.
To this end a variety of activities were run       over the course of the year:       in-depth oral history training equipped young people to collect and       capture oral histories from older       members of their local community, supplemented by additional material       brought in by local people       on `archive days' or posted to a dedicated website.
A special effort was       made to involve young       people to promote intergenerational understanding.
Six workshops were       delivered at local primary       and secondary schools (Rolls Crescent, St Wilfred's and Trinity) along       with a series of workshops       for young people held during the summer holidays.
Altogether 290 people       participated in these       various activities and six box files and two storage boxes of archive       material were gathered.
The       material will be stored in Manchester Central Records Office along with a       bibliographical catalogue       of sources compiled by Wyke [D].
Another objective was to share       the collected material in a       manner that would serve to engage the local community even further and       intensify their       participation.
For this purpose, the historical evidence gathered from the       local community was       combined with additional research done by Wyke himself to inform two key       activities: the first one       was an exhibition, curated by Wyke, which ran from October to December       2010, displaying diaries       and other documents, as well as artefacts created by the community [E].
These activities were       supplemented by a series of amateur historical re-enactments, each       relating to a different decade       of the building's history.
There were nine separate monthly events,       including dance events, a       1940s street party and a film night [F].
The final celebration       included a theatrical re-enactment of       key moments in the history of the building, and involved over 100       participants and 300 audience       members [G, H].
Over the course of a year, some 368 people       actively participated in events.
Audience numbers totalled 1814 [D].
Therefore the research       successfully engaged over 2000 local       residents, bringing together groups and individuals in a variety of       activities that encouraged       collaborative endeavour and promoted shared understandings of the history       of their community.
The Head of Regeneration at Manchester's City South Housing Trust, a large       employer in the       Hulme area, says that, "Zion 100 was very effective locally, involving         people from a range of         backgrounds and giving them a sense of ownership and indeed increased         pride in their community       [I]."
A variety of secondary impacts have also been achieved.
There is the       documentary conservation       of the history of the building itself in the form of the Zion 100       booklet.
2000 copies were printed and       every attendee of the final re-enactment received a copy.
Copies have been       provided to all local       libraries and the text continues to be used in educational workshops that       the Zion provides for local       schools and arts-based community groups [D].
The book received       wider civic attention across the       city of Manchester.
Sir Richard Leese, Leader of Manchester City Council       commented that "the         book is a fitting marker to this important anniversary, which again         signifies not only the re-birth of         Hulme as a successful mixed-used neighbourhood but also the role Hulme         now plays as a         contributor to the overall success of Manchester.
I am pleased to note         that this centenary history is         produced in association with staff at Manchester Metropolitan         University.
It is good to see such         partnerships already blooming"'[C].
Other impacts include the       development of personal skills       amongst participants, including research skills, oral history techniques,       publishing and curation.
Young people involved in workshops also reported improved self-esteem,       confidence and       communication skills [D].
Other related projects and partnerships       have spawned from Zion 100,       including a Postcards project, a series of ballroom dancing classes in       2012 and STUN's (Sustained       Theatre Up North) Say It Loud programme [J].
Zion 100 was also of       significant benefit to the Zion       Arts Centre itself.
As the Director of the Centre states, "It         increased our profile quite         substantially...The audience and participation targets which we set at         the start of the project felt like         quite a challenge, so to have exceeded them by almost doubling audience         members for the year is         evidence of how beneficial the project was for increasing awareness of         our organisation, the work         we do in general and the history of the building" [K].
There       continues to be a legacy for the Centre,       with members of the community still contacting it to find out information       about the history of the       building or the area and to leave archive material for the Centre's       archival collection.
The Hulme       History Society can also report significant impacts from the project which       helped them to broaden       their appeal [L]     The `Lost Hulme' photographic exhibition and the historical re-enactments       were both reported in       the Manchester Evening News (7/12/10 and 8/10/11).
The re-enactments were       reported on the       BBC's News website [M].
