     Hall's research on polycentricity has delivered significant and       wide-reaching impacts via three       principal routes.
The first of these is the uptake of his research by       policy makers; the second is       Hall's own direct influence on decision making as a policy advisor; and       the third is his involvement       in overseeing infrastructure investments in his role as a project       director.
Through these routes, his       research has had significant impacts on UK infrastructure, providing       millions of passengers with       improved transport infrastructure, particularly in once poorly connected       areas.
These three       pathways to impact &#8212; and illustrative examples of the changes and benefits       accruing from them and       resulting from cumulative work over many decades &#8212; can be outlined under       the following three       headings:     (i) Making the case for high speed rail and rail connectivity in the         UK and Europe       During the period from 1993-96, Hall worked intensively on the strategic       design of the Channel       Tunnel Rail Link (High Speed One).
From 1993-94 he was Special Adviser to       the Secretary of       State for Environment on Strategic Land Use Planning, with special       reference to the East Thames       Corridor and Channel Tunnel Rail Link.
In 1994-95 he as drew on his own       research work in his       role as adviser to the London and Continental Railways Consortium on       planning and regeneration       aspects of the Channel Tunnel High-Speed Rail Link, widely known as High       Speed One (HS1) &#8212; not       least in their successful 1995 bid to build and operate the HS1 system.
In       these roles he developed       the strategy for the Thames Gateway sub-region with the proposed HS1 as       its centrepiece.
At this       point, although substantially complete in its core area, the London       Docklands regeneration was still       lacking development at its eastern end, and there was seen to be a       strategic need to extend the       initiative into the wider Lower Thames sub-region.
Fundamental research by       Hall [a, b] informed       the configuration of the route, particularly the inclusion of station hubs       on HS1 at Stratford (East       London) and Ebbsfleet (Kent) [1; p. 142].
Following Hall's       research findings, Stratford and       Ebbsfleet were identified as strategically significant potential growth       poles to trigger economic       regeneration in the Thames Gateway region, offering attractive connections       to Central London,       Southeast England and Northern Europe [1; p. 143].
HS1 opened on       14 November 2007, and       Stratford International Station came into use for domestic services on 30       November 2009.
Further research by Hall on polycentricity, in particular the concept of       the Mega-City Region, made       a vital contribution to the case made for High Speed Two (HS2), a high       capacity railway linking the       North of England to London and beyond, connecting directly to the       continent (via HS1 and the       Channel Tunnel) and to Heathrow Airport.
In 2005, Hall advocated HS2 in an       article [e] and as a       member of the Advisory Group to Greengauge 21, a non-profit advocacy group       working with       railway industry leaders to whose successful advocacy of the concept he       made a key contribution.
Greengauge 21 published its Manifesto in January 2006, attracting       widespread media coverage       and stimulating major national debate.
In January 2009 the Department of       Transport accepted the       case in a report proposing an initial route from London to the West       Midlands [4], and established       HS2 Ltd to examine the case and present a potential route.
In March 2010       the Labour government       accepted the case made in a White Paper on HS2.
After further review by       the incoming Coalition       Government, in January 2012, following a public consultation on the London       to West Midlands       route to which around 55,000 responses were received, the then-Secretary       of State for Transport       announced the government's decision to proceed with the construction of       that line.
As a       consequence, HS2 Phase 1 from London to the West Midlands is currently       planned to come into       operation by 2026.
The proposal remains controversial, but Hall's research       has continued to       provide an important source of evidence in this debate, notably through       recent research [g] with       Chia-Lin Chen reporting the positive economic impacts of high speed rail       on the Lille M&#233;tropole       sub-region [5].
(ii) Investment in and benefits of improved UK and European rail         networks.
The Green-Hall report [6] and SINTROPHER/SYNAPTIC research       projects, both overseen by Hall,       have led to major investments in UK and European rail service including,       for example, the upgrade       of Manchester Victoria Station; the new Koksijde Station (passenger data);       ongoing investment in       the redevelopment of stations at Veurne and Diksmuide; and the completion       of Phase 3 (Line 2) of       the Valenciennes tramway.
Investments made as an integral part of       SINTROPHER included       upgrading the Blackpool tramway upgrade investment; this has allowed the       service to carry more       than 5m passengers since reopening in April 2012, 15% over the projected       figure.
Furthermore,       the Blackpool tramway extension (North Pier-North Station) has been       identified as a regional       priority for investment in 2015-17 [7].
Furthermore, the existence of HS1 and Stratford International Station,       albeit then still under       construction, was a principal consideration in the International Olympic       Committee's choice of       London &#8212; announced in July 2005 &#8212; as the location for the 2012 Olympic       Games [8].
A total of 4m       passengers were carried on special shuttle services on HS1 during the       London Olympics [2] with       no operational glitches, and a strong post-Olympic boost saw traffic       through the station up by 5% in       October &#8212; December 2012 [8].
Even against a difficult economic backdrop, Eurostar's passenger numbers       rose by 2% in 2012 to       9.9 million, up from 9.7 million in 2011.
The company's operating profit       was &#163;52.3 million, a       substantial increase from &#163;25 million in 2011 [3] &#8212; thereby       demonstrating both the positive       economic impacts and the popularity of the service as designed for       passengers.
(iii) Orbital Rail and Polycentric Development in London and the         Greater South East       Research by Hall back in 1989 [a], and work he conducted in 1999       for the London Development       Partnership [d], had a major effect on arguments for London to       develop in a polycentric manner,       particularly through successive versions of the Mayor's Strategic Plan in       2004 and 2009 [9].
The       1999 report argued for early completion of Orbirail, linking separate rail       lines in London, into a       single outer circle system, to encourage a more polycentric form of       development at key       interchange hubs.
These proposals were the revived by Boris Johnson after       his election as London       Mayor in 2008 [9], which led to the completion of Orbirail,       assisted by a takeover of key national       rail services in London by Transport for London (notably the North London       Line) to become the       London Overground service.
The full Orbirail system opened in December 2012 [10].
By       completing the final section of track       between Surrey Quays and Clapham Junction, previously unconnected areas       are now served by       an integrated rail service with trains running directly from Highbury and       Islington to Clapham       Junction.
In 2012, London Overground carried 120 million passengers,       nearly four times the       number carried when it launched in 2007.
Including the Orbirail       extensions, demand has increased       280%, quadrupling from 2.57 million to 9.83 million journeys per       four-weekly period.
According to       Boris Johnson as Mayor of London, the passenger numbers on London       Overground services have       been `going through the roof' and as a result it has become `the         most popular suburban railway in         the country' [11].
Accordingly, in February 2013, Transport for London (TfL) announced a       &#163;320-million programme to       increase capacity by 25%, and to introduce five-car trains on all London       Overground routes to       meet rapidly increasing demand for the network's services.
In the Public       Expenditure Review in       June 2013 the Chancellor of the Exchequer further announced &#163;115 million       funding for       electrification of the Gospel Oak-Barking line, potentially extending       Orbirail to serve major urban       regeneration in Barking Riverside &#8212; a key site in Hall's Thames Gateway       proposals [12].
Outside London, Hall's vision for polycentric development of the Greater       South East region [c, g]       also had a demonstrable impact on the Government's 2003 Sustainable         Communities strategy,       which follows the model of three major development corridors leading from       London, and on the       2005 Milton Keynes-South Midlands Sub-Regional Plan, which proposes       similar polycentric       development for the so-called `City of Mercia' (albeit grouped into larger       urban units).
Specifically,       Hall's vision for an outer orbital rail service were taken up in Surrey       County Council's proposal in       March 2013 for an extended service on the lines he had proposed [13].
