     Findings and tools developed through the UCL research outlined have since       been used for various       purposes: to effect changes in local and national planning policy; to       improve practitioner       understand the benefits of integrated planning approaches; to promote a       more integrated and       efficient investment approach among public bodies; and ultimately to       deliver more sustainable       outcomes and enhanced community engagement in local authorities across       England.
The adoption by local and national UK policy-makers of these findings was       catalysed by their       widespread communication through a series of events starting in 2007 led       by the Bartlett School of       Planning.
These particularly included a seminar held in March 2007 and       attended by the Chair of       the House of Commons Select Committee, Chief Executive of the British       Property Association and       other leading figures from the public and private sector.
A further       seminar later that year was       arranged specifically for the RTPI and its members.
This was followed with       the development and       delivery of a national programme of over 40 regional seminars from 2007-10       in four programmes       of 10 sessions each, the development and publication of the Steps         Guide in 2008 [1], and the       development and delivery of delivery material and direct support packages       to over 100 local       authorities between 2007 and 2010.
These activities have catalysed highly       significant changes to       English planning policy and practice, including:     (i) Influencing UK planning policy: In June 2008 a review was       conducted of the UK       government's guidance provided to all local authorities, based on our       research and its       recommendations [4].
Key recommendations from the final report to       the LGA &#8212; i.e.
that local       authorities needed some clear messages about the changing requirements for       infrastructure       delivery planning &#8212; were adopted in 2007 and resulted in the LGA       commissioning direct support       packages for local authorities to implement the approach identified in the       report, and also informed       the methodology used in the Mayor of London's first delivery plan for       London in 2011 [5].
As a       result, IDP methodologies developed from the UCL research are now being       used by all 346 local       authorities in England (an increase from zero in 2007) as a baseline for       local planning, public and       private sector investment [6].
Since 2011, these methods have also       been used to calculate       Community Infrastructure Levy (CIL) and development contributions [7].
In London, this is       supporting the case made and the bids developed by the Mayor for developer       contributions to and       further infrastructure investment for initiatives including Crossrail 2 [5].
The research findings about       the vital importance of integrated approaches to planning also now support       neighbourhood plans       and strategic infrastructure planning through Local Enterprise       Partnerships (LEPs): local examples       include the development of integrated local investment telecommunications       in Croydon (2010) and       integrated planning within a corporate environment in the London Borough       of Redbridge (2012).
From 2009, local authorities were also advised by the Planning       Inspectorate National Service       (PINS) to adopt both the general practice and Local and Regional       Infrastructure Programmes for       the examination of all local plans [2; para 25].
This preceded the       incorporation of key aspects of       that advice into the final iteration of the National Planning Policy         Framework for England, issued by       the UK government in 2012, and now required to be used by all local       authorities in England [3].
(ii) Professional training and development of a community of practice:       The UCL research has       supported a broader culture and practice change in UK planning, such as       through policy and       training modules for local authorities.
The adoption by the LGA of the       recommendations in the       research report led it to fund a learning module for all local authorities       in England, accompanied by       a roll-out and learning programme.
In 2008-10, researchers in the Bartlett       School of Planning led       more than 40 national seminars across England, with more than 50% of local       authorities attending.
The LGA has also funded 75+ training sessions for local politicians,       private sector representatives,       wider stakeholders, community groups, utilities, fire, and health       services.
One-day events at UCL       in April 2011 and June 2013 each attracted over 120 participants from all       sectors [8].
Feedback       from participants in this training programme has been highly positive,       with input by Morphet       commended by various officials [9].
Through these events, a       Community of Practice was       established in 2008 which now has over 600 members in the UK and abroad to       share information,       queries and good practice, and also to operate as a support for cultural       and professional change.
The research also provided the basis for the development by UCL       researchers of Morphet's 2008       practitioner guide, A steps approach to infrastructure planning and         delivery, published by the       Planning Advisory Service (PAS) for local strategic partnerships and local       authorities on       infrastructure delivery planning to act as a guide in adopting the key       research recommendations       [1].
It is now widely used and frequently quoted by local       authorities to support their methodological       approach to infrastructure planning as part of their local plan, together       with other widely       disseminated and used practitioner guidance.
The `steps' methodology has       since been cited as       good practice by PINS [2], and is referenced frequently by local       authorities.
The RICS has likewise       commissioned a specific guide about IDPs for their membership.
First       issued in 2009, the guide       has been updated by an accompanying article in the same subject by Morphet       in 2012 [10].
The       Knowledge Hub section of the LGA's Knowledge Hub website also       hosts practitioner resources       based on Morphet's work, and she has produced an invited blog on the       integrated role of       infrastructure delivery planning at the local, sub-regional and national       levels for the RTPI [11].
(iii) Adoption of a more integrated investment approach by public         bodies: Prior to the UCL       research, local authorities were not working across boundaries for       infrastructure planning and       provision, and hence infrastructure providers were working in isolation.
This disconnected practice       led in some cases led to the multiple provision of facilities in some       areas, and elsewhere no       provision at all.
It is now working practice that infrastructure providers       are core to the plan making       and delivery process, and this is reinforced through PPS12 [4],       the Planning Inspectorate's       mandatory independent examination of local plans and which refers to the Steps         Guide as       exemplary practice in achieving this goal.
Various local police, health,       and fire services have all       considered different locations and modes of service delivery as a result       of UCL research and the       resultant methodological change in practice, and many have started to act       upon integrated       investment strategies.
The Surrey police force, for instance, closed many       police stations from       2009-11 and redeveloped the released land and buildings land for other       uses from 2010 onwards.
It is now relocating its police services to town halls and libraries, thus       providing a `one-stop shop'       for the public [12].
Infrastructure delivery planning has also       promoted the co-location of facilities       and services to improve public access and reduce operating costs.
Examples       here include: United       Utilities in Lancashire and Cumbria engaging proactively in infrastructure       planning processes to       improve practices in water supply management and new development plans; in       Sunderland,       primary health services have been delivered jointly with older people's       housing, supporting       effective use of resources and complementary services for users; while in       the Black Country and       Greater Manchester, each statutory authority has produced single       integrated infrastructure       investment programme for their economic area, and promoting engagement       across boundaries.
(iv) Promotion of sustainable outcomes and community engagement:       All the local authorities       that are now preparing IDPs and neighbourhood plans engage in community       decision-making as       an integral part of the process, whereas previously this was only done as       separate processes and       failure to locate infrastructure in the most effective locations for       community access and       sustainability.
In turn, this has led to infrastructure investment being       based more on community       priorities.
For example, in urban areas such as Lewisham, Camden and       Wandsworth the method       has led to more efficient use of scarce accessible land resources and the       reutilisation of brown-field       sites for housing.
Infrastructure provision has also become more closely       integrated with       existing communities rather than just focussing on new development as in       previous practice.
In Bristol, the IDPs were used to make a case for major investment in a       public transit link in 2011       which has resulted in planning applications for three key links and       inclusion in the sub-regional       programme [13].
This use of the IDP process to engage       infrastructure providers including       highways, education, health and their committed investment in       Gloucestershire (2009 onwards)       has led to specific joint working on infrastructure assets, future needs       and energy requirements,       which again is leading to more efficient and coordinated investment in       facilities and the use of land.
