     The research described above has achieved significant impacts on public       engagement with, understanding of, and participation in contemporary art       outside the museum or gallery context.
In combination with extensive       public engagement through publications, interviews, public talks and       lectures, the public and strategic siting of the works has also increased       awareness of important issues raised by Goodwin's research, and       contributed to improvements in the quality of London life, including in       terms of enhanced community cohesion and employee satisfaction among       particular groups of workers.
Goodwin's work has engaged broad public audiences with a range of         important social, political and artistic issues, including ideas of       anonymity, individuality and communication in urban contexts, and with the       ways in which these may be explored through portraiture.
In work produced       as part of Linear, these issues were mirrored by the unique blend       of anonymity and proximity within the London Underground (LU) environment,       where 4 million individuals per day are packed in close proximity but with       minimal interaction.
Many of these encountered Linear: the work       was distributed not only across the network but in 2,000 6'x4' sheet       posters, placed in light boxes across the underground; as 3,000 A1       posters; 30,000 fold-out leaflets; and at exhibition sites at Southwark,       London Bridge and Stanmore Underground stations [1].
The reach of impacts       on public engagement with ideas of anonymity and individuality was       extended through presentations including at the National Portrait Gallery       (19.10.2010); and screenings in London (National Transport Museum 2010,       Canary Wharf Screen, May-July 2013), Oxford (Nuffield College), and Norway       (Bergen National Academy of the Arts).
The films and drawings were also       shown as part of One Thing Leads to Another - Everything is Connected,       a group exhibition at London's City Hall (14 May-10 June 2010) curated by       Art on the Underground and accompanied by a free public discussion on       1.6.2010 [2].
An accompanying book of the same title, featuring Linear,       was published in 2012.
The impacts were expanded further through teaching       and discussion materials available on the project website, including       teaching packs on drawing and the nature of portraiture.
The project was, moreover, widely covered in print and online media,       including ITN London Tonight, ArtSlant, Art Online, and the Guardian,       in which Jonathan Jones described it as "gripping, thought-provoking and       evocative of life in the big city" [3], and whose review of Linear       provoked a lively public discussion in the comments section about the       work, in particular about the drawing method.
The popularity of Linear       was such that its duration was extended for an additional 16 months to       June 2012 [1].
As well as engaging LU customers with these `big ideas' about the nature       of life in London, Linear gave a face (through its portraits), a       voice (through its films), and thereby an identity to its subjects among       the LU staff.
As such, it engaged millions of Underground travellers         with the lives, personalities and stories of people often overlooked as         individuals by the public.
The London SE1 community website noted       that staff involved in the project opened up to Goodwin "about life, love       and the highs and lows of working on the Jubilee Line.
From the mundane to       the moving, staff revealed surprisingly intimate details of their lives"       [4].
Posters invited passengers to "unlock the drawings" by watching the       associated films online and to come to know the sitters as individuals.
The call worked: by 1 March 2010, just a month after launch, the 60 films       showing Goodwin drawing and in conversation with each sitter had received       over 9,500 unique views [5], and comments on the project site included       statements on these lines: "It is also a good reminder to us of the people       behind the uniforms" [6].
Between May and July 2010, they were played on       digital moving screens along the escalators and on larger video screens in       stations across the Underground [1].
Linear had a particularly positive impact on the morale of TfL         staff at a time of severe cuts.
At a public meeting, the then Head       of Customer Service Strategy described it as "the best piece of work we've       achieved in humanising our staff" [1].
Its individualising and humanising       effects were immediately recognised and appreciated by staff members       themselves: writing on 14 June 2010 on the AotU project page, one       anonymous commentator affiliated with the LU said: "This project has       brought LUL uniforms and suits to life and shown the human side of staff"       [6].
Three years later, staff at an event in July 2013 to celebrate Linear       still reported positive feelings: "I was very proud of my involvement from       start to finish", one respondent said, whilst another reported "for some       reason [it] made me feel valued as a member of staff" [7].
A number of       staff-focused events were organised around Linear, including the       project launch at the London Transport Museum on 5 February 2010;       screenings and accompanying discussion sessions for staff; and a special       event at Canary Wharf on 23 July 2013.
The exhibition curator stated that       Linear had the highest recognisability of an AotU art project       amongst London Underground staff, and attributed this to its medium as one       that people easily recognise and are receptive towards, to the work's       audio-visual element and the artist-staff interaction [1].
The project's       interest and value to LU staff is further suggested by its inclusion in       internal communications, including On the Move magazine for TfL       pensioners (13,000 circ.)
and Newsline, the magazine for employees       of the Jubilee Line [8].
Linear's broader significance to LU identity is indicated       by its inclusion in the London Transport Museum's 2013 exhibition, Poster         Art 150: London Underground's Greatest Designs, as part of the       celebrations of 150 years of the London Underground.
The Linear       poster was one of only 150 works selected from over 3,300, and the only       moving image poster [9].
Linear's significance has also been       recognised externally: at the Design Week Benchmark Awards in 2010,       Goodwin's technical collaborator, Rose Design, won both Best in Show and       the Public Sector Campaigns Category for Linear, which the judges       described as an exceptional piece of public art and an important piece of       employer communication [10].
The unique approach taken in Linear       to public and staff engagement has further ensured its special       significance to the development of its Art on the Underground curatorial       strategy.
Run before the introduction of now-ubiquitous Twitter promotions       and QR codes, Linear marked the first use by AotU of a `Call to       Action' in the form of the invitation to `unlock' the drawings online.
This was also the first (and so far only) time that the Underground's LCD       screens had been used to display art, the monochrome drawings providing a       striking change from conventional colourful advertisements.
This novel,       multi-channel approach provided a model for Labyrinth, a 2013 AotU       project with artist Mark Wallinger, covering 270 stations and with       extensive accompanying learning resources, public engagement and       interactivity [1].
To these myriad positive effects Breathe (2012) added additional       impacts on public engagement with and understanding of important         environmental and health issues, in particular, air quality issues.
The success of Linear influenced Breathe, both in form and       its emphasis on the relationship between the intimate and anonymous.
The       reach of its public impacts were significantly enhanced by the fact that,       instead of placing Breathe inside St Thomas' Hospital as       originally intended, the 8-metre-high animation was projected onto the       exterior with an estimated audience of over 225,000 people [11].
The       significant media coverage of Breathe extended the reach of       impacts on public engagement, not only with the work itself, but also with       the otherwise largely invisible issue of inner city air pollution [12].
The Visual Arts Development Manager at Guy's and St Thomas' Charity noted       "the benefit to Guy's and St Thomas' NHS Foundation Trust was twofold: an       opportunity for them to highlight the effects of modern air pollution on       the London population, as well as raising the profile of Dr Frank Kelly's       work and the Exhale project" [13].
As with Linear, further engagement was facilitated and       educational benefits delivered through associated teaching and learning       resources.
This was achieved through an educational programme developed by       the Breathe producers, Invisible Dust, of drawing workshops to       engage East London primary school children at the Evelina School with the       science of breathing [14].
The fact that the outdoor screen onto which Breathe was projected       faced the Houses of Parliament across the Thames assured impacts on       discussion and debate about this and related scientific, health and       environmental issues among policymakers.
The benefits that the work       offered to scientists and advocacy groups as a new way of connecting       audiences directly with these issues were acknowledged at an accompanying       seminar, Breathe: Turner Updated, at the Houses of Parliament       (16/10/2012), which explored the effects of air pollution and the       important role of highly public and visible art as a strategy to         communicate and highlight these issues [15].
A questionnaire       completed by over 60% of the attendees returned resoundingly positive       feedback, with a recognition of the importance of and capacity for art and       science to act together to engage both the public and policymakers with       environmental and health issues [15].
Meanwhile, Goodwin's scientific       collaborator, Frank Kelly, described it as "a `refreshing' experience for       him to work with Goodwin, both because he learned to explain and view his       own work differently, and also because he witnessed how his scientific       findings were received and re-translated" [16].
The seminar, which was       organised by the Environmental Audit Committee and Parliamentary Office of       Science and Technology, and attended by 80 students, scientists, media       professionals, researchers, and parliamentary staff, also helped forge new       links between Parliament and St Thomas' Hospital [14].
