     SCEMFA research has supported the creation of new forms of artistic         expression and the production and preservation of new cultural resources       from a medium widely considered non-physical, impermanent and ephemeral.
This is demonstrated by the production of original art and by a series of       subsequent, high-profile acquisitions, permanent installations and public       art commissions from important galleries, museums and other organisations.
In many cases, these represent the first commissioning or acquisition of       digital works by those organisations.
The research has also supported         national and international public engagement with these original       works of art (and, by extension, with the museums and galleries in which       they are shown), including through its use as the basis for a wide-ranging         programme of public events and for the development of new         information and learning resources to accompany the work itself.
These impacts have arisen particularly from SCEMFA's active collaboration       with curators and the wider professional art community: Collins, for       example, was an invited member of and contributor to the Tate's       AHRC-funded `Beyond Text' research network (2008-10), and Thomson's       research on `sculpting the web' [d] has led to groundbreaking and on-going       involvement with museums and curators on conceptualising digital art for       the gallery space.
The SCEMFA research was widely shared by Collins       through a series of invited talks and keynote lectures for diverse       international audiences of students, artists, curators and members of the       public.
Venues have included Sergio Motta Art and Technology Forum, Sao       Paolo, Brazil 2009; Bangkok University, Thailand 2010; Shenkar College,       Tel Aviv 2011, as well as a UCL public lunch hour lecture on Framing         the Digital: Materialising New Media (31/1/13), which was webcast       live and made available on YouTube [1].
One of the works featured in that lecture was Seascape, which was       shown at the De La Warr Pavilion, Sussex (April-June 2009).
The gallery       reported 18,756 visitors to the show, which was accompanied by free talks,       videos, schools projects and tours as part of a comprehensive programme of       public events.
Collins' show enabled the gallery to extend the reach of       its interpretation programme beyond its premises for the first time, with       a talk to a digital media audience at Lighthouse, Brighton.
Reviewing the       show for The Times in 2009, the renowned film director Ken Russell       recognised and celebrated Seascape's futurity and exploration of       "how electronic space enables us to experience physical space in an       amplified way" [2].
Five prints from Seascape were acquired by the       Government Art Collection and displayed from Oct 2010 to Jan 2012 in 10       Downing Street's prominent First Floor Corridor area.
In April 2013, some       of the prints were put on display at the new Department of Culture, Media       and Sport building in Whitehall [3].
Thomson's collaborative work (as T&amp;C), BEACON, was widely       exhibited in the UK and overseas: it appeared in Tallinn, New York,       Edinburgh and London in 2008-11 alone.
Decorative Newsfeeds also       engaged wide public audiences through the installation of the latter as a       semi-permanent outdoor work in Forest Hill, London from 2006-11.
Its       planned lifespan of five years was then extended to January 2013, thanks       to its favourable reception by the sponsor Sainsbury's, Lewisham Council       and local residents.
The commissioner described Decorative Newsfeeds       as "one of the most successful works for the public realm I have been       personally involved in, connecting daily with thousands of passers-by and       customers to the store."
Demonstrating the impacts of SCEMFA research on       wider artistic and curatorial practice, he added: "it has provided an       important model for the installation of electronic/virtual works in the       public realm and is an example that I use often in my work as a       curator/facilitator for contemporary art in the public realm and would       highly recommend the work to others" [4].
The success of Decorative Newsfeeds led to a &#163;60,000 commission       in January 2008 (Commissions East) for another five-year, outdoor public       version of the work for the Junction, Cambridge.
In 2010, the work was       cited in Rethinking Curating as an example of how artists can       bridge the gap between the distributed networks explored by digital       artwork and gallery or public spaces [5, p. 67].
It also facilitated       further research with the Harris Museum, Preston (The Distance         Travelled, 2011); and the National Media Museum (A live portrait         of Tim Berners-Lee, 2012).
The Distance Travelled       represented the first acquisition of digital art for the Harris Museum       collection, who described its acquisition as a "completely new departure"       [6], while the Life Online Content Curator at the National Media Museum       noted that A live portrait of Tim Berners-Lee "raised some very       interesting questions relating to the nature of digital art acquisition (a       fairly new challenge to the Media Museum)...The nature of [the] piece       means that it will continue to comment on the themes of the exhibition for       as long as the web exists" [7].
Decorative Newsfeeds also led in May 2010 to a commission from the       Museum of London (MoL) to mark the launch of its new permanent Galleries       of Modern London.
The result of that commission was London Wall       (2010), whose planned run to 5 September 2010 was extended by popular       demand to the end of October 2010.
London Wall has since been       acquired as part of MoL's permanent collection as a socio-historical       record of online social networking &#8212; the museum's first acquisition of its       kind.
London Wall was in situ for a total of five months       (MoL total visitor numbers for the year ending 31 March 2011 were 671,951       [8]).
Following the commission's success, senior curator Francis Marshall       at MoL consulted T&amp;C on policy development for MoL to commission,       exhibit and collect more digital artworks.
The reconceptualisation through SCEMFA research of digital art as       something that may inhabit physical spaces has opened the door for the       production of other kinds of new, permanent public artefacts.
Faithfull's       Liverpool to Liverpool work constituted a central contribution to a       widely acclaimed project recognised as having regenerated a previously       rundown part of Liverpool's historical cityscape: the station's annual       footfall is now estimated by Network Rail to exceed 24 million per annum       [9].
The launch of the work was accompanied by extensive public engagement       activity, including public performance lectures at St George's Hall,       Liverpool and the Adelphi Hotel, and the urban regeneration sponsor,       Liverpool Vision, attests to the public interaction with the art within       the station's space, where many people are seen "`following' the art       trail" [10].
In 2011, the project won a blue plaque from the National       Railway Heritage Awards for "creating a magnificent setting" for the       station.
The Public Art Officer for Liverpool City Council has recognised       the integration of Faithfull's art into the Lime Street Gateway project as       a best practice model for future projects, particularly praising       Faithfull's engagement from an early stage with the commission, with the       specificity of Liverpool's Lime Station, and the potential viewers of his       work [11].
Research into Materialising the Digital has also delivered       commercial benefits, particularly through its use to provide external         organisations with new techniques and approaches to design.
A new       range of digital print fabric was, for example, commissioned by and       released as part of Liberty's Autumn/Winter 2012 premium art fabrics       collection, after the store's head of design saw Head's Raw Material       exhibition.
Two works from that show, Virtual Light and Dust         Flowers, were developed into Liberty print designs and produced on       over 10,000m of a range of fabrics; by the end of Winter 2012 most of the       range had sold out, and at least one special request had been received for       further metreage.
Liberty also cited Head's work as the "original       inspiration" for a collection of digital prints by various designers [12].
His Liberty prints have since been used in the manufacture of other       products, from pushpins to clothing, with Virtual Light being used       by Nike for a Nike x Liberty collaboration titled `pixel pack' [13].
Launched in June 2013 as an exclusive limited edition, the range caused an       intense fashion buzz on both sides of the Atlantic [14], selling out at       Liberty within weeks of its launch.
