     Impact is defined in the first instance by a critical demand for the       outcomes of the research.
Scholarly engagement with a new `musicology' is building awareness of       material and ethnological       evidence never before considered but now being widely cited.
The benefit       of assembling for the       first time the material evidence for the Great Highland Bagpipe as       national icon and drawing on the       wealth of other bagpipe material in museum and musical collections       worldwide is clear from critical       response.
The evidence in the public domain is allowing for mature       reflection on `new' concepts       such as Baroque and Neo-baroque musical traditions and the `invention' of       instruments in France       in the 17th century and in Britain and Ireland in the 18th       and 19th centuries.
HE teaching now reflects       awareness of the deeper significance of the bagpipe in Europe and as       pan-European musical       instrument, and is drawing on the evidence and parameters laid out by this       research for exploring       the sociology of the bagpipe as cultural stereotype in Scotland and       elsewhere.
The data assembly, endorsed in the Museums &amp; Galleries Commission's Review         of Musical         Instrument Collections (1993), earned the Anthony Baines Memorial       Prize of the Galpin Society in       2009 for the `collection and authoritative published work'.
The research       led on to regular invitations       to lecture and conduct seminars, for example, lecturing to the specialist       American Musical       Instrument and Galpin Societies, Musica Scotica and Society of Antiquaries       of Scotland, and       annual research seminars in the School of Scottish Studies, as well as       invitations to publish       results.
Average attendance figures at conference lectures and seminars       have been in the region       of 60.
The published research is now being widely adopted in university       reading lists eg.
Edinburgh, Aberdeen, Sheffield (e.g.
MA in World Music), UHI and Sabhal       M&#242;r Ostaig C&#249;rsa Ci&#249;il,       Glasgow and Royal Conservatoire of Scotland [RCS], and European and North       American       universities.
A recent review from Glasgow University placed on Amazon       includes plaudits: `wide       consensus in academia ... balances accessibility with an academic approach       ... interdisciplinary ...       stimulating CD ... interactivity a mark of 21st century       learning ... a book with an eye to the future'.
A       further review from University of East Anglia included `... a permanent       and ground-breaking       addition to our literature.'
Exhibitions were mounted in Edinburgh University Reid Music School and in       the new National       Piping Centre (1994-96) with annual visitor numbers of approximately       20,000.
An early response to       this research came with an invitation to contribute to the formation of       the BA Scottish Music       degrees in the Royal Scottish Academy of Music and Drama and to contribute       to teaching.
Hugh       Cheape began a lecture series in 2001, which continues with up to 8       lectures annually in the       `History &amp; Repertoire' course to classes of 6-12 in each year of a       three-year degree.
The teaching       has now been used for a performance suite for the National Youth Pipe Band       of Scotland (2012-       2103).
The musicology database and book underpin the lecture series and       supply learning       materials in a subject notoriously poorly served by the secondary       literature: `...mainstay of our       reading lists on the BA Scottish Music .... essential successor to seminal       works from 1970s-90s in       that it sifts fact from fiction, grounded in evidence and material culture       as opposed to the received       wisdom of a 19th-20th century historiography' (Head       of Scottish Music, RCS, August 2013).
The reputation of the data and supporting research earned a grant of       &#163;15,000 for the preparation       of a `Resources for Learning Scotland' database for the bagpipe in SCRAN       in 2003, with 550       assets.
The methodology was further refined for the CD-ROM `Bagpipes.
A       national collection of a       national instrument' as new musicology and organology database of 2,100       assets published in       2008.
The formation of a category and object list systematically arranged       supplied terminology for       a `thesaurus' which was adopted for the terminology bank of the MDA       [Museums Documentation       Association] and published online with thesauri for UK museum collections.
The research was       awarded the degree of PhD by the University of Edinburgh in 2007.
The book       and CD were       launched in the National Museums Scotland by the Minister of Culture,       Media and Sport with       international media coverage on publication in 2008-9 and including a       pre-publication Guardian       feature article, 19.04.08.
It was then recommended by Alexander McCall       Smith in the Christmas       Scotsman.
The book and CD were re-launched with a performance       `event' in the Edinburgh Book       Festival 2008.
Approximately 200 attended.
The book has sold out twice and       is being reprinted,       and together with the CD with data files, editorial information, sound       files and graphics is being       widely used by scholars, specialists and performers.
The further       development of discrete topics       within the thesis and book since 2008 has led to invitations to address       particular constituencies.
For impact, these demonstrate reach in terms of diversity of audiences and       outreach in terms of       effective dissemination to local communities; for example, Hugh Cheape was       asked to address the       Conference of the P&#236;obaireachd Society in 2010, a specialist group of       about 200, on the music of       the Mackays of Raasay, and the same topic was then used for a       performance-lecture in the       National Piping Centre `Piping Live' Festivals in 2010 and 2011 and in the       Island of Raasay on       29.06.13 This has led to a two-way process of knowledge exchange whereby       specialist research is       fed into communities in Skye and Raasay (as cradles of traditional       Highland piping) and the       knowledge base is strengthened in turn by contextual and collateral       information assimilated from       language and primary sources within the region.
