     1) Impact on development of genetic genealogy     As the first case in which a genealogical question was tackled using the       Y chromosome, "...the         Jefferson-Hemings case created enormous publicity about DNA and its         possible commercialisation         and use" [5.1], thus sparking into life `genetic genealogy', in       which the public have their DNA       analysed to discover genealogical links.
This activity is currently       pursued via several companies.
The largest is FamilyTreeDNA (649,309 tests carried out @ Sept 2013); at a       conservative estimate       of $100 per test, this equates to ~$65M turnover.
On its website [5.2]       this company offers a       `Matching Thomas Jefferson' test, and acknowledges that "The         Jefferson-Hemings DNA study,         published in 1998, was one of the catalysts of what later became the         field of Genetic Genealogy."
FamilyTree DNA now offers highly discriminating Y-chromosomal tests based       on &gt;100 STRs,       including the original set of thirteen [3.2], plus DYS425 and DYS426       [3.4], and many of those       developed in the 2004 study [3.6].
Other companies offering genetic       genealogy services include       Oxford Ancestors, Britains DNA, and Genebase.
Genetic genealogy has become a powerful driver for `citizen science' and       the engagement of the       public in genetics; this can be seen in the thriving International Society       of Genetic Genealogy       (www.isogg.org), a non-commercial       non-profit organization run by its members, and in the       publication of papers in scientific journals by non-academics using online       community data [e.g.
5.3].
Jobling &amp; King published a review in which the public's       engagement in genetic genealogy was       acknowledged [5.4], and King, together with surname historians David Hey       and George       Redmonds, published a popular book on surnames and DNA [5.5].
A more       recent popular book on       the origins of surnames summarises the work of King &amp; Jobling [5.6].
The surnames/genetics link       has been a fruitful topic for public engagement events, including talks to       family history societies       and U3A (University of the Third Age) groups by King and Jobling; King       speaks annually at `Who       Do You Think You Are?'
(London Olympia), the world's biggest family       history event.
Jobling &amp; King's research into the relationships between surnames and       Y-chromosomal variation       contributed to a further funding application [grant 4], employing King as       post-doc.
They used       surname-based sampling of modern populations to access past population       structures [5.7], and to       show high levels of Norwegian admixture in parts of western Britain       colonized by Vikings.
This       work was described in a book for the layperson [5.8], was featured in a       BBC Radio 4 programme       about the genetics of the British [5.9], and has formed the basis of many       talks to the public.
2) Impact on forensic DNA analysis     The development and validation of Y-STR markers has had an impact in the       development of male-specific       DNA profiling kits, and the application of Y-DNA analysis in forensic       investigations.
This       activity is currently increasing, demonstrating a persistent impact into       the current REF period.
The initial studies of Y-chromosomal markers were partly driven by a       desire to apply them in       forensic casework: in the UK (for example), 80% of serious offences and       98% of sexual assaults       are committed by men, so Y-DNA tests are informative, and particularly       useful in mixtures of DNA       from assailant and victim.
It is standard practice to enrich rape case       swabs for sperm DNA by use       of the differential lysis method, which preferentially destroys non-sperm       cells from the victim.
This       allows conventional DNA profiling, which targets STRs from other parts of       the genome (autosomal       STRs), to give a profile from the assailant.
However, when this fails, or       where there are mixtures of       other types (such as blood-blood, or blood-saliva), a highly       discriminating male-specific test is an       invaluable tool.
Y-specific tests also have three specialised       applications: to readily determine the       number of assailants in multiple-rape cases; to give assailant-specific       information when sexual       assault is by a close male relative, and conventional DNA profiles of       victim and assailant are       therefore similar; and to refine familial searches, in which database       profiles are sought that might       belong to the first-degree relatives of perpetrators, and thereby lead to       a suspect.
As well as       criminal cases, Y-DNA testing is applicable in so-called `deficiency       paternity testing'.
For example,       when the alleged father of a male child is unavailable, the paternal       uncle's Y-DNA profile can be       compared with that of the child.
Development of the Y-STRs [3.2] set the scene for their use as forensic       tools; initially this was via       `home-made' kits, but the market soon attracted large commercial suppliers       of DNA profiling kits, in       particular Applied Biosystems with their Y-filer kit (2004), containing 17       Y-STRs, and Promega       Corporation, with PowerPlex Y (12 Y-STRs; 2002), now succeeded by the more       discriminating       PowerPlex Y-23 (23 Y-STRs; 2012).
All of these kits are based on the core       STR set validated in       1997 [3.2], with the addition of others from the systematic survey [3.6].
In a recent development,       one Y-STR, DYS391, is now included in the conventional profiling kit       PowerPlex Fusion (2012),       together with 22 autosomal STRs, to provide preliminary male-specific       information.
Commercial       profiling kits are optimised to give results from just 0.5ng of DNA, and       Powerplex Y-23, for       example, yields male-specific profiles in the presence of a 16,000-fold       excess of female DNA.
Forensic scientists using Y-DNA profiling have benefited from the       development of large online       databases that allow the frequencies of profiles in particular populations       to be estimated easily.
As       set out by Jobling [3.3], Y-DNA profiles are less informative than       autosomal profiles, since the Y-STRs       are not separated by recombination.
Estimating the significance of a       matching Y-profile       requires a large database in which its frequency in a population of       interest can be estimated.
The       online Y Haplotype Reference Database (YHRD; www.yhrd.org       [5.10]) was constructed by Lutz       Roewer and Sascha Willuweit in Berlin, with contribution of a total of       1842 profiles from 5       populations from Jobling and his WT-funded post-doc Elena Bosch (2000-02),       and later his ESF-funded       post-doc Emma Parkin (2003-06).
This database now contains 114,256 Y-STR       profiles       from 851 globally distributed populations.
Most of these profiles are       based on the Yfiler kit, but       shortly will be joined by a large dataset of profiles from the latest       Powerplex Y-23 kit, in work       coordinated by Roewer, to which Jobling and his Leverhulme-Trust-funded       post-doc, Jon Wetton       (2012-current) have contributed.
Forensic applications of Y-DNA are       increasing [5.11], and have       included use in the exonerations of US prisoners via testing of archived       case materials (e.g.
A.B.
Butler, Wilton Dedge, Raymond Towler; www.innocenceproject.org).
