     Through applied and translational research, we have impacted directly the       understanding of contact lens related eye infections, notably those caused       by Acanthamoeba, and the measures taken by Industry and regulatory       bodies to address the risks.
Dr Simon Kilvington and Dr James Lonnen have       established an internationally renowned centre in Leicester for Acanthamoeba       research and the prevention of contact lens related microbial infections.
Their work has led directly to a greater understanding of the risks posed       to contact lens wearers from Acanthamoeba, and how this can be       addressed through greater knowledge and the development of improved       contact lens care solutions (B).
Our work impacts the opinion of       the eye care industry, regulatory bodies and clinicians worldwide.
Key to the centre's success has been a close collaboration with       researchers and ophthalmologists around the world, notably at Moorfields       Eye Hospital, London (E).
In recent years, the centre has also been       involved with the pharmaceutical and contact lens industries, where its       expertise in assay methods, therapeutic and disinfectant agent development       has been widely sought.
Consequently, a commercial analytical service       (Obrus Microbiology Services) was formed within the University to meet and       develop the commercial aspects of the work and provide a diagnostic       service for clinicians (www.le.ac.uk/obrus).
This service is headed by Dr James Lonnen and since 2008 has seen       significant annual growth in service provision and commercial revenue       (&#163;100,000 to &#163;300,000) in demand from the contact lens industry worldwide,       particularly in relation to Acanthamoeba.
Leicester research not only showed that the reported incidence of       Acanthamoeba keratitis in the UK is at least twenty-fold higher than other       European countries and the USA, but also revealed why.
Uniquely, most       homes in the UK have water storage tanks in the loft that supply the       bathroom cold taps and are ideal habitats for the growth of Acanthamoeba       (C).
Using DNA fingerprinting, researchers showed that strains from       keratitis cases were genetically identical to those from the tanks and tap       water in patients' homes.
The publication confirmed the importance of       avoiding tap water in contact lens hygiene procedures and resulted in       clearer and more prominent warnings from manufacturers and professional       groups.
In addition, when the industry was promoting "No-Rub" lens care       solutions, Leicester showed that such an omission would not be effective       in removing potential pathogens, including Acanthamoeba, from the       lenses.
As a result, the USA's Food and Drug Administration (FDA) ordered       that a separate lens rubbing stage ("Rub and Rinse") be included in all       instructions for contact lens solution use (FDA, May 2010):     "We recommend that manufacturers of contact lens multi-purpose         solution products that include "no rub" directions remove the "no-rub"         from product labeling and emphasize the importance of "rubbing and         rinsing" in caring for contact lenses.
Our recommendation is consistent         with several professional eye organizations."
In 2008 a global recall of a contact lens care solution (AMO Complete       MoisturePlus) was implemented following an outbreak of Acanthamoeba       keratitis.
At the request of the company involved, the University of       Leicester led the investigation into the root-cause of the outbreak and Dr       Simon Kilvington was invited to present the findings and other aspects of       Acanthamoeba research at two FDA workshops on contact lens care       solution efficacy in 2008 and 2009.
We established that the care solution       implicated in the outbreak induced Acanthamoeba to transform into       the resistant cyst stage which is likely to have been a significant factor       in the subsequent survival of the organism and initiation of infection (D).
As a result of his reputation and scientific excellence at the University       of Leicester, Dr Simon Kilvington was seconded in 2008 to work for Abbott       Medical Optics (AMO; A), California, USA to develop their       microbiology R&amp;D capability and lead in the development of a new       contact lens care solution, AMO RevitaLens&#174; (F), with proven       efficacy against Acanthamoeba.
Key to the solutions potent       antimicrobial activity is the use in the formulation of the disinfectant       agent alexidine dihydrochloride which had been characterised as a potent       anti-acanthamoebal agent by Dr Kilvington's group (Reanne Hughes, PhD       thesis University of Leicester, 2004).
The product development at AMO was       of high priority, as the recall and subsequent loss in investor confidence       almost led to the financial collapse of the company before it was bought       out by Abbott Laboratories in early 2009.
The product was launched in in       2010 and has become one of the global top selling contact lens care       solutions, with 10,000,000 bottles sold annually.
In recognition for his       work at AMO, Dr Simon Kilvington was elected as a Research Fellow to the       highly prestigious Abbott Volwiler Society in 2011.
Contact lens care solutions must conform to specified parameters for       microbiological efficacy as defined by the International Organization for       Standardization (ISO) document 14729.
The research and developments in       contact lens care have impacted directly the opinions of the industry and       regulatory bodies.
This has resulted in Dr Simon Kilvington becoming an       elected expert member of the ISO committee (2008 to date; International       Organization for Standardization; G) that examines at all aspects       of contact lens microbiology and regulation to ensure the greater global       safety of contact lens wearers.
Key to this work has been the preparation       of a new ISO standard requiring that contact lens care solutions must be       tested to demonstrate that they do not induce Acanthamoeba       encystment (ISO/TC 172/SC7/WG9: ISO/NP 19045).
Furthermore, the Food and       Drug Administration in the USA is revising its guidance regarding       microbiological effectiveness for manufacturers seeking approval to market       new contact lens care systems ("Premarket Notification (510(k) Guidance       Document for Contact Lens Care Products") and this will include efficacy       against Acanthamoeba, based on methods developed by Dr Kilvington.
Accordingly, our work at Leicester has directly impacted the awareness of       contact lens safety, the development of improved new contact lens care       solutions and, in doing so, contributed to the global prevention of       blindness.
