     During the quinquennium 2008-2013 the study described here has had &#8212; and       continues to have &#8212; a       beneficial impact at two levels, i. on cancer patients in terms of       improved survival, and ii.
on       finances pertinent to Pharmamar SA, the company which developed       trabectedin.
Clinical impact: Currently trabectidin is mainly used to       treat certain soft tissue sarcomas.
These are       cancers in tissues connecting/surrounding limbs or trunk, breast, stomach,       skin and uterus, which       account for ~1% of all malignant tumours.
The incidence in England is       ~2,500 individuals annually.
About 35% of cases occur in economically active people (aged 50 or below).
Whilst in the UK       treatment with trabectedin is largely confined to oncology centres which       specialise in sarcoma       therapy, the drug is more widely used in mainland Europe.
[text removed       for publication]     The preclinical findings by the Leicester team showed for the first time       that dexamethasone       pretreatment can protect rodents from the liver toxicity exerted by       trabectidin.
These results       pointed to a potential clinical antidote strategy, the viability of which       was borne out by the Italian       clinical study alluded to above (5.1).
The findings by the Leicester Group       and their collaborators       constituted a significant advance, in that they suggested for the first       time that dexamethasone co-treatment       can alleviate the very serious liver toxicity which trabectidin exerts.
This information was       disseminated among the oncology community in the early 2000s.
Premedication with       dexamethasone to ameliorate trabectidin toxicity in patients was made       mandatory in the USA in       2003 and implemented world-wide in 2005/6.
Since 2007 it has become       standard practice.
In 2007 the European Medicine Evaluation Agency (EMEA) approved       trabectidin for the treatment       of soft tissue sarcomas.
By early 2013 the drug has been approved in 73       countries, 30 of these       within Europe, for the treatment of sarcomas and/or metastatic ovarian       cancer.
According to       guidance provided by the UK National Institute for Clinical Excellence       (NICE) in February 2010 and       confirmed in March 2013, trabectedin is accepted as "second line" therapy       for soft tissue       sarcomas, after doxorubicin and ifosfamide, or "third line" after       consecutive single agent therapy       (5.2).
Importantly, such NICE guidance takes not only therapeutic and       pharmacological facts but       also economic issues into consideration.
Trabectidin is currently also in       phase II-III evaluation as       treatment against solid tumours of the prostate, breast or pancreas and       mesothelioma, based on       promising preclinical results.
The "European Public Assessment Report" on       trabectidin (written by       the European Medicines Agency in 2009) says: "...to protect the liver,       patients must receive an       infusion of corticosteroids such as dexamethasone before treatment..."       (5.3).
Supportive care       measures for patients receiving trabectidine described in articles for       oncologists include advice       such as "...dexamethasone pretreatment ... used to limit hepatic toxicity       and to prevent nausea and       emesis.
The recommended dose of dexamethasone for adults is 20mg 30       minutes prior to the start       of trabectedin infusion..." (5.4).
Various trabectedin regimens have been shown to be clinically efficacious       in patients with       advanced/metastatic soft tissue sarcoma after failure of treatment with       conventional cytotoxic       drugs (5.4).
In these trials trabectedin therapy achieved overall survival       rates of &gt;10 months,       significantly superior to the ~6 months obtained with previous standard       therapy.
This means that       patients who receive, and respond to, trabectidin live ~4 months longer       than those receiving       standard therapy.
It is pertinent to stress that in cancer chemotherapy       such a seemingly moderate       gain in life span constitutes an extremely successful drug treatment       outcome.
The following       summary of a leading UK sarcoma specialist underlines the "significance"       of the case presented       here: "...In a significant proportion of sarcoma patients trabectidin is       efficacious, and the lack of       cumulative toxicity against specific organs and generally good       tolerability means that treatment can       be continued indefinitely in many patients with ongoing response..."       (5.5).
Economic impact: Within the last 3 years sales of       trabectidin have constituted the predominant part       of Pharmamar's drug-related income (5.6).
Information on gross revenues is       available for 2011,       during which the sale of trabectidin generated 80.6 million Euros for       Pharmamar.
The extensive       use of trabectidin is only possible because pre-medication with       dexamethasone obviates its       potentially dose-limiting liver toxicity.
Pharmamar might have attempted       to market this drug without       the research described here, but its severe liver toxicity when given       without dexamethasone would       have undoubtedly strongly curtailed the oncologists' enthusiasm for       administering the drug.
Consistent with this notion the current UK national guidance by NICE on       how trabectidin should be       administered says "...intravenous dexamethasone (20 mg) must be       administered to all patients 30       minutes before trabectedin treatment, dexamethasone may also have       hepatoprotective effects..."       (5.2).
Recommendations from many other new drug-approving bodies outside       the UK reflect the       opinion expressed by NICE, as exemplified by a statement from "Health       Canada" in 2010: "...All       patients must be premedicated with... dexamethasone 20 mg iv, 30       min before trabectidin       infusion... because it appears to provide hepatoprotective effects..."       (5.7).
The number of       individuals to receive trabectidin is likely to increase, when the results       of ongoing clinical trials       become available.
The scientific result obtained in Leicester that trabectidin toxicity can       be dramatically ameliorated       by dexamethasone pretreatment has rendered routine treatment using this       useful anticancer drug       possible.
