     Cuairt Mhic'IlleMh&#236;cheil is a BBC radio series of 8x30-minute       programmes, researched, scripted,       and presented by Dr Sti&#249;bhart, tracing the life and works of the major       Gaelic folklore collector       Alexander Carmichael (1832-1912), broadcast thrice over the past five       years.
As a result:            new insights from academic research were reinterpreted for a popular         audience;       significant, hitherto undiscovered cultural capital was returned to         marginalised minority         communities in the Scottish G&#224;idhealtachd;       a foundation was laid for sustained, mutually beneficial collaboration         with individuals and         groups within the region.
BBC Radio nan G&#224;idheal does not record exact listening figures.
The       programmes' significance,       however, for listeners and the broadcasting institution itself, can be       gauged by the fact that Cuairt       was repeated twice during the time covered by the REF, given a permanent       website (G), and       enthusiastically endorsed by the then head of Radio nan G&#224;idheal (C).
Throughout his career Dr Sti&#249;bhart has demonstrated a commitment to       bringing research insights       to a wider audience, through broadcast media and work with community       organisations and       societies, especially in vulnerable marginal communities in the       G&#224;idhealtachd whose cultural       confidence is fragile, where academic involvement remains relatively       uncommon and       correspondingly meaningful.
Previous engagement with diverse `communities       of interest' in these       areas &#8212; historians, genealogists, and community animateurs &#8212; had already       elicited valuable       feedback and long-term cooperation, enriching a shared understanding of a       complex cultural       heritage.
Cuairt thus represented a continuation of Dr Sti&#249;bhart's       professional practice.
Its subject met BBC       Radio nan G&#224;idheal's established commitment to educate and empower       listeners whose formal       education had rarely taken account of their own Gaelic culture and       heritage, and to challenge       prevailing anglocentric cultural values and social assumptions (C).
The series was recorded on location throughout the G&#224;idhealtachd, in       districts where Alexander       Carmichael lived and/or collected (C).
Despite Carmichael's cultural       significance, little was known       about the man himself, his controversial achievements, or his involvement       with the contributors'       own areas (C, D, F).
With this in mind, Dr Sti&#249;bhart supplied contributors       with contextualised       transcripts from Carmichael's unpublished manuscripts in Edinburgh       University Library.
This new       material prompted contributors to make crucial connections between       Carmichael's informants and       living Gaelic tradition.
This led to further dialogue with Dr Sti&#249;bhart,       inspired fresh research, and       elicited novel interpretative frameworks (A&#8212;F, H).
Feedback testifies to       the diverse impacts       resulting from Cuairt Mhic'IlleMh&#236;cheil and Dr Sti&#249;bhart's ongoing       engagement with series       contributors.
Research to be published next year by John MacFarlane, Taynuilt, on the       topography, history, and       cultural heritage of his native Mid-Lorn &#8212; he is the last native Gaelic       speaker there &#8212; has been       greatly facilitated by discussion with Dr Sti&#249;bhart.
Collaboration with Dr       Sti&#249;bhart enabled Mr       MacFarlane to trace the biography of a major local bard, as well as to       unearth an associated song       for public performance.
Mr MacFarlane is presently using material supplied       by Dr Sti&#249;bhart       concerning a currently endangered holy well in Appin to alert interested       parties throughout the       world to the threat (E).
Dr Sti&#249;bhart supplied Calum Laing, Alness, with crucial information       concerning two great-uncles:       the Rev.
John MacRury, the most prolific Gaelic writer of the nineteenth       century, and his brother       Seonaidh.
This allowed him to compile his important, recently published       bio-bibliography of the       former (H), as well as to identify the latter as a hitherto unknown, and       still to be fully researched,       assistant of Carmichael who supplied him with exceptionally significant       charms reworked and       showcased in Carmina Gadelica (A).
Ongoing work with Alasdair MacEachainn, Benbecula, has clarified the       identity of Carmichael's       island informants, many of whom have descendants there today.
It has also       revealed the origins of       an internationally significant archaeological find acquired by the       folklorist: a Pictish stone from       Sunamul, an island once inhabited by MacEachainn's family.
This       information has been used by       the contributor in local lectures and community walks (D).
Sustained collaboration with the Seallam!
Hebridean genealogical       centre has illuminated economic       circumstances and factors motivating emigration in the mid-nineteenth       century islands.
Further       results will appear in a booklet about the history of the Harris machair,       as well as in on-going       research concerning the now deserted island of Taransay and the history of       Harris Tweed (B).
Overall, feedback indicates that the various impacts resulting from Cuairt       continue to enhance       public awareness of, and engagement with, the region's vulnerable Gaelic       heritage, demonstrating       its value in restoring cultural confidence and strengthening community       identity.
Archived versions       and further repeats of Cuairt, and a follow-on series by Dr       Sti&#249;bhart (on the major folklorist John       Francis Campbell) commissioned as a result, will maintain and develop       collaborative work with       these communities in the future (C).
