     James Hunter's research has established the economic and social benefits       of community       ownership in Scotland, underpinned his extensive career in public policy,       informed public policy       debate on land reform and assisted community buyout schemes.
Since 2008,       the key impacts of       his research have been:     1) To put land reform back onto the Scottish Government's agenda to the       extent that is now a       central plank of current and future legislation;     2) To inform and assist community buyout schemes;     3) To demonstrate the ongoing economic and social benefits of community       buyouts.
Public policy impact       Hunter has had a long and distinguished career in policy-related work       which has built on his       academic research on crofting and land reform, including periods working       as the Director of the       Scottish Crofters Union (1985-90) and Chairman of Highlands and Islands       Enterprise (1998-2004).
As Director of CfH, Hunter continued his high-profile involvement in       public and policy-related       activities, with a particular focus on the issues of land reform explored       in his research.
These       included:            Member of the board of Scottish Natural Heritage (2004-10) and         Chairman of the SNH's         Scientific Advisory Committee (2006-10);       Chairman of the Isle of Eigg Heritage Trust, the body which owns Eigg         on behalf of the         islanders (2004-07);       Member of the board of Highland Birchwoods, a non-profit forestry         consortium (2006-10);       Aigas Community Forest Champion (2010-).
Hunter's expertise in, and continuing contribution to, land reform was       underlined in July 2012 when       Scotland's First Minister, Alex Salmond, appointed him Vice-Chairman of       the Scottish       Government's Land Reform Review Group (a role held by Hunter until April       2013) with a brief `to       deliver radical change'.
Hunter's research has had considerable impact on       government policy,       leading to the First Minister's commitment in June 2013 to bring a further       500,000 acres of land       into community ownership by 2020 `in the wake of the publication of the       interim findings of the       Scottish Government's Land Reform Review Group' (5.1).
Moreover,       the work of the LRRG has       also underpinned the Scottish Government's commitment to a Community       Empowerment and       Renewal Bill, which was under consultation between June and September 2012       (5.2) Most       recently, in July 2013 Professor Hunter was commissioned by the House of       Commons Scottish       Affairs Committee (SAC) to write a briefing paper for their forthcoming       inquiry into land reform in       Scotland.
This report places contemporary public policy debate firmly in a       historical context derived       directly from Professor Hunter's research for the Carnegie UK Trust in       2010-12.
The reach of the       SAC paper was demonstrated when the journalist George Monbiot tweeted a       link to the paper to       his 70,000+ followers on the social networking site (5.3).
This       briefing paper is now being used by       the SAC to inform its inquiry into land reform in Scotland and has led to       a call for public       submissions of evidence (5.4).
Community buyout activism       Moreover, Professor Hunter's research has had a direct causal link with       changes in land ownership       in Scotland, which has transformed communities and the lives of the people       living in them.
The       land reform activism inspired by Hunter's research has enabled these       communities to be rebuilt       from within, functioning as a focal point for the formation of local       groups dedicated to changing the       nature of land ownership.
During his time as Chair of HIE, Hunter was       responsible for setting up       the Community Land Unit, committed to assisting communities in their       desire to purchase land.
A       number of community groups were set up as a result of Hunter's research       and activism, leading to       the transfer of the ownership of over 500,000 acres of land to the people       living in those       communities and to the economic and social impacts outlined below.
In September 2009, Professor Hunter was the keynote speaker at the       Community Land       Conference in Harris, and from this event emerged Community Land Scotland,       a group       representing community landowners throughout the country.
Moreover, this       speech demonstrated       Hunter's key role in the campaign for the reintroduction of the Scottish       Land Fund by the Scottish       Government in 2012, which has made &#163;6 million available to assist       community buyouts of land       (5.5).
David Cameron, the Chair of Community Land Scotland,       attested to the impact of Hunter's       work, saying that it had `contributed heavily when [community       landownership] policies have and       are being advocated...[C]ommunity landownership's remarkable progress in       gaining credibility and       increasing numerically would have been very difficult without Professor       Hunter's work' (5.6).
The       importance of Hunter's research to community activism was underlined by       Peter Peacock, former       Leader of Highland Council, former MSP for Highlands and Islands and       Scottish Government       Minister, and current Policy Director of Community Land Scotland: `James       Hunter's highly       respected research and writing has helped give authority to contemporary       policy thinking... [His]       work cannot be overestimated in its importance in helping shape current       day policy of great       relevance and importance to the Highlands and Islands'.
(5.6)     Hunter speaks regularly to community groups, local and national       organisations on a variety of       developmental and historical themes.
For example, in the summer of 2010,       at the invitation of the       Carnegie UK Trust, he gave a lecture on land reform at the annual Festival       of Politics in the       Scottish Parliament (5.7).
This led to the Carnegie UK Trust       commissioning Hunter to write an       account of the development and expansion of community ownership in the       Highlands and Islands.
The resulting book, From the Low Tide of the Sea to the Highest         Mountain Tops was published in       March 2012 by the Lewis-based Islands Book Trust &#8212; selected by Hunter       because of the Book       Trust's links with the area where so much community ownership has       occurred.
Hunter gave       presentations on the book in Inverness, Edinburgh, London and elsewhere,       his presentation in the       Scottish Parliament, to MSPs, policy makers and others, attracting an       80-strong audience.
As       David Ross, Highland Correspondent of The Herald (Glasgow) wrote,       this was `...a provocative       work, which has clearly influenced Scottish Government thinking on land       reform' (5.6).
Hunter's       work, then, has had a demonstrable influence on community buyout activism       throughout Scotland.
As Lorne MacLeod, a key figure in the community buyout movement, has       argued, Hunter's       research `has helped the emergence of a greater confidence in, and       understanding of, land       ownership amongst communities...[it] has been a catalyst which has helped       initiate several       campaigns for community ownership', including recent buyouts of land by       the Isle of Rum       Community Trust in February 2009 and April 2010 (5.6).
Economic, social and environmental benefits       The community buyout schemes that Hunter's research has influenced have       seen a number of       economic, social and environmental benefits during the period 2008 to       2013.
The Isle of Gigha       Heritage Trust succeeded in bringing the land of the island into community       ownership in March       2002, building on both the research and public policy work of James       Hunter.
This was partly       funded by a grant of &#163;500,000 from Highlands and Islands Enterprise, at       that time under the       Chairmanship of Hunter.
The economic impact of this community ownership       scheme has continued       to be felt during the period of REF 2014.
For example, the Isle of Gigha       Heritage Trust established       the UK's first community-owned and grid-connected wind farm, whose three       turbines generate two-thirds 	  of the island's annual electricity requirements and, in 2011-12,       provided a profit of &#163;109,073       to the island from the Gigha Renewable Energy Limited company (5.8).
Moreover, the economic       impact of the community buyout has also led to an increase in the       population of the island of over       50 per cent (5.9).
Similar impacts have been experienced on the       Isle of Eigg, where James Hunter       was Chair of the Isle of Eigg Heritage Trust from 2004-07.
On Eigg, for       example, there have been       considerable environmental impacts arising from Hunter's research and       activism.
Here, Eigg       Electric was established in 2008 to provide renewable energy for the       island, receiving the Scottish       and Southern Energy Innovation and Energy Efficiency award at the Scottish       Energy and       Environment Conference in 2009 for reducing the island's carbon emissions       by 50 per cent (5.10).
