     a) Impact on public debate about the contribution of religion to         publicly-funded schools       Cooling's report on the BHA's education policy, Doing God in Education,       has had impact of       considerable reach and significance on public debate and engagement in the       UK with the issues it       raises.
For example, it was debated at an over-subscribed event organised       by the Royal Society of       Arts at their London headquarters on 23rd February 2011.
The       online video recording of the event       (1) has been viewed 10,807 times (accessed 21/10/13).
The report was the       focus of the BBC       World Service programme Politics UK (2) on 25th       February 2012 and of a TES two-page feature on       28th October 2011.
There has been continuing debate with the       BHA, whose CEO and the chair of       the Humanist Philosophers' Group, Professor Richard Norman, wrote a joint       response for the RSA       event.
As a result of continuing engagement with Cooling, the BHA withdrew       from its public       campaigning against the Sevenoaks Christian School (3).
Revell's research       was featured in Nicky       Campbell's BBC documentary (4) at Easter 2010, examining whether       Christians are persecuted in       the UK.
The impact from Doing God in Education has also had international       reach.
For example it has been       translated into Russian (5) and an edited version produced in German for       Swiss teachers.
The significance of this impact is that the public discourse surrounding       the research has helped       create a context where those involved in religiously sponsored schools can       be more confident in       the validity of their contribution, as illustrated by the independent       review posted by a former Chief       Executive of the Association of Christian Teachers, who described the       report as the `one book' to       read for a Christian standpoint on education (6).
b) Interim impact on distinctively Christian teaching and learning         practice in church         schools     The pedagogical research is disseminated through a website, produced in       UK and US versions       (www.whatiflearning.co.uk       and www.whatiflearning.com)       that went live in April 2012.
The website       is for schools that wish their Christian ethos to shape their teaching and       learning by using the       approach developed in the phase 1 research.
Its impact is significant,       albeit interim, in offering       these schools a distinctively Christian pedagogy not previously available       and thereby providing       justification for their claim to promote a Christian ethos in their       classrooms.
The usage statistics for the UK site to the end of October 2013 are a       total of 11,431 visits from 125       countries with 60,278 page views.
Of these, 36% were return visits and the       average pages viewed       per visit were 5.27.
For the US site, the equivalent figures were 15,318       visits from 133 countries       with 51,173 page views and 39% return visits, and the average pages viewed       per visit were 3.34.
The high percentage of return visits and page views per visit indicates       sustained use rather than       casual visits.
The reach of the What If Learning impact has been to a variety of       schools, such as Roman       Catholic and Adventist denominational schools and individual Free schools.
For example, the       Church Free secondary school (7), which opened in Sevenoaks in September       2013, is basing its       teaching and learning strategy on What If Learning.
Since joining       the University in 2010, Cooling       has led events for 20 organisations responsible for groups of schools and       is working with three       schools in an intensive programme focussed on each school's pedagogical       practice.
The approach       has been particularly influential on the Church of England (8), the       largest UK provider of schools       with a religious sponsor (nearly 4,600 schools).
In March 2013, Cooling       organised a training       conference for Church of England diocesan education teams wishing to use       the approach with       their schools.
50 delegates attended representing over 75% of the 43       dioceses.
Participants are       now setting up training events in their local area and a grant of &#163;27,000       from the Jerusalem Trust       has been secured to support this dissemination in 2014.
Examples of       dioceses running their own       What If Learning CPD programme are Oxford, York, and Peterborough.
In June 2013, a booklet       designed for Church school head teachers, staff and governors called         Distinctively Christian         Learning?
was published by the Association of Anglican Diocesan       Directors of Education, so as to       offer Church of England schools an accessible introduction to the       approach.
EdisonLearning (9),       the school improvement partner working with the Church of England, is       adopting the approach in       its work with church schools.
The reach of the impact is also international.
For example the Diocese of       Sydney has created its       own URL address for the website and has an officer whose responsibility is       to support schools in       using it (10).
She is introducing the approach in six schools, with a       further six expressing interest.
In addition, Cooling has spent two separate weeks in St Andrews Cathedral       School in Sydney       introducing the staff to What If Learning, as well as speaking at a       national conference for Christian       teachers in Darwin in 2011.
In America, Calvin College is conducting its       own programme of training       for schools in the US and overseas, including Indonesia, Norway, South       Korea, and South       America.
