     Over 200 breast cancer teams world-wide now use TARGIT including:       Cleveland Clinic; University       of California San Francisco; University of Southern California; Cornell;       Georgetown University;       Advocathealth hospitals in Chicago; Moffit cancer centre, Florida; about       two-thirds of breast       centres in Germany; several centres in the rest of Europe.
The busiest       centre has treated over 500       cases and manufacturers Carl Zeiss report that in all, over 8,000 patients       have been treated with       TARGIT [a].
Thus, this idea and resulting research from UCL has revolutionised the       treatment paradigm from       radical radiotherapy to localised radiotherapy.
Impact on patients and their families: improvement in length and         quality of life, at a reduced cost     Many women are obliged to choose a mastectomy when they are not able to       take the prolonged       postoperative course of radiotherapy because of geography, time or money       constraints.
Many       receive suboptimal treatment.
With TARGIT, such women can have a       lumpectomy and preserve       their breast.
Even amongst those who have a lumpectomy, TARGIT causes less       pain, higher level       of patient satisfaction, and higher quality of life scores than those       receiving conventional       radiotherapy [b].
There is a significant improvement in a woman's       cancer journey when the whole       of local treatment is completed at the time of the cancer operation,       rather than a daily 3-6-week       commute to the cancer hospital.
TARGIT patients also have half the risk of       death from heart       disease or other cancers by avoiding toxicity.
From the numbers in the       trial (13 fewer deaths       amongst 1,140 patients who were randomised to receive TARGIT at the time       of lumpectomy), one       can extrapolate that out of 8,000 patients, 91 such deaths have already       been prevented.
In       communities where the patients have to pay for their treatment, TARGIT is       a fraction of the cost of       conventional radiotherapy &#8212; leading to more equitable availability of       treatment.
Impact on the routine treatment guidelines/recommendations for         patients in the community     The TARGIT-A trial was the first proof of principle of `partial breast       irradiation' and other methods       of giving partial breast irradiation have proliferated.
TARGIT either as a       tumour bed boost or as       definitive treatment as well as other methods of partial breast       irradiation are now included in       guidelines issued by the European Society of Breast Cancer Specialists [c],       the European Society       of Medical Oncology (which are also endorsed by the Japanese Society of       Medical Oncology) [d]       and in German national guidelines [e].
In March 2011, at the biennial international "St Gallen consensus"       conference, 52 world experts       voted in favour of using intraoperative radiation in selected patients.
At       this time the only level 1       randomised evidence was from the TARGIT-A trial [f].
In December       2012, the newsletter at the       largest breast cancer conference at St Gallen featured our late breaking       paper [g].
Our research       has also attracted significant media attention both in scientific       periodicals as well as lay press [h].
NICE is currently consulting on the use of TARGIT in routine practice [i].
The Marmot committee       on screening has suggested that in patients whose cancers are found only       on mammographic       screening, if TARGIT is used rather than EBRT, this would minimise side       effects due to the over-diagnosis       and overtreatment that is known to occur with mammographic screening [j].
We have       also demonstrated that TARGIT is a method of avoiding cardiac toxicity of       EBRT [k].
Impact on the healthcare delivery and budget     Breast cancer constitutes 1/3 of the workload of a typical radiotherapy       department and in many       areas there can be long waiting lists.
When a significant proportion of       this time is freed up by using       TARGIT in the operation theatre, it can be used to treat other cancers in       a timely manner.
Assuming that each of the 8,000 patients who had TARGIT during their       lumpectomy would have       required 30 conventional radiotherapy sessions rather than the single       session at the time of       surgery, and that TARGIT takes the time equivalent of 4 routine       radiotherapy sessions, this is a       saving of 208,000 radiotherapy sessions to date.
Assuming each session       costs a conservative       &#163;200, the saving of 208,000 sessions has already saved &#163;41.6m world-wide.
It is estimated that       adoption of TARGIT in the UK will save about &#163;60m per year from manpower       costs alone.
A more       formal model has predicted this amount to be $280m in the US [l].
