     The research described above has provided a robust conceptual and       methodological basis for defining the inherently complex and subjective       concepts of wildness and wild land.
This has led to Scotland being the       first country in Europe to map wildness and wild land at such a high level       of detail and accuracy, which has had three key impacts: i) providing a       stronger basis for decision making relating to planning applications in       Scotland's national parks ii) providing a basis for public debate and       further research on wildness and wild land, and their importance as       national assets in Scotland; and iii) facilitating greater recognition of       wild land and wildness in national policy, providing a firm basis for       greater protection of wild land through national planning policy.
In 2008-2010, the development of wildness maps and a wildness mapping       tool in Scotland's two national parks provided an underpinning framework       for defining and protecting wildness and wild landa.
The       protection of wildness is a core objective of both national parks.
National park staff can now use the wildness mapping tool to assess the       overall impact of any development proposal on wildness, by running the       model with the proposed development inserted.
The development of       supplementary planning guidanceb on wildness in the Cairngorms       National Park based on the maps has provided a clear framework to inform       planning decisions related to development proposals which may impact on an       area's wildness.
To inform the mapping process and understanding (and appreciation) for       wild land in Scotland, public perception studies were also commissioned by       the national parks and SNH in parallel with the mapping studies.
These       demonstrated strong support for wild land conservation among the Scottish       public: from a sample of 1,304, 91% agreed that it was important for       Scotland to have wild places and 70% considered it very importantc.
This is reflected in Scottish Government and SNH policiesd,       which state that the unique landscape values of wild land should be       protected from intrusive development.
Defining and mapping wild land       contributes to the protection of landscape values which are important both       to local communities and to the national sense of Scottish identity, as       well as for high-value recreational experiences and to underpin tourism.
Wildness and wild land mapping also allows for the identification of areas       suitable for large-scale ecological restoration and zoning (in terms of       planning guidance, visitor management etc.)
based on their relative       wildness.
Wild land conservation also delivers benefits in terms of       protecting ecosystem services, such as carbon sequestration, freshwater       resources, and biodiversitye.
This research on wild land and wildness was an important factor in       influencing the Scottish Government to commission, in 2010, a report on       how wild land is managed in Europee.
This work included the       development of wildness maps for Europe, which were also published in a       report by the European Environment Agency in 2010f and       presented in Prague in 2011 at the European Commission's Conference on       Wilderness and Large Natural Habitat Areas (part of a coordinated strategy       to protect wilderness and wild land areas in Europe and linked to the 2011       EU Resolution on Wilderness)g. Further work to develop a       `Wilderness Register' (utilising the wildness maps) for Europe has also       been undertaken.
The identification of high-quality wilderness sites       offers the potential for subsequent prioritisation of sites where there is       a requirement for protection and for linking wilderness protection with       sustainable tourism, following the Pan Parks wilderness tourism modelh.
The successful development of wildness mapping in Scotland's national       parks provided the basis for mapping wildness across Scotlandi.
This process of national wildness mapping was completed by SNH in 2012; in       a second work phase, SNH identified 43 delineated `core areas of wild       land' by analysing the scores of relative wildness using a statistical       technique known as `Jenks natural breaks analysis' and identifying a       minimum threshold size of area (2013).
A third phase of work used informed       judgement to confirm the selection of areas of wild land character       encompassing the largest contiguous blocks of land with the highest levels       of wildness.
In April 2013, the Scottish Government proposed that the       identified `core areas of wild land' should be protected through       Development Plans and spatial frameworks for onshore wind.
Following       consultation on this proposal, through the national consultation on the       National Planning Framework (NPF) 3 and draft Scottish Planning Policy       (which closed in July 2013), the Scottish Government is currently deciding       on how exactly wildness and wild land will be incorporated within the NPF       in 2014.
The wildness mapping work was presented at the 10th       World Wilderness Congress in October 2013 in conjunction with a conference       resolution calling on the Scottish Government to protect wild land.
