     The CPU has made a range of contributions to discussion, debate and       decision-making at national policy level.
In 2006, Curran presented expert       evidence to the Home Office's Advisory Council on the Misuse of Drugs       (ACMD) on ketamine which contributed to the Government's decision in 2006       to classify ketamine as Class C; use did not subsequently decline and in       2012, Home Secretary Teresa May requested a new ACMD review with Curran       appointed to the working group (decision due in 2014) [a].
Meanwhile, the Independent Scientific Committee on Drugs (ISCD)       commissioned us to write the `Ketamine Review' (ref 4 above) and BBC News       timed a feature on ketamine to go out on the day this was published [b].
Curran gave evidence about new psychoactive substances to the All-Party       Parliamentary Group on Drug Policy Reform at the House of Lords in May       2012 [c].
The report of this committee will form a basis for       Government policy on emerging new drugs.
Curran has also advised the ACMD       on ecstasy and methamphetamine.
Internationally, Curran was a key witness on the subject of MDMA       sentencing guidelines for the trial U.S. v. McCarthy, 2011 (WL       1991146) which took place in New York in December 2010.
Her five-hour       testimony played the major role in the Judge's decision (in July 2011) to       reduce the custodial sentencing for MDMA possession by 60%.
The trial       details are available on the web training resource for federal defenders       in the US and have been cited by the Federal Public and Community       Defenders and the American Civil Liberties Union in comments on proposed       amendments to the US sentencing guidelines [d].
In 2013 the       research on THC influenced policy-makers in the Netherlands to recommend       separate legal penalties for high-potency THC cannabis (&gt;15%) compared       with low-potency THC cannabis [e].
Our research has impacted on national and international media discourse       about, public awareness of, and engagement with the effects of       recreational drug use.
Our activities have fallen into three areas:       providing accurate, scientifically based information to improve public       understanding of the topic; engaging directly with drug users to       disseminate the findings of our research; and engaging with the media in       novel ways.
Members of the unit have given talks at national and international       conferences with mixed audiences of academics, policy-makers, healthcare       professionals and the public.
For example, in January 2011, Curran gave a       public talk entitled `What is a drug?'
at the Wellcome Trust's `High       Society' Exhibition, and Morgan gave an interactive lunch time seminar on       drug use [f].
As a member of the Independent Scientific Committee       on Drugs, Curran contributes to their website giving information on       psychoactive drugs to the public [g].
The CPU also contributed to public engagement with drug issues by       organising public events, notably `K-Day' which took place in November       2009.
To address a lack of engagement between researchers, healthcare       professionals, users and policy makers, `K-day' brought these groups       together for seven hours of activities, stalls and workshops run in a       `village fete' format, bringing together 152 ketamine users, predominantly       aged 15-25, and 50 professionals.
A key theme emerging from focus group       discussions was that the day made ketamine users feel valued and many       commented that nobody had ever asked them their opinion about ketamine       before or about their experiences.
A quiz testing both users' and       professionals' knowledge was distributed before and after the event, there       was an average 50% improvement rate of people's knowledge of the subject       after the day.
Each attendee was given a bag at the beginning containing       various informational leaflets we prepared for the day and further contact       details as well as details of current research projects.
As a result of       K-day, a number of collaborations and treatment initiatives are occurring.
These include an experimental ketamine detox service being trialled in       Devon and a UK ketamine-addiction-urology research group being set up       between the CPU and UCLH (with Dr Dan Wood, urologist); the CPU is also       collaborating with the Bristol Drugs Project [h].
Using the Alexander Fleming Award, we are making a DVD with `gangs' of       young people who have written a rap about our cannabinoid discoveries       backed by a professional video animation.
This will be shown and piloted       in schools before being released on the web.
We have engaged widely with the media in order to disseminate our       research findings to as wide an audience as possible [i].
In 2010       our discovery that CBD blocked the memory impairing effects of THC made       the front page of Nature news.
An article in Newsweek based on the same       finding bemoaned the lack of similar research being done in the USA.
The       CPU labs and our naturalistic studies were filmed by BBC3 as the central       science content of the documentary `How Drugs Work: Cannabis' (first       transmitted in January 2011).
Curran has been interviewed about ketamine       on Woman's Hour on BBC Radio 4) and for the Telegraph and also contributed       to a podcast which is available on the website of the British Journal of       Psychiatry.
In 2012, we (Curran and David Nutt, Imperial) conducted a live fMRI study       of the effects of MDMA, which formed the basis of a two-part documentary,       `Drugs Live: the ecstasy trial', funded and broadcast by Channel 4.
This       was watched by over two million people across the UK (audience of 1.92m on       first episode, Wed 26th Sept 2012) and prompted the biggest       online debate of any programme on that channel to date (including twitter,       Channel 4's own data, newspapers, podcasts).
The programme was described       by C4's commissioning editor as "a programme that only Channel 4 would be       brave enough to transmit" [j].
