     This is an area of crucial importance for the UK and European economy.
Nine out of ten European SMEs employ less than ten people, yet SMEs       provide two out of three of the private sector jobs and contribute to more       than half of the total value-added created by businesses in the EU.
Any       research which promises to optimize the debt for these businesses will       have a huge impact on the UK and Europe as a whole.
The plan is to       disseminate the results of the model as a smartphone application in the UK       now that the Italian phase of the research has been successful.
Model Testing (January &#8212; June 2011)     Once theoretically developed and presented, the model was originally       tested with 5 Italian SMEs.
The test involved planning their financial       needs according to the model but did not involve them actually acting on       the information.
At the end of the six months the plan was compared to the       actual borrowing they made, and more specifically between the cost of       finance they actually incurred with the cost of finance they would have       incurred had they implemented the model.
This provided the team and the       firms with the evidence of the economic impact that the model might have       on the cost of financing for the firms.
In all the five cases, the       difference between the costs that the firm would have incurred by       implementing the model and the cost incurred suggested a clear advantage       (savings between &#8364;15,000 and &#8364;50,000 a year depending on the amount of       bank debt and the current debt structure).
Thus, the model potentially had       the capability to generate savings in the region of &#8364;20/25,000 a year for       a firm with an average turnover in the region of &#8364;5,000,000 and an overall       debt in the region of &#8364;3,000,000.
Implementation (June &#8212; November 2011)     In the next step each firm worked out the optimal financial structure for       the following year using the model.
Then, the information about the       optimal debt structure was used to renegotiate their current loans with       their banks and other financial institutions.
The negotiation involved       consolidating part of the short-term debt in a new long-term debt as well       as discussions on repayment plans.
The precise impact of the change in the debt structure for these five       firms was:     1) A reduction in the cost of debt     The major impact was a 5% to 16% reduction in the overall interest paid       by the firm.
Typically this happened because the firms had previously       relied too much on short term debt and thus incurred a higher cost.
In       addition, previously the firm used trade credit without investigating its       cost and the impact it can have on the financial structure of the firm.
Now they are more cautious about using trade credit since they are aware       of the cost they may incur or the discounts they may gain.
For instance,       one of the firms decided to pay cash to their Austrian suppliers that       typically offer a 3% discount when paid in 10 days instead of being paid       in 60 days.
The decision about the use of trade credit is now more       balanced.
Firms leverage the trade credit of suppliers that do not apply       any discount for cash payments and they examine carefully the any       justifications for leveraging trade credit when discount for cash payment       is offered.
2) An improvement in relationships with banks     The trust the banks placed in the firms was enhanced.
Banks typically       observed that the firms that are using the model are being more logical in       their decisions about short and long term debt structure.
In other words,       the liabilities side of the balance sheet is rationally constructed with a       debt structure that better attunes to the firm's needs.
These aspects       matter to banks, which are naturally concerned about the financial       structure and stability of firms to which they lend.
Information about the successful implementation is currently being       disseminated by word of mouth in Italy and through the activities of       Strategie d'Impresa Srl that now offers the tool among its services.
There       are now over ten Italian firms using the model.
Dr Grassi from the       consulting firm commented `The tool has proved to be extremely effective:       all the firms that have used it have been able to reduce the cost of their       debt and some of them even improved their relationship with the banking       system.'
The latest development is that the Enterprise and Business Development       Office at the University are organising a presentation of the model to a       group of 20/30 SMEs that operate in the Leicestershire area.
A       presentation will be given by Moro and a senior consultant at Strategie       d'Impresa.
Participating SMEs will be offered free use of a smartphone app       version of the tool in order to test it in the UK context.
Moro has also       had meetings with a small bank in the UK, and they intend to use the model       in their evaluation of clients.
Given that there were 4.8 million SMEs in       the UK in 2012, the impact of even marginal adoption of this new model       would be huge.
