     Our blood test is now in use at the National Prion Clinic (NPC) to allow       diagnosis of vCJD.
The immediate impact of this is that patients can be       diagnosed quickly, other conditions can be excluded, and care plans can be       put in place quickly.
Impacts currently at an interim stage are the       development of high throughput tests for screening blood in transfusion       services both in the UK and overseas.
Using the existing World Health Organisation diagnostic criteria for       vCJD, disease can only be classified as `probable' in the presence of       significant neurological deficit and confirmed as `definite' by means of       neuropathological examination.
Despite their relentlessly progressive       nature and devastating prognosis, securing a firm early diagnosis for       these disorders remains crucial.
This is firstly as the differential       diagnosis of prion disease includes potentially reversible conditions,       such as limbic encephalitis caused by voltage gated potassium channel       antibodies, or primary central nervous system (CNS) vasculitis.
Secondly,       early diagnosis removes uncertainty, which in itself is distressing, and       obviates the need for further investigation.
Patient care plans can be       established, patients and families counselled accordingly and appropriate       infection control measures implemented [a].
Introduction of a       sensitive and specific blood-based molecular diagnostic test for prion       disease will facilitate early disease diagnosis and entry into therapeutic       trials.
In addition, such a test has obvious applications in reducing       iatrogenic transmission of disease, screening of blood products for       transfusion, food and medicinal products.
The National Prion Clinic (NPC) is the national referral centre for prion       disease and is based at the National Hospital for Neurology and       Neurosurgery [b].
The clinic is integrally linked with the MRC       Prion Unit.
Our blood test is in increasing diagnostic use in the NPC and       samples are received for investigation from neurologists both nationally       and internationally.
Approximately 115 patients have been tested so far       through the clinic [c].
In addition to its immediate clinical use       the test is suitable for screening applications as an extended validation       series of 5,000 control samples demonstrated that the test is 100%       specific for prion disease.
A study by the Health Protection Agency (HPA) to determine the prevalence       of prion infection in solid organs released preliminary results in August       2012 [d].
They found 16 definitively positive appendices out of       32,441 suitable samples examined, equating to a final prevalence estimate       of 493 per million (95% CI: 282 to 801 per million).
The central estimate       of around 1 infection per 2,000 UK citizens is clearly alarming coupled       with the known potential for transmission via blood transfusion, and       demonstrates the long-term significance of our work.
[text removed for       publication].
Although the number of transfusion recipients positively identified as       having received packed red cells contaminated with vCJD is small, much       larger cohorts of at-risk individuals exist including around 6,000       recipients of contaminated plasma products, haemophiliacs and       thalassaemics.
Other groups identified and also notified by the HPA as being at       heightened risk of prion disease include the highly transfused, surgical       contacts of prion disease patients and recipients of cadaver- derived       human growth hormone.
Whilst most notified individuals appear to       understand and accommodate the health protection message, it is not       surprising that the NHS National Prion Clinic is regularly referred and       counsels distressed individuals in such risk groups who may also have had       their healthcare disrupted by misunderstanding on the part of NHS       professionals.
The availability of a blood test will provide better risk       assessment and resolve issues of personal risk in notified groups [a].
Several commercial organisations have had historical interest in       developing a blood test for prion disease but abandoned their research       efforts after reaching the conclusion it was not possible.
As a result       there is renewed interest within industry to develop such tests, knowing       that blood does contain sufficient abnormal PrP for detection.
The test       has been patented as a step towards commercialisation [e].
vCJD has been the subject of intense public and policy debate;       publication in the Lancet of our blood test method and preliminary results       has resulted in considerable press coverage.
Recent press reports (for       example, The Telegraph, 28 April 2013) have highlighted the       importance of a blood test in protecting public health in the UK with       predictions of up to 1,000 people likely to die from vCJD as a result of       receiving contaminated transfused blood.
Coverage in the Daily Mail,       3 February 2011, attracted comments from members of the public welcoming       the test and wishing for reassurance that they were not at risk [f].
