     Enhancing delivery of oral health care in local services     In 2009, Camden and Islington PCT used the OIDP to undertake a survey of       the dental needs of elderly people in nursing homes.
This indicated high       levels of unmet treatment need and considerable impacts of oral conditions       on the daily lives of older residents.
As a result, in 2012 Camden and       Islington PCT established oral health measures as a key component of their       local standards for residential homes in Islington.
Homes must now ensure       that all new residents receive an oral health assessment to identify and       arrange urgent treatment; the oral hygiene practice of all residents       should be recorded daily; a referral system for attendance to the dentist       must be put in place for those in need; nursing home staff are trained to       undertake the above oral health related tasks.
In practical terms, care       has been improved and existing resources more effectively employed.
There       is a more immediate recognition of oral disease and increased numbers of       residents have been referred to the Community Dental Services to receive       treatment.
In addition, North Central London NHS commissioned the       provision of high concentration fluoride toothpaste to cover the       preventive needs of those residents identified as at risk for oral       diseases [a, b].
In 2010, the OIDP was a major component of a needs assessment survey       carried out at Holloway Prison, London.
This found that 73% of prisoners       reported at least one oral impact on daily performances.
Prisoners were       more likely than the general female population to engage in oral health       damaging behaviours such as high sugar intake and smoking.
This has led to       the London Borough of Islington/NHS North Central London commissioning the       Kent Community Health NHS Trust to provide an enhanced oral health       promotion service in HMP Holloway for 2013-14 [a].
Finally, as a result of our epidemiological work, Islington carried out a       pilot community-based fluoride varnish programme in 2010.
The success of       this project led to Islington Clinical Commissioning Group investing in a       community-based fluoride varnish scheme.
In the scheme fluoride varnish is       applied, twice a year, to the teeth of 6,000 children attending children's       centres, community nurseries and schools in the most deprived areas of       Islington [a, c].
Use in major national surveys of Dental Health     Since 1968, a national adult oral health survey has been conducted in the       UK every 10 years.
In 2008 the UCL Dental Public Health Group joined the       Office for National Statistics, National Centre for Social Research and a       consortium of universities including Newcastle, Birmingham, Cardiff and       Dundee to conduct the 2009 Adult Dental Health Survey (ADHS) for England,       Wales and Northern Ireland.
The OIDP was included in this survey for the       first time to assess how severely oral health problems impacted on the       ability of people to carry out basic functions of their daily life [d].
The ADHS 2009 results have been used by the NHS to shape the planning and       commissioning of the NHS dental services.
NHS England report that this       survey "is pivotal to our planning oral health services.
[Its findings]         point to a reduction in dental caries and rates of restoration, a very         rapid reduction in edentulousness in old age and the emergence of an         ageing population of adults with heavy restoration and potentially         complex needs.
Our services and workforce continues to develop to         address the needs that arise in the knowledge of what we expect to see"       [e].
In 2009, the Child-OIDP was used by the NHS Dental Epidemiology Programme       (NHS DEP) for England in their national survey of child dental health.
The       programme report that: "The information produced from the nationally         coordinated surveys of child dental health is used by PCTs when         conducting oral health needs assessments at local level and forms an         important component of the commissioning of local services" [f].
Subsequently the Child-OIDP has been included in the Children's Dental       Health Survey which is due to be conducted in England, Wales and Northern       Ireland in autumn 2013.
The OIDP and Child-OIDP have also been used in national dental health       surveys in Norway, Brazil, Thailand and Korea.
For example, a recent       national survey of children and adolescents in Thailand included the       assessment of oral health-related quality of life by using the Child-OIDP       and OIDP indices in 12- and 15-year-old groups.
This showed that in       general oral impacts were quite prevalent, with dental caries affecting       children's quality of life most (accounting for 50% of overall oral       impacts), while aphthous stomatitis and gingivitis negatively affected the       QoL of between a quarter and a third of the population.
As a result of       this survey, the Dental Health Division of the Thailand Department of       Health set new oral health goals across the country to cover the aspect of       oral health-related quality of life [g].
Influencing policy debate in Europe     Through his involvement in the European Association of Dental Public       Health (EADPH), Tsakos has been instrumental in the establishment of the       Platform for Better Oral Health in Europe, a European-wide initiative       supported by the EADPH, the Association for Dental Education in Europe,       the Council of European Chief Dental Officers, and the International       Dental Health Foundation [h].
This forum aims to facilitate       communication and engagement with key stakeholders and non-clinical       audiences in terms of policy development and priority setting for the EU.
It promotes oral health and the cost-effective prevention of oral diseases       in Europe and provides recommendations to policymakers with regard to EU       oral health policy developments.
Through his epidemiological and QoL       expertise, Tsakos has represented the Platform in meetings with key policy       makers including European Commission officials (e.g.
Deputy       Director-General of DG SANCO) and European Parliament members.
Furthermore, the UCL DPH group epidemiological research has been widely       used to inform the Platform's reports and policy debate documents.
As a       result, 2020 targets for improved oral health in Europe were established,       and a Europe-wide consultation has begun [i].
