     Development of the impact       From its inception, CCEd was intended to be a collaborative project with       three key groups, genealogists, local historians and county archivists,       and was consciously designed to be an easily accessible resource in order       to encourage interaction.
The PDs tapped their knowledge of the diocesan       collections and recruited many of them to work as research assistants,       inputting data from primary sources which had been targeted for CCEd; some       also helped link the data thus collected.
The project was advertised       through local record offices.
The team held workshops to showcase the       potential of CCEd, devoted considerable time to answering a stream of       enquiries via the website, and established an online         journal on the website, with a `Notes and Queries' section intended       specifically to facilitate dialogue with these users.
The web front page       was improved in 2012-13 with designated introductory platforms for each of       these three constituencies.
Reach       CCEd has numerous users across the world, including Japan and South Korea.
It attracted an average of 8,233 unique visitors and 569,749 hits each       month between January and July 2013, and a total of more than 9.9m hits       since 2010.
[5.1] There is also a continual stream of email enquiries to       the project office each month: the majority come from the UK, but there       has been considerable interest from Australia, New Zealand, USA and       Canada; others have come from Belgium, France, Germany, Ireland, Spain,       Switzerland, and even American Samoa.
These come primarily from       individuals, but also archive offices such as Lincolnshire Archives,       Dorset Local Studies Library, East Sussex RO, and Norfolk RO.
[5.2]     CCEd was featured in The Church Times (2008) and The Guardian       (2009) [5.6; 5.7]; earned the `Site of the Week' award by the Family         Tree Magazine; and was recommended by the newsletter of The         Institute of Heraldic and Genealogical Studies (April-May 2008).
A       review on UK travel and heritage website, BritainExpress,       described CCEd as a `wonderful resource'.
[5.7] It has also been cited on       numerous genealogical websites and in archivist newsletters.
[5.9-5.13] It       has been used by the National Archives for its E179 taxation project, and       by Lambeth Palace Library for the Sion Cataloguing Project.
In 2008, CCEd       was utilised in the production of an episode of BBC1's Who           Do You Think You Are?
which investigated the life of clergyman       James Mayne, an ancestor of the episode's star, Patsy Kensit; the database       was used to establish a `timeline' for Mayne's career.
[5.3] The episode       attracted 7.1m viewers.
[5.4]     The benefits to users are primarily cultural, enhancing quality of life       through better understanding of the past, sometimes as manifest in a       particular family identity or locality, but also educational, explaining       how a complex institution &#8212; the Church of England &#8212; operated, the types of       sources it generated and the uses to which they may be put.
Significance       In 2009, an article in The Guardian stated that CCEd's `true       significance may be its role in opening up the raw material of scholarship       to the widest possible audience'.
[5.7] Its success in achieving this is       evident from the feedback received from its different types of users:     Family historians: `May I say that your new website... has turned       up several clergymen in my family history who held just about all the       offices mentioned.
That is why I was so interested in the difference       between deacon, curate, rector and vicar' (Nancy Frey, 27 Feb. 2009);       `your endeavour is a monumental work and I, for one, am extremely grateful       that it is being done and is freely available' (Andrew Groom from       Australia, 9 Jan. 2013).
[5.2]     Local historians: `...can I express my admiration for your site,       which is of enormous help to those of us researching and writing about       local history at the coalface level.
It is absolutely brilliant, and       extraordinarily easy to use' (Paul Herrington, 21 July 2010).
[5.2]       Annabelle Hughes used it extensively for her edition of Sussex Clergy         Inventories 1600-1750 (Sussex Record Society, 91, 2009).
Ms Hughes       was assisted by John Hawkins, a retired businessman and volunteer for the       Sussex section of CCEd (p. ix fn.
1).
Graham Claydon, author of The         Unlikely Canon: George Evans of Windsor (Sea Dream Music, 2009)       attended several CCEd dissemination meetings, and acknowledges the       assistance of Fincham and `others of the team connected with constructing       the Online Clergy Database' (p. i).
Archivists: `To have a reliable, accurate and comprehensive       resource of all ordained clergymen, beneficed, stipendiary, together with       those holding offices and dignitaries is of great value to staff in an       archive service with a diocesan archive (Salisbury) that covers two other       counties (Berkshire and Dorset).
It has been of use in the writing of       parish thumbnail accounts for our Community History website which has many       hits by users around the world' (Steve Hobbs, archivist at Wiltshire and       Swindon Record Office, 21 March 2013); `may I say a big thank you for the       database, it is a very useful resource, both for helping others with their       research, but also with double checking references found in my own work'       (archivist, Somerset Heritage Centre, 15 April 2011).
[5.2] In several       archives, such as Wiltshire and Swindon Record Office, and Lambeth Palace       Library, CCEd is not merely presented as a resource for users, with a link       to the archive's own website, but as a way of explaining groups of       ecclesiastical records and putting them in the context of holdings       elsewhere.
[5.2; 5.13]     A distinctive feature of CCEd is the regular and beneficial dialogue       between CCEd's users and the project team.
The team responds to enquiries       and also invites participation through the Users'         Corrections and Additions Form.
Assistance is frequently provided       about the interpretation of database sources, and the availability of       other sources not in CCEd.
The interactive nature of the database project       allows entries to be updated and corrected on the basis of information       supplied by users: that three clergymen with the same name were actually       one individual (`John Beardsley', Clergy ID 39803); that two clergy with       different forenames were one individual (`Richard Collyns', ID 95761);       disentangling the records of two clergymen with similar names (see `George       Silvester' and `John Silvester', IDs 31646, 151680); using parish records       and wills to plug gaps in CCEd data (see Humphrey Newbury, Clergy ID       58050).
Timothy Connor sent us monumental inscriptions for clergy which he       had collected from churches and graveyards in the south west, which have       been incorporated into CCEd: see `Brian Congall' (Clergy ID 154699),       `Richard Handleigh' (57195), `Robert Lougher' (71566), `John Way' (51775)       and `Robert Welsteede' (103243).
These often provide particularly valuable       additional detail such as date of death, which CCEd often lacks, and also       can contain evocative descriptions, such as Robert Lougher as `once most       vigilant pastor of this parish'.
[5.2]     All these contributions are acknowledged in the Comment Box for the       clergyman in question, to underline the collaborative character of CCEd.
Sometimes more extensive information is supplied which can be developed       into innovative new research pieces, such as Richard Palmer's article in       CCEd's `Notes and Queries' on Bethnal Green curate James Mayne.
[5.5]     The project team tries to respond promptly to all contact from users,       which is much appreciated.
As Jodie Williams, a US genealogist, has       written, `Professor Fincham... has been most gracious in providing me       [with] expanded information and [has] been very helpful in my research'.
[5.2]     The database has therefore reached beyond the academic community to       inform, inspire and interact with a wide range of users for enduring       mutual benefit.
