     To capitalise on the drug deposition research and expertise of       Taylor and colleagues at Cardiff       University, a spin-out company, Cardiff Scintigraphics Ltd, was founded in       1992 to provide       research-led scintigraphy imaging capability to the pharmaceutical       commercial sector for both       preclinical and clinical drug development.
In 2008, as a result of the inhaled         formulation research       expertise of the Taylor team, this company began trading under the name of       i2c Pharmaceutical       Services (i2c) to develop its commercial activities in novel inhaler       formulation research and       development.
Taylor is a Director and CSO of i2c.
The underpinning of i2c       by Cardiff University's       research has, during the assessment period, led to improved business       performance for a range of       international commercial concerns and is also yielding broader economic,       near-future healthcare       benefits (new, effective inhaled products) through international       development activities.
Business performance of drug development partners and informing         practice       During the assessment period i2c in partnership with the clinical research       organisation Simbec       Research Ltd, has secured &#163;1.6M worth of clinical trial business [5.1]       relating primarily to i2c's       provision of pulmonary imaging which is itself built upon Cardiff's       research expertise and       methodological advances in clinical scintigraphy.
Working with industry       has led to informed       changes to practice.
For example, one of i2c's scintigraphic studies was a       single-centre clinical trial       in the pre-assessment period (2006) to evaluate the iNeb&#174; nebuliser.
This       study showed that using       the iNeb&#174; device in Target Inhalation Mode (TIM) as opposed to Tidal       Breathing Mode (TBM) (the       two breathing pattern algorithms that can be used with this device) it was       possible to reduce       patient nebulisation times and improve lung deposition.
This data was       published (2010) by       invitation in a specialised journal issue dedicated to the iNeb&#174; (see       Section 3 [3.3]) and is currently       used by Philips Respironics and their pharmaceutical partners to promote       iNeb&#174; and develop       regulatory submissions that use the device [5.2].
The research       has also informed others seeking to       establish guidelines for clinical practice, for example in the work of       McCormack et al.
2011 (Alder       Hey Children's Hospital) advocating TIM for all cystic fibrosis patients       on chronic suppressive       therapy and for those with a new growth of Pseudomonas aeruginosa [5.3]:       "Radiolabelled aerosol         studies have demonstrated improved lung deposition with TIM compared to         TBM" (citing [3.3]).
Another example of supporting pharmaceutical drug development was i2c's       clinical evaluation of       inhaled dihydroergotamine for MAP Pharmaceuticals (USA) [5.4].
This data is presented in MAP's       New Drug Application (NDA) for Levadex&#174; (dihydroergotamine) as an orally       inhaled treatment for       migraine (next FDA response due late 2013).
In January 2013 it was       announced that Allergan       would acquire MAP at a cost of $958M, principally to globally       commercialise Levadex&#174; as a new       anti-migraine therapy [5.5].
Since 2008, i2c's research       capability in clinical imaging and drug delivery       has also supported patent applications in other therapeutic areas (Aradigm       Corporation's deep       lung delivery of treprostinil; Patent No.
EP 2330893 A1 filed in 2009).
To meet the research needs of drug development partners, i2c has in the       assessment period       increased its staff from two to five full-time highly skilled employees       and three regular consultants.
The company has also been consistently able to offer graduates paid       project-based work       experience and currently sponsors two employees on part-time MSc and PhD       programmes.
i2c       turnover has increased significantly since 2008, now trading at over &#163;500K       p.a.
for the past 3 years       and realising significant pre-tax profits of &#163;200K p.a.
In 2012 the       company was shortlisted for the       Queen's Award for Enterprise in the Innovation category.
International development of inhaled pharmaceutical products       The diversification of business activities based on Cardiff University's       formulation research with       HFA propellants, and the increasing global reach of i2c's impact is       illustrated by i2c's involvement       in a consortium with the pMDI valve manufacturer, Valvole Aerosol Research       Italiana (VARI, Italy),       and the regulatory support/project management company, Pharmadelivery       Solutions (PDS, UK).
This consortium has won contracts totalling US$3M (2009 to date) from the       United Nations       Industrial Development Organisation (UNIDO); US$2.4M of this investment       was directed to i2c       reflecting its pivotal role [5.6].
The UNIDO contracts are to       provide research expertise and       technology transfer to assist developing countries to fulfil their       obligations to phase out the use of       ozone-damaging propellants in medicinal pMDIs; specifically providing new       HFA formulations and       manufacturing capability to replace five CFC pMDI products for two       companies in Egypt (with       combined annual sales of 7.5 million pMDIs units and producing 163.1       tonnes of CFCs) [5.7], and       three CFC pMDI products for one company in Mexico (with an annual       production capacity for 4.5-5.5       million pMDIs) [5.8].
The UNIDO-sponsored research and       development allows these two       countries to comply with the Montreal Protocol while meeting their       populations' healthcare       demands and developing the capability of local pharmaceutical       manufacturers; Arab Drug       Company (ADCO, Cairo) and Egyptian International Pharmaceutical Industries       Co. (EIPICO, Tenth       of Ramadan City) in Egypt, and the Laboratorios Salus (Guadalajara) in       Mexico.
It is i2c that has       the sole responsibility for the research and formulation development to       ensure that the HFA       alternatives are economically viable and of equivalent performance to more       expensive global       inhaler brands.
To date, four inhalation products have been developed,       approved and transferred       to commercial-scale operations through the contributions of i2c, and based       on Cardiff University       formulation research.
Vental HFA (salbutamol) has received regulatory       approval (2011) in Egypt,       and Assal (salbutamol) and two strengths of HFA-Dobipro (beclomethasone)       have received       regulatory approval (2011 onwards) in Mexico [5.6].
A further       two products are under approval.
The research and development of i2c is also providing commercial benefit       for consortium partners       and sub-contractors.
VARI has seen an unprecedented increase in its       manufacturing needs for       HFA aerosol valves (ca.
13 million units p.a.
to replace those CFC       products prescribed in the       UNIDO contracts [5.7,5.8]) with inevitable improvements to       business performance [5.6].
To meet this       increased demand, and providing further evidence of long-term growth and       skilled job creation,       VARI has recently moved to a custom-built factory [5.6] in       which 700m2 of cleanroom space is       dedicated to HFA valve production.
Similarly, as a result of the pro-rata       demand to meet the new       pMDI unit supply needs, as evidenced for valve suppliers VARI [5.6],       and the direct replacement of       HFA for CFC tonnage [5.7,5.8], the new products brought to       market through the UNIDO contracts are       increasing the turnover of other pMDI component suppliers: Presspart       (Blackburn, UK), sole       suppliers of pMDI cans and actuators (est.
&#163;1-2M p.a.)
[5.9],       and Mexichem Fluor (Runcorn, UK),       the HFA propellant supplier (est.
&#163;20M p.a.
).
