     Research by the University of Dundee has transformed trauma recovery for       children in situations of on-going military violence.
Hitherto trauma       recovery was provided post-conflict.
As a direct consequence of the Dundee       research a phased programme of training has developed across Palestine.
To       date, the phased programme has included training nine hundred school       counsellors in Gaza in the indigenous Healing Trauma Combatting Hatred       (HTCH) programme; 50 school counsellors have been trained in the newly       developed Arabic culture-specific version of the world leading Teaching       Recovery Techniques programme (TRT) and twenty school counsellors in       Nablus have received the novel Listening Skills for Crisis intervention       programme (C1 &amp; C5).
The Centre for Applied Research in Ramallah has       been monitoring the gains for counsellors over time.
Benefits reported by       counsellors include: increased knowledge and recognition of the nature of       children's trauma, increased skills in listening and in the delivery of       trauma recovery programmes and increased confidence in responding to       traumatic events.
School counsellors also report increased networking       between counsellors and increased confidence in practice from access to       external international expert consultation (C5).
As a direct consequence of the research involving counsellor training,       5000 children have received the HTCH programme in Gaza and 1000 children       have received the TRT programme in the West Bank.
This has lead to       substantial reductions in the rates of children meeting the criteria for       post traumatic stress disorder (down by 25%), depression (down by 50%),       traumatic grief (down by 30%) and other mental health concerns (down by       25%).
In addition, children's motivation and concentration in school has       significantly increased (20% gains).
By the end of the rolling programme       of training and programme delivery in Palestine more than 1 million       children will have benefitted from this initiative (C3, C4, C5).
Assessment of children's subjective experience of programme delivery has       led to longer term programmes and greater parental engagement and       involvement.
The research into children's views has resulted in the       development of trauma-informed seminars delivered to teachers, parents and       school principals.
Five trauma awareness raising seminars have been       delivered in Jericho to over 200 teachers, parents and school principals.
Focus group evaluation of school staff and parental experience indicates a       range of benefits: attitudinal shifts for teachers, head teachers and       parents in being better able to recognise challenging behaviour as       communication of traumatic stress; knowledge gains in understanding the       neurobiology of trauma, skill gains in supporting traumatised children and       emotional gains in feeling more confident in their handling of their       children.
School principals report the importance of embedding       trauma-informed practices into the classroom context and ensuring       traumatised children have access to trauma specific recovery programmes       (C5).
Impact has also occurred at national political level with the development       of the first social policy in trauma recovery in Palestine (C1 &amp; C2).
Ministry of Education policy now includes a rolling programme of trauma       recovery training for counsellors and programme delivery for children and       parents.
Directly as a result of the Dundee research, this policy       incorporates a human rights lens on children's traumatic experience;       challenges the cultural stigma of mental illness; sets childhood trauma       within wider public health concerns (e.g.
unemployment and poverty,       sanitation, medical services, utilities and domestic violence); identifies       the nature and extent of traumatic exposure and resultant wide ranging       symptoms; ensures key support adults' trauma is addressed; and embeds       effective trauma recovery programmes into the school curriculum (C1 &amp;       C2).
The research has also contributed to increased economic capital for       CARE, the non-governmental organisation responsible for coordinating the       delivery of trauma recovery programmes throughout Palestine (&#163;100,000).
This funding has come through related trauma recovery projects (C5).
The Dundee research has led to the application of trauma recovery       programmes and the battery of measures to be developed into other conflict       situations around the World.
In Jordan and Egypt, CARE has delivered       trauma recovery programmes to over 200 child refugees.
In Scotland, for       the first time, the research has led to the delivery of group trauma       recovery programmes within Scotland's Secure Estate.
The two main secure       accommodation services, Rossie and Kibble are now able to provide trauma       recovery programmes to over one hundred children who are at risk of       suicide and/or harm to others (C3, C4, C6, C7).
