     Self-Assembly task complexity     Self-assembly, or ready-to-assemble (RTA), products are very common and a       survey of UK       consumers by the Office for National Statistics showed that they can lead       to frustration and injury       for consumers and product return costs for industry (Richardson, 2007).
Dr       Miles Richardson is       the leading expert in research on the complexity of self-assembly tasks,       and his research is timely       because there are several international policy developments to improve       product standards using       research evidence.
This includes a major current European effort by CEN       and CENELEC (the       European standards organisations) to improve the way that research informs       the development of       standards (http://www.cencenelec.eu/research).
The Council of the International Standards       Organisation (ISO) oversees the work of a consumer policy committee       (ISO-COPOLCO).
In the       UK, the British Standards Institution (BSI) is the gateway to European and       international committee       work on standardisation.
Dr Richardson's formal role in the international policy-making process       began when BSI's       Consumer and Public Interest Manager, External Policy, was approached by       the Product Safety       Working Group of ISO-COPOLCO.
This group were aware of Dr Richardson's       research and       wished to obtain research-based evidence to inform a proposal to produce       standards and guidance       for self-assembly instructions, in order to help make self-assembly       products safer, easier to use,       and more reliable.
For business, the standards and guidance will be       strategic tools which reduce       costs by minimizing waste and errors and increasing productivity.
They       will help companies to       access new markets, level the playing field for developing countries, and       facilitate free and fair       global trade.
As a result of the recognition of Dr Richardson's research and its       potential impact, Dr Richardson       was invited in 2012 to become one of just six members of ISO-COPOLCO (PSWG       subgroup &#8212; Inadequacies       of Instructions for Assembly and Maintenance in the IEC 82079), and as a       result, Dr       Richardson is now a Background Technical Expert in the BSI's Consumer and       Public Involvement       Network (CPIN).
The Project Manager at DIN (the German Institute for Standardisation),       who leads the Task Group       developing the proposal, commented: "Several problems consumers have with       self-assembly       products are well documented thanks to Dr Richardson's research.
This       helps to raise the problem       on a European and global level where the problem has been discussed with       experts representing       consumers' interests on an international level.
His research contributes       also to draw conclusions       and work out solutions which are discussed in the standardisation work."
Dr Richardson has also been approached by LEGO, a major manufacturer of       children's toys       involving self-assembly, who had accessed his research on self-assembly       complexity and wished       to learn from him "how to make the building experience of LEGO models even       better, but also how       building with LEGO can help children develop in maths and science."
Dr Richardson published an invited chapter on assembly complexity and the       design of self-assembly       products for the 2011 book Human Factors and Ergonomics in Consumer         Product         Design: Methods and Techniques.
This chapter explains to designers       and other users how to       incorporate human factors and ergonomics principles and knowledge into the       design of consumer       products in a variety of self-assembly applications.
With contributions       from a team of researchers       from 21 countries, the book covers the current state of methods and       techniques of product       ergonomics.
It provides an increased knowledge of how to apply human       factors and ergonomic       principles to obtain improved product design.
Dr Richardson's research on self-assembly has already received       considerable media attention       (e.g.
The Independent, 2010), which takes the impact of the research to       the wider public, and Dr       Richardson is approached for expert advice by those working on issues       related to self-assembly.
For example, he was consulted in August 2012 for a BBC business       documentary dealing with the       flat pack furniture market.
Nutrition Labelling     Research by Jones and Richardson is often cited as key evidence to       support policies for       mandatory front-of-pack (FOP) `traffic light' nutrition labels.
For       example, the research was       included in a major review of evidence prepared for the US Department of       Health and Human       Services to "help guide the Food and Drug Administration in its future       policy decisions regarding       FOP labelling" (Anater et al., 2012, p. ES-7; see also Hersey et al.,       2011).
In June 2012 and July       2013, the research was used as key evidence in public notices by the       Assistant Commissioner for       Policy, US Food and Drug Administration, of proposals for laboratory and       in-store studies of how       consumers view and process label information, and how label information       and components       influence purchasing decisions (Kux, 2012; Kux 2013).
The research was included as key evidence in policy statements in       Australia and New Zealand.
These include a policy position statement by the Royal Australasian       College of Physicians.
Based       on the evidence reviewed, which included research by Jones and Richardson,       this recommended       that "Federal regulations be put in place in Australia and New Zealand to       provide for mandatory       `Traffic Light' labelling on the front-of-packaging of food and beverages       sold in these countries"       (Royal Australasian College of Physicians, undated, p. 1).
Also, the       research was included in a       review of evidence about food labelling produced by the New Zealand       Agencies for Nutrition       Action, which made recommendations to inform policy for more standard food       labelling in New       Zealand (Lyon, 2012).
This has resulted in policy change, with       representatives from these       organisations being included in a Project Committee established by the       Australian government's       Food Regulation Standing Committee (FRSC) to develop the front of pack       labelling (FoPL) system.
Final recommendations for a FoPL scheme were made February 2013 and on       Friday 14 June       2013 the Commonwealth and state and territory food and health ministers       announced that a Health       Star Rating system would be introduced on food labels to help shoppers       make healthier choices       (Australian Government Department of Health, 2013).
