     Rima's knowledge of measles and mumps vaccine viruses made him the ideal       expert witness in       two major court cases in the UK pre 2004 and in the US from 2007 to 2009       to deal with claims of       adverse reactions to MMR vaccine1.
At a Medical Research       Council hearing in 1998, Rima and       other scientists demonstrated flaws in Wakefield's claimed link between       measles vaccine and IBD.
Wakefield`s 1998 claim for a causative link between MMR vaccine and autism       led to widespread       media coverage, public alarm, and a reduction in MMR uptake2       with consequences still apparent       today as the UK suffers unnecessary outbreaks of measles and mumps .
Parents of children with autism in the UK sued three major vaccine       manufacturers potentially       claiming over &#163;3 Billion in compensation.
Seven test cases were selected.
Many reports were       furnished by a great number of experts in the UK focussing on every aspect       of the test cases       including the validity of the diagnosis and timings between onset of       symptoms and vaccination.
However, the only direct and positive evidence was the detection of       measles vaccine RNA       sequences in gut biopsies from the children by O'Leary's company       Unigenetics Ltd in Dublin acting       on behalf of the claimants.
They claimed to have detected measles vaccine       by three techniques;       two of which (in situ hybridisation and RT-PCR) are standard       techniques with which Rima had       experience for measles and mumps and a third test (allelic exclusion       technology) developed by       O'Leary for distinguishing vaccine from wild-type virus.
However, RNA       sequence evidence that       could have been obtained from the RT-PCR tests and which could       unambiguously distinguish       vaccine from wild type virus was never presented by the claimant's       experts, though requested       repeatedly by Rima.
Confidential expert reports from Simmonds (Edinburgh) and Rima on the       direct evidence for the       presence of viral RNA successfully identified flaws in the data and its       analysis.
An expert report       from Professor Bustin, an expert in quantitative RNA detection at       University College London also       pointed to flaws in the O'Leary application of the technology and the       data.
Rima also demonstrated       that the third test developed by O'Leary was unreliable and that their       results were misinterpreted       even according to their own flawed criteria3,4.
The scientific evidence was not tested in open court in the UK.
This       allowed the claimants to       proclaim a "cover up" and allowed Wakefield to start an anti-MMR campaign       in the US, again using       O'Leary's laboratory data and to claim that measles vaccine RNA had been       detected in children       with autism.
US vaccine manufacturers pay a per-dose-levy to a       compensation fund for genuine       vaccine-related adverse events.
Such cases are adjudicated by the Vaccine       Court.
Three US test       cases were considered in this court and several UK and US experts       testified in the three test       cases.
Only Bustin and Rima's redacted reports3 from the UK       litigation were used, as it was clear       that the direct "evidence" for the presence of measles virus in the       children would be decisive in       allowing the court to decide the validity of the claims.
Bustin's report       identified technical flaws in the       RNA detection technique used by O'Leary, highlighted potential sources of       contamination and       pointed to an altered lab book entry (also noted by Rima1,3,4).
Rima testified in front of Special Master Denise Vowell, the federal       judge in the vaccine court in the       Colten Snyder test case.
In 2008, affidavits supplied by the claimants to       discredit Rima's evidence       were successfully answered and rebutted leading to the publication of       final judgments in 2009.
Judge Vowell and her co-jurists commented that: "Doctor Rima was a superb       expert witness.
He       was well-qualified in the subject matter of his testimony, testified       directly and forthrightly, and made       extremely difficult topics understandable.
He made his disapproval of       certain laboratory practices       perfectly plain, without engaging in ad hominem attacks"5,6,7,8.
Her judgement stated5:       "After careful consideration of all of the evidence, it was abundantly       clear that petitioners' theories       of causation were speculative and unpersuasive.
Respondent's       experts were far more qualified,       better supported by the weight of scientific research and authority, and       simply more persuasive on       nearly every point in contention.
Because of pervasive quality control         problems at a now-defunct         laboratory that tested a key piece of evidence, petitioners could not         reliably demonstrate the         presence of a persistent measles virus in Colten Snyder's central         nervous system".
This protected the National Vaccine Injury Compensation Program fund from       claims that would       have exhausted it completely.
This judgement as well as many other       epidemiological studies and       reports renewed confidence in the MMR vaccine leading to a change in       uptake in the UK, for       example, from below 80% in 2003, to about 85% in 2008 and 91% currently9,10.
The recent outbreak in Swansea in 2013 highlights the disastrous impact       that Wakefield and       O'Leary's MMR claims have had.
If the direct evidence for measles genetic       material in the affected       children had not been refuted, measles fatalities such as the two in the       Yorkshire outbreak in 2008       and the one fatality in South Wales would have been repeated time and time       again.
We also would       continue to have the large number of hospitalisations for pneumonia in       15-20% of the affected       children and the spectre of long queues at emergency vaccination clinics       of the several hundred       thousand children not vaccinated as a result of this affair.
Many people       played in important roles in       showing the false nature of the claimed link between autism and MMR       vaccination, but if the direct       evidence from Unigenetics Ltd had remained unchallenged it would have been       highly unlikely that       confidence in the vaccine could have been restored.
