     The research highlighted above has had a significant economic impact on       the local economy in N. Ireland by the development of a company called       Almac Diagnostics in 2004.
Without the research by Harkin and Johnston       this company would not have been established.
However, more importantly,       it has allowed the development of new diagnostic products, which are       likely to improve the management of colon and breast cancer patients.
Almac's proprietary microarray technology has been the basis of the       company's success both in terms of its internal research and development       programme and its external contract research commercial activities.
In       October of 2012 the Xcel array was licensed by Affymetrix for global       distribution based on the realization that this technology platform       substantially accelerates the rate at which novel array-based biomarkers       can be discovered, validated and commercialized1.
This       licensing deal involved an upfront technology access fee in addition to       volume based milestone payments and royalty payments for the lifetime of       the product.
To date Almac has chosen to retain exclusive distribution       rights to its DSA technology platforms.
As stated above Almac has also       used its DSA technology to discover and validate two genomic tests in       colon and breast cancer.
The first of these tests termed, Col-Dx, identifies those patients who       are at an increased risk of recurrence following surgery for stage II       colon cancer.
This information can help clinicians and patients make a       more informed decision about the need for additional chemotherapy to       optimally manage their disease.
The Col-Dx assay was licensed to Precision       Therapeutics, a US based diagnostic company for commercialization in the       US market.
The Col-Dx test (rebranded as GeneFx) has seen Clinical       Laboratory Improvements Amendments (CLIA) validated for use in the US and       has subsequently been launched 2.
Significantly, Almac has       carried out a second successful independent validation of the GeneFx assay       in collaboration with the Cancer and Leukemia Group B (CALGB) clinical       trial group in the US.
The results from this study are currently embargoed       but will be presented at the American Society for Clinical Oncology       meeting in January 2014.
Almac's second genomic test termed DDRD-Breast-Dx, identifies early stage       node negative and node positive breast cancer patients who are likely to       benefit from the addition of chemotherapy following surgery.
Existing       prognostic tools classify early stage patients into low, intermediate and       high risk of recurrence.
Low risk patients are not recommended for       chemotherapy whilst high risk patients are.
However, approximately 40-60%       of patients are classified as intermediate risk where the benefit from       chemotherapy is unclear.
For these patients the DDRD-Breast-Dx test allows       clinicians to make an objective decision on likely benefits of       chemotherapy.
Almac's DDRD-Breast-Dx assay has also been successfully       licensed to a major US diagnostic company.
The successful       commercialization of Almac's core technology platform to Affymetrix and       the subsequent licensing of two highly complex genomic cancer assays into       the US market has established Almac Diagnostics as a recognised       international leader in the cancer diagnostics industry3,4,5,6.
In 2012 Almac announced the opening of its CLIA laboratory in Craigavon,       N. Ireland7.
This laboratory, which has been approved by the       College of American Pathologists, was established to facilitate the       delivery of novel diagnostic tests to help select patients for enrolment       in pharma sponsored biomarker driven clinical trials.
Currently Almac is       supporting approximately 15 phase I and II global clinical trials from its       CLIA laboratory, which further emphasises its prominence with the       pharmaceutical industry.
The economic importance of Almac Diagnostics is evidenced by its       continued growth and expansion of its operations in Europe and the US.
Specifically over the last 5 years a total of 50 new positions have been       created within Almac Diagnostics across areas such as molecular biology,       bioinformatics, project management, business development and marketing.
Furthermore approximately 90% of the staff employed are graduates and 50%       have PhD qualifications emphasising the contribution research has made to       the knowledge-based economy in N. Ireland.
In addition, Almac Diagnostics       opened an office in Manchester in 2009 as a hub for bioinformatics support       and now employs 4 members of staff in that location as well as two       business development managers.
Finally, Almac Diagnostics have also       expanded into the US market and now employ two business development       managers there.
Almac's reputation in the cancer diagnostics industry has       led to substantial new opportunities for the business through strategic       partnerships with many of the world's leading pharmaceutical companies.
In       2009, Almac announced a strategic partnership with Pfizer, the world's       largest pharmaceutical company.
The agreement provided Pfizer access to       Almac's Colon-DSA array to discover and validate new predictive markers of       response to chemotherapy in colon cancer5.
Similarly in 2009,       Almac announced a partnership with Eli-Lilly and the Medical Research       Council to help develop new predictive markers for drugs within their       pipelines6.
