     The work of the Queen's group has led to the discovery of rare molecular       causes of erythrocytosis.
This has led to changes in the clinical guidelines1,2,3 for       testing of patients with these diseases as       well as the establishment of a diagnostic service that screens patients       for these rare mutations.
The service investigations generate income for the NHS.
Around 100 samples per year are received for testing for these rare       mutations from the UK,       Ireland, many parts of Europe and the USA in a consolidated service       framework that has reached       a steady state.
The direct impact on patients of testing is that in some       of the rare cases a diagnosis       can now be made.
This benefits the individual patient by guiding clinical       management and       preventing further futile testing.
It reduces health service costs as no       more investigations need to       be carried out if the abnormality is identified.
This is the case in       approximately 10% of referrals and       54 patients with these rare diseases have benefited from an accurate       diagnosis so far.
The impact of the research on clinical practice has led to national and       international guidelines for       the investigation and management of these blood disorders.
Guidelines       incorporate reference to       the mutations identified at Queen's and how selected patients should be       investigated for the       genetic defects.
For example, as one of many, the British Committee for       Standards in       Haematology (BCSH) website guidelines state:     `Patients with an unexplained erythrocytosis and low serum EPO levels       should be considered       for investigation of an EPO receptor mutation.
The Chuvash form of       erythrocytosis, an       autosomal recessive disorder common to a large number of families in       central Russia, has       been shown to result from mutations in the VHL gene.
These       patients have inappropriately       normal or high EPO levels for their Hct'.
The more recent guidance states:     `Congenital causes of erythrocytosis include mutations in globin genes       giving rise to high       oxygen affinity haemoglobin, BPGM mutation resulting in       bisphosphoglycerate mutase       deficiency, mutations in components of the EPO signalling pathway (EPOR)       and mutations       within components of oxygen sensing pathways such as in VHL,         EGLN1 (also termed PHD2)       and EPAS1 (HIF2A).
Especially in younger patients,       mutations within such genes may identify       the cause of the erythrocytosis.'
1     Although these diseases are rare and the cases caused by unusual       mutations are rarer still, they       cause ongoing morbidity which is exceedingly costly to health service       providers and stressful for       the patients.
This has led a European Cooperation in Science and       Technology action to set up a       Network of Experts in the molecular diagnosis of myeloproliferative       neoplasms and related       diseases.
One of the four working groups in this initiative (Working Group       3 chaired by McMullin),       is dedicated to the molecular diagnosis of congenital erythrocytosis.
This       working group has been       inspired by the exciting findings of rare molecular causes for       erythrocytosis and delivers       information on which patients should be investigated and where testing can       be done.
An international database is now operational to collate information on       individuals with rare forms of       erythrocytosis.
This provides information on outcomes and a European       Congenital Erythrocytosis       Consortium has been formed.
Several hundred patients are on this database,       but an estimated ten       times more remain undiagnosed.
Furthermore, looking at the sources of       samples that the       diagnostic service received, makes it clear that many patients in many       parts of the world remain       uninvestigated.
The European Congenital Erythrocytosis Consortium also organises training       schools for clinical       scientists on diagnostic methods e.g.
the 2nd Training School, in Coimbra,       Portugal in 2011, to       which McMullin is a major contributor.
Participants in training schools4       are limited to 15 to allow a       full interactive hands-on experience and all places are usually taken up.
This school was rated       excellent or good by all participants with improvement in knowledge,       excellent or good rating for       laboratory work and comments that `interactions with participants were       very productive'.
