     Shields' research has had three major impacts on the treatment of       children with asthma and virally induced wheezing as described below.
First, it generated guidance to separate these two groups for appropriate       treatment; secondly it reduced the risks associated with high dose inhaled       corticosteroid treatment and thirdly it helped to advance the development       of simple hand-held monitoring equipment.
Impact 1: Improved targeting of inhaled corticosteroids in         children by modification of the guidelines for practitioners.
The research work by Shields at Queen's University Belfast showed that it       was wrong to group children with VIW and chronic non-specific cough as       having asthma and in need of ICS treatment.
Early guidelines defined       asthma in children as `Cough and/or wheezing ...' and this emphasis on       cough as the leading symptom resulted in many children with isolated cough       being treated for asthma.
In Australia ICS was the commonest used       medication for children with isolated cough and almost 13% had experienced       steroid side-effects.
Shields' research has provided the underpinning       evidence that children with non-allergic VIW and children with isolated       chronic coughing would be unresponsive to ICS and hence the steroid side       effects can be avoided in these children.
This has changed the emphasis in       national and international asthma and cough guidelines for children1,2       and the chair of the Diagnosis section of the BTS Asthma Guideline stated       that "this research brought about a paradigm shift in the approach to       childhood asthma"3.
It is now recommended that VIW should be       distinguished from allergic asthma and that both VIW and non-specific       isolated cough indicate a low probability of an asthma diagnosis.
ICS are       no longer recommended for these conditions.
This change in clinical       practice and the recommendations now means that fewer of these children       are exposed to unnecessary ICS.
Shields now chairs the Pharmacology       Section of the BTS/SIGN Asthma Guidelines and the Cough in Children       Guidelines (BTS).
Impact 2: High doses of ICS are no longer recommended and used         for childhood asthma     In the 1990s ICS therapy was considered safe.
Data from the Scottish       General Practice Research Database show that very high dose ICS (&gt; 800       mcg/day) prescriptions for asthmatic children &gt;5 years of age       quadrupled from 1.1% in 1992 to 4.6% in 2004.
Not only were children with       VIW and isolated coughing inappropriately treated with ICS but the doses       of ICS had escalated.
The pivotal case series published in the Lancet       identified complete adrenal suppression and growth failure in children on       very high dose ICS4.
In addition it was shown that monitoring       growth in children (which was done at primary and secondary care clinics)       did not predict the potentially serious adrenal insufficiency5.
The previous recommendation for monitoring growth as the tool for       identifying inhaled steroid side-effects (adrenal insufficiency) was       clearly inadequate.
Following this and the work of others, national and       international asthma guidelines have reduced the recommended maximal ICS       dose for children and have added warnings about adrenal suppression.
Thus       while the British Thoracic Society Asthma guidelines in 1997 suggested       children on Step 3 (poor asthma control despite treatment with 400 mcg/day       of ICS) should be treated with 800 to 2000 mcg daily of ICS, this       recommendation changed and after 2008 clear statements were made       suggesting Step 3 was up to 400 mcg daily of ICS and those requiring       greater than 800 mcg per day should be under specialist respiratory       paediatric care5.
Impact 3: Simple handheld exhaled nitric oxide devices are now         available for monitoring airways inflammation in practice     Shields' research also showed that breath Fractional Exhaled Nitric Oxide       (FeNO) correlates well with the extent of allergic airways inflammation.
A       high FeNO value of a child attending an asthma clinic may mean the child       is not adhering to ICS treatment or he/she needs the ICS treatment       escalated.
Even as late as 2006 FeNO measurement was limited to large       research centres because the equipment was bulky and expensive.
Manufacturers had the technology for portable equipment but needed further       evidence that FeNO measurement was likely to have clinical benefit, and so       would be widely adopted, before committing to commercially producing       handheld units.
Shields and his colleagues provided the underpinning evidence that the       FeNO breath test correlated closely with bronchoalveolar lavage       eosinophilia in childhood asthma6.
This was used as a key piece       of evidence by the manufacturer (Aerocrine) supporting the development of       their product &#8212; the handheld NIOX Mino FeNO monitoring device.
This key       reference is also used as supporting the diagnostic accuracy and use of       FeNO in children in the official American Thoracic Society Clinical       Practice Guideline.
The Co-Chair from the ATS Guideline Committee has       clearly acknowledged this impact when he comments that "the work by MD       Shields has made a major contribution to FeNO monitoring in childhood       asthma with special emphasis on facilitating moving FeNO from a research       tool to clinical practice" (reference letter in box 5).
