     Patients with difficult to control asthma (10% of the asthmatic       population, ca 0.5 million in the UK) have significant symptoms       and morbidity and are at a high risk of asthma death.
This population       currently represents a significant economic burden with estimates       suggesting that they consume up to 50 - 60% of NHS spend on asthma       totalling over &#163;1 billion per annum, indicating that such appropriate       management is likely to generate significant cost savings.
Several conditions that cause respiratory symptoms might co-exist in       asthmatic patients, leading to an apparent failure to respond to asthma       therapy and a significant impact of Heaney's work is that systematic       evaluation has been shown to identify additional or alternative diagnoses       in just over a third of the DA cases.
In routine clinical practice, asthma       management guidelines advocate escalation of asthma treatment to achieve       symptom control.
However, if the diagnosis of asthma is incorrect, or more       commonly, if one of several other conditions, which frequently co-exist       with asthma is present, this escalation in therapy does not improve       symptoms.
This often leads to treatment side-effects, particularly with       systemic steroid treatment.
Systematic clinical assessment shifts the       focus from asthma therapy escalation and identifies and manages these       conditions including smoking and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease       (COPD), allergic bronchopulmonary aspergillosis (ABPA) and bronchiectasis,       rhinosinusitis, vocal cord dysfunction, gastro- oesophageal reflux,       allergen, aspirin, or occupational sensitisation, systemic disease (e.g.,       thyroid disease, vasculitis), psychological factors and poor adherence as       well as socioeconomic factors.
In all of these conditions, identification       and explanation or treatment of the condition causing the symptoms, rather       than more asthma therapy, is a more appropriate strategy, and in many       cases will lead to symptomatic improvement.
The non-adherence research programme in DA at Queen's identified for the       first time the significant scale of this problem (up to 50% of subjects       referred to tertiary care DA services are non-adherent).
Non-adherence to       asthma treatment is associated with poor healthcare outcomes including       recurrent hospital admission, increased risk of ventilation for       life-threatening asthma, poor asthma-related quality of life, high symptom       scores and excessive use of nebulised reliever medication.
The reasons for       this pattern of behaviour are complex, and include denial, medication and       disease beliefs and secondary gain (secondary gain is where an individual       gains a real or perceived benefit from being ill).
Thus the precise reason       for lack of medication adherence determines how the problem should be       addressed.
Practical barriers, such as forgetting medication or poor       inhaler technique, can largely be solved by practical solutions.
With       perceptual barriers, such as denial or an erroneous belief that the       medication is causing harm, a different approach is required to manage       what is essentially a perceptual problem.
This illustrates the importance       of an individualised `menu-driven' approach to address non-adherence.
Heaney is Director of the Northern Ireland Regional Difficult Asthma       Service, managing all NI complex tertiary referrals and as a consequence       patients in NI have benefited as a result.
This ground breaking       translational research programme has been implemented in Northern Ireland1       and is fully funded by the NHS.
A Difficult Asthma programme was included       in the Respiratory Framework Standards for Respiratory Care in NI in 20072       and in 2013 a similar standard has subsequently been incorporated into the       NICE Asthma Standards (NICE Asthma Quality Standard 11 - Difficult Asthma)3.
In providing a unique research and clinical infrastructure to move away       from the 'one size fits all' approach to treatment in severe asthma there       has been a significant paradigm shift away from the more traditional       `medical' model of treatments of patients towards a more social and       holistic approach.
Multi-disciplinary optimised clinical assessment has informed best       practice in International Asthma Guidelines (Global INitiative for Asthma       [GINA 2009]4, Spanish Asthma Guidelines [SEPAR 2005]5,       BTS/SIGN Asthma Guidelines 2011 which apply to UK, Australia and New       Zealand).
The major impact of Heaney's work is exemplified in the recent       Consultation document for Specialist Centrally Commissioned Severe Asthma       Services6 in the NHS in England which builds further on this       multi- disciplinary assessment model (4 of the 9 references to underpin       this document are from Heaney and the UK Registry).
This document supports       the development of specialist regional DA services using a systematic       multi-disciplinary assessment model and when commissioned, these Centres       will be required to input data into the Registry.
The National Registry is       also hosting the UK Bronchial Thermoplasty Registry for NICE7       which will provide long term data capture on the use of this technique       within the UK and will provide a unique resource in the future to inform       questions about longer term efficacy and safety of this technique.
