     The research led by Elborn which validated CF trial outcome measures, has       had very significant impact on the management of people with CF because       the early studies from his group made multicentre trials more reliable,       effective and efficient.
The validation of clinical trial outcome measures       has resulted in evidenced based new treatments for people with CF.
In 2007       the Queen's University Belfast and the Belfast Health and Social Care       Trust set up the infrastructure to deliver CF trials.
This initiative       supported the development of an NHS R&amp;D (equivalent in remit to the       National Institute of Health Research in England) clinical trials network       (CTN) in Respiratory Health in Northern Ireland.
This CTN has now       successfully completed 26 phase II/III investigator-led and pharmaceutical       industry supported clinical trials and has become a major hub for delivery       and leadership in clinical trials in cystic fibrosis worldwide.
The Centre       has now led and contributed to 25 clinical trials in people with CF1       and is the leading centre in the UK for clinical trials in CF2.
These trials have allowed optimisation of current anti-inflammatory and       anti-infective treatments and have been a contributor to innovative       transformative treatments for the underlying basic defect2, 3       The extensive experience with clinical trials and the CTN infrastructure       set up by Queen's and the Belfast Trust resulted in Elborn's group being       selected by a number of commercial organisations such as Boehringer,       Vertex, Novartis, and Pulmatrix to be the international leads for Phase II       and Phase III clinical trials and other interventions in CF.
For example,       Elborn was the co-Chief Investigator for a ground breaking and landmark       study using the first corrective therapy for the underlying defect in       patients with CF4.
Ivacaftor corrects the function of a       particular mutation in CF designated as G551D.
This mutation in the CF       gene affects 5% of people with CF worldwide but 10% of people in Ireland.
The drug activates the mutated protein and restores significant function       of the defective channel which causes CF in these patients.
This Phase III       study demonstrated a transformative impact on patients with very       significant increases in lung function and quality of life with a       concomitant reduction in pulmonary exacerbation6.
Ivacaftor       represents a paradigm shift since for the first time not just the symptoms       of CF are treated in the patients but treatment is aimed directly at the       cause of the disease.
It has now been approved by FDA5 and EMA6       and is licensed and funded in USA, UK, Ireland, France and Germany7.
The outstanding results from Kalydeco led Forbes to select this drug as       the most important drug licensed in 20129 as it reached sales       of $113 million in the first 9 months of the year.
This is primarily       because Ivacaftor represents a completely new approach to treating people       with CF by correcting the basic defect.
The very rapid development of this       treatment into a prescribed therapy available in the clinic is a       consequence of the rapid and efficient execution of the pivotal clinical       trial with the appropriate endpoints.
Ivacaftor has transformed the       quality of life of people with cystic fibrosis who carry the G551D       mutation by improving their lung function and nutritional state and       reducing the number of exacerbations caused by infection and mucous       impaction in the lungs.10 These are all strong surrogates for       survival and it is likely that this therapy will also improve length of       life.
For those patients who have the G551D mutation this is a       transformative therapy.
This programme is an exemplar of personalised       medicine5.
The FDA describes the impact of Ivacaftor on people       with CF and the exemplar nature of this in the field of personalised       medicine as follows: "Kalydeco represents an excellent example of the       future of personalised medicine.....it is part of a revolution in how we       will treat patients in the future".
This pivotal trial with Ivacaftor has       also for the first time demonstrated that the CFTR protein is a drugable       target and correction of function results in transformative clinical       benefit.
This has very significant societal impact for people with cystic       fibrosis demonstrating real future hope that a wide range of mutations may       indeed be treatable.
This is evidenced by a range of major pharmaceutical       companies developing potentiator and corrector programmes as this target       is now attractive (Novartis, Pfizer, Bayer).
Elborn is an advisor of study       designs of the programmes with Novartis and Bayer and a CI on the Novartis       and Bayer programmes.
