     To be on mechanical ventilation in an ICU carries a high risk for       patients and many succumb to infections and pneumonia.
Worldwide, the       number of patients receiving mechanical ventilation is increasing rapidly,       and will continue to increase due to improved patient survival and an       aging population.
The cost of providing care to these patients is       substantial: $3050/day in the United States (US) and &#163;1400/day in the       United Kingdom (UK).
Getting the research evidence to ICU clinicians     Blackwood and her collaborators have greatly contributed to expanding the       knowledge base concerning adoption of weaning strategies, particularly in       the field of weaning protocols and automated weaning systems.
In the UK,       surveys of adult ICUs show a substantial increase in using weaning       protocols from 21% in 2002 to 57% in 2010 in the UK [1, 2].
Within Europe,       the current reported use of weaning protocols in ICUs ranges from 56 to       69%; and 55% of ICUs reported using one or more automated weaning systems       [3].
The research by Blackwood and colleagues has been widely disseminated to,       and accessed by, practitioners within health care institutions and       professional organisations, both nationally and internationally.
For       example, within the UK, the importance of the findings from the Cochrane       review on protocolised weaning was recognised by the National Health       Service (NHS) by making these findings available to the NHS public health       and social care sectors on their web portal `NHS Evidence' that provides       authoritative clinical evidence and best practice to all NHS staff [4].
Professor Gavin Perkins, Director of Research in the UK Intensive Care       Society said... "Weaning from mechanical ventilation is an enduring       challenge for patients in the intensive care unit.
For a number of years       using clinical protocols to guide practice has been suggested as one way       to reduce the length of time patients spend on a ventilator.
For the first       time, this review brings together the best current evidence on the use of       protocols."
In Europe, the major critical care professional organisation, the       European Society of Intensive Care Medicine (ESICM), published an extended       summary of the review in the first edition of the Clinical Evidence in       Intensive Care Handbook.
It was distributed to the 5661 delegates from 92       countries attending the 24th Annual Congress in Berlin, Germany and is       available to its 6346 members via their web platform [5].
Furthermore, on       an international level, this review was one of the top 10 accessed reviews       in full-text format in the on-line Cochrane Library, accessed 1,322 times       during 2011 [6].
Translation of evidence into practice     In 2012, on the basis of the evidence from the protocolized weaning       review and associated publications, the European federation of Critical       Care Nursing associations (EfCCNa) issued a Position Paper urging European       ICU nurses to consider the development and use of weaning protocols in       their practice [7].
The statement reads, "As a result of reviewing this       evidence, the EfCCNa recommends that ICU nurses should actively       participate in early identification of a patient's readiness to wean.
The       ICU nurse should facilitate early weaning by referring to a protocol that       lists readiness to wean criteria... and developing and using locally       agreed weaning protocols based on most recent and updated best evidence".
Publication of this statement has prompted national associations to issue       clinical guidelines for weaning.
For example, the Israeli Society for       Cardiology and Intensive Care Nurses translated the EfCCNa position paper,       and developed national guidelines for protocolized weaning from mechanical       ventilation.
These have been distributed to all ICU nurses on their       distribution lists and published in the Israeli nursing journal in Hebrew       [8].
They are being introduced to all ICUs and currently are being used in       the 4 main ICUs in Jerusalem.
In Canada, to reflect the impact of the new evidence from Blackwood and       colleagues' research findings, guidelines for preventing ventilator       associated pneumonia were revised [9].
The guidelines are published by       `Safer Healthcare Now!
', the flagship programme of the Canadian Patient       Safety Institute, that invests in frontline providers and the delivery       system to improve patient safety by implementing interventions known to       reduce avoidable harm.
The guidelines urge ICU teams to review the       organisational context in which they wean patients as well as the process       itself in order to optimise weaning outcomes.
In summary, the dissemination of comprehensive data on weaning methods       and their impact on patient outcomes has informed clinical       decision-making.
This is evidenced by the uptake of findings from       Blackwood and colleagues' work into clinical practice guidelines.
