     The HAPO study identified for the first time, on a global basis, the       adverse impact on both       mother and baby of mildly elevated levels of glucose below those       traditionally used to make a       diagnosis of diabetes in pregnancy.
The traditionally used criteria for       diabetes in pregnancy       were based on the principle of identifying women at risk of diabetes after       the pregnancy, rather       than the principle of identifying pregnancies where there was significant       risk to mother and/or       baby as a consequence of elevated glucose.
HAPO aimed to determine the       level of maternal       glucose associated with abnormal pregnancy outcomes for mother and baby,       and hence to       allow the development of new criteria for the diagnosis of diabetes in       pregnancy.
Following the publication of the major HAPO results in 2008, the       International Association of       Diabetes and Pregnancy Study Groups (IADPSG) convened a consensus panel,       which       published new recommended criteria for the diagnosis of diabetes in       pregnancy based on the       HAPO study findings, in Diabetes Care in 20101,2.
Queen's       researchers were members of the       Consensus Panel which published the recommendations and are amongst its       authors.
The       new criteria are based on identification of average glucose values at       which odds for increased       birth weight, levels of insulin in cord blood and percentage body fat of       the baby in the top 10%       reached 1.75 times the estimated odds of these outcomes at average glucose       values.
Therefore, the whole basis on which the diagnosis of diabetes in pregnancy       is made has been       changed from risk of subsequent diabetes in the mother, to risk to the       baby at birth.
The new criteria have already begun to have far reaching consequences at       an international       level1,3.
A completely new two phase screening strategy for       diabetes in pregnancy is       recommended.
This consists of an initial measurement of fasting plasma       glucose, random       glucose or HbA1c (a test that indicates average blood glucose levels over       the past three       months) in all women at the first prenatal visit.
If the results are       abnormal, the woman is       managed as if she had diabetes preceding pregnancy.
In all women with       normal results at this       initial visit, it is proposed that a 2 hour 75 g oral glucose tolerance       test is carried out at between       24 and 28 weeks gestation, and new criteria are provided for the diagnosis       of gestational       diabetes.
In a typical developed population, use of the new criteria       approximately doubles the       percentage of women who will be diagnosed as suffering from gestational       diabetes, from 8% to       16%.
Appropriate management of women with this condition improves outcomes       both for       mother and baby.
The new criteria for diabetes in pregnancy were endorsed by the American       Diabetes       Association in January 2011 and are currently under review by many other       national guideline       bodies.
There is widespread acceptance that the HAPO results indicate the       need for change in       glycaemic management during pregnancy.
The problem is addressed in a very       large number       of papers, reflecting on how to implement the changes in management in       many countries, This       is the case for example in China, Japan, Australia, New Zealand, India,       Israel, Germany,       Switzerland, UK, USA and Canada.
The IADPSG guidelines have been accepted       or endorsed       in part or whole by many bodies including the American Diabetes       Association, the Japanese       Diabetes Pregnancy Society, the Australasian Diabetes in Pregnancy Society       (Australia and       New Zealand)4, and the Italian Diabetes Pregnancy Society5.
