     Of the 3,800 individuals who are suspected to suffer from FH in Northern       Ireland, less than 200 had been identified at the start of this programme       of research.
A clinical register of families that appeared to have an       inherited problem with levels of lipids in the blood was established in       Belfast from the early 1970s, and research into the causes of these       disorders began in Queen's in the late 1980's.
As a result of the       programme of work, which has been outlined here, the number of identified       individuals is now approximately 1,100.
Having initially been funded as a       research project, a fully funded laboratory and clinical service covering       the entire Northern Ireland population has now been established with the       support of the Department of Health and Social Care.
The service offers testing in individual and families with suspected FH       after the identification of index cases which are referred from primary or       secondary care to the specialist clinics according to agreed local       guidelines.
The service is now embedded within the Northern Ireland       Cardiovascular Care Framework.
The Service Framework for Cardiovascular       Health and Wellbeing [DHSSPS June 2009] recognises the importance of       familial hypercholesterolaemia in Overarching standard 12, which states1:     "All people with genetically linked high cholesterol (FH) should be         identified and treated and their names entered on a regional register so         that other family members can be identified in order that measures can         be introduced to prevent the development of cardiovascular disease".
Patients are offered lipid lowering therapy aimed at achieving a 50%       reduction in pre- diagnosis LDL cholesterol, in line with NICE guidance.
Audit has shown that this standard is met in over 70% of cases.
The expertise of the genetic testing laboratory is widely recognised:       samples are routinely received and tested from a number of regions in       England and Scotland, as well as the Republic of Ireland.
In addition, the       world's leading laboratory medicine organisation The International       Federation for Clinical Chemistry and Laboratory Medicine has recognised       the Belfast laboratory as an expert laboratory in this area, one of only       two global laboratories so recognised.
As a result of this, the laboratory       provides advice and guidance on genetic diagnosis of inherited lipid       disorders to clinical laboratories throughout the world.
The NICE guidance on FH (CG71: Identification and management of familial       hypercholesterolaemia, August 2008) was significantly informed by the       Northern Ireland experience (references 54 and 55; cited on pages 59, 71       and 104; table 6 extracted from these papers), and the recommendations in       the NICE guidance for England and Wales are very similar to established       practice in Northern Ireland2.
Currently, around 700 samples for genetic testing for FH are received by       the genetics laboratory each year5.
A Northern Ireland target       has been agreed for the identification of 200 new cases of familial       hypercholesterolaemia per year.
Furthermore, recent research work in       collaboration with the local biotechnology company Randox has developed a       test for common polymorphisms on a chip which has been commercially       launched on the international market this year6.
Thus the development of the diagnostic service based on the       identification of specific mutations in FH has led to the identification       of 900 more people in Northern Ireland who carry a high risk of       cardiovascular disease.
A pro rata number in England would be 32,000       people who could be offered behaviour modification or treatment with       statins or other drugs to reduce their risk of serious morbidity and       mortality.
