     The impact of the MONICA studies was in the 2008 production of a European       Health Examination Survey Manual.
Under Evans's leadership the MONICA       Manual established the necessary quality assurance procedures and collated       the information with which to judge the reliability and comparability of       data on risk factors and outcomes of coronary heart disease.
This enabled       unbiased international comparisons, which allowed policymakers in many       countries to make informed decisions about the balance between primary and       secondary prevention strategies for cardiovascular disease.
Evans was a member of the MONICA Steering Committee from 1990 and was its       Publication Coordinator from 1992.
He subsequently assumed responsibility       for the revision of the MONICA Survey Manual, re-designing several       elements to remove ambiguities.
In 1994 he became Chairman of the MONICA       Steering Committee and he led the MONICA EU Biomed Concerted Action from       1996-1999, during which the success of the standardization process was       thoroughly assessed and published in a series of reports1.
As       Chairman and with senior colleagues from other participating centres, he       also set the direction for the subsequent MONICA research outputs.
The insights gained from the research led to the promotion of uniform       methods for cardiovascular surveys (collated as manuals and e-publications       on the MONICA website1) and their adoption by initially 38       population centres of coronary heart disease registration.
Based on the       MONICA Manuals, the European Commission supported the development of the         European Health Examination Survey (EHES).
This standardized       national health examination surveys in the European countries.
The       Feasibility of the European Health Examination Survey (FEHES) programme       assessed the capacity to conduct uniform national health examination       surveys in all EU countries.
This feasibility project2       (2006-2008) led directly to the EHES Pilot.
The pilot in 12 countries       between 2009 and 2012supported by the EU Joint Action programme set up the       EHES Reference Centre (EU Service Contract) led directly to the production       of a European Health Examination Survey Manual2.
MONICA's survey manual and consistency of approach has also permitted       policy makers to draw robust inferences about trends in CHD and the       impacts of prevention and healthcare policies on them.
For example,       research based on MONICA survey data demonstrated that approximately 60%       of the substantial CHD mortality decline in Northern Ireland between 1987       and 2007 was attributable to major cardiovascular risk factor changes and       approximately 35% was attributable to treatments.
These findings were       launched by the Chief Medical Officer for Northern Ireland and the       Minister for Employment and Learning in April 20123.
Similar       conclusions have been replicated in many countries4 and would       not have been possible but for the adoption of MONICA's harmonised survey       methods.
Editorials in major journals have long testified to the need for       data, such as are available in MONICA, for policy making5,6.
Other direct beneficiaries of the research include commissioners of       health services.
A careful analysis of MONICA data from Belfast and       Glasgow7 showed little additional benefit in Belfast of having       more expensive medically staffed coronary care ambulances.
As a result,       local commissioners moved away from supporting a medically manned mobile       coronary care ambulance service and supported more paramedic-led coronary       care models, appropriate to local geography and service needs.
The adoption of the MONICA survey methods also paved the way for a       further important commissioning decision at EU level, namely to support       the MORGAM programme8, which has already successfully       provided follow-up for cardiovascular disease of the cohorts defined by       the MONICA risk factor surveys and other similar European population       surveys.
This has formed an important data harmonization infrastructure       for the epidemiology, genetics and biomarkers of CHD in Europe which is       now impacting on CHD service research and delivery in Europe.
The Deputy       Head of Unit for Research and Innovation for Advanced Therapies and       Systems Medicine at the EU stated that "under Professor Alun Evans's       careful chairmanship and planning, the outputs from MONICA laid the       foundation for many subsequent decisions that the EU took concerning our       investment in the dissemination of uniform methods for population health       surveys" and that he felt it "a privilege to see the legacy of MONICA       mature in the genomic age.
"9
