     Cardiome Pharma, a Canadian pharmaceutical company, recognised in 2003       that the team       at QUB had the ability to deliver kilogram quantities, to GMP standard, of       a chiral       intermediate required for an alternative chemoenzymatic route to their new       drug candidate       RSD1235 for a clinical trial for the treatment of atrial fibrillation by       intravenous injection.
Atrial       fibrillation, which is linked with strokes, is the most common form of       irregular heartbeat, with an       estimated nine million sufferers worldwide and established drugs for       restoring normal heart       rhythms are limited by either modest efficacy and/or side effects.
After investing more than CAN $1M prompted by research in two seminal       publications by       the Queen's group (Reference 1, J.
Am.
Chem.
Soc., 1994, 116, 1147;       Reference 2, J.       Chem.
Soc., Chem.
Commun.
1995, 117 in section 3), during 2004 QUB       was employed to       deliver 5 kg of an enantiopure bioproduct and develop the synthetic       chemistry used in the first       synthetic steps toward RSD1235 (Reference 1 in section 5).
Using       this alternative improved       chemoenzymatic route, Cardiome ultimately prepared 1 kg of homochiral       RSD1235 to GMP       standard required for clinical trials based on the material and routes       Queen's provided       (Reference 2 in section 5).
As a result of the clinical trials, in       2009 Merck signed a licensing       agreement with Cardiome worth up to 600 million dollars to help rapidly       get the drug to       market (Reference 3 in section 5).
RSD 1235 has completed clinical       trials, is now marketed as       Vernakalant and in September 2010 was approved for use in over ten       European countries and       other areas under the trade name Brinavess (Cardiome/Merck).
Vernakalant       is currently in       phase 3 clinical trials for FDA approval for use in the USA and is       currently being evaluated by       the National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence, NICE, as a       prescription drug for NHS       use in the UK (Reference 4 in section 5).
Secondly, Almac Sciences have over the past five years developed an       increasing biocatalytic       capability within their business facilitated by the research undertaken in       Queen's led by Boyd       and Stevenson.
Many of the initial bioproducts marketed by Almac       SelectAZyme, and new       projects undertaken for external customers, were solely based on the       biocatalytic pathways,       enzymes, expertise and facilities used for the formation of polyoxygenated       cyclohexanes from       aromatics developed in Queen's which are utilized as precursors in       synthetic routes to       bioactive materials, such as the influenza drug Tamiflu (Reference 5 in         section 5).
The       development of the routes for commericalisation was undertaken through a       collaboration between       the two groups of researchers (Reference 6 in section 5).
This       area is now growing into other       markets significantly and the biocatalysis group in Almac now employ 30       staff including 15 PhD       graduates from QUB trained in Boyd and Stevenson's groups.
The       biocatalysis group operates as       a multi-million revenue provider for Almac providing solutions to       customers through the application       of enzymes.
Therefore, this biocatalysis research has led to a number of economic and       health related       impacts whose beneficiaries are primarily the industrial partners and the       resultant economic       benefits to the general public as well as the new development of       treatments used in general       practice worldwide.
