     Research by the Queen's team led by Bell and Fletcher has changed the       working practice of the Forensic Science Agency in Northern Ireland, FSNI,       in their analysis and case evidence accumulation in serious crime       investigations.
The new methods adopted have led to reduced analysis time       and an increased ability to track distribution and supply of drugs.
Following the research undertaken at Queen's, FSNI invested in a &#163;50K in a       Raman spectrometer suitable for drugs analysis, which was funded by the       Government's Assets Recovery Agency.
In 2004 they began profiling ecstasy tablets for drugs intelligence       purposes i.e.
to detect common sources and patterns of distribution and       supply.
In 2008 FSNI adopted Raman spectroscopy as the technique of choice       for the initial characterisation of all bulk white powders and       tablets submitted to the Alcohol, Drugs and Toxicology section (Figure 1).
At that time these types of samples constituted around 40% of the drugs       casework at FSNI, therefore, in approximately 500 cases per annum the       techniques based on the QUB methods supported prosecutions for       supply/possession.
(reference 1 in section 5)  Figure 1 High throughput drug analysis-tablets being analysed in a Raman spectrometer as used in FSNI      Similarly, the research on forensic analysis of household paint by QUB       led directly to the Physical Evidence section of FSNI purchasing and       validating dedicated Raman and IR microscopes for paint evidence       examination in 2008.
(reference 2 in section 5) Paint evidence is       usually only examined in "serious cases" that include murder, rape and       assaults, numbering up to 200 each year.
This allowed the laboratory to       stop investing in pyrolysis GC-MS as their confirmatory technique, leading       to substantial savings in equipment estimated as &#163;75K.
A newspaper report       of the crucial part paint evidence played in the first murder       investigation using the method is given as reference 5 in section 5.
As part of the long term rollout of the Raman method, since 2010 every       paint casework sample which is submitted to the laboratory is subjected to       Raman analysis (reference 2 in section 5).
Again, as for the       ecstasy work, the rationale is that Raman analysis increases the       throughput and decreases the cost of hundreds of examinations per annum.
The total number of paint examinations to date is 947.
The most recent impact of this Queen's research has been on       &#946;-ketophenethylamine "Legal Highs" (also known as "cathinones").
This       new generation of synthetic psychotropic drugs was widely available       through the internet until 2010 when legislation made supply and       possession an offence.
Due to their relative novelty and the potential to       make hundreds of variants of cathinones, FSNI had problems characterising       many of these until work carried out by Fletcher and Bell in 2010 on       identifying the novel variants in seized samples.
This had the immediate       effect of allowing criminal prosecutions which had been stalled until then       due to lack of evidence to proceed (reference 3 in section 5).
As       a result of the work at Queen's, the Director of Public Prosecutions has       been able to allow the first criminal trials and convictions have been       obtained.
This work is now being extended through a FSNI-based trial on       the use of the vibrational analysis method developed by QUB for high       throughput screening of suspected cathinones seized by the postal       authorities.
The work on cathinones has allowed the FSNI laboratory to establish a       strategy for reacting quickly to the appearance of new classes of       synthetic drugs and the corresponding legislation which follows.
This is       important because the frequency with which new classes of abused       substances appear is increasing, as is the speed at which they are adopted       to become global problems.
(reference 3 in section 5).
The impact of this work is being extended beyond FSNI.
Firstly, the       cathinone trial has been extended to the "Celtic Fringe" group of       government forensic laboratories which include Scottish and Eire labs       (reference 4 in section 5).
In addition, the Palestinian National       Authority are in the process of purchasing a Raman system for routine drug       analysis for their new forensic laboratories due to be completed 2013       (reference 1 in section 5).
The FBI in the United States has been       investigating the use of Raman spectroscopy for paint examination using a       sample library supplied by QUB (reference 6 in section 5) and in a       recent publication described the QUB series of paint papers as "important       to the forensic community because they provide data to support the highly       discriminating nature of comparative paint examination" (reference 7 in         section 5).
All the above clearly shows the global impact of the       research undertaken given its widespread adoption.
Whilst the immediate       beneficiaries of the research are the forensic science agencies, the work       also has significant societal benefit in providing more robust analysis       methods which can be performed rapidly and routinely.
This combination       allows a wider range of samples to be examined and the creation of       patterns of behaviour which will lead to prosecution and convictions.
