     Based on the seminal research undertaken by       de Silva, Roche developed, in conjunction with       QUB, a blood analyser which was commercialised       and has been the market leader in point-of-care       analyzers ever since (Figure 2).
Throughout the       period 2008-13 this R&amp;D programme has led to       sales of US$50M of the diagnostic cassettes       used in the OPTI device) (see reference 1 in         section 5) clearly demonstrating economic impact of       the fundamental research undertaken in QUB.
Figure 2 OPTI cassettes sold by Optimedical Inc (www.optimedical.com).
The black spots carry the appropriate sensor molecules covalently attached.
As well as economic impact, the formulation of these sensors has had wide       spread health benefits       worldwide.
"The sensors are used in various locations within hospitals,       emergency centers,       ambulances, helicopters, airplanes, pulmonary centres and in any location       where time critical       diagnostic testing is needed."
(see reference 2 in section 5).
For       example, they monitor blood for       levels of common salt components such as sodium, potassium and calcium       rapidly allowing       emergency units to arrange for a certain type of blood with the necessary       salt levels to be ready       following transport of a patient from triage to hospital, for example.
The       ability to analyse the blood       rapidly (within 30 s) has also changed the working patterns of health       professionals, for example,       in Japan, general practitioners use the device to give patients results in       their surgeries rather than       have to send away blood samples for analysis.
In addition, the technology       is so robust that       paramedics in ambulances in Sri Lanka used the Optimedical analyzer during       the civil war,       which ended in 2009, when casualties were a daily occurrence.
These       devices have recently       been used in a similar vein in Libya (see reference 3 in section 5).
Furthermore, the technology       has been adapted for veterinary treatments and is incorporated into the       IDEXX VetLab Suite       demonstrating the breadth of the impact delivered (see reference 4 in         section 5).
The high quality fundamental research undertaken in the area of PET       fluorescent sensors by de       Silva in QUB has had significant economic impact benefiting both the       companies involved as well       as the wider economy.
Importantly, there have also been health and       societal benefits to the       development of the OPTI blood analyser in terms of speed of the analysis       which has resulted in       patients' peace of mind and more importantly efficient life saving       transfusion of compatible blood       aiding the recovery of patients globally.
In 2008 Prof de Silva won the Royal Society of Chemistry's Award for       Sensors sponsored by GE       Healthcare for his contribution towards 'switch and tell' sensor       molecules, the invention of       molecular logic and the industrial impact of the research undertaken       (reference 5 in section 5).
