     ROSA (Rapid Oscillations in the Solar Atmosphere):       The detectors in our SuperWASP and ROSA instruments were developed in       collaboration with       Andor Technology plc, one of the world leaders in detector technology,       which employs over 300       people in 16 offices worldwide, and distributes its products to 10,000       customers in 55 countries.
Our successful partnership with Andor allowed them to identify large       format CCD and high-speed       ultra-sensitive EMCCD scientific cameras as a growing market for       astronomical applications, as       they were unaware of the increasing importance of high cadence observing       in astrophysics       research.
In addition, the partnership allowed Andor to become involved in       the European Solar       Telescope (EST) Consortium, and provided access to EU/FP7 funding for       Andor of &#8364;81K (2008 - 2011)       for a preliminary detector Design Study for the EST.
This in turn has       potential applications to       other solar telescope designs around the globe, such as the Advanced       Technology Solar       Telescope (ATST) in the USA and the National Large Solar Telescope (NLST)       in India.
Most       importantly, the drive for science excellence in our programmes pushed       existing detector       technology to its limits, and was directly responsible for Andor's       development of these large format,       low noise, high-speed cameras.
Andor has now been identified (by the EST       and ATST Consortia)       as one of only two companies worldwide which have the capability to       provide cameras that can       meet the stringent science requirements of the next generation of solar       telescopes (i.e.
large       format, synchronised and fast readout).
For ROSA to operate successfully, it has been necessary to solve the       problem of accurately       synchronising up to 6 cameras at high cadence, so that all images are       obtained at exactly the       same time with an accuracy of a few microseconds.
Andor worked with       Mathioudakis and Keenan       to develop the synchronisation hardware and software infrastructure to       achieve this.
Following its       successful development, this directly expanded Andor's understanding of       high bandwidth data       handling and multi-camera synchronisation, identified as a key future area       in terms of providing       `added-value' to camera systems.
In particular, high bandwidth solutions       are highly complementary       to next-generation scientific CMOS technology, an area of innovation that       is presently being       spearheaded by Andor.
This new ground-breaking technology offers the       ability to acquire large       format data at very fast frame rates with extremely high sensitivity and       is already resonating with a       broad diversity of scientific applications, including in biophysics (e.g.
investigating       neurotransmission at individual synapses in brain tissue), drug discovery       (e.g.
imaging biological       reactions such as drug binding) and high-cadence astronomy (including       solar physics).
Our partnership with Andor has directly led to the development of imaging       products       comprising o f camera (or multi-camera) systems combined with high       bandwidth data handling       and real-time processing units.
The sales of these products generated over       &#163;1.4M in 2012,       and is estimated by Andor to grow to more than 300 systems per year in the       next 5 years,       corresponding to a revenue of &#163;3.8M per year.
This has also helped Andor       to maintain a leading       position in the scientific camera market on a global scale, particularly       in the consistently growing       and relatively well-funded area of astronomy.
Super-WASP and the Next Generation Transit Survey (NGTS):       We have collaborated with ANDOR on the development of large format,       deep-depleted CCDs       needed for the Next Generation Transit Survey (NGTS) project.
Although       NGTS will use large-format       deep depleted CCDs from e2v Technology, (Chelmsford), it is the Andor low       noise camera       architecture and deep cooling technology that makes these devices usable.
Building on the       heritage of the SuperWASP project, we conducted a prototype experiment on       La Palma       (November 2009 &#8212; March 2010) using Andor's 1K x 1K iKon-M 934N BR-DD       deep-depleted CCD.
This experiment proved the viability of high-precision photometry with       such technology.
Our results       led directly to the development of a new camera product (the larger format       2K x 2K iKon-L 936       deep-depleted CCD) by e2v-Andor-QUB for NGTS.
As the largest format,       deep-depleted cameras       that only need thermoelectric cooling rather than bulky and expensive       cryogenics, this is a major       advance in professional imaging systems.
These devices have now become       part of the Andor       product portfolio.
Andor Technology is currently the sole company       marketing these devices, and       sales have amounted to greater than &#163;500K in only 18 months since the       product came into the       market.
We note that our case study clearly provides impact as defined in Annex C       of the Guidance on       Submissions, namely under paragraph 5 &#8212; change or benefit to the         activities, performance, policy         and process of an organisation.
Specifically, our partnership with       Andor led to the decision to       develop new imaging systems and the resultant revenue from these.
