 A.
Engaging Post-Genocide Diasporas in Peace Processes F&#233;ron (3:1) challenged conventional wisdom on transnational communities in homeland and hostland conflicts by underscoring and catalysing their potential for constructive engagement in peace processes.
F&#233;ron's INFOCON project influenced the development of resources to enable positive communication and introduced its own dedicated web resources to enable the use of new social media among diasporic groups.
It provided a forum for expressing ideas and strengthened lines of communication among groups.
Participants included Hutu, Tutsi and Twa individuals from political parties and Rwandan civil organizations from the diaspora in Africa, Europe and North America.
The INFOCON website counted 17,762 visits (April 2008-June 2011) while the project's dedicated policy handbook (also involving Miall) has been downloaded 1604 times from the project's website, not including downloads from other organizations that made it available online such as Eldis, academia.edu and Cordis or provided wide coverage following its publication (e.g.
the Scoop Project, WBC and Avanna).
Several `problem-solving' workshops involving Civil Society Organisations (CSOs) were conducted, such as a Serb-Albanian-EU trialogue, and a roundtable dialogue on Rwanda that brought together representatives of Rwandan diaspora and homeland organizations, chaired by a Spanish member of parliament.
INFOCON's impact and achievements were commended by the European Commission (5:1).
The project's findings were subsequently used for implementing programmes and policies at the local level, in the frame of two follow-up projects, one called Labour-Plus (involving 11 local authorities, funded by the EU-ERDF funds under the Interreg-IVC Programme), and the second called AWARD, (involving 6 local authorities or networks, with the support of Europeaid, programme `Non-state actors and local authorities in development') (5:2).
B.
Enhancing Professional Conflict Resolution Standards Miall's work reshaped the professional training standards and practices of NGOs, development agencies and intergovernmental bodies.
Miall et al.
's (3:3) cited in Google scholar 1003 times demonstrate the work's reach across the conflict resolution field; most visibly, the EU Directorate for External Relations reprinted parts of the book in a publication on `What works in response to crises and security threats' (5:3).
Miall et al.
has been employed as a core text for practitioner training by the Berghof Centre for Conflict Research in Germany, the Japan International Cooperation Agency JICA, Oxfam in Kenya and by Norwegian conflict resolution trainers in India.
Dr Ropers, Programme Director of the Berghof Centre, argues that (3:3) "identified new avenues in the field and offered topics for state-of-the art discussions in the Berghof Centre" (5:4).
C. Shaping Institutions for Democratic Participation in Deeply Divided Societies Research at Kent has shaped the agenda in constitutional design across divided societies.
Bieber informed the European Commission and the OSCE High Commission on National Minorities which employed his expertise to evaluate the implementation of various peace initiatives.
Bieber authored an expert report on the protection of national minorities for the Council of Europe which improved public understanding on disparities in minority group representation in the Balkans (5:5).
Cochrane and Loizides are now carrying this stream of research forward.
John McGarry Senior Advisor on Power-Sharing to the United Nations endorsed Loizides' proposals in his Northern Ireland Assembly testimony (5:8).
Loizides (3:6) led to the full endorsement of the d'Hondt mechanism by CAD the leading bi-communal lobby group in Cyprus (5:7), and to the development of similar proposals for the Colombian peace process (5:7).
It also contributed to Council of Europe recommendations in Georgia based on a co-authored report submitted with James Ker-Lindsay (PhD, University of Kent) (5:6).
Finally, following the publication of Professor Cochrane's book (3:5), Cochrane and Loizides influenced the Cypriot negotiations (5:7) and the 2013 Stormont review of the d'Hondt (5:10).
Ray McCaffrey Research Officer, Northern Ireland Assembly, offers that Cochrane's insights on community designation (which was at the centre of the NI Assembly review), transformed his understanding of the issue with regard to how Community Designation itself should not be necessarily seen as a barrier to the gradual breaking down of communal divisions (5:9).
