     Educational guidance in the teaching and learning of children with         Down's syndrome     Historically, children with Down's syndrome struggle with literacy       skills, including exercises that require the ability to `write on lines'       which in particular was previously assumed to be due to poor fine motor       control.
The Cardiff work challenged this notion, showing that the problem       stems from their poor vision.
From this research the Cardiff team       recommended that darker lines would improve the classroom performance of       children with Down's syndrome.
Teachers and parents have confirmed that       children with Down's syndrome are better able to follow lines if they are       darkened,"Big and Bold" [5.1].
In direct correspondence       with Woodhouse, one parent states: "One of [Ben's] targets at school         was to write on the line which he couldn't do.
It turned out the line         was in pencil so I suggested that perhaps he couldn't see... they then         drew the lines in pen and instantly he could write on the lines!"
Cardiff's studies also showed that most children with Down's syndrome who       were prescribed bifocals made an active choice to wear them all the time,       not just in the classroom.
The benefit of wearing bifocals is summed up in       an email from the mother of Ethan, aged 3, a regular attendee of the       Special Assessment Clinic in Cardiff: "... he took to the bifocals         straight away and hasn't put his old glasses back on since wearing them.
[He is] steadier on his feet, has better communication and attention         when looking at flash cards and so on."
A recent study by an independent Canadian research team examined       educational practices in children with Down's syndrome.
The study       confirmed the benefits of the Cardiff research-led recommendations that       bifocals improved focusing for children and the wearing of bifocals led to       a significant improvement in literacy and visual perceptual skills [5.2].
Cardiff's research findings and recommendations have been embraced by the       Down's Syndrome Association, the only organisation in England, Wales and       Northern Ireland which supports people with Down's syndrome at every stage       of life.
Since 2008 the Association has used the Cardiff research in its       educational guidance [5.1] on the modification of teaching       materials and practices, and the need for bifocal spectacles.
This       guidance is provided to schools and is also available for download [5.3].
Between February 2012 and September 2013 the guidance has been downloaded       9561 times [5.1].
The All Party Parliamentary Educational       Advisory Group on Down's Syndrome has published a report [5.4]       on educational practices that includes the Cardiff-research findings on       visual deficits, the need for bifocals and of problems with writing on       lines.
The DSA Educational packs [5.3] that underpinned by the       Cardiff research [5.1] are cited.
The Down's Syndrome Association uses the Cardiff research findings in its       campaigns to benefit children with Down's syndrome [5.1].
For       example, in February 2012 the Down's Syndrome Association has used the       Cardiff research findings in its newsletter to its 7,500 UK members.
The       "Focus on Vision" theme of the Association's 2013 Awareness Week (18-23       March 2013) specifically sought to raise attention among schools, families       and professional groups of the issues arising from the Cardiff research;       the work of Woodhouse and her team was explicitly acknowledged on the       Awareness Week web pages.
As part of the week's campaigning, the       Association distributed its educational packages to all 286 Local       Education Authorities in England and Wales [5.1] and to 138       related charities.
A recent poster campaign by the Association focused on       the specialist eye care needs of children with Down's syndrome was       published in Optometry Today (March 2013), which has a circulation of       20,000 within the optometry profession.
Cardiff's research has formed a       key part of guidance provided to parent support groups throughout the UK       and Ireland, along with local professional associations [5.1],       and is also reaching Down's syndrome support associations beyond the UK,       for example in USA [5.5].
Eye care practice guidelines for children with Down's syndrome     The Cardiff research on inaccurate accommodation in children with Down's       syndrome and the successful correction of this deficit using bifocal       spectacles has led directly to changes in the UK eye care management of       these children.
Information for parents published in 2010 by the       Department of Health acknowledges the visual impairments and Cardiff's       research [5.6].
They recommended eye tests for children with       Down's syndrome to include the endorsed measurements of their visual       accommodation and the prescribing of bifocal spectacles to correct any       deficit.
This has changed the way eye-care practitioners manage children       with Down's syndrome [5.7].
The Down's Syndrome Medical Interest Group (DSMIG) publishes       evidence-based guidelines for minimum standards of health surveillance       aimed at UK and international paediatricians.
It has a membership of over       150 clinicians.
Dr Woodhouse was invited to become the group's first       non-medical health care practitioner member in recognition of her       contributions in the field of healthcare for children with Down's       syndrome.
The group use the Cardiff research in its `Vision' guidelines [5.8,5.9]       (updated in 2012).
The DSMIG guidelines and the research of the Cardiff       team are adopted by Paediatric Opthalmologists in their practice [5.10].
In summary, the unique structure provided by Cardiff University's Special       Optometry Assessment Clinic has enabled the conduct of distinctive       research that has led to the measurement of visual accommodation being       introduced into the recommended UK eye-care management for children with       Down's syndrome and to the prescribing of bifocal spectacles to these       children.
Furthermore, the Cardiff research showed that while persistent       deficit in visual acuity in these children is not due to reduced cognitive       ability it negatively impacted upon educational/classroom experiences,       findings which have led to changes internationally in educational guidance       in the teaching and learning practices for children with Down's syndrome.
