     The underpinning research on developing methods to assess the durability of     concrete structures in situ has led to significant international     impact, particularly in China, on change of practice and understanding of     procedures, resulting in savings in life cycle cost of concrete structures.
A QUB spin-out, Amphora NDT Limited (www.amphorandt.com),     was able to increase the volume of sale of Autoclam and Permit, particularly     to China, since 2008, as a consequence of the underpinning research     described in section 2.
That is, the impact was realised in three forms:     impact on practitioners and services, impact on economy, and impact on     commerce, as described below.
Impact on Practitioners and Services     The research described in section 2 and associated contributions by Basheer       and Nanukuttan (from 2004) to RILEM Committees TC178 on Testing       and Modelling Chloride Penetration in Concrete (2001-'05) and TC189       on Near Surface Evaluation of Covercrete (2003-'07) have resulted       in the incorporation of both the Autoclam and Permit in state-of-the-art       report documents prepared by RILEM [sources (i) and (ii)] and a       book by Spon Press [source (iii)].
As a consequence, these       instruments are used now in 12 countries (USA, Canada, Mexico, Libya,       South Africa, Republic of Ireland, United Kingdom, Norway, Kuwait, India,       China and Australia) [source (iv)] to assess the durability of       concrete structures.
The UK-China Science Bridge on Sustainable Energy and Built Environment       [Research Grant No.
(v) in section 3] was the driver for the impact on       practitioners and services in China.
The project comprised       proof-of-concept testing of the Autoclam and Permit in China, technology       transfer activities, training programmes and thematic workshops, in       collaboration with the project partners: CRIBC, China Railway Construction       Corporation Limited, China State Construction Engineering Corporation,       Research Institute of Highway Ministry of Communication, Zhejiang       University, Tsinghua University, Shanghai Jiao Tong University, Chongqing       University and Xi'An University of Architecture and Technology.
Starting       with the participation of 30 senior managers from China at a dedicated       UK-China Science Bridge conference session at Structural Faults and Repair       international conference in Edinburgh in 2010, the technology transfer and       training activities continued in 2010, 2011 and 2012.
An international       workshop on 'in situ monitoring and assessment of concrete       structures' was held at QUB on 19 June 2010, which was attended by 25       delegates from China.
On 28 and 29 September 2011, the Research Institute       of High Performance Concrete in CRIBC and QUB jointly hosted the first       UK-China Innovation Symposium in Beijing, which was attended by 150       invited delegates from the construction sector in China.
The professional       training activities continued in 2011 when QUB hosted 25 managers from the       Chongqing Municipal Commission of Urban-Rural Development from 18 November       to 7 December 2011 to demonstrate QUB technology transfer activities in       the field of durability of concrete constructions.
These training       activities concluded by showcasing the QUB devices at the UK Concrete Show       in Coventry on 22 and 23 February 2012.
A UK-China Science Bridge Concrete Centre (SBCC) was established in May       2009 at CRIBC to provide professional advice and services on durability of       concrete to the Chinese construction industry.
Dr Ting-Yu Hao, who is the       principal Science Bridge partner in CRIBC, has been instrumental in       incorporating Autoclam and Permit in guidance notes and standards for       assessing the quality of concrete constructions in China.
Dr Hao writes [source         (v)]: "Autoclam and Permit were incorporated in a corporation         standard issued by CRIBC.
On the other hand, a railway standard title         with Railway Concrete, TB/T 3275-2011, quoted a test using a similar         process of Permit.
The corresponding part is Appendix F with a title of         Test Method for measuring surface permeability of concrete."
In the       UK, the Highway Agency Standards BA/06 recommends the use of Autoclam for       testing and monitoring the condition of concrete structures.
Impact on Economy     The Research Institute of High Performance Concrete (www.chinahpc.net),       part of the CRIBC, with Dr Hao as its Deputy Director, is a major       accredited testing laboratory for the performance assessment of       construction projects, products and materials in China, and has a       prestigious third-party witness testing qualification.
Dr Hao and his team       have assessed notable structures using Autoclam and Permit in China,       including: concrete stands of Bird's Nest Stadium (National stadium for       the 29th Olympic Games), several piers and bridges of       Beijing-Shanghai high speed rail, Harbin-Dalian high speed rail bridge,       Huangjiahe bridge in Guyuan, Ningxia Hui Autonomous Region and concrete       containment of Daya Bay Nuclear power plant.
With the support from Amphora       Non-destructive Testing Limited and QUB, Permit was applied in the       construction of Qingdao Bay Bridge in 2008 in China.
The Qingdao Bay       Bridge was the first bridge built in the cold and frozen seas in north       China [source (vi)].
The impact of ensuring the durability of       these concrete structures by early age testing using the Autoclam and       Permit on the economy of the Chinese construction industry can be better       understood if some of the national statistics are compared.
In the last two years expenditure in China on new construction and repair       and rehabilitation was RMB 16.7 billion and RMB 3.8 billion annually       respectively.
These figures compare with RMB 6.7 billion and RMB 1.3       billion spent annually in 2005-08 on new construction and repair and       rehabilitation respectively.
That is, there has been a steady increase in       construction budget, but large sums of money were spent on repair and       rehabilitation work.
Therefore, by ensuring the durability of concrete       structures using early age testing, the proportion of money that will be       spent on repair is reduced in future years.
This was confirmed by Dr Hao,       who says: "By durability assessment, we may have saved millions in the         repair work".
Impact on Commerce     The impact on commerce has been by way of increased sales of Autoclam and       Permit, particularly to China, by Amphora NDT Limited [source (iv)],       a QUB spin out company, which manufactures and markets NDT techniques and       sensor systems (www.amphorandt.com).
Amphora has sold more than 60 of these products, securing around &#163;500k       commercial income since 2008.
As a result, it was possible to create two       new jobs in the UK.
