     London Underground (LU).
In the early 1990s, LU were confronted       with a major dilemma.
Having assessed over 1200 platforms on the underground system they found       that when flexural       methods of design were applied most platforms were found to be       structurally deficient.
Thus a       major repair/replacement programme appeared to be inevitable (LU estimated       replacement cost of       a typical platform was &#163;1.6 million).
However, structural engineering       staff of LU had become       aware of our research through Journal papers (Ref 1) and of the potential       benefits of arching action       in cellular structures.
By adopting our research findings, unique new       design guidelines for LU       platforms were drawn up in the late 1990's but it was only in 2005 that       these were approved for       use in the LU system.
Taking into consideration the benefits of arching       action in their assessment       programme allowed 95% of their platforms to be retained and since 2008, LU       staff have estimated       that over &#163;80m has been saved (cost of structural repair/replacement).
Here it should be noted       that by avoiding the repair/replacement of the vast majority of their       platforms the enormous       disruption to the transport system in London has not occurred which would       have been an additional       drain on the UK economy as well as being socially unacceptable.
Bearing in       mind that over 1       billion people use the LU system each year the cost (due to the loss of       productivity) of the       associated congestion has been acknowledged by LU staff to be `&#163;billions       not &#163;millions' (see       Section 5).
Thus LU would have had to accept the prospect of enormous disruption to       their system had their       staff not been able to take into account the benefits of AA.
Bridge Deck Slabs, UK and North America.
Our research has impacted       on policy which allows       bridge designers/assessors to take account of the benefits of AA, e.g.
less deck reinforcement, not       having to replace decks found to be unsatisfactory using flexural analysis       and indirect savings as       disruption/congestion is minimal.
Consequential savings are likely to be       of the order of tens of &#163;       millions over the past 5 years, however the overall benefits have not been       quantified by the UK       Highways Agency.
In N America the considerable benefits of corrosion free deck bridges has       been embraced in most       Canadian Provinces and in a number of northern states of USA arising from       the parallel research       by Mufti and his research team.
Over 50, (mostly multi-span) bridges have       been constructed and       ISIS have estimated that long term savings of hundreds of $ millions       have/will accrue through       minimal maintenance, dramatically reduced life cycle costs and losses to       the economy resulting       from disruption/congestion associated with repair/replacement.
The system       is now being utilised       for highly prestigious projects such as the Winnipeg Floodway &#8212; a major $       700m project in       Manitoba where 6 multi-span bridges were built in 2009.
Since 1994 the QUB team and Mufti's researchers have derived mutual       benefit from their       overlapping AA research.
In the USA and Canada AA research has impacted on       bridge       construction since the late 1990's and, as far as REF2014 is concerned,       through the past 5-6       years.
`FlexiArch'.
As already highlighted in Section 2, conventional       arches are expensive to build and       take much longer to construct than beam and slab bridges made up of       prefabricated components.
To counter this, an innovative flexible concrete arch was devised and       patented in 2004.
As this       does not require expensive centring the arch can be quickly constructed       (days rather than months       for a conventional arch) and by using precast concrete voussoirs it can be       manufactured at a       relatively low cost.
All the basic features of a conventional arch are       retained and in 2005 Macrete       Ireland Ltd (Toomebridge) were licensed and since 2008 over 40 bridges       ranging in span from 4m       to 15m have been installed in UK/Ireland.
Its potential was anticipated in       2006 at an International       conference when Brian Bell, Network Rail, acknowledged that the FlexiArch       would allow highly       durable arches (seldom used since 1900) to compete with other rapid       methods of construction       (crucial for railways).
This innovative system has received 9 awards including the Best       Engineering Excellence Award of       RAEng (2009) and the UK National Construct Award for Innovation and its       adoption twice (in 2009       and again in 2013).
Commercially the `FlexiArch' has had a very       significant impact in a severely       depressed market, and since 2008 an extra 50 person years of employment       have been generated       at Macrete.
In addition, the `FlexiArch' system has been a key element in       winning the associated       construction contracts, valued at &#163;15m.
A number of leading precast       contractors in Europe, N       America and Australasia have approached Macrete to acquire a sub-licence       for the FlexiArch in       their regions &#8212; these would greatly enhance the future use/impact of the       FlexiArch.
More details of       the system are given in Ref (6).
