     The research has led to significant publications on a subject about which       little was previously known and documented.
The findings, mainly in the       form of geographical surveys, thematic studies and biographical studies of       individual architects, have been progressively published, in such quantity       and to such a consistently high standard that they form a sizeable body of       reference literature which has had multiple impacts on society and the       built environment in Northern Ireland.
Specific impacts in 2008-2013 Within this current REF       period the impact of this research and its ensuing publications since 1993       has taken the form of:     (a) an intellectual authority underpinning:     (i) decisions regarding the statutory listing of buildings in Northern       Ireland; (see Section 5a, nos.
1 &amp; 3);     (ii) decisions regarding the designation and maintenance of Conservation       Areas in Northern Ireland;     (iii) decisions regarding applications for Listed Building Consent to       demolish; 	  decisions regarding applications to demolish unlisted buildings       in Conservation Areas;     evidence given by Northern Ireland Environment Agency conservation       architects in judicial reviews and planning appeal hearings; and     (iv) presentations given by NIEA conservation Architects in their regular       Listed Building Owners' Forum meetings, in which the publications are used       as an educational tool in the absence of in-house publications by the       agency itself (as, for example, English Heritage produces elsewhere), (see       Section 5a, 1 below);     (b) reference tools for:     (i) the RSUA Certificate in Historic Building Conservation course, based       on ICOMOS Guidelines for Training, which has run from 2008 to 2012, (see       Section 5a, no.
6).
(ii) The Irish Architectural Archive Dictionary of Irish Architects       1720-1940 database, funded by the Irish Government, launched online in       2009, (see Section 5a, no.
7).
Context and background Impacts during the defined period       should be seen in the context of a continuing effect over many years.
In       particular:     Listing of Historic Buildings       The Northern Ireland Government's conservation architects have been       influenced in their selection of a number of listed buildings throughout       Northern Ireland, since the early 1990s, by Dr Larmour's research, This is       demonstrated by the citation of his publications, including, in addition       to his books, his extensive series of approximately 30 articles on       Northern Irish architects published in Perspective (The Journal of       the Royal Society of Ulster Architects) from 1994 to 2007, which forms in       itself a valuable reference, in their listing schedules as evidence to       support their decisions.
Belfast, An Illustrated Architectural Guide,       (1988) has been used as an authority for the listing of many buildings in       the city generally, while his book The Architectural Heritage of         Malone and Stranmillis (1991) has been used as the authority for       many listings in the Malone and Stranmillis suburb of Belfast (see Section       5, nos.
4 &amp; 5).
Scheduling of Conservation Areas       Similarly, Planning Authorities in Northern Ireland have been clearly       influenced in their selection of Conservation areas by the research (with       citation in designation booklets) eg , `Cathedral' in 1990, `Linen' in       1992, `Malone Park' in 1993, `Adelaide Park' in 1993, `Stranmillis' in       1996, `Belfast City Centre' in 1998 and `Malone' in 2000 (see Section 5a,       no.
2).
These earlier impacts have had an on-going effect during this REF period       where it is evident that those individual listings are being maintained       and those Conservation Areas are being kept intact, while there is also       clear evidence that the impact is gaining momentum.
Overall value of impact Cumulatively these impacts have led       to the identification, conservation, presentation and eventual marketing       of the best of the historic built heritage, by those with responsibility       for it, as well as the inculcation of a deeper awareness, understanding       and appreciation by those who use it.
Thus the status and profile of       historic architecture in Northern Ireland have been raised by this       research and associated publications.
Aside from the direct and measurable benefit of helping to secure for the       future the best of our architectural heritage, this research can also       claim to have played an important part in the strengthening of the wider       cultural base in Northern Ireland.
This cultural reconnection is now       stimulating urban regeneration and encouraging cultural tourism.
Thus the       impact of the work, although geographically local, is considerable, and       over a long and lasting period, affecting a wide range of stakeholders and       groups.
