     The impact of the work on the legislative and policy-making community has       been significant in       both Northern Ireland and the Republic of Ireland, as recommendations,       underpinning planning       and environmental decision-making, have been reflected in legislative       development and both       policy and guidance.
Theme 1 &#8212; developing planning enforcement legislation and practice     The research into enforcement led to recommendations, some of which later       came into force       under the Planning Amendment (Order) 2003 and the Planning Reform       (Northern Ireland) Order       2006 and have been consolidated in the Planning Act 2011 (corroboration       sources 1 and 2).
McKay was invited by the Director of the DoE Planning and Local Government       Group to present       the key lecture on planning enforcement at the Minister for the       Environment's Enforcement       Summit on June 25th 2012 and is an appointee to the Planning Advisory       Forum which advises the       Minister on the development of legislation and policy.
He has advised the       previous two Ministers       and has been reappointed to advise the new Minister who is in post since       September 2013       (corroboration sources 1 and 2).
Theme 2 &#8212; advising on the development of planning legislation     Ellis, McAreavey, McKay and Sterrett advised the Northern Ireland       Environment Committee on the       outcomes of the consultation process for the new Planning Act (Northern       Ireland) 2011.
A key       focus of the work was to conduct a detailed analysis of the strengths and       weaknesses of the draft       legislation.
This involved preparing briefing papers for the elected       Members of the Legislative       Assemly (MLAs) and presenting evidence to the Environment Committee (Web       link 1).
The       evidence enabled MLAs to address potential weaknesses in the draft       legislation and provided       recommendations regarding how perceived problems might be remedied       (corroboration source 3).
Theme 3 &#8212; providing guidance for statutory plan making in the Republic         of Ireland     As appointees of the Department of the Environment, Housing and Local       Government in the       Republic of Ireland, Queen's University (Abdelmonem and McKay) was lead       partner in the       production of the best-practice Manual for Local Plans: a companion       document to the Guidelines       for Planning Authorities on Local Area Plans: Creating Sustainable       Communities and, in tandem       with this process, assessed and commented on the pre-draft Guidelines for       Planning Authorities:       Creating Sustainable Communities.
Both documents will be used by all       planning authorities in the       Republic of Ireland for the production of Local Area Plans and will       underpin the implementation of       spatial planning at a national level (corroboration source 4).
Theme 4 &#8212; evaluating policymaking processes     McKay has contributed to the review of the policy for sustainable       development in the countryside in       NI.
This involved engaging in dialogue with the key participants such as       elected representatives on       the policy-making process and commenting on the procedures which should be       employed to       redraft the policy.
Re-launched in June 2010, the new adopted policy,       which has an impact on all       rural planning decisions in the jurisdiction of Northern Ireland, was       based on the evidence gathered       in the revised consultation procedure (corroboration source 2 and research       reference 2).
Mc Kay is a member of the Department of the Environment's stakeholder       group which is currently       informing the development of Northern Ireland's Strategic Planning Policy       Statement defined by       DOE as "an essential element of the broader planning and local government       reform programme       that will assist in the transition of the two tier planning system in       2015.
It provides the vehicle for       detailed operational policies to be brought forward in all future       development plans (corroboration       sources 1 and 2).
At the higher tier of strategic planning, McKay and Murray have evaluated       the processes       underpinning the revised Regional Development Strategy for Northern       Ireland, the outputs which       critique the process have been disseminated to the policy-making community       (corroboration       sources 2 and 5, research reference 4).
Theme 5 &#8212; reviewing the public inquiry and independent examination         processes     The impacts of the public inquiry and independent examination research,       which have significance       for planning decision making and policy development at a wider level, have       been realised as a       member of a working group comprised of organisations which deal with the       PAC, including       community representative bodies, the legal profession and planning       practitioners, all of whom co-operated       in the process.
The PAC previously considered development plan       consultation       responses via the Public Inquiry process and the research demonstrated the       value of the       procedures employed in the Examination in Public approach.
This has now       become the preferred       option and a subsequent key development has been the provision of formal,       detailed legislation in       the Planning Act 2011 for Independent Examinations, which follow the same       procedures as       Examinations in Public (corroboration sources 2 and 5, research reference       3).
