     Geoforensic evidence gathered by techniques developed in GAP has       contributed at the heart of       criminal court cases across a range of jurisdictions.
In the absence of       eyewitness testimony or       other corroborating evidence, geoforensic data has been crucial to the       conviction or acquittal of       those accused of serious criminal activity.
GAP geoforensic research has       provided mechanisms for       enhancing the quality of the collection, sampling, testing and statistical       analysis of geomaterials       and consequently has improved the veracity of such evidence.
It has       further developed a       distinctive blend of applications at macro- (landscape) to micro- (trace       evidence) scales by advising       and training police personnel in several jurisdictions worldwide, where       Ruffell and McKinley have       been consultants in a variety of cases.
Seventy serious crime cases       (murder, rape, kidnap,       smuggling, all funded by police consultancy) have been concluded, with 16       going to court.
Thirty-three       geotechnical and military cases have also been undertaken, with 16       successfully concluded,       including one concluded court case.
Ruffell and McKinley have completed or       are involved in 21       environmental crime cases, with 13 through the courts or ongoing.
Overall       GAP research expertise       has been applied to over 120 cases.
It has had a direct and verifiable       impact on the preparation       and prosecution of cases in two interrelated ways, detailed below.
i) Case Work     Serious Crime Since 2008 the ability of Ruffell and McKinley to       conduct spatially-referenced       search and sampling at a range of scales has involved them in criminal       cases including theft, sex       offences, drug dealing and murder.
They have worked with the PSNI (Item 1)       and other law       enforcement agencies in sampling scenes of crime, investigation of       burials, analysis of bulk (soil       and rock) and trace evidence (dust), report writing, case reviews, and       court appearances as expert       witnesses including Belfast Crown Court and the Crown Court in Perth       (Western Australia).
For       example, Ruffell and McKinley's work on the murder of Shirley Finlay       (2009) was used in the       successful prosecution case of serial sex offenders and murderers Trevor       Hamilton and Henryck       Gorski (Item 1).
Both cases used a variety of soil/rock analytical methods       (the multi-proxy       approach), which became established best practice in trace evidence       testing.
They assisted in the       search for six missing persons (Arlene Arkinson, Lisa Dorrian; two       un-named drug dealers; two       neonate infants [latter successful]).
In a substitution case in 2008,       high-value computer parts sent       to the UK from the Far East were stolen from packaging and swapped with       rock and soil,       successfully identified by Hunt and Ruffell, and a culprit identified.
Ruffell assisted the Royal       Canadian Mounted Police in the search for a murder weapon in a pond       (2009).
As well as       impacting on the outcome of specific court cases, involvement has       influenced the wider legal       system (Item 2) in general by highlighting the types of robust forensic       evidence that can aid either       prosecuting or defence lawyers.
Ruffell was co-commissioned (with Dr       Laurance Donnelly, global       expert in search) by Surrey Police to review the evidence against Levi       Belfield in the Amanda       Dowler murder case.
Environmental Crime 21 environmental legal cases have benefitted       from Ruffell's expert advice,       including the use of innovative research-based technology (airborne and       terrestrial geophysics) to       identify and map illegal waste dumps and give evidence in prosecuting or       defending the accused.
Of these cases, 18 were located in NI (working with the Northern Ireland       Environmental Agency       [NIEA]), one in the Republic of Ireland, and two in Scotland.
The       monitoring of the location of       waste, particularly hazardous waste, has facilitated the prosecution and       conviction of those       responsible for causing pollution (including two jail sentences), and this       work has also had a wider       impact by attracting media and public awareness of the potential       environmental dangers,       particularly for those living adjacent to such sites.
For instance,       Ruffell undertook a geophysical       analysis of a site outside Belfast (2009) on behalf of NIEA against       suspected illegal dumping, as       part of an ongoing investigation.
Geotechnical (Forensic Engineering) A number of geotechnical       consulting projects have been       undertaken that surveyed unstable structures (all subject to legal       enquiries) using geological and       geophysical techniques.
The impact of these has been the provision of       hazard assessment and       safety recommendations.
For instance, the stability of Thompson's Dry Dock       in Belfast's Titanic       Quarter in 2010 was determined by Ruffell and he undertook a geophysical       survey of the runway at       Belfast City Airport (2010) in order to detect any subsurface instability       (subjudice).
ii) Training and Advice (examples)     (a) United Kingdom Forensic Science Regulator.
Ruffell (Chair, Geological       Society of London,       Forensic Geoscience Group) provided guidance and advice to the UK Forensic       Science Regulator       on the principles, protocols, and best practices for the collection of       evidence at crime scenes.
(Item       2).
This advice is now being incorporated into a publication by the       International Union for       Geosciences (International Forensic Geology sub-committee).
(b) Ruffell was one of four invited contributors (lectures and training)       to the First Ibero-American       Meeting on Forensic Geology (2008), attended by forensic science students,       laboratory workers,       police officers and lawyers/judges, who now use their advice (Item 3).
(c) United States law enforcement agencies (FBI, federal police, army).
Ruffell sits as the       international member on GEOSWGG (forensic geology working group, funded by       the US army, to       develop forensic geology protocols, many of which are now in use).
(d) Australian Federal Police (AFP).
Organised and funded by the IUGS       (August 2012), McKinley       provided training in best-practice search methods using Geographic       Information Systems (Item 4).
(e) International Committee for the Location of Victims' Remains (ICLVR).
Since 2008, GAP staff       (McKinley, Pilcher, Reimer, Ruffell) have regularly provided advice to the       commission on using       geophysics, radiocarbon dating and palaeoecology in the search for The       Disappeared of the       Troubles in Ireland (Item 5).
