     The WRG has impacted on both the practice of building and landscape     conservation and in the development of policies underpinning such practices.
The case studies below exemplify the local, national and international range     and significance of this impact in the last 15 years.
Salt distribution in sandstone: implications for conservation         strategies     Locally the impact is illustrated by work conducted in collaboration with       Conservation Architects (Consarc Design Group Ltd, Belfast).
During       planning for extensive conservation of a Victorian sandstone church in       Belfast part funded by the Heritage Lottery Fund in the late 1990s, the       WRG provided advice regarding stone replacement and the extent of       weathering-related damage to existing stone, which had a direct impact on       the extent of stone replacement required and necessitated the use of water       repellent treatment for retained original stonework [Item 1].
This case       shows the value of knowledge transfer and the collaborative relationship       with this firm which subsequently resulted in publication of a guide for       practitioners, short-listed in 2010 for the Royal Institute of British       Architects (RIBA) President's Award for outstanding professional       practice-located research [Item 2; Item 3].
Post-automation management of lighthouses and associated structures     Following automation of lighthouses around the UK and Ireland, reports of       accelerated deterioration of interior stonework in these historically       important structures increased with a rise in related maintenance costs.
The WRG demonstrated that typically, a decay gradient exists within towers       whereby the condition of stone in the lower levels is much worse than       elsewhere reflecting higher humidity and greater salt concentrations [Item       4] Thus, accelerated post-automation decay was unintentionally triggered       by reduced ventilation within towers and increased episodes of       condensation on stone surfaces with deposition and accumulation of       strongly hygroscopic salts.
Work with the General Lighthouse Authorities       (GLA) in the UK and Ireland, (i.e.
; Trinity House; the Northern Lighthouse       Board; the Commissioners of Irish Lights) culminated in publication of an       advisory document in 2009 on approaches to building conditioning in marine       environments [Item 5; Item 6].
Informing stone conservation protocols with Historic Scotland     The significance of viewing fire damage as part of a complex history of       stresses experienced by stone was recognised by Historic Scotland with       inclusion of this work in their technical publication advising       conservators about the management of stone following fire damage [Item 7]       and led indirectly to the appointment of McCabe to a Heritage Science       Fellowship funded by Historic Scotland.
The impact of this research is       changing how conservation managers and practitioners think about stone as       a material &#8212; with these findings integrated into Historic Scotland's good       practice protocols on building conservation [Item 8].
Landscape management of World Heritage Sites     International impact of the WRG is demonstrated by Smith who, as a UNESCO       World Heritage site evaluator was directly involved in development and       implementation of management strategies for the Giant's Causeway World       Heritage Site in Northern Ireland [Item 9].
The need for proactive visitor       management was driven by visitor safety and an increase in the number and       extent of slope failures at the site since 2000.
Research on slope       stability and identification of factors triggering instability with a       long-term hazard mapping programme is used to inform the National Trust's       accessibility plans for visitors to this site.
This research led to       Smith's appointment as a World Heritage Site assessor, and participation       in UNESCO expert working groups undertaking technical evaluations for the       International Union for the Conservation of Nature (IUCN) that inform       UNESCO on inscription of sites for inclusion on the World Heritage Site       list, including early hominid sites in Ethiopia, marine archaeology in       Italy and Teide National Park, Spain in 2007 [Item 10].
The WRGs unique assemblage of expertise and experience places it at the       centre of weathering research in the UK with a reputation for scientific       innovation and application that forms a firm foundation for future       research that focuses on the growing significance of climate change and       its implications for long-term building and landscape conservation.
