     1.
Conceptual and empirical tools that underpin the study           of contemporary slavery.
Bales' research insights conceptualizing and measuring contemporary       slavery have entered the       public consciousness.
A web search on `27 million slaves' generates around       400,000 responses;       the same phrase in a Google Books search yields 2,500 titles.
A specific       impact of these insights       was demonstrated by President Clinton's closing speech to the 2008 Clinton       Global Initiative,       announcing that modern slavery would become an area of concentration for       the Initiative.
Holding       it aloft, Clinton went on: "This is a book by Kevin Bales, it's called       Ending Slavery: How We Free       Today's Slaves and he points out that there are 27 million people in the       world...it tells you that it's       a problem we can solve and...how to do it."
In 2013, Bill Gates called the       Global Slavery Index an       `important tool to let governments, NGOs and business take stock and take       action against this       terrible problem.'
2.
Research insights supporting legal, policy, and           legislative activities.
Legal: Examples include research insights into the role of       the rule of law in addressing       contemporary slavery.
Partner organizations collaborating in research on       direct intervention in       India accomplished 176 prosecutions of slaveholders between 2009 and 2012,       with 1,223 slaves       freed.
Direct liberation work in India was paralleled by prevention       projects in which 46,000 villagers       were reached with human trafficking prevention education.
A partner       organization in Brazil       liberated 1,027 enslaved workers through legal processes in 2008-2011.
In       2009 Bales' impact on       legal, policy, and legislative activities was recognised with a $60,000       Prime Mover Fellowship by       the Hunt Alternatives Fund.
These are given to individuals who `act to       change policies, cultural       behavior, or social inequities'.
Policy: In 2012 Bales was commissioned to brief the       European Parliament External Policies       Department on `Addressing contemporary forms of slavery in EU external       policy'.
In 2010, research       insights into the `freedom dividend' (how liberation from enslavement has       an impact on economic       and human development) directed social and economic development projects,       funded by the US       State Department, for communities held in slavery as they progressed       through liberation and       reintegration.
The State Department commissioned independent evaluation       that noted that these       insights provided `an exceptionally strong model that appears to be having       a significant impact on       the population of focus &#8212; not only in terms of the numbers of individuals       with whom they are able to       work, but more importantly, because their model appears sustainable.'
After this evaluation the       State Department chose this approach as a best practice example of       measurable impact and       methodology.
A second policy example is the application of Bales' `slavery       lens' concept within       development programs.
In 2010, supported by the World Bank, 241 social       mobilizers were trained       in the `slavery lens' methodology.
The impact of this technique was then       evaluated by UK-DfID,       reporting it `helped people in the community to enhance themselves with       right information and       helped to protect them from the risk of slavery and trafficking during       foreign migration'.
Following       this measurement of impact, the technique was scaled-up to over a million       households that are       highly vulnerable to unsafe migration.
(Swiss and Finnish funding)     Legislative: In 2008 Bales' `slavery lens' concept was       included in the Trafficking Victims Protection       Act Reauthorization, requiring its use in directing US overseas aid;       alterations were also made to       US visa rules, both areas of investigation and recommendation in `The       Slave Next Door'.
In 2009       the Congress increased funding for anti-slavery work, again following       recommendations in Ending       Slavery.
Bales helped draft the California Transparency in Supply Chains       Act of 2010 (into force       2012), a version of which is now (2013) before Parliament with cross-party       support as the       Transparency in Supply Chains Bill.
In 2011-13 Bales was Special Advisor       to the UK government's       Slavery and Human Trafficking Review, re-writing laws and policies on       contemporary slavery.
3.
Research Insights supporting Corporate Responsibility           and Supply Chains.
A key example is Bales' work to remove slavery and the worst forms of       child labour from the cocoa       supply chain.
Working together with the chocolate industry, anti-slavery       groups, consumers       groups, and trade unions, more than $20 million has been transferred into       anti-slavery work in       cocoa-growing regions since 2008 through the International Cocoa       Initiative (ICI), which Bales       helped to found and serves as a member of the Executive Committee.
Additionally, Bales was       asked in 2011 by WalMart, the world's largest retail firm, to help build       system-wide supply chain       inspection and a training package for their supplier companies &#8212; activity       generated by the coming       to force of the California Transparency in Supply Chains Act in 2012.
