     The findings of the initial study into multi-agency ASP activity       contributed to the work of the       Steering Committee for the Adults Support and Protection (Scotland)         Bill of which Professor Hogg       was a member.
The Act now guides practice with all vulnerable adults in       Scotland.
The outcome       of the research is therefore reflected in the subsequent Act and the work       of the Implementation       Committee of which he was also a member.
This Committee was established to       ensure continual       engagement with stakeholders during the implementation of the Act.
Membership of the group       included representatives from regulatory bodies, local authorities, NHS       Boards, police and a       number of voluntary organisations.
After the Act was passed, it was agreed       that the group should       continue through the implementation period in recognition of its much       valued role in informing the       work of the Government.
Members represent the views of their organisation       and report back to       their organisations, as appropriate, the outcome of discussions held at       the meetings.
Throughout       this process the principal investigator contributed to the development and       implementation of the       Act (C2, C3, C4).
In the light of the findings, and at the instigation of the Scottish       Government, a resource for self-evaluation       of multi-agency ASP activity was developed by Professor Hogg in discussion       with a       wide range of agencies, including the Social Work Inspection Agency, the       Scottish Government,       and ASP multi-agency partnerships.
Two national conferences of       stakeholders were held on the       ASP resource, in Perth in 2010 and Glasgow in 2011.
The outcome was a       resource handbook       which has been piloted in 14 ASP Partnerships (50%) in Scotland and       revised in the light of       feedback.
The evaluation of the Resource indicated that seven ASP       partnerships had changed       their practice as a result of shortcomings revealed through       self-evaluation (see Hogg &amp; May 2012,       p.183).
The chair of the National Adult Protection Committee Convenors Committee       has subsequently       recommended adoption of the resource as a benchmarking tool for reporting       to the Scottish       Government.
The Care Inspectorate has indicated that the resource will be       used in modified form       from 2013 to evaluate the adult protection component of adult services       (C7).
The resource has       been published on the Scottish Government's website.
In 2010 13 of the 29       Adult Protection       Committees in Scotland had undertaken self-evaluation and audit activity       of their work, mostly       using the approach developed in Dundee.
In 2012 all but one of the 29       Adult Protection       Committees had undertaken self-evaluation and case file audits (C1, C6).
The invasive procedures research led to the establishment of a Short-Life       Working Group which       developed a Scottish quality framework for the delivery of invasive       procedures in health, education       and social care setting.
The recently launched strategy for improving the       quality of life for people       with learning disabilities is recommending that all service providers       follow these guidelines (C5).
The current impact has been on policy development and initial       implementation.
