     The impact of this research can be demonstrated in a number of ways, but       in particular by the       influence of this approach across the survey design and operational       research community       worldwide.
The SEB approach is now the standard method for experimental       design of stated       choice experiments, especially in non-market valuation where often only       small samples are viable       and affordable.
The pioneering development of the earliest SEB design survey has been       translated into a       framework with global reach, through the following stages in which the       Queen's team has engaged.
Larger research institutes, which span the middle ground between       university research and       industry application, further developed and introduced the SEB design       method to       transportation modelling engineers.
These groups include the Institute for       Transport and       Logistics, University of Sydney and the Institute of Transport, Leeds       (UK).
Similarly, the       SEB design has been developed and promoted to the consultancy and business       sector by       the Operational Research and Business Statistics practitioners at the       University of       Leuven, Belgium and the Centre for Study of Choice, CENSOC University of       Sydney.
The Queen's team has worked with these institutes through joint       publications, and has       a formal link as an external affiliate of CENSOC Sydney       http://www.censoc.uts.edu.au/about/members/external.html       and an honorary research       fellowship advising Rand Europe Cambridge http://www.rand.org/randeurope.html       on       Queen's developments in design and modelling.
Since 2008 the Institute for Transport and Logistics, University of       Sydney has included SEB       design in industry training programmes for survey consultants.
These short       courses are run       annually in both Australia and Europe.
Queen's staff have been guest       lecturers at several of       these, in Bologna (2008 and 2009), Venice 2010 and Venice and Trento in       2011.
The recent International Conferences of Choice Modelling (Sydney 2013       and Leeds 2011)       and the launch of the Journal of Choice Modelling by Elsevier       http://www.journals.elsevier.com/journal-of-choice-modelling/       are industry-led initiatives to       transfer academic-led innovation into industry practice.
The team actively       disseminated and       promoted SEB design by presenting seven papers at Leeds 2011.
Queen's is       on the       Editorial Committee of the Journal and, through CENSOC, had input into the       organisation       of Sydney 2013.
Three Queen's papers have been accepted for the Sydney       conference.
http://www.icmconference.org.uk/index.php/icmc/ICMC2013      Specific software packages, which permit consultants to use the SEB       design method       without advanced programming expertise, are now commercially available .
These include       specialist choice modelling, software Ngene by Choicemetrics Ltd Sydney.
The routine for       SEB design is on page 220 of the manual http://www.mediafire.com/?2bljnvc67djr9vs         The       subsidiary of the well-known statistical package SAS known as JMP now       provides routines       to conduct the SEB design, an acknowledgement of our contribution by the       Director of       Choicemetrics has been uploaded separately.
The SEB experimental design techniques have been implemented in stated       preference       surveys deployed to assess "willingness to pay" for water services in the       UK by market       research firms including Perceptive Insight, Belfast; EFTEC, London;       Accent, London; and       Rand Europe, Cambridge.
.
The method was used in studies for Yorkshire       Waters, United       Utilities, Thames Waters and Anglia Waters, among others.
It was also       utilised in the       preparation of the OFWAT (the Water Services Regulation Authority in       England and Wales)       documents for tariff negotiation rounds in 2007 and 2012.
Queen's is       advising Perceptive       Insight Belfast on a Customer Survey it is conducting locally on behalf of       the utility company       Northern Ireland Water.
Riccardo Scarpa is also leading a team advising       the Australian       Energy Market Operator in the use of SEB design in the largest non-market       survey of this       kind into the value of lost electricity load across 6 of the 8       Commonwealth States.
The results will be used to plan investments to improve the national       electricity grid.
The Director of the Centre for Study of Choice in Sydney, a       leading world consultancy on       Choice Modelling, , has endorsed the SEB design as follows: "Since 2007       our centre has       made frequent use of the principles of efficient design for stated       choice....Designs of this       type were found to greatly improve efficiency and hence require smaller       sample sizes ......in       applied contract work that we perform for a variety of clients, such as       Bose (USA), Motorola       (USA and Europe), Deloitte Data Analytics (Australia), the NSW Department       of Transport,       The Victorian Department of Health, Lend-Lease (Australia) and many more."
