     The academic, social and economic impacts of this research can be       clustered under four themes.
1.
Influencing stakeholder awareness of SE enterprises in the region     Holt's research activities have had a significant impact by building       awareness of African SE enterprises through the website, media coverage,       stakeholder events, academic conferences and publications.
The website and directory demonstrate significant reach, securing 4.3       million hits, almost 530,000 unique visitors, and 1.9 million page views       from May 2012 to April 2013.
Some 71.4 million bytes of information on SE       enterprises were accessed during this period.
Positive press and social media coverage of the research on SE       enterprises in Africa and their role in sustainable development has also       built awareness, as evidenced by over 20 newspaper articles, online       articles, blog posts and radio interviews.
Examples include an article in the Answers from the Big Issue       e-magazine (No 1 Sept 2012) showcasing social innovation, which said: "The       Trickle Out team believes that it is crucial that we do not just import       business models and preconceptions from a western, developed world context       into Africa.
Work so far has shown that the social enterprises emerging in       Africa are perhaps very different to what we call a social enterprise in       the UK...Many of the social enterprises Trickle Out is finding are at a       much more informal stage but they are potentially impacting thousands."
The Guardian (October 2011) and Next Billion blogs (Sept       2011) stated: "Africa may seem to be a bit lost on the       inclusive-market-social-entrepreneurship-map sometimes.
Most big       microfinance funds have only small portfolios in the area, and it often       feels like the BIG success stories cited in case studies or making the       pages of The Wall Street Journal are from India.
But there's A LOT going       on.
A team from Queen's University Belfast has set out to find out how       much, what, and where &#8212; and make their insights public in a Social and       Environmental Enterprise Directory....."     The importance of the directory was also noted in 2011 by the Director of       the British Council, Kenya who said: "Putting together a directory       of all the social and environmental enterprises, or at least as many as       they can find, will be an enormously valuable exercise and should build up       innovation and enterprise, not just within Kenya and other countries but       across them too.."     2.
Providing opportunities for listed SE enterprises to promote their         services globally     The TOA website and directory both increases awareness of specific       organisations listed and provides opportunities for them to reach the       market and showcase their activities.
For instance, Cookswell Enterprises       in Kenya, which markets and sells innovative energy-saving charcoal and       wood-fuelled stoves and ovens, were recently short-listed as finalists for       the prestigious Ashden Award for Sustainable Energy.
These prizes are       awarded for sustainable energy projects that protect the environment and       improve quality of life.
Cookswell reported to the Trickle Out project:       "Thanks to your awesome coverage of what we are doing, these people       thought to short-list us for a small award".
The high levels of hits on the website and individual page views       illustrate that many individuals are seeking information on these specific       SE enterprises.
There is evidence that this offers listed enterprises       possible market opportunities.
For example, a potential investor said: "I       came across your website while researching a new business venture.
I am       starting up a company ... very much like those produced by some of the       companies featured on your website.
Yours is the most useful I have found       so far and I certainly hope to be contacting some of the suppliers".
3) Promoting knowledge exchange, transfer and capacity building for         social and environmental entrepreneurship     Knowledge exchange and transfer activities have included a capacity       building workshop for Africa researchers, evening events for policymakers       and practitioners, conference papers, online dissemination of early       findings, and public lectures in South Africa, Kenya and the UK.
Feedback from the participants from the capacity-building training       workshop for entrepreneurship researchers from Malawi, Zambia, Kenya and       Southern Africa (April 2012) suggest significant impacts on knowledge and       facilitating networking:     "The workshop was really insightful; it drew my attention to the concept       of social entrepreneurship.
Plus it was good to meet with other       researchers and network" (participant from University of Lusaka, Zambia).
"The Workshop was so valuable and an eye opener to social enterprise       research" (participant from Moi University).
One of the participants subsequently attended a meeting with the       regulatory body for universities in Kenya, where they suggested that       social entrepreneurship should be taught at MBA level (participant from       University of Nairobi).
Two of the participants (Zambia and South Africa)       have linked up in a south-south network to submit a grant proposal.
A       Kenyan academic participant from Bondo University College also noted "the       experience I gained was enormous as I was able to create linkages and       network".
Holt also ran an entrepreneurship master class on entrepreneurship and       economic development in April 2012, in association with the workshop       attended by 70 members of the Kenyan business community and government.
A       keynote speech was reviewed by Dr Manu Chandaria, a leading Kenyan       industrialist.
4) Facilitating greater understanding amongst policy makers and         practitioners of the impact SE enterprises can have on poverty         alleviation and sustainable development     Holt has also published a series of case studies based on the analysis of       the fieldwork data on poverty alleviation impacts.
This dissemination of       conceptual insights on poverty alleviation and sustainable development       accruing from SE enterprises in Africa is ongoing, but early evidence is       suggesting that they are having an impact.
One of the organisations profiled is the Book Bus, which has highlighted       how the project is helping to shape its future strategic direction.
"It       (the detailed case analysis) identifies our key strengths and obvious       weaknesses...
There is much for us to do in increasing our educational       impact, some of which we will address with the workshops and teaching       scheme listed....
Your conclusions will be a very useful reference,       especially when fine-tuning our business plan and for future funding       applications..."     Holt's research is also informing policy and practice amongst       practitioner organisations, especially in partnership with the South       African based NGO, the African Social Entrepreneurs Network (ASEN), which       is using the TOA data to inform their presentations to the World Social       Enterprise Forum.
They recently presented their assessment of the training       needs of Southern African social entrepreneurs and their practical       response to this, informed by the data collected by TOA which was shared       with them.
The impact of Holt's research was recognised when she was shortlisted as       a finalist for the 'All Party Group for International Development Awards'       in the category of 'Outstanding Academic Study in Development'.
Holt and       the Trickle Out Africa research project received an 'Honourable Mention'       at the awards ceremony held at Stormont on May 23rd 2013.
