     Cardiff research to develop CWIS is delivering impacts on an       international scale in commercial and       practice settings leading to economic and direct patient benefits.
QoL improvements in patients with chronic wounds of the lower limb     Approximately 2.6 million people have diabetes in the UK with up to 5%       (ca.
150,000) suffering a       chronic lower limb ulceration requiring lengthy treatment with dressings       that need to be kept dry.
Other patient populations also suffer leg ulcers facing similar demands of       dressing care.
Many       such patients accidently wet their dressings whilst bathing which, if left       unchanged, risks infection       to the wound.
These wounds can take months or years to heal and the impact       upon patient QoL is       a very real concern [5.1].
Prior to the current assessment period Price (2005) used CWIS in a       multicentre study (90 UK       centres, 2300 patients) commissioned by the Prescription Pricing Authority       to assess the disease-       specific QoL of patients living with chronic wounds and specifically the       benefits of a waterproof       wound care dressing protector (Seal-Tight&#174;).
The Cardiff team       quantified improvements in QoL for       those patients using Seal-Tight&#174; and its evidence was submitted       as part of a successful Drug Tariff       application (2005) for what became the first ever product to be accepted       for NHS prescription       based on formal QoL measures [5.2,5.3].
The distinct QoL       research from Cardiff underpinned later       dissemination to practitioners and patient groups on the benefits of       Seal-Tight&#174; culminating in a       transformation in the scale of product use in the assessment period [5.1,5.2].
Specifically, between       2005 and 2007 inclusive ca.
50,000 Seal-Tight&#174; units were       prescribed (17,000 p.a.).
The period       2008-2013 has seen year-on-year increases in prescriptions with over       200,000 units prescribed       during this period (equating to 38,000 units p.a.)[5.2].
As       each individual generally requires only a       single unit throughout the course of their wound healing the above data       reflects interventions to a       corresponding number of patients [5.1].
Reflecting its very       real QoL benefits Seal-Tight&#174; won the       2010 Nursing Times Product Gold Award.
Independent analysis has highlighted the economic savings that can be       realised from keeping       wound dressings dry.
For example, up to a quarter of the working week for       district nurses caring       for patients with chronic non-healing wounds is taken up changing       dressings that have become       accidently wet (ca.
500,000 every month) at an estimated NHS cost of &#163;22       million per month [5.3].
The UK experience has also impacted in the Sweden healthcare system with       Seal-Tight&#174; recently       (2013) approved for reimbursement on prescription[5.2]:.
The       Swedish company submitting the       application cites the UK QoL data on its website (http://www.twim.se/)       {translated}: "Seal-Tight is         clinically tested and evaluated and is the first shower protection that         is approved for prescription by         the National Health Service (NHS) in England.
It has been proven to         raise the quality of life for the         patient and reduced the burden of care of bandage changes.
In England,         the clinical trials of         patients with foot / leg ulcers who used Seal-Tight demonstrated         elevated quality of life values."
Adoption and influence in clinical trials     Empowerment of patients in healthcare decision-making has fostered a need       for disease specific       tools that are meaningful to patients and which can be used to assess the       benefit of new       treatments.
International healthcare companies and other sponsors use CWIS       in clinical trials (60       since 2008; Cardiff Wound Healing Research Unit database) assessing the       benefits of new       dressings and wound healing technologies, including, for example:     Celleration Inc. (Minneapolis, USA) is a SME (50 employees) whose sole       asset is the MIST       Therapy device; a non-contact ultrasound wound healing therapy.
The device       gained FDA       approval in August 2012 but in its application to the UK NICE requested       evidence of health       benefits (including health-related QoL) of the MIST regimen compared to       the UK standard of care       for chronic venous leg ulcers [5.4].
This was the first       example arising from NICE's medical       technology guidance recommendations requiring additional clinical       evidence.
This led to an       independent clinical trial (08/2012-11/2013, NCT01671748) conducted in       Cardiff's Wound Healing       Unit using CWIS to evaluate QoL performance.
The study results (pending)       are fundamental to       Celleration's $7M round of funding (Jan 2013) to expand its product       indications and UK sales [5.5].
Founded as a spinout from the NHS in 2005, ZooBiotic Ltd became the only       UK company       specialising in the use of medicinal-quality larvae (maggots) for the       treatment of chronic infected       and necrotic wounds.
In 2009-10 the Cardiff Wound Healing Unit led a       ZooBiotic-sponsored multi-       centre (eight-centre) randomised clinical trial (200 patients) evaluating       the benefits of maggot       therapy in wound healing.
The QoL outcomes in this particular therapy       presented additional       challenges (e.g.
patients may find maggots distasteful or suffer       uncomfortable sensations) but       were also well defined by CWIS together with QoL benefits from the healing       process itself.
The       positive outcomes of the trial were instrumental in reinforcing       ZooBiotic's business development       plans to acquire the German rival company BioMonde GMbH (BioMonde is now       the trading name       of ZooBiotic), and the company's ability to attract further rounds of       investment.
The acquisition of       BioMonde GMbH allowed ZooBiotic's therapies to access European markets       boosting its annual       turnover by over 100% from &#163;2 million p.a.
prior to acquisition to &#163;5       million post-acquisition [5.6].
Best practice and uptake     CWIS has gained recognition and uptake by practitioners as a reliable and       accurate mechanism by       which shared decisions on patient treatments can be appropriately       balanced.
It is seen as an       exemplar of good practice for managing patients with chronic wounds of the       lower limb.
CWIS is acknowledged in a number of Best Practice Consensus, Clinical       Guidelines and Position       Documents, for example: NHS National Prescribing Centre Guiding Principles       for prescribing of       dressings (2012) [5.7]; International consensus statement       `Optimising Well Being in Patients with       Chronic Wounds' (2011) [5.8]; The American Center for Medical       Technology Policy and       Effectiveness Guidance Document (2012) [5.9]; The European       Wound Management Position Paper       on Hard to Heal Wounds (2008).
The take up of the CWIS instrument has been world-wide (20 different       countries) with the tool       translated and validated in 10 languages: English, Welsh, US English,       Sinhalese, Tao, German,       French, Portuguese (Brazil), Swedish and Spanish (Mexico) and is currently       undergoing translation       and verification in Italian, Norwegian, Swedish and Greek.
Over 100       different organisations now       use the questionnaire for audit or quality improvement programmes.
For       example, UK healthcare       facilities adopt the instrument to measure health-related QoL improvements       in service provision for       patients with chronic wounds (e.g., Bradford Royal Infirmary; University       College Hospital; Ealing       PCT; NHS East Lancashire Community Services).
Further afield, CWIS has       been used to improve       treatment priority setting and patient experience in, for example,       Australia (Northern Sydney       Central Coast Community Nursing Service; Sydney South West Area Health       Service) and Canada       (South West Ontario Regional Wound Care Service, Participation and Quality       of Life (Par-QoL)       project in Toronto [5.10]).
The CWIS (the instrument, scores       and coding schedule) is provided on a       non-cost licence basis to non-commercial organisations.
