     "...we heard numerous arguments, particularly from Professor Yvonne       Galligan, about why we should be bringing in legislation like this.
As she       told us, the current lack of women candidates is a serious restriction to       voter choice."
(http://debates.oireachtas.ie/seanad/2012/02/02/00007.asp)     This statement in the Irish Seanad (upper house) was made by Senator       Ivana Bacik during the Second Stage debate on the Electoral (Amendment)       (Political Funding) Bill, which went on to pass all stages on 29 July 2012       and was subsequently signed into law by the Irish President.
The gender quota provisions of the Bill (section 5) were directly       influenced by Galligan's research [1,3], and, most immediately, her       evidence to the Joint Committee on Justice, Equality, Defence and Women's       Rights' sub-Committee on Women's Participation in Politics, which laid the       foundations for the Bill.
The aim of the sub-committee was `to examine the challenges facing women       who wish to pursue a career in politics at local, national and European       levels'.
Its report was published in October 2009 and draws heavily (12       citations) on the oral evidence that Professor Galligan provided to the       sub-committee on 9 September 2009 and direct references to her published       work [1, 2, 3].
Galligan's studies shaped the substantive conclusions in       the Joint Committee report (known as the Bacik Report) published       in 2009, most notably its recommendation that provisions be made for a 30%       candidate gender quota, rising to 40% thereafter.
This recommendation was       fully adopted in Section 5 of the Bill.
Additional impacts of Galligan's research on gender equality can be seen       in how it has informed policy change in political parties and attitudes       among the public in Ireland, Northern Ireland, and internationally:     a) In May 2005 Galligan addressed the Irish Labour Party Commission on       Women's Participation in the Labour Party.
The background notes for that       meeting draw on her 2004 version of the 2006 research referenced above       [evidence available for confidential review].
Galligan's submission drew       attention to the imposition of financial penalties on parties, and she       argued that this was a strategy that could provide an incentive to       political parties given the high levels of public funding supporting Irish       parties.
This point was taken up by the Chairperson of Labour Women, who       chaired the Commission and was also legal advisor to the Irish Labour       Party.
She brought this idea into her drafting of the Electoral         (Gender Parity) Private Members Bill 2009.
The substance of this       Bill"especially its provision for funding sanctions"was incorporated into       the Electoral (Amendment) (Political Funding) Bill 2011.
The main       architect of the Private Members Bill evidences this impact,       noting the striking resemblance to the suggestions first presented by       Galligan in the final legislative output.
b) The impact of Galligan's research can also be seen by the fact that       she was commissioned to draft an equality plan for Fianna F&#225;il, published       as Independent Gender Equality Audit and Fianna Fail Gender Equality         Plan 2004-14 [4 above].
She was asked to conduct a mid-term review       of this plan in 2008-09 which subsequently formed the basis for the       current Fianna Fail Gender Equality Action Plan 2013-2018, launched in       July 2013.
The Audit and Review drew consecutively on her expert knowledge       based on [1,2,3] above and her work for Fianna Fail significantly       influenced attitudes at elite level on the measures necessary to bring       more women into electoral politics.
The Audit and Review are extensively       drawn upon in the 2013 Plan, particularly (but not only) in the section       `Implementation Status of the targets sets out in the Gender Equality       Action Plan 2004-14', pp.
27-29.     c) In February 2013, Professor Galligan presented an expert briefing to       the government-initiated `Convention on the Constitution' on the subject       of women's participation in politics/public life.
She drew on [1, 2, 3 and       4] in developing the presentation.
The Convention is a deliberative forum       of 100 individuals tasked with making recommendations on constitutional       change to the government by end 2013.
Any recommendations accepted by       government will be put to a referendum to amend the Constitution.
Galligan       identified article 40 as requiring a more explicit recognition of equality       between women and men.
The change was supported by 67% of the Convention.
Professor Galligan's briefing paper, drawing on [1,2,3 and 4] is posted       on:       https://www.constitution.ie/Convention.aspx#documents     d) In December 2010, Galligan was invited to address the Annual       Conference of the Democratic Unionist Party on `bringing more women into       politics'.
Her presentation, based on [1, 2 and 3] supported the internal       mobilisation of women DUP members, and at the 2011 Assembly elections the       party ran 7 women, securing the election of 5 women, the largest cohort of       female candidates and MLAs in its history.
e) In March 2013, Professor Galligan was invited to address the `Leaders       Leading Change' event in Belfast City Hall which discussed ways of       changing the face of politics in Northern Ireland.
All parties had       representatives at this conference, at which an agenda for action was       formulated.
Professor Galligan presented her research on gender quotas [3]       along with later relevant research.
She was invited, arising from this       presentation, to prepare a briefing report for the Minister for the       Environment on the adoption of gender-friendly measures relating to the       working conditions of councillors in a reconfigured local government.
f) In July 2013, Galligan was invited by the Organisation for Security       and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE), comprising 57 member states, to       contribute in a closed expert session to revision of the guidelines on       political party regulation.
Her brief was to indicate how the gender       equality provisions in the Venice Commission guidelines on political party       regulation could be strengthened and mainstreamed.
Her policy paper, based       on [3] and on additional research has been incorporated in revised Venice       Commission considerations.
g) Also in July 2013 Galligan was invited by Junior Minister and MLA,       Jennifer McCann, to make a presentation to Sinn F&#233;in women in Northern       Ireland on ways of increasing women's political representation in the       party.
She drew on her quota research [3], and on her comparative research       on barriers to women's representation [1 and 2] to provide party women       with a rationale for mobilising for internal party change.
