     Correspondence from the Department of Justice NI stated that the research       would assist criminal justice agencies and their voluntary sector partners       in the development of a new five year strategy for victims and witnesses       of crime.
The Department subsequently made a commitment in the victim and       witness annual action plan 2011-12 (Department of Justice NI, 2011) to       consider the recommendations of the research when developing this new five       year strategy (see below).
In November 2011 Hayes was invited to present       the findings of the research at a joint NSPCC and Victim Support NI       seminar on `Victims' Voices: Experiences of Children and Adults of the       Criminal Justice System in Northern Ireland'.
The seminar was addressed by       the minister for Justice and attended by senior representatives from a       number of criminal justice agencies, the judiciary, legal professionals,       the voluntary sector as well as representatives from the Department of       Justice NI and the NI Assembly's Justice Committee.
In February 2012 Hayes and Bunting (NSPCC) were invited to contribute to       a Criminal Justice Issues Group (CJIG) workshop on victims and witnesses       of crime.
The CJIG is an advisory body on operational issues impacting on       the criminal justice system and comprises representatives from the       judiciary, criminal justice agencies, legal professions and the voluntary       sector.
The workshop focused on three key areas (waiting times at court,       victim participation in proceedings, and special measures) which were all       issues that the research had highlighted in relation to young witnesses in       criminal proceedings.
In February 2012 Hayes was also invited to act as a       consultant on a European Union Fundamental Rights Agency (FRA) project       which is examining the involvement of children and young people in justice       proceedings (criminal and civil) in 10 EU member states.
This has involved       reviewing research materials, attending an `experts' meeting at the FRA in       Vienna to provide advice on appropriate methodologies and ethical issues,       and an on-going role reviewing materials, draft reports, etc.
Hayes also       presented the research findings at the 8th Congress of the       British Association for the Study and Prevention of Child Abuse and       Neglect (BASPCAN) held at Queen's University Belfast in April 2012.
The research findings have influenced the work of two reviews into       victims and witnesses of crime which have also fed into the development of       the five year strategy mentioned above.
The first of these was an       inspection of the use of special measures in the criminal justice system       in Northern Ireland and their effectiveness in achieving best outcomes for       witnesses (Criminal Justice Inspection NI, 2012).
The research findings       are cited within the inspection report and the lead inspector has       confirmed that they were instructive and valuable in that they provided a       frame of reference for significant areas of the inspection, underpinned       and supported the inspection findings, and broadly assisted in the       assessments which led to the strategic recommendation of a Witness Charter       for N.I.
This is based on analogous findings that the rights of criminal       justice system users (both children/young people and adults) were often       not fully communicated or understood and the concomitant need to codify       same in a Charter.
Finally, he acknowledged that the research had       supported many of the inspection's operational recommendations such as the       need for a clear expression in PSNI policy of the need to discuss special       measures and complete an individual needs assessment, the need to ensure a       clear, comprehensive and auditable system of updates for witnesses       regarding the process of special measures applications, and the       development of a criminal justice system wide leaflet which clearly sets       out for witnesses the kind of support available to them and the       organisations who provide it.
The second was an inquiry into the criminal justice services available to       victims and witnesses of crime in Northern Ireland (NI Assembly Committee       for Justice, 2012).
The research was cited in the inquiry report and       quoted extensively in two NI Assembly Research and Information Service       papers which informed the inquiry (O'Connell and Mulvenna, 2011;       O'Connell, 2011).
The research was also cited extensively in the NSPCC's       evidence to the inquiry, both written (NSPCC, 2011) and oral (http://www.niassembly.gov.uk/Documents/Official-Reports/Justice/2011-2012/InquiryintoCriminalJusticeServices.pdf).
Correspondence from the Chair of the NI Assembly's Committee for Justice       stated that "The Committee found it particularly useful that research       based evidence relating specifically to the experiences of children and       young people was available to inform its consideration of the issues and       in reaching the Inquiry findings and recommendations."
He particularly       acknowledged the impact of the research on a number of the inquiry's       recommendations including:            The introduction of a Victim and Witness Charter providing statutory         entitlements in terms of information provision and treatment;       The introduction of a comprehensive formal assessment process to         identify the needs of individual victims and witnesses in relation to         special measures and other support requirements at the earliest stage;       The provision of resources for practical support services including         trauma counselling;       An evaluation of the facilities currently provided for victims and         witnesses in all courts;       The introduction of a maximum waiting time for victims and witnesses;       The use of specialised courts to prioritise cases involving children         and young people;       Placing case management on a statutory footing in order to address the         issue of delay.
The new five year strategy for victims and witnesses of crime was issued       for consultation in October 2012 (Department of Justice NI, 2012) and       specifically acknowledges the research as one of the influences on its       development.
The draft strategy makes a number of commitments around the       key themes of the status and treatment of victims and witnesses;       communication and information provision; support provisions and special       measures; participation and improved understanding; the collation of       information and research on the experiences of victims and witnesses.
These themes had all been identified within the research in relation to       the experiences of young witnesses.
The final version of the strategy was       launched in June 2013.
