     Impact on Legislation and Policy     On behalf of the Northern Ireland Association of Social Workers Devaney       presented written (February 2010) and oral (September 2010) evidence to       the NI Assembly Committee for Health, Social Services and Public Safety       during consideration of the legislation on the establishment of a regional       children's Safeguarding Board for Northern Ireland (SBNI).
The SBNI has       responsibility for CMRs.
This evidence was informed by the research on the       process of reviewing non-accidental child deaths, cited in the evidence       presented to the Committee (Sources 1 &amp; 5).
During 2010-2011 the DHSSPS invited Devaney to be part of the       reference group developing statutory regulations to underpin new       legislation on the establishment of the SBNI.
The research findings       informed these statutory regulations in respect of improving the       governance and operation of the CMR process.
(Source 1)     In November 2010 Devaney and Lazenbatt were invited by       the Scottish Government to address a conference of policy makers and       senior managers looking at ways of improving the system for reviewing       non-accidental child deaths in Scotland.
Devaney was also asked by       the Welsh Assembly Government to sit on the Advisory Group for the Welsh       Overview of Serious Case Reviews (2010-2011), and by the Department of       Education in London to sit on the Advisory Group for the Biennial Review       of SCRs (2011-2012).
In March 2011 Devaney and the Chief Social       Services Officer for Northern Ireland attended a meeting in the Department       of Education (London) to brief Professor Eileen Munro on developments in       the CMR process in Northern Ireland as part of the Munro Review on Child       Protection in England.
(Source 1).
The Safeguarding Board for Northern Ireland have now enacted several of       the key recommendations from the first report (References 1 &amp; 2)       in relation to revising and strengthening the CMR process, such as a more       robust process for the recruitment and selection of independent chairs of       reviews, a programme of training for individuals involved in the review       process, standardised templates for reports and stronger governance       processes for ensuring that recommendations and learning are implemented (Source       2).
In March 2013 the Children's Commissioner presented the `Still       Vulnerable' report to the Committee for the First Minister and Deputy       First Minister at the Northern Ireland Assembly in evidence before the       inquiry into a children's strategy (Sources 3 &amp; 6).
The report       and its conclusions have challenged established thinking about the       separation of strategies looking at children's emotional and psychological       well being from the strategies looking at adults.
Impact on Professional Practice     The research reported has improved the effectiveness of workplace       practices.
For example, the research team were asked by DHSSPS to work       with the statutory Children's Improvement Board in Northern Ireland on       developing actuarial tools to support the assessments by social workers of       the range of adversities experienced by children.
This work is       strengthening the comprehensiveness of the assessment leading to more       robust plans for supporting and protecting children.
Additionally, CAMHS       services are now being delivered to young people in care in their       residential units (Sources 1 &amp; 3).
In addition during 2012-2013 Devaney and Hayes were       commissioned by DHSSPS to deliver training to over 1000 professional staff       (social workers, health visitors, police officers, paediatricians,       midwives, mental health professionals, teachers) through a series of ten       Continuing Professional Development seminars in Northern Ireland on the       key learning arising from this work on child deaths.
This training has now       been developed into a training resource for cascade training to more       professionals.
(Sources 1 &amp; 2).
Impact on General Public     The research has shaped the public and political debate by challenging       the way that child abuse deaths are represented in the media.
In 2011 the       British Association for the Study and Prevention of Child Abuse and       Neglect, the NSPCC, the Northern Ireland Association of Social Workers and       the National Union of Journalists involved Devaney in taking       forward a further recommendation from the research relating to promoting       communication with the local community and media to raise awareness of the       positive and `helping' work of statutory services with children, so that       attention is not focused disproportionately on case management review       tragedies.
This has resulted in the development of jointly produced and       endorsed guidance by the National Union of Journalists and the Department       of Health, Social Services and Public Safety on the media reporting of       child abuse and non-accidental child deaths.
This was launched by the       Minister for Health on 29th November 2012 (http://www.baspcan.org.uk/northernireland/).
(Sources 1, 2 &amp; 4).
Subsequently Devaney was commissioned by the leading daily       Northern Ireland newspaper The Belfast Telegraph to write opinion       pieces on non-accidental child deaths, which were published on 15th April       2012 and 24th January 2013.
The research team also worked with the       investigative journalism website The Detail to disseminate       findings widely (http://tinyurl.com/k4xe2fh).
This media engagement has raised public awareness of the difficult lives       some children lead.
