     The mathematical models and statistical inference techniques developed by       researchers at Warwick have been used by the UK government - through Defra       and Animal Health and Veterinary Laboratories Agency (AHVLA) - to underpin       policy relating to the control of FMD infection, particularly by       vaccination.
Models of other infections by Warwick researchers have added       to the public debate [20] and UK government policy surrounding bTB control       transmission and control [21,22,]; the control and containment of avian       influenza [21]; and the spread and management of bee infections by the       Food and Environment Research Agency (FERA).
Since 2008, the FMD modelling       framework has been extended to the USA and other countries, and has been       presented to different policy groups (such as the US Department of       Homeland Security [23] and the European Commission [24]), helping to shape       the expectations of what mathematical modelling can achieve during a       disease outbreak.
We will discuss these three cases in turn.
FMD in the UK     Keeling has worked on mathematical models to predict the spread of FMD in       the UK since the devastating FMD outbreak of 2001.
Together with       Tildesley, these early models have been refined and used to address       numerous applied questions about the optimal control of outbreaks.
Work       since 2008 has focused on the potential benefits of control by localised       (contiguous premise) culling and control by vaccination bringing the most       impact, and suggested how the optimal use of these methods will vary       regionally.
Predictions for optimal culling [5] suggest that the number of       farms losing livestock could be reduced by over 30%, while targeted       vaccination [2] could reduce losses by over 75%; these insights have       helped to shape government policy and are factored into current       contingency planning.
A statement from the Head of Epidemiology at       AHVLA/Defra states "their research provides important scientific       underpinning of our current FMD contingency plan" [21].
This plan now       contains vaccination as a key control measure against new outbreaks and       local reactive culling as an important potential method of control as a       result of its unpopularity with the farming community in 2001.
Following on from methodological developments in Warwick [4,7], the above       modelling is now being underpinned by more rigorous and systematic       Bayesian (MCMC) parameter inference, which enables Keeling and Tildesley       to rapidly tailor models more readily to any new outbreak.
This important       innovation means that we can rapidly respond to requests for model       predictions from AHLVA/Defra, leading to Keeling being made a member of       Defra's Quantitative Modelling Standing Capacity from 2011.
In addition,       as a component of the inference software Keeling and Tildesley have been       working on GIS interface to display current cases and potential future       scenarios; AHVLA are "hoping to use the GIS epidemic inference and       visualisation software directly produced from the InFER project in [their]       livestock epidemic planning and emergency procedures" [21].
bTB in UK      The control of bTB is complicated by the emotive arguments about the role       of badgers in its transmission compared to transmission between cattle;       despite scientific uncertainty of the role of badgers 2013 saw a       large-scale cull of these animals.
This contention necessitates a       mathematical model that is robustly fitted to data and can elucidate the       underlying transmission mechanisms and hence help determine adequate       control strategies.
Work by Keeling has developed the first national-scale       predictive model of bTB that captures the spatial and temporal patterns of       bTB in the UK.
This model has been under development for several years and       Defra have been kept fully informed of its findings; these outcomes have       "shaped how Defra consider planning future control options" [21].
Owing to       this work, Keeling has been invited to be a member of Defra's `bTB       modelling initiative' (see website and agenda papers where the terms of       reference of the group are minuted [22, 25]).
The continuing work in Warwick on modelling livestock epidemics in the UK       "forms a valuable part of the scientific underpinning for the policy       decisions made on the control of livestock infections" and has been       "recognised by Keeling being a member of `Defra Quantitative Modelling       Standing Capacity', to be called upon to provide timely advice in case of       an outbreak situation."
[21].
FMD in USA and Europe     Previous work on FMD in the USA primarily focused on localised results       using complex, parameter-rich models, and hence policy was based around a       limited set of potential scenarios.
Keeling and Tildesley's parsimonious       model with its simpler mathematical formulation has enabled the       development of national-scale models that can be parameterised from early       epidemic data.
Modelling results have been presented to policy-makers at       the US Department of Agriculture and Department of Homeland Security       (DHS).
As a Program Manager at the DHS says [23], "Tildesley and Keeling       through their academic publications and willingness to interact with       policy makers, have revolutionized the way in which DHS considers the use       of mathematical modelling for future outbreaks of livestock diseases".
This modelling methodology is also being extended to Turkey where FMD is       endemic and therefore acts as a reservoir for infection into Europe.
As       such "the work of the Warwick group has had a high impact on our European       Member States and may provide the breakthrough needed in modelling control       efforts in affected countries" states the Executive Secretary of the       European Commission for the Control of Foot-and-Mouth Disease (EuFMD)       [24].
The EuFMD is an intergovernmental body with 37 member states,       operating under the auspices of the UN Food and Agriculture Organisation.
[24] notes member states particularly use the Warwick group papers to       decide when and where to vaccinate and produce reactive strategies.
The       Warwick group has led member states to recognise the importance of       national policies, "...their willingness to address issues affecting       confidence in use of models is of huge importance and has been a major       contributor to the increased international acceptance of the use of       modelling to assist with FMD emergency planning" as well as a "tool kit       for predictive impact of changing movement controls, of enormous       importance to emergency planners in FMD free countries" [24].
In summary, the mathematical modelling and statistical work in the       University of Warwick Mathematical Sciences Departments has left the       agencies responsible for infectious livestock disease control far better       prepared for future outbreaks and with a far better understanding of what       modelling and statistics can offer in terms of optimising control       strategies and responses.
