     Key findings from Reference 3 led to the author's recommendations for       policy change in Northern Ireland, including: a) to implement       needle/syringe exchange schemes in hopes of reducing the spread of       blood-borne viruses, e.g., HIV, and minimising other health problems among       people who inject drugs, and b) to develop street outreach initiatives       that cater to the needs of people who inject illicit drugs.
Service       provision for people dependent on heroin changed considerably beginning in       2001, with the introduction of pharmacy-based needle/syringe exchange       schemes in Northern Ireland.
In the first year that scheme data were       collected, 5,213 visits to needle/syringe exchanges were recorded.
In the same year, McElrath was asked to serve on the Drug and Alcohol       Information and Research Working Group, DHSSPS, which provided further       opportunity to engage with service providers and drug policymakers, and       share research insights.
In 2002, she was appointed as Specialist Advisor       to the Northern Ireland Affairs Committee to assist in its investigation       into the drug trade in Northern Ireland (see below, Section 5, Sources         1-4).
That role provided her with the opportunity to compile a list       of witnesses (e.g., community workers; voluntary sector) for the Committee       that they had previously overlooked.
Over time, needle/syringe exchange       schemes had expanded to include other pharmacies, and 15,828 visits to       exchanges were recorded in 2009-10.
These visits involved the collection       of 153,625 syringes (see below, Section 5, Source 5).
McElrath's first recommendation in Reference 5 was that methadone       maintenance be made available as a treatment option.
The DHSSPS accepted       that recommendation and agreed to establish an implementation group.
Substitute prescribing in the form of methadone or Subutex maintenance was       introduced in Northern Ireland in 2004 (see below, Section 5, Source 6).
Annual reports from the DHSSPS continue to state that References 3 and 5       were important contributing factors for the introduction of substitute       prescribing in Northern Ireland (see below, Section 5, Source 7).
The cumulative impact from the underpinning research (References 4       and 5) is demonstrated in the annual reviews of the substitute prescribing       database, issued by the DHSSPS.
In 2009-10, 576 clients were in receipt of       substitute prescribing treatment in Northern Ireland (see below,         Section 5, Source 7).
Reference 5 also recommended the development of drug outreach initiatives       to work with out-of-treatment heroin users in particular.
In 2003, two       community workers met with McElrath to discuss strategies for the       development of drug outreach in South Belfast.
In 2004, the first drug       outreach team (DOT) was implemented in Northern Ireland.
Organised       initially in the voluntary sector, the Drug Outreach Team gained a       permanent place in drug service provision when it was incorporated into       the statutory sector.
It continues to serve dozens of clients who inject       drugs or smoke heroin in the Belfast region.
Michele Jordan, co-author of       Reference 6 subsequently worked for several years as a drug outreach       worker in the Northern Board (see below, Section 5, Source 8).
Her       outreach work focused primarily on women who were injecting drugs, hence       the diffusion of impact through Ms Jordan's outreach role.
A number of drug services extended invitations to McElrath to speak with       staff in treatment services (e.g., Northern Ireland Community Addiction       Service; Northern Ireland Community Addiction Team Forum; Community       Addiction Service, Northern Board).
These requests created opportunities       to discuss research findings with individuals (e.g., service providers)       who were in a position to facilitate change.
The author's appointments to       three advisory boards also helped to integrate research findings within       the context of service provision.
These boards included: Dunlewey       Substance Advice Centre (2004-2009), Drug Outreach Team, South and East       Trust (2002-2005; 2008-2009), and Turas Counselling, Dundalk, County Louth       (2008-2010).
In 2004, McElrath was interviewing two respondents who participated in       the study described in Reference 6.
These individuals resided in the       Southern Board where clients were not permitted to be prescribed       methadone, despite the region-wide implementation of that service.
As a       consequence, the respondents made two or three trips each week to the       Republic of Ireland in order to participate in the MMT programme in that       jurisdiction.
McElrath helped the clients liaise with a legal team, and       the case was accepted for judicial review (see below, Section 5, Source         9) which subsequently found that the clients had a right to obtain       MMT in the Southern Board.
The additional impact from Reference 6 was that       the underpinning research contributed to changing service delivery in a       health board area.
In summary, the reach of these impacts extended to individuals       who have experienced heroin dependency.
The significance of the       impacts is the expansion of service provision for marginalised groups.
