     Impact 1.
Local level: Rural Development Fund &amp; childcare         provision       The research summarised in Research studies 1, 2 and 4, supported by       References 1, 3, 4 and 5,       has highlighted the differential impacts of rural policies on women in NI.
Particular findings include       the need to target farm-training at women living and working on farms.
The       need to provide       childcare in rural areas in order to facilitate female employment was       recognised in the Rural       Childcare Stakeholder Group report (reference 3).
This report recommended       that the Department       should fund a specific childcare programme, train childminders living in       rural areas and create new       childcare places.
Policy makers and civil servants have used the research extensively to       develop rural policies, most       notably, the &#163;1.5 million initiative to improve childcare provision in       rural parts of NI, launched by       DARD in 2009.
Working through the Childminding Association, training         and support was         provided to create 100 new child minders and 400 new childcare places         over a two year         period.
This was part of DARD's wider policy to address poverty and       social exclusion in rural       areas.
As recognised by the research outlined in this case study, the       policy recognised that the       lack of rural childcare was a barrier to parents' participation in       employment, social and community       activities, and this was particularly true for women.
In the press coverage of the launch, the Minister explicitly made the       connection between the new       policy initiative and the Rural Childcare Stakeholder Group Report       (reference 3).
The DARD       website on the Rural Childcare Programme also refers to the Rural       Childcare Stakeholder Group       Report as does the programme guidelines.
The Rural Childcare Stakeholder       Group Report in       which Shortall participated underpinned this policy initiative.
Furthermore, Kelly and Shortall's       (2001) research (reference no.
1) is heavily used in the Rural Childcare       Stakeholder Group Report.
The impact therefore relates to a wide range of actors.
For example,       policy makers and civil       servants, who drew heavily on the research to design rural policy,       childminding organisations who       were funded to train childminders, people (all women) who were trained to       be childminders and       therefore skilled for employment, as well as rural families.
Impact 2.
EU level: EU rural policy       The research, summarised in Research study 3, was on foot of a commission       by the European       Parliament in 2010.
This led to the publication of a policy report       (reference 2), which assesses the       situation of women in farming in the 27 EU Member States.
Furthermore, the       report provides a       series of recommendations on how the Parliament could improve the position       of women in the       revised CAP policies post-2013.
The report, prepared for EU civil       servants, highlighted the need to       increase women's representation in rural policy, for example, on national       monitoring committees.
The research, directly requested by EU Parliament, provides the necessary       evidence base to       inform the direction of future rural policy post-2013.
The impact relates therefore not only in terms of policymakers at an EU       level but also in terms of       achieving a greater representation of farming women on Rural         Development Programme         national monitoring committees across Europe.
