     Contestation over displays of flags in public space has remained a key       issue in public debate in Northern Ireland and is an on-going issue in       peace-building.
This research has provided the basis for the development       of public policy; it has had a very high profile in public debates over       the use of flags and emblems; it has been at the forefront of discussions       between public agencies attempting to engage with symbolic contestation;       it has been used by District councils and mediation groups in problem       solving; and it is being used by the United Nations as an example of how       to develop a strategy for understanding human rights and cultural       contestation in divided societies.
4.1 Impacts on Government Policy:       The initial project policy report, Transforming Conflict (Grant 2) had its       findings incorporated into the Government's Shared Future (2005:       19) policy.
At the same time, the PSNI and Government departments       developed The Joint Protocol in Relation to the Displays of Flags in         Public Areas (2005).
Funded by OFMDFM, the research team produced       annual reports (1) from 2006-2011 for the Government website as part of       their Good Relations Indicator Set (2).
These reports evaluated       changes that might accrue as a result of the policies and Protocol.
Since 2009, Bryan has been a member of the Flags Protocol Review Group       (FPRG--constituted by OFMDFM- along with the Chief Executives of three       district Councils and representatives from Community Relations Council,       Equality Commission, PSNI, NI Housing Executive and four government       departments).
In addition, the Community Relations Council (CRC) invited       Bryan to assist with the redrafting of policy (3) and in 2012, after       OFMDFM were unable to agree on a Cohesion, Sharing and Integration       policy, Bryan was asked to chair the FPRG under the auspices of the CRC to       produce new policy guidelines (3).
4.2 Influencing Government Action:       The research findings were discussed by the First Minister, Peter       Robinson, in the Northern Ireland Assembly in September 2009 and by the       Deputy First Minister, Martin McGuinness in November 2009.
McGuiness       commented, `Queen's University has been involved in a number of surveys on       the issue since 2007.
We appreciate the difficulties that the issue       presents in communities.
Action has been taken to update our approach, and       I hope that the work of the review group will pay dividends for all of       us.'
In September 2011 Robinson further identified the importance of the       monitoring process in terms of revising the Flags Protocol.
On 11 October       2011 the `flags issue' was discussed in an emergency debate at the NI       Assembly.
Five Members of the Local Assembly (MLA), from four different       political parties, referred to the research conclusions.
Robin Newton,       Democratic Unionist Party (DUP) MLA for East Belfast said, `I, like Dr       McDonnell and my colleague Sammy Douglas, want to pay tribute to the work       done by Queen's University in its report on the display of flags and       emblems in Northern Ireland.
Without that piece of work, we would have       been unable to quantify the situation or determine what progress has been       made'.
The impact of this research has led to the redrafting in 2012 (2,       7) of the 2005 multi-agency Protocols.
In addition, the North Belfast Task       Force, chaired by OFMDFM advisors Gerry Kelly MLA and Jeffrey Donaldson MP       asked for a special report to be produced by Bryan and Kelly based on the       survey findings (2).
4.3 Changing Local Government Policy and Transforming Public         Attitudes:       Bryan worked with District Councils and peace and reconciliation groups to       help local groups engage more effectively with this highly contested       policy process.
In 2012 further survey work and a report undertaken for       Armagh District Council and CRC (Grant 3) showed that over 90% of people       surveyed do not support flags flying on lampposts throughout the year.
The       research findings resulted in a change of policy accepted by all political       parties in the Council (3).
The research has played an important role in       community participation, particularly in rural areas (4 a, b, c).
Bryan       has worked closely with the Rural Community Network (RCN) to engage with a       wide range of rural groups, using the research to inform a strategic       report on flags that was presented to OFMDFM (4b).
`The most extensive and       far reaching of these projects has been the Transforming Conflict: Flags       and Emblems Project funded by OFMDFM and delivered by Bryan...at the       Institute for Irish Studies at Queen's University' (4c).
In addition, having worked with St Columb's Park House in       Derry/Londonderry, the flags research model was used in Derry, Strabane,       Claudy, Limavady and Castlederg resulting in policy reports which have       also been submitted to the FPRG and enabled St Columb's Park house to work       more effectively on the North West Peace partnership and Peace Walls       Programme (5).
Bryan has also consistently worked with Mediation Northern       Ireland on the issue to inform peace building work in Newry, Down and       Ballymena (6).
4.4 United Nations Engagement:       In May 2013, Bryan was asked to review a draft consultative document on       the use of flags and emblems produced by the Northern Ireland Human Rights       Commission.
The research has been utilised in a UN paper Realising the         Human Right to Culture in Post-Conflict Societies.
The UN report       quotes the flags research (from reference [6] above) in that it       `recognises the complexity of the local symbolic landscape and the role of       the peace process in intensifying `symbolic contestation' as `a         principal means for the two sides to express their difference' (8).
Following on from this United Nation's report, Bryan was invited by the UN       Special Rapporteur on Cultural Rights, Farida Shaheed, to join a panel of       international experts in Derry in July 2013, who provided comments on the       UN paper to be put to the UN Council.
Experts made reference to the       significance of understanding the dilemmas of contested space from a broad       public perspective in specific national contexts such as the Northern       Ireland case     4.5 Challenging Public Debate:       The research has consistently informed public debate.
The publication of       the 2009 report led to 226 citations in the press across Ireland and the       UK, including the BBC, Ulster Television (UTV), the Irish News and       Newsletter and a further 46 outlets after the 2011 report (9).
In addition       to his many media appearances enumerated in the impact template, Bryan       engaged directly with the Minister for Justice in a forty minute radio       programme following riots in Ballyclare over the removal of flags (Radio       Ulster, 10 July 2013).
In addition, Bryan curated an Exhibition (24 May -       10 June 2012) at the Naughton Gallery displaying 38 of the flags collected       during the research (10).
