     The Northern Ireland Place-Name Project was established with funding from       local government as a       centre of research expertise which, from its inception, would supply and       disseminate information       on the linguistic origin, meaning and history of local places to       government departments, community       groups and the broader public.
Its remit, therefore, was to bring tangible       linguistic and cultural       benefits to the local community (in particular, the enrichment of cultural       life, the enhancement of       public understanding, and the promotion of cultural diversity) and to       contribute to a sense of       connected communities and shared space.
Throughout the course of its       existence it has provided       an extensive outreach programme of lectures and seminars (over 50 in the       census period), all of       which draws on its underpinning research, and has contributed       significantly to cultural enrichment       in Northern Ireland (and to the creative industries) through participation       in TV and radio       documentaries and interviews.
It also provides a consultancy service to       government agencies,       individual members of the public and local community groups.
It has       collaborated closely with Land       and Property Services to integrate cultural and geographical data, and has       used its research       expertise to inform the work of public bodies such as the Northern Ireland       Environmental Agency,       particularly in identifying sites of potential archaeological significance       and providing further       contextual information on those sites (cf.
http://apps.ehsni.gov.uk/ambit/).
Members of the team       provide research support and advice for other statutory bodies and &#211;       Mainn&#237;n currently serves on       the Irish Place-names Commission (which reports to the Minister for Arts,       Heritage and the       Gaeltacht and advises on authoritative Irish forms of place-names for       official and public use in the       Republic of Ireland).
NIPNP has engaged in three major collaborations in the census       period which have had       substantial impact beyond academia.
The most significant of these, the       collaboration with Land         and Property Services, was initiated in 2004.
NIPNP's research       database of historical evidence       and place-name analysis has been enhanced by the provision of detailed and       technologically-advanced       mapping by LPS in our collaborative online website (www.placenamesni.org).
This has       also enriched and added a cultural dimension (for the first time) to the       work of LPS with the result       that the general public can now easily access (on a single site)       geographical, historical, linguistic       and cultural information on the places where they live or visit.
The link       between onomastic       research and mapping providers is unique, and could be followed as a model       elsewhere, in the       United Kingdom.
The research continues and a new version of the website       (including new data)       was officially launched by the Minister of Finance and Personnel at the       Northern Ireland Assembly       in January 2013.
The event provoked considerable media interest and the       website has had a total       of 172,696 interactive page views in the six months since the launch (as       of the end of July 2013).
The second major collaboration is in the realm of street names and this       has contributed to       the embedding of cultural diversity in civil society (through increased       visibility for minority       indigenous languages) and the enrichment of cultural life.
Our street-names         project was       commissioned by the all-Ireland statutory language body, Foras na Gaeilge,       in 2005-06 and the       origins of over 6,000 street-names in selected urban districts (in 12       local council areas) were       published online (www.ulsterplacenames.org)       in the course of 2008.
As a result of the project's       scholarly research, the Irish versions of names which appear on public       signage can be accepted       as authoritative and definitive.
Work on street names is ongoing.
NIPNP is       consulted on a regular       basis by local councils in response to requests from the community for       bilingual signage;       subsequently, the names provided are included in urban maps.
The most       recent edition of the       Belfast Street Map (2010) includes 82 Irish-language versions of names       provided by NIPNP which       appear in street signage and a further 30 names have been provided to       Belfast City Council over       the past year which will appear in future editions of the street map and       on signage.
Moreover, in       2011, a cross-community project (funded by Belfast City Council's Good       Relations Unit) on Belfast       street and district-names invited members of the community to explore       their local place-names and       respond with further information gleaned from oral and other sources.
The       engagement between &#211;       Mainn&#237;n and the local community was recorded and broadcast on local radio,       Radio F&#225;ilte, and       resulted in the production of a CD for dissemination to community groups       across the city.
The most significant of the many collaborations with community-based       groups in the       census period is that which involved the Lough Neagh Partnership       (www.loughneaghheritage.com) &#8212; comprised of stakeholders with an interest in the largest       freshwater lake in Britain and Ireland (and drawing representation from       local authorities, and       statutory and community organisations).
It commissioned NIPNP to research       place-names which       would be encountered by cyclists on the Sustrans Cycle Trail around the       lake in order to develop       the site for cultural, educational and tourism purposes.
By including       names of diverse linguistic       origin (Irish, English and Scots), this collaboration created space for       the engagement of civil       society with cultural diversity in the Lough Neagh region, increased       public understanding of local       history and heritage, and enriched cultural life.
The research, published       in Lough Neagh Places       (2007), enabled the Partnership to pursue further research within the       census period in the form of a       local history and archaeology project (of eighteen months duration) in       2009-10 and so further       develop the amenity (http://tinyurl.com/owmx6nt).
The place-names work also drew public attention       to the area.
Muhr was interviewed on BBC radio as part of a special       programme on Lough Neagh       which was broadcast across the UK (23/01/09), and staff delivered a       programme of lectures at       local venues, including Lisburn Historical Society (04/02/09), Craigavon       Museum (07/03/09) and       Bangor Family History Society (21/01/10), all of which engaged with       aspects of the research       conducted on the Lough Neagh region.
Place-names research also fed into       the wider cultural       environment through participation in BBCNI's acclaimed six-part series Sruthanna       (2012), to which       both Toner and &#211; Mainn&#237;n contributed.
Other forms of engagement which have increased public understanding and       enriched       cultural life have continued during this period.
The Regeneration of South       Armagh community       group used NIPNP's research in the booklet on local townland names (2008)       with funding from the       Heritage Lottery Fund.
The Lottery had also provided the original funding       (&#163;9,000) for the place-name exhibition, Celebrating Ulster's Townlands, and an       accompanying booklet produced by       Muhr.
The exhibition has been shown at a variety of venues in Ireland and       Scotland over the years,       most recently (i) at an exhibition (and accompanying talk by Tempan) in       Belfast City Hall (16-18       March 2013) to celebrate St Patrick's weekend in the city, and (ii) in the       Northern Ireland Assembly       (17/06/09) at an event hosted by the Committee for Culture, Arts and       Leisure to promote and raise       awareness of local place-names.
Muhr represented NIPNP at the seminar       involving legislators and       other stakeholders which formed the core of this event, thereby       contributing to public discourse on       the importance of intangible heritage.
