     Wright's research on screening for fetal anomalies and health conditions       during pregnancy has improved international healthcare provision.
In 2004       Wright was commissioned by UK (NHS) Fetal Anomaly Screening Programme to       develop-implement a quality assurance tool for DS screening in the UK,       based on his NT and combined test research.
As a result Wright formed, and       currently leads, DQASS.
DQASS provides support for screening laboratories       and sonographers in all UK NHS hospitals, which are now required to submit       screening information and data to the Service according to its national       schedule.
The analysis of this data focuses on identifying NT measurements       that are greater than expected (red flags - implying unacceptable bias in       sonographer performance), prompting the implementation of an action plan       aimed at improving sonographer performance: as recommended by FASP/DQASS,       practitioners are required to complete 25 supervised NT measurements in       addition to three accurate paired NT and CRL measurements against the set       UK standards.
Upon successful completion of these tasks, the sonographer       is permitted to return to independent practice.
Through DQASS, Wright's research has contributed to the improvement in       the efficacy of fetal anomaly screening in the UK NHS by enhancing the       quality of laboratory and sonographer practice, which has in turn       contributed towards a reduction in the number of women proceeding to       invasive testing where there is risk of fetal loss.
Working with Wright,       the FASP established eight regional ultrasound coordinators tasked with       coordinating the recommended quality improvements and some 200 screening       support sonographers at hospitals throughout the UK to disseminate       information (specifically red flags) provided by DQASS.
A series of       regional workshops were also held between 2006 and 2010 on standardising       and modernising practice, engaging over 2,000 sonographers and healthcare       workers in obstetrics and gynaecology, representing 30 NHS laboratories.
As a result, UK DS screening performance has significantly improved.
In       2003, 36,968 invasive tests for suspected fetal anomaly were carried out       in the UK, whereas in 2009 only 13,595 were performed.
This represents a       reduction of 63% in the previous over-investigation of chromosomal       abnormality, translating to 233 miscarriages avoided (based on a 1:100       invasive-test-linked miscarriage rate) (source: ACC, 2013).
As stated in a       joint letter from Annette McHugh, Programme Manager for FASP, and Val       Armstrong, Deputy QA Lead (National), "Both the improvement in the       performance of the [Down's Syndrome screening] test and the development of       new strategies has been supported by the work undertaken by [Wright],       contributing to the decreasing requirement for women to undergo       unnecessary invasive testing.
Wrights work with DQASS has also influenced screening programmes in other       countries.
In Ontario, Canada, for example, it has been recognised that       accurate NT measurement is fundamental in DS screening, as the Director of       its national quality assurance agency, BORN, states: "I am submitting a       letter of thanks to Prof. Dave Wright and the DQASS team for their support       in our efforts to implement a quality assurance programme for NT       ultrasound in Ontario, he has provided technical and statistical support,       advice and credibility [to the Ontario QA programme]... the partnership       with Wright and DQASS has been invaluable in this project... we can only       hope to achieve the same results Wright has enabled across the UK".
Wright's research has also improved screening in private sector       healthcare worldwide: the FMF is a global charity aiming to improve the       health of pregnant women through research and training to support       professional groups and certified obstetricians.
Historically, the FMF       supplied these groups with NT risk algorithms for a range of anomalies       using the Delta method, based on a singular distribution of NT       measurements.
Recognising Wright's more accurate use of NT in trisomy risk       calculations, the FMF replaced Delta with the mixture model in 2008.
Since       its introduction to the FMF, the mixture model has been commercially       applied by major equipment/software companies operating in Europe and       Asia: GE Healthcare uses the model in its nine ultrasound machines, which       have been distributed to healthcare providers across the world while       Astraia Obstetrics use the model in its first trimester anomaly risk       calculator.
Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc., one of the largest scientific       instruments companies in the world, use the mixture model on screening for       preeclampsia and state "the work of Dave Wright has had a major impact on       the methodology and quality improvements of screening for fetal anomalies       and preeclampsia.
The mixture model for NT is used throughout the world by       our customers".
They also state that "the research of Dave Wright has been       instrumental in the introduction of our assay for PIGF (Placental Growth       Factor) in screening for preeclampsia using the competing risk model".
Thermo Fisher has recently (2013) bought an asset purchase agreement       including a patent license for the exclusive rights of PIGF to diagnose       preeclampsia.
