     Johnston's research into the tensions between performability and       authenticity was disseminated in the first instance through scholarly       publications, but they are further explored in his own translation       practice.
It is primarily through this mechanism that he has achieved       impact beyond academia.
His translation work led him to become engaged       with theatre publishers and with professional theatre practitioners,       including actors, directors and theatre companies, with whom he has       developed collaborative workshops, readings etc.
His translation       strategies have brought invigorating new performance pieces to the       English-speaking world through which he has challenged the cultural values       and assumptions of his audiences.
The translations and performances have       produced revenue streams for publishers, Hispanic playwrights, theatres,       theatre companies, and theatre practitioners     Cultural Life and Civil Society: Johnston's work has made a       major contribution to the diversification of the repertoire of       English-language theatre, thereby increasing opportunities for       theatre-goers to experience different cultures and alternative lived       experiences that may challenge their own cultural prejudices and       assumptions.
This impact has been achieved in the first instance through       his work as a practising translator (for example, through his translations       of Lope de Vega and Lorca), in which his understanding of ethical       performability informs and invigorates the translation process.
The reach       and extent of his impact is considerable.
Since 2008, eight of Johnston's       translations from Spanish (and one from French) have received thirty-three       professional, twelve amateur and eight educational productions, 55% of       them in the UK and Ireland; 29% in the US; 10% in Australia and New       Zealand, and 6% in Canada.
He has established a performance tradition in       English for Lope's theatre in particular: between 1900 and 2006 Thacker       counts only 22 Lope productions in the UK but Johnston's translations have       received 6 professional and three amateur/semi-professional productions in       the last five years alone.
He brought Lope's Dog in the Manger to       the Washington Shakespeare Company in 2008 where it won five Helen Hayes       Awards nominations, including Best Play (1).
The Washington         Post, acknowledging Johnston's strategy of engineering cultural       encounter, observed that `the comedy and characters manage to seem of       their own time and ours' (2).
Since the RSC season, Dog in the         Manger has become the first Spanish Golden Age play to enter the       amateur repertoire, receiving ten amateur productions since 2008.
His Madness         in Valencia (Lope) was re-staged in London in 2009 by a new company       &#8212; Black and White Rainbow.
It was nominated Time Out's Critic's       Choice and Show of the Week and transferred to the West End (3).
Johnston's research-led practice has increased the diversity of the       repertoire through the introduction of previously unknown plays to the       market.
Since 2008 Johnston has been commissioned by theatres such as       London's Gate and the Royal Court to write translations of plays by       writers such as Edgar Ch&#237;as and Juan Mayorga.
Since bringing Mayorga, for       example, to the attention of the English-speaking spectator, Johnston has       brought four more of his plays to production (Nocturnal, Gate       Theatre, Hamelin in Toronto, Melbourne and Belfast, The Boy at         the Back, in London, and The Le Brun Method of Happiness in       a special edition on National Spanish Radio).
Johnston's translation of       Mayorga's Way to Heaven, for example, has been performed       professionally eleven times since 2008, including a nine-month run in New       York (4).
Its run in the Odyssey Theatre, Los Angeles, received       five LA Weekly nominations and won two awards.
Translations of       modern classics, such as Lorca's Blood Wedding and The House         of Bernarda Alba, have received a range of productions (four       educational, two professional).
Johnston's translations of Lorca have been       profiled in the New Statesman, where the writer recognizes       Johnston's approach to translation, noting that Bernarda Alba       `works well because it avoids falling into the trap of trying to localise       or foreignise the performance' (5).
An important strand in his impact strategy is direct engagement with       theatre companies, directors, actors, and students.
He has collaborated       closely in the development and production of his translations with major       theatres and institutions in the UK and Ireland, including the Royal       Shakespeare Company, the National Theatre, Gate Notting Hill, Lyric       Theatre Belfast, Rough Magic and Galloglass of Dublin, the Royal Court       London, and RADA, e.g.
through involvement in workshops and rehearsals.
As       well as numerous educational productions of his translations (see above),       he works directly with future and emerging artists to explore the       significance of the shape and tone of his translations.
His The Lady         Boba (Lope) received a workshop reading at the London Academy of       Music and the Dramatic Arts (LAMDA) in January 2013 prior to its       professional premiere in the Theatre Royal, Bath, and he delivered       training seminars (January 2012 and June 2013) to LAMDA staff and       students, as well as a seminar to MRes Creative Writing students at the       University of Birmingham (February 2013).
He also led post-show       discussions after student productions of his translations at the       Universities of Warwick (2008) and Birmingham (March 2013), with combined       audiences of around 200.
His work has increased the accessibility of       Spanish theatre for students and has, for example, made possible the       introduction of a module in Spanish Golden Age theatre as part of the MA       in Classical Theatres in Performance at LAMDA.
Johnston also promotes       awareness and understanding of Spanish theatre among practitioners through       the `Out of the Wings' website which has been live since 2010 (6).
This resource, which emerged from a project funded by the AHRC on which       Johnston was CI, has become the first point of reference for theatre       translation in Spanish and attracted 18,557 unique visitors in the period       1 Jan-1 May, 2013.
Creative Economy: Johnston has generated wealth in the       creative sector through the publication of translations, the staging of       plays and increased international exposure and copyright revenue for       Hispanic playwrights.
The publishing industry has benefited through the       publication of new translations (four since 2008) and repeat sales of       older translations: five translations published by Oberon have sold over       9000 copies in the census period, and his translation of Blood Wedding,       published by Hodder, is currently in its thirty-third impression.
Productions of Johnston's work have generated substantial audiences for       theatre companies and houses and an estimated gross revenue of &#163;1.5       million.
Dog in the Manger, for example, has played professionally       to over 20,000 spectators in the US, Australia and New Zealand, while Madness         in Valencia played to over 3000 spectators in London.
Returns from       theatres for professional productions of Mayorga and Lorca indicate a       combined audience for these plays in excess of 30,000 spectators since       2008, while his translation of On Insomnia and Midnight, by the       previously unknown (in English) Mexican writer Edgar Ch&#237;as, has now played       to over 19,000 spectators around the world (including in Mexico), and is       published in British and American editions.
In the Irish context,       Johnston's translation of Moliere's The Miser, that transferred       from the Belgrade Theatre in Coventry to the Lyric Theatre in Belfast in       2010, gave the Lyric its first ever all-Ireland tour, playing to over 7000       spectators (7).
