     4.1.
Brearton's media work generates new ways of understanding poetry.
She has made three       appearances on Radio 4's In Our Time, discussing Siegfried Sassoon       (7/6/2007), W.B.
Yeats and       Irish Politics (17/4/2008), and T.S.
Eliot's The Waste Land and       Modernity (26/02/2009)       respectively.
The invitations to academics to participate in this       programme are made on the basis       of profile and expertise in the field, as well as the ability to distil       their research findings effectively       for a wide audience.
The programme is premised on use of current       developments in research, and       the shape of each 45-minute broadcast, chaired by Melvyn Bragg, is largely       determined and driven       by the research interests and research findings of its three participants,       through a series of       research phone calls in the weeks preceding the live broadcast.
The       contribution for all three       programmes drew directly on research in The Great War in Irish Poetry       and, in the case of       Sassoon, also on research for The Oxford Handbook of British and Irish         War Poetry and for the       British Academy Chatterton lecture.
The audience figures, confirmed by its       producer Tom Morris,       for the live 9am broadcast and 9.30pm repeat of the programmes are 2.25       million and have been       at this level for at least 5 years.
All three programmes are available in       perpetuity as podcasts from       the BBC's In Our Time website or from iTunes; they are downloaded       at the rate of several       thousand each month and their impact is ongoing; 50% of the In Our         Time online audience is from       outside the UK.
The broadcasts serve as an educational resource, downloaded by students       and teachers; they       inform, and often form perceptions of the writers and ideas under       discussion; they affirm the       broader relevance and appeal of humanities research beyond the academy and       in an international       context, as evidenced in the sustained audience and download figures       themselves, in the online       comments and discussion following each programme, and in emails and       letters received by the       researcher from members of the general public.
An email received in       October 2010 from a TV       producer and campaigner for traffic system reform states: `I just listened       again to the above edition       and wanted to check it is you who appeared in it, as I want to recommend       some of your quotes for       a student's essay'; another from a musician in 2008 that `You have       inspired me to re-read some       Sassoon poetry and The Wasteland'.
Or an email sent by a marketing       managing director in 2009       advises: `I feel infinitely less inadequate now as regards my own       pronounced inability to perceive a       wholly cogent and accessible narrative in The Waste Land.
I also       hadn't realised that Ezra Pound       had revised/edited/savaged quite so copiously.'
Brearton's contribution to       discussion of Eliot's The         Waste Land was featured again in Radio 4's `Pick of the Week',       triggering a consideration in that       programme of the limerick.
The broadcasts provide a recognised cultural       benefit to a large       audience outside academia and shape cultural understanding of the subjects       under discussion.
4.2.
Her research has also shaped, and been utilised in, documentaries       and broadcasts about       contemporary Irish poetry.
The study Reading Michael Longley led       to her acting in an advisory       capacity to the BBC, `to make sure', as the programme producer states,       that in the making of a       documentary about Michael Longley, presented by Fergal Keane (Keane on         Longley, BBCNI,       2008), the personal portrait Keane presented was also allied to key       critical themes and issues in       relation to Longley's work.
She gave an advisory interview to Nicholas       Wroe for his 2004 Guardian       profile of Longley, which, available online, continues to affect knowledge       about, and understanding       of, Longley's career and writing.
In 2009, she was the main contributor to       an hour long (pre-recorded)       RTE Radio documentary on Michael Longley (The Arts Show), also       determining the       poems and themes discussed therein.
4.3.
To commemorate Armistice Day in 2008, she participated in a       broadcast on English and Irish       war poetry (RTE Radio 1, Today with Pat Kenny), and that such a       broadcast occurred in Ireland is       also testament to the impact of her research in uncovering the Great War's       importance to modern       Irish poetry.
In November 2009, Brearton was one of three writers/critics       (with Jon Stallworthy and       Owen Sheers) in a commemorative event at the imperial War Museum, London:       `Poetry of the       Second World War', where poems discussed were read by actors Imogen Stubbs       and Art Malik.
Brearton's research into Irish war poetry enabled to the reading &amp;       recording at the event of the       poetry of a hitherto unknown Irish woman poet of World War II, Eileen       Shanahan, whose poetry       had never before been publicly read, and whose family were present to hear       her work discussed       for the first time.
The event was recorded and archived by the IWM.
4.4.
As a recognised authority on modern poetry, Brearton is regularly       invited to review new poetry       (by Irish poets and by women poets) for the Guardian, drawing on       that research to reach a wide       public.
Those reviews in turn are cited by poetry publishers in the UK and       the US to promote the       work of their writers, and thereby impact upon poetry book sales and       public profiles (the reviews       are used in blurbs, on publisher websites, on the Poetry Book Society       site, and for online entries       on poets &#8212; Wikipedia, the Poetry Foundation, Poetry Daily).
They are also       utilised in educational       online resources (as in for instance the entry for Flynn on www.poetrybooks.org.uk),       and in PR       materials for events promotion and for the marketing of poetry &#8212; in, for       instance, advertising       readings by Durcan at the Kilkenny Arts Festival or Linenhall Arts Centre,       by Fainlight (Kinsale Arts       Festival) or in the US to promote readings by Tess Gallagher.
4.5.
Brearton's work on MacNeice follows on from, and evaluates, Edna       Longley's pioneering       `reclaiming' of MacNeice in an Irish context.
Longley and Brearton       organised the 2007 Louis       MacNeice Centenary Conference and Celebration, an event which brought       MacNeice's status as       an Irish poet into the orbit of Belfast City Council &amp; the       Irish-British Secretariat who supported and       collaborated with the event.
These centenary celebrations prompted a BBC       travelling exhibition       from 2007-8 on MacNeice's life and work, resulting in the publication (ed.
Sansom) Castles in the         Air, and an exhibition by Carrickfergus Museum timed to coincide       with the conference.
Running       alongside the academic events were three poetry readings, opened to the       public, funded by the       ACNI and run by Brearton &amp; Longley in 2007 and 2008, which attracted       capacity audiences of 250.
The poets reading were those with particular aesthetic/cultural affinities       to MacNeice and invited on       that basis.
They included Don Paterson, Paul Muldoon, Derek Mahon, Simon       Armitage, Nick Laird,       Medbh McGuckian, Michael Longley.
Contributions to the conference by poets       Muldoon, Mahon,       Laird, McCarthy, and Flynn, were subsequently collected in Incorrigibly         Plural (2012); and the       promotion of centenary events also secured investment for the       establishment of an annual Louis       MacNeice Memorial lecture, funded by the BBC, given to large public       audiences from 2008       onwards.
4.6.
Brearton's research on Robert Graves in the context of 20th       century Irish poetry, the only       research focussed in that area, underpinned her organisation of the Robert       Graves Society       symposium on Graves and Ireland in 2011, in association with the Seamus       Heaney Centre.
The       event also included the making of an hour-long archived recording of the       eighty-year-old poet John       Montague's reminiscences and reflections on Graves's visit to Ireland in       1975, available online,       thereby providing a long-term cultural benefit and a unique resource for       readers and enthusiasts of       both Montague's and Graves's work.
In 2006 Brearton was elected       vice-President of the Robert       Graves Society, and in 2010 President, an election consequent upon her       research-standing in the       field of Graves studies, and with an remit to promote the work of Graves       both within the academy       and to a general public through public events and biennial conferences       that open up the impact       potential of Gravesian scholarship.
The short-term consequence has been,       for the first time, the       involvement of Irish studies PhD scholars in Gravesian events, and their       career enhancement (one       of those PhD students has now been asked by Graves's executors to adapt       his only stage play for       radio).
