     4.1 The delivery of the impact through the mechanism of a       carefully organised, high-profile, culture and arts festival ensured that       the largest possible number of potential users and beneficiaries was       reached.
The programme contributed to the well-being of target groups by       enhancing understanding of arts and culture, particularly through public       exhibitions; live performance; public lectures; popular print publication;       as well as newspaper, radio, and television output.
The programme was also       able to establish creative apprenticeships for a select number of       postgraduate students, thus enhancing promoting skills development to       enhance employability.
The literacy project, undertaken in cooperation       with Barnardo's, provided opportunities for underprivileged children to       engage creatively with reading.
The project was made possible through       Litvack's ongoing work as a Trustee of the Charles Dickens Museum in       London, which served as the headquarters for the worldwide celebrations of       the Dickens bicentenary.
4.2 The most impactful event, as measured by attendance, was the       exhibition at the Ulster Museum, entitled `Charles Dickens on Tour: The       Belfast Public Readings', and curated by Litvack.
It ran from 19 October       to 3 November 2012, and attracted 22,189 visitors.
It formed part of the       internationally acclaimed Ulster Bank Belfast Festival at Queen's, and       told the story of the author's three visits to Ireland, through relevant       original objects borrowed from the Charles Dickens Museum; unique and rare       print material from the collections of both Litvack and the Dickens       Museum; panels featuring both text and images, relating to the readings       and their legacy for Ireland, to Dickens's attitudes towards Ireland and       the Irish, and to Belfast in the 1850s and 1860s.
Comments recorded in the       visitors' book include `Really interesting and informative'; `Beautiful';       `Fascinating'; `Enlightening'; `Things I never knew'; `More please'; `Full       of information and interest'; `A wonderful homage to Dickens'; `Keep up       the good work'; and `A Dickensian delight second to none'.
This particular       impact also demonstrates how existing works of art can inspire new ones,       how a particular event can produce attitudinal change, and how it can       facilitate further engagement with culture, in the ways identified by Sara       Selwood in her 2010 publication Making a Difference: The Cultural         Impact of Museums.
There was a special BBC radio broadcast from the       exhibition venue on 19 October 2012, and a television broadcast on 25       October 2012, featuring an interview with Litvack, and an account of       Dickens's Belfast readings.
The exhibition was complemented by two events       for children on 20 and 21 October.
Of particular note is the arts and       crafts workshop, in which attendees used images featured in the exhibition       as inspiration for their own creations.
4.3 The Public Record Office of Northern Ireland (PRONI) hosted a       unique Dickens exhibition, curated by Litvack, from 22 October to 9       November 2012; it attracted 810 visitors.
Entitled `Dickens: Irish Friends       and Family Ties'.
This visually arresting display brought together       unpublished material relating to Dickens and his three Irish friends: JE       Tennent, FD Finlay and Lord Dufferin.
The display was not only impactful       through educating visitors about Dickens's own family history and its       Irish dimension; it also served as a source of inspiration to attract       users to explore their own heritage and genealogy.
The Irish News       printed a report on 23 October 2012, in which Car&#225;l N&#237; Chuil&#237;n (the       Northern Ireland Minister for Culture, Arts and Leisure) stated, `This       exhibition offers the chance to explore the link between history and       literature, shedding light on one of the great authors and highlighting       his local connections'.
The paper also added `Visitors.
.
.
will be       treated to a visual exploration of how this hugely influential writer left       a lasting impact on the social and cultural landscape of people in the       north [of Ireland]'.
A second report appeared in the Belfast News         Letter on 24 October 2012 emphasised that `One of the English       language's most feted authors had closer Ulster ties than many people       realise'.
The Director of the Charles Dickens Museum, Dr Florian       Schweizer, who was present at the launch, reinforced how the exhibition       benefited not just those who had a deep and abiding interest in Dickens,       but also the public at large, who had much to learn from the Victorian       author which was relevant to life in the twenty-first century.
Comments       recorded in the visitors' book include `Such a pleasure to see these       panels and to learn more about Dickens's Irish connections'; 'Wonderful       exhibition'; `Great story'; `Fascinating insight into the life of Charles       Dickens'; and `PRONI is so valuable'.
There is evidence of follow-through       from this initial engagement process: the exhibition was re-erected for       the F&#233;ile an Phobail (Ireland's largest community arts festival, based in       West Belfast) in August 2013 (attendance 10,000), thus providing an       opportunity to enhance and diversify the engagement with culture and       creativity, in an area where economic and religious divides are       pronounced.
4.4 The effect of the research was also felt through the staging       of a drama which depicted Dickens's visits to Belfast; it played to 590       people across its five sellout performances, from 8-12 May 2012.
`Dickens       at the Ulster Hall' was a collaboration between Litvack and dramatist Sam       McCready, and emerged from a series of meetings and discussions in       August-September 2011, a review of the key outputs cited in 3.1 above, and       of the original research materials upon which the outputs drew.
The play       had a second province-wide run in March 2013.
Its impact with the public       was such that audio extracts from the production formed the basis of a       sound installation in the Ulster Museum exhibition described in 4.2       (above).
4.5 Several strands of the project provide evidence of how this       process of engagement led to increased awareness amongst the general       public.
A non-academic audience was reached through a widely publicised       lecture entitled `Dickens at the Ulster Hall', delivered by Litvack as       part of the venue's sesquicentenary celebrations, on 4 May 2012; it       attracted a full house of 120 people.
A non-specialist audience was also       engaged through the publication of a distilled version of the original       publication in the literary journal Irish Pages under the title       `Dickens and Ireland'.
The print and broadcast media also availed of the       expertise offered by the research, in communicating the enduring       importance of Dickens and Ireland to their audiences.
The Belfast News         Letter (circulation 22,000), the Irish News (circulation       40,000), and the Belfast Telegraph (circulation 60,000)       interviewed Litvack at the time of Dickens's 200th birthday,       for reports celebrating Dickens's Irish connections.
Litvack was also       appeared as an expert panellist on a special `Arts Extra' broadcast on       Dickens and Ireland, broadcast on BBC Radio Ulster (39,000 listeners).
4.6 Employment training in arts management was provided for a       group of five students undertaking the `Modern Literary Studies' MA at       Queen's (S. Conlon, W. Howell, A. Hurle, M. Madders, and L. Scott), in       both the planning and delivery stages of the impact activities listed       above.
They acquired experience of fundraising in December 2011-February       2012 (pitching this festival to potential donors, through written       communication, telephone conversations, and personal interviews), as well       as event organisation and event delivery from January to December 2012       (visitor facilitation at the launch event, organising the David         Copperfield Read-a-Thon, and undertaking introductory talks for each       of the Dickens films shown during the festival).
The training was provided       by Litvack in partnership with Type AB Consultancy (a Belfast PR and       marketing firm).
Two of the beneficiaries of this training (Howell and       Conlon) have been successful in obtaining full-time work in arts       administration.
4.7 The impact with the potential for lifelong benefit was made       possible through formal links with the charity Barnardo's.
This       collaboration allowed Litvack to deliver special events in primary schools       involved in Barnardo's `Ready to Learn' literacy programme.
Using the       `hook' of Dickens's visits to Ireland, Litvack undertook reading projects       in six specifically targeted, underperforming schools.
The events       consisted of readings, music, and structured conversations with young       people about Dickens and Ireland, about books, and about Victorian culture       in general.
These events not only introduced Dickens to a new generation,       but also deepened contact with artistic endeavour, and built an atmosphere       of trust about learning and creativity, in areas deeply afflicted by       social exclusion, mental health issues, and family breakdown.
A report in       the Andersonstown News on 11 December 2012 gives a flavour of the       schools' response to the programme: Raymond Hunter, Principal of St       Aidan's School in Ballymurphy, said: `We were delighted to welcome Dr       Litvack to our school as part of our ongoing literacy programme.
Having an       expert in Victorian literature read some of Dickens' work and talk about       life 150 years ago was a fantastic experience which really brought it to       life for our pupils'.
Litvack will undertake follow-through visits to       these same target schools in November-December 2013, in order to maintain       these important links, re-emphasise Barnardo's aim to help the most       vulnerable young people transform their lives and achieve their potential,       and confirm the transformative power of the arts to deliver benefits to       communities which need it most.
