     4.1.
The research of the Seamus Heaney Centre benefits the cultural       economy of Northern Ireland through its impact on tourism strategy and by       enhancing the worldwide recognition of Northern Ireland's literature as an       exceptional cultural achievement.
Literary tourism contributes up to &#163;2.6       billion a year to the British economy, and Northern Ireland's Literary       Tourism Plan recognises `Belfast's literary heritage as `an important       dimension in marketing Belfast as an international destination'.
On the       basis that the `global literary renown' to which outputs in the period       have significantly contributed is an `imaginative export', Morrissey,       Flynn and Carson's research is extensively utilised in a range of literary       tourism products &#8212; in a Literary Belfast iPhone App (to which they       contribute video guides), as well as an associated website and       exhibitions, developed in collaboration with Belfast City Council Tourist       Development Office, Filmtrip, the BBC, Queen's University and Culture NI.
The App is one of several initiatives funded by Belfast City Council,       part-financed by the European Regional Development Fund and administered       by the NI Tourist Board.
As part of this development, Flynn and Morrissey       are featured on downloadable audio files, `Celebrate Literary Belfast' at       http://www.literarybelfast.org/     4.2.
The Centre runs a regular programme of readings and talks open to       the public, organised and introduced by the key researchers, thereby       delivering cultural policy outcomes in matching the government's aim to       improve quality of life through experiencing, participating in and       accessing the excellence of Northern Ireland's cultural assets.
It       provides an online archive of readings by key researchers and by visiting       writers available to the public.
The SHC website at http://www.qub.ac.uk/schools/SeamusHeaneyCentreforPoetry/       receives c. 2000 external hits per month.
It holds a week-long       poetry summer school each year, with both local and international       participation, for new writers.
The summer school is consistently       over-subscribed, testament to the reputations and impact of its staff, the       four key researchers; and the attendees affirm the influence of the       outputs by the poets in developing their own aesthetic, as well as to the       benefit of creative writing tuition.
Researchers run the long-standing       Belfast Writers' Group, first established in the early 1960s under the       auspices of Philip Hobsbaum and continued by Seamus Heaney, many of whose       participants have gone on to become successful authors in their own right.
An anthology of work by the writer's group, Incertus was published       in 2008, with a public reading recorded live for the BBC.
A documentary       for BBC Radio 4, `The New Group', examining the resurgence of writing from       Belfast, and particularly from Queen's, in the last decade, was broadcast       on 28 July 2012, affirming the continuing impact of a poetic `renaissance'       in Northern Ireland, to which the key researchers are central, on current       literary practice and production.
4.3.
The key researchers promote the understanding and practice of       creative writing outside the academy; they provide a cultural benefit to       the wider public, and the dissemination of the work through non-print       media contributes to a wider understanding of Northern Irish history,       culture and society.
Public readings of their work are given to audiences       of 500-1000 (for example the T.S.
Eliot poetry prize readings (audience       1000+); Edinburgh Festival readings (500), the Literary Belfast reading       (750) etc); poetry outputs have been broadcast on radio (including Women's       Hour, The Verb, The Today Programme, The Arts Show and Arts       Extra).
The publication and wide dissemination of significant       outputs in creative writing by the Centre's authors has also led to       involvement in promoting new writing through competitions, in judging the       UK National Poetry Competition, and in the Centre's awarding of its own       poetry prize annually to the best first poetry collection published in the       UK/Ireland.
The prize is sponsored by Glucksman Ireland House at NYU,       which offers the winner a platform for initiating or augmenting a       transatlantic audience.
The research has led to significant internship and       work experience opportunities.
The Arts Council of Northern Ireland funds       affiliates who are mentored by the Centre's staff, and give public       readings.
The critical and cultural interest in, and involvement with, the       underpinning research on the part of the editor of Irish Pages has       led to the establishment of internships on Irish Pages for       creative writing students, who obtain valuable publishing and editing       experience.
The Centre also publishes a journal of poetry, criticism and       reviews, The Yellow Nib, edited first by Carson and currently by       Flynn, which provides a platform for new as well as established writers,       and whose editors' profiles and experience have facilitated acquiring Arts       Council funding.
The journal also offers an internship and assistant       editorial position to a graduate student biennially.
4.4.
The research has also proved inspirational for other artists &#8212;       through translation, through generating new projects in different       media/genres (for example, visual art inspired by the work of all four key       researchers was a project undertaken by the Belfast Print Workshop gallery       owner and artists) and through acknowledged influence on form, style, and       content in other anglophone poetries.
Research outputs have been       translated into and published in Chinese, French, German, Hungarian,       Italian, Norwegian, Japanese, Portugese and Russian, thereby impacting on       cultural production internationally.
Morrissey is one of 15 poets whose       work was displayed alongside paintings in the National Gallery as a       showcasing of the arts in London 2012 timed to coincide with the Olympics.
Poetry and prose by Morrissey was used in the Land of Giants       spectacular, part of the 2012 Cultural Olympiad, the largest       outdoor event ever seen in Northern Ireland, involving a cast and crew of       over 500 people, performed to an audience of c.18,000 on Belfast's       Titanic slipway, and now online at www.landofgiants.info/.
Ciaran Carson's The Star Factory was realised as a musical       performance involving sound technicians, traditional musicians and the       poet, entitled Owenvarragh, a Belfast Circus on `The Star Factory',       in March 2012, using John Cage's score `'...Circus On...' to mark the       composer's 100th birthday (audience 150; repeat performances       include the Belfast Festival; York Festival of Ideas, and now on YouTube).
His Rimbaud translations, In the Light Of, inspired, and featured       in, a visuals, graphics and sound exhibition by a team of designers and       artists for the opening of a new Illuminations Gallery at NUI Maynooth in       September 2012.
4.5.
Poems published by researchers in the period have been used as an       educational resource by the British Council (in sub-saharan African       countries).
Outputs by Carson are set texts for study in schools &amp;       colleges nationally and internationally, and the subject of online study       guide resources &amp; discussion, as in, for example, the BBC's `GCSE       "Bitesize"' website.
Key researchers (Carson and Morrissey) are featured       in the `Poets' Chair' of Poetry Ireland, an invaluable, and free       educational resource for secondary level students studying for the Leaving       Certificate examinations in the Republic of Ireland.
The research of the       Centre is also an educational resource for the BBCNI `Get Writing'       programme.
Since writing from the Centre offers a unique test case of the       relationship between literature and politics in a society preoccupied by       questions of identity that the literature probes and complicates, its       reach beyond the educational sector into a broader contribution to       Northern Ireland's social and economic wellbeing is also evident.
Participation by the Centre's writers in EU funded `Peace III' programmes       evidences the significance of their work to peace and reconciliation       initiatives; Flynn has recorded for Radio 3 on the subject of Belfast, the       peace process, and poetry; and in Morrissey's appointment as Belfast's       laureate the Lord Mayor affirmed the need for the arts to `speak for the       future of Belfast'.
