     4.1 The impact of the research outputs described above is embodied by the       regular educational       and clinical outreach work undertaken by Simpson and Rahilly.
Initiated by       Simpson in 1994, this       activity, in Northern Ireland and beyond, has involved presentations on       English Language       Teaching to numerous Senior Educational Advisers, Education Board       delegations and Teachers'       Association meetings, with a number of these gatherings orientated towards       programmes on       literacy and language awareness.
Evidence of a development that follows       directly from this       outreach work is the Southern Education and Library Board's module `Making       the Most of       Language' which began on 2nd February 2010 at St Mary's High       School Newry and which involved       twenty two teachers from the primary and post-primary sector.
The Board's       module was informed       directly by the framework for levels of language and the model of grammar       set out in Simpson       (2004; strands 2 and 3 respectively).
It also employed the grammatical       tests for Irish English       developed in Simpson (2007), most notably Simpson's Hiberno-English       Emphatic Tag (HEET)       which can be used by speakers of Irish English as a method analysing the       grammatical structure of       a range of sentence types.
The former Senior Adviser to the Board       describes Simpson's       contribution as `inspirational' and it spurred the team to develop a       module to which `teachers and       schools responded very positively'.
More recently, in December 2012,       Simpson presented the       inaugural Queen's University Public Lecture.
Entitled `English Language:       Here, There and       Everywhere', this talk drew again on research in both Simpson (2004) and       (2007) and it focussed       on how patterns of linguistic variation in the local community might be       located in or traced across       English vernacular usage around the world.
The lecture was delivered to       271 non-academic       delegates from outside the University sector, making for a significant       community of interest.
4.2 This impact-bearing work has crystallised into a more direct       engagement with educational and       curricular authorities.
The most significant aspect of this developed in       the period from 2010 to the       present, in collaboration with Northern Ireland's Council for the       Curriculum, Examinations and       Assessment (CCEA).
With specific reference to GCSE provision in English       Language, Simpson       and Rahilly were asked by the former Officer with Subject Responsibility       to deliver materials both       to teachers and to the educational material database.
Through a series of       initial meetings, the       curriculum provision became bedded down and, for the first time, the new       GCSE English       Language materials were informed systematically by the key terms in       language and linguistics.
Moreover, with the Council's emphasis in this cycle on spoken, as opposed       to written language,       there was an opportunity to ground the materials more robustly in concepts       of language.
These       developments all came together in a major one-day symposium which was held       at Queen's       University Belfast on March 11th 2011 and which was hosted by       Rahilly and Simpson.
The first of       its kind, the event attracted a representative from every       secondary school in Northern Ireland that       runs GCSE English Language syllabus, such that the day as a whole drew two       hundred and forty       five teachers.
The presentations by the Queen's staff included an overview of the core       organising features       of spoken language alongside more targeted presentations on aspects of       Irish-English phonology       and grammar (such as those addressed in Rahilly 2003, 2010; Simpson 2007).
Naturally, all of       these research materials were delivered in such a way as to make them       accessible to this wider,       less-specialist audience.
Furthermore, within this broader       conceptualisation of spoken language,       CCEA chose as a specialist theme for the current cycle the idea of       `motivational' talk.
This linked       clearly to Simpson and Mayr (2009), and particularly the chapters of this       book that concentrate on       spoken discourse, political speeches and advertising discourse.
The new       Officer with Subject       Responsibility at CCEA has described this collaboration overall as       `exciting, interesting and       innovative'.
Since the successful one-day symposium in 2011, a number of       individual teachers       have sought guidance and advice from the researchers to enable them to       refine further their       language teaching techniques for the classroom.
4.3 This case study comprises a focussed series of schemes linking       published research to the       wider educational community in Northern Ireland and, as such, it is very       much a work in progress.
In this respect, a promising new form of impact has emerged from the       contacts and networks made       thus far.
The focus on linguistic impairments in childhood communication       has enabled Rahilly to       engage with clinicians and parents in the Belfast Barnardo's charity       Forward Steps (FS) for the       purpose of collecting and analysing data.
This data will be shared with       stakeholders in the autism       community for the purpose of ameliorating speech-based communication       problems.
In addition, the       link with FS has enabled Rahilly to establish volunteering opportunities       in the charity for       undergraduate and postgraduate students.
The Forward Steps charity has       commented positively       on the calibre of the Queen's students, and the manager, colleagues and       parent groups are keen       to participate further in this work.
Moreover, during the summer of 2012,       Rahilly worked with three       speech and language therapists on a programme of work that draws directly       on the research in       Rahilly (2010).
With a focus on different sorts of language disorder, the       work involved adapting       Rahilly's research findings into a clinical protocol for use in vowel       assessment.
Further to this, an       initial practice-based event, attended by fifty six of Northern Ireland's       speech and language       therapists, took place in the Belfast Trust in October 2012.
Rahilly's       model of vowel disorders has       subsequently been filtered into the Northern Ireland component of the       assessment protocol for the       Clinical Assessment of Vowels &#8212; English System ('CAV-ES').
