     4.1 Inside Northern Ireland     Inside Northern Ireland, Burnett (first as Board Member of the ESC and       then as Friend) and Wray have been active in exciting local discussion of       the issues raised by Mickey B through their research and       contributions to showings of the film at HMP Maghaberry (2007), festival       venues (2010) and community events (2012).
Some of these showings were       attended by prisoners and their families, and all of them included       discussion about memory, reconciliation and the prison system itself.
Feedback on these activities &#8212; `the showing made me think about prisoners       and the issues around rehabilitation more positively' wrote one attendee &#8212;       shows that screenings have been opportunities for self-reflection.
4.2 There have been economic benefits accruing from the popularization of       the film and the company.
An increase in sales of the DVD means that       income is ploughed back into the company, into charitable work and into       continuing Shakespearean projects with individual and communal benefit.
Useful here have been Burnett's links with filmmakers interviewed for the       Shakespeare and World Cinema book.
For example, using his research       as a vehicle for collaborative understanding, Burnett arranged for Mark       Tan, the Malaysian filmmaker, and Andibachtiar Yusuf, the Indonesian       filmmaker, to visit Belfast in 2010 and 2012 for showings of their film       adaptations of Othello and Romeo and Juliet (Jarum         Halus and Romeo Juliet) and to forge contacts with local       filmmakers, including those at the ESC.
Such international connections       have helped secure funding for the ESC's new film project, Prospero's         Prison, an adaptation of The Tempest.
Showcasing a       cross-community cast, the film prioritizes the social and political value       of reinterpreting Shakespeare, stressing, as it does, a local drama of       forgiveness.
Funding thus far includes the Probation Board of NI (2010-11,       &#163;10,000), the Seedbed Foundation (2010, &#163;5000), Gems / Kestril (2010,       &#163;6900) and Newtownabbey Borough Council (2011, &#163;1800).
4.3 International:     The research conducted has ensured that Mickey B (which did not       have an official distributor) has come to the attention of international       Shakespeare conferences and, subsequently, enjoyed an international       circulation.
Actively using the conclusions of his and Wray's research,       Burnett collaborated on successful applications to show the film at       multiple venues including the Shakespeare Association of America meeting       (Chicago, 2010) and the British Shakespeare Association meeting       (Lancaster, 2012).
Each showing featured a workshop chaired by       Burnett/Wray and involved an audience of between 100 and 150 students,       teachers, academics and creative practitioners.
The international impact       of these conference screenings has been considerable and has meant that Mickey         B has had a subsequent audience beyond the merely academic.
For       example, in the wake of the 2010 Chicago event, funding was secured for       showings of the film at a range of institutional, festival and community       settings, including Michigan State University (2010), Jerusalem (2010),       Seoul (2010), Guelph (2011), Florida (2011), Notre Dame (2103) and several       British universities (2011).
Conference showings, that is, proved a       stimulus to the film's reception in wider, non-academic sectors.
4.4 Following on from these screenings, Mickey B was released in       2012 in a DVD package, which is sold internationally, with French, German       and Portugese subtitles.
A concomitant development has seen the film       placed on courses at the universities of Exeter, London and Marymount,       allowing for fresh reflection on questions related to Shakespearean       representation and Northern Ireland.
The visibility of the film has been       enhanced by its being featured in the online Forum of the journal,       Shakespeare Quarterly, to which academics and creative       practitioners, including the film's director, have contributed, thereby       reinforcing its significance in generating public discussion.
A research       engagement with the ESC, then, is enabling the film to flourish and       Northern Ireland's most disadvantaged constituency to be better understood       in the international discourses of civil society.
4.5 Pedagogy: local and international     A product of the research impact is the establishment of a permanent       internship opportunity for a QUB MA student to work with the ESC.
The       first internship, which has been awarded to AHRC-funded MA student, Romano       Mullin, commenced in January 2013.
4.6 Pedagogical engagements with school children have been facilitated       via an education pack centred on Mickey B produced by the ESC in       collaboration with Burnett in 2011: repackaging his research, and funded       via the Arts Council, this accessible output is designed to engage young       people in creative learning through the contemporary context of prison       culture.
Burnett appears in interview in the package, was involved in       writing and devised marketing strategies.
Educational materials include a       script, storylines and sessions detailing practice-based workshops, and       encourage students to design their own versions of Shakespeare's classic       story.
The package meets the requirements of a number of curricula,       including drama, English and media studies, and the feedback that the ESC       has received from users is highly positive.
4.7 The need to develop alternative pedagogies around less familiar       Shakespeare films was recognized in the in the US when Burnett was invited       to teach on the National Endowment for the Humanities funded 2011 summer       institute for college and university teachers at the Folger Institute,       `From the Globe to the Global: Shakespearean Dislocations', which formed       part of an annual US educational and outreach programme.
The programme has       a public platform (part of the Institute's `Primary Sourcebooks for the       College Classroom') in the form of a website with accompanying video       commentaries.
Programmes such as the Folger summer institute are       indicators of impact in that they combine research-led teaching with a       significant knowledge transfer imperative.
This competitive initiative       attracted twenty college teachers of English who pursued a variety of       approaches to the topic over a six-week period.
