     Narrative       The principal impact results from the dissemination of McGarry's research       which challenges simplistic views of the past that reinforce divisive       conceptions of identity and contribute to the potential for conflict in a       divided society.
Further impacts have resulted from the knowledge-transfer       projects developed to disseminate this research.
Key beneficiaries       include: community, third-sector and cultural heritage organisations that       draw on McGarry's research for educational and commemorative initiatives;       the creative sector which has benefited from McGarry's research and       knowledge-transfer activities; and educators whose curriculum resources       have been designed or influenced by McGarry's research.
Examples of the       principal types of impact are outlined below:     A: Public discourse       McGarry's research has been extensively reviewed in the media, while over       7,500 copies of The Rising [1] and 4,500 copies of Rebels       [2] have been sold.
His research has been disseminated widely via       radio and television programmes, podcasts, and historical resources (such       as the BBC's history website).
His research is disseminated beyond       scholarly audiences: the T.L.S.
(25 Nov. 2011), for example,       reported that Rebels was a popular book among young army officers       serving in Helmand province.
Audience sampling demonstrates that The         Enigma of Frank Ryan [4] (which has been screened       internationally and will be broadcast on television in Ireland and abroad)       enhances public understanding of history.
For example, 57% of the       respondents surveyed at the Foyle Film Festival (22 November 2012)       answered positively when asked `Did watching this film change the way you       think about the history of Irish republicanism?
', while ninety per cent       judged the film to have contemporary significance.
B: Cultural life         The Enigma of Frank Ryan [4] was viewed by several thousand       people at film festivals in Dublin, Galway, Belfast, Foyle, Montreal,       Cairo, Denver and Minneapolis; community festivals including F&#233;ile an       Phobail, Europe's largest community festival); and other public events,       many of which have generated further press and public debate.
The Abbey Theatre, Ireland's national theatre, has commissioned leading       playwright Jimmy Murphy, to adapt Rebels: voices from the Easter         Rising [2] for the stage to commemorate the centenary       of the 1916 Rising.
This production will challenge popular assumptions       about the rebellion by drawing on primary-source testimony to dramatise       revolutionary voices in a theatrical setting.
McGarry's current AHRC project will contribute to the 2013       Derry-Londonderry City of Culture Festival programme by organising an       international conference on film and history in October.
C: Civil society       One example of McGarry's engagement with civil society to contribute to       processes of commemoration, memorialisation and reconciliation is his       participation in a two-day conference (organised by Trinity College       Dublin's Centre for War Studies and hosted by Monaco's Princess Grace       Library on 20-22 October 2011), which brought together ex-combatants from       the Northern Irish conflict, third sector organisations, and British and       Irish government officials to frame approaches to the challenges of       commemoration during the `decade of centenaries'.
The subsequent       publication Towards Commemoration [6], featuring       contributions by political representatives, community leaders, journalists       and academics) was described by former Irish president, Mary McAleese, as       an `important' and `extraordinary' contribution to political       reconciliation.
McGarry has participated in numerous commemorative initiatives, including       the Community Relations Council's `Remembering the Future' public lecture       series (880 YouTube views, Nov 2012-Jan. 2013) and many local government       initiatives.
As a member of its Review Body, he advises on the Ulster       Museum's `Connecting Histories' project to reshape its modern history       gallery to inform public understanding of the revolutionary period during       the `decade of centenaries'.
He is a founding member of the Universities       Ireland Historians' Committee which, supported by the ten Irish       universities (http://www.universitiesireland.ie/),       has initiated a sustained engagement between historians and civil society       organisations, educational groups and cultural heritage bodies to inform       commemoration of `the decade of centenaries'.
Its activities include the       establishment of third-level student scholarships, and an annual series of       conferences aimed at teachers, third-sector bodies and the public.
Over       300 politicians, civil servants, teachers, journalists and members of the       public attended the 2013 conference (addressed by McGarry) which was       opened by the President of Ireland.
As a result of the committee's       lobbying to enhance public access to archival records, the National       Archives (UK), Public Record Office Northern Ireland and National Archives       (Ireland) has initiated a collaboration to digitise, and make accessible       to the public, archival records relating to 1913-23.
D: Education       McGarry's current AHRC project will have a direct impact on post-primary       education by producing KS3 curriculum materials for Teaching Divided       Histories' innovative project which exploits digital media to educate       young people about conflict and peace-building.
A module on 1916, designed       by McGarry's project in collaboration with TDH, has been unveiled at TDH's       international conference.
McGarry contributes to other educational       resources such as The Historical Association's Modern Ireland podcast       series which had registered 3,500 downloads (mainly secondary students,       teachers and the general public) by March 2013.
E: Influencing creative practice       In addition to publishing a model of good practice to guide collaboration       between historians and film-makers [5], McGarry's AHRC projects       have demonstrated how KTPs can promote collaboration between academics and       private sector media companies to develop documentaries.
Angela Graham       (Green Bay Productions, Wales), has described our project as an example of       `historians taking the initiative towards the medium' and a pioneering       model of the potential of KTPs to build links between academia and the       creative industries.
