     Hobart's work on scales has impacted internationally on MS trial based       research.
As a result of the MS walking scale (MSWS-12) research,       developed by Hobart, a new diagnostic technology has been developed.
This       has subsequently been translated throughout the world and has undergone       adaptation and validation.
The scales have been translated into over 60       different languages including French, Dutch, Russian and Spanish and       evaluated for cross country validation.
The MSWS-12 questionnaire has been       used around 9,200+ times and the longer MSIS-29 questionnaire has been       used around 30,000+ times (http:www.//clinictrials.gov).
Since 2007, Plymouth University's trading company, UoPEL has received       &#163;437,000 of license income for sales of measurement scales developed by       Hobart and targeted specifically at patients with Multiple Sclerosis (MS)       and Parkinson's disease.
The University has received &#163;135,000 of this in       the current financial year (2012/13) and is projecting a total income this       year of c&#163;200k (a further &#163;65,000).
This income is based on a range of 6       Scales developed by Hobart, derived via licenses established with Plymouth       University, University College London and the Plymouth Hospitals NHS       Trust.
Commercial organisations such as Biogen Idec, TEVA Pharma,       Novartis, Ipsen and Merck continue to demand the use of the Scales in the       development and trialling of treatments for MS.
The scales have been used widely in MS clinical trials.
For example, the       scale was used in two phase 3 clinical trials with the resulting data       demonstrating that the treatment effect was clinically significant for       people with MS leading to Fampridine being granted a conditional licence       by the European Medicines Agency (EMA) for MS. Fampridine is licensed to       improve walking ability for patients with MS. Hobart was asked to provide       evidence (2009) from this research that the treatment effect was       clinically significant at both the US and European regulatory deliberates       (FDA, EMA 2009).
This body of research has also recently influenced the decisions of the       United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA) in introducing new       regulatory guidelines and stimulated debate about the appropriateness of a       wide range of existing clinical outcome measures for a range of       conditions.
These guidelines (2013) advise pharmaceutical companies       conducting trials on the outcome measures and approaches that FDA will       give credence to in terms of deciding on the labelling of drugs.
As stated by Laurie Burke, Associate Director for Study Endpoints and       Labeling, Office of New Drugs, Center for Drug Evaluation and Research,       Food and Drug Administration, "Jeremy Hobart and Stefan Cano have had a       substantial impact at FDA.
They have helped to make a complex science that       is fundamental to our work, accessible to us, and advance our       understanding and abilities to a higher level.
This has enabled us to       appraise better the work we review such that our evaluations are as       accurate as we can make them, and our advice to industry is maximized.
...
They have also helped us to develop and ground our thinking in terms of       producing guidance to industry in the production of clinical outcomes       assessment instruments (patient, clinician, and observer-reported outcome       measurement instruments) for use in clinical trials.
These documents are       very influential because they provide industry with roadmaps, guiding the       efficient modification and scientific upgrading of existing instruments,       and guiding development of the next generation of clinical outcomes       assessment instruments to assess interventions for patients."
The cannabinoids studies led by Zajicek have had clear impact on health       and welfare through the provision of clinical trial evidence.
The results       have contributed to an overall understanding of clinical cannabinoid use,       and contributed to the weight of evidence for symptomatic and potential       neuroprotective action.
A drug company is in the process of applying for       licensing of the cannabis extract used in CAMS and MUSEC studies, and       looking for larger pharmaceutical partners.
Two patents have been granted       on the basis of this work.
The clinical trials have been the largest and longest studies of clinical       cannabinoid exposure, and the original CAMS study now has over 450       citations (~1 per week).
These studies have received considerable media       coverage including the BBC, ITV News, New York Daily News, Nature,       Guardian.
This is beyond the normal coverage for clinical trials, and the       results have been presented at major international MS meetings (most       recently in 2012 at 28th Congress of European Committee for       Treatment and Research in MS, ECTRIMS, in Lyon, France: http://ectrims2012.eventresult.com/),       as well as national and local patient meetings.
They have been summarised       on the MS Society website and are used as providing evidence on the search       for therapy in the disease's secondary progressive stage, when patients       have few treatment options.
The results have demonstrated clearly the       difficulties of both conducting long-term clinical trials and       neurodegenerative disorders, but also the problems of side-effects often       leading to non-compliance.
In addition these studies have provided more       data on the long term risks with cannabinoids which has global importance       for drug legislators.
