     In 2013 Archard was re-appointed after 7 years' service as one of twelve       members of the       Authority and as its sole philosopher.
In 2013 the Government reversed its       decision to abolish the       Authority in acknowledgement of its importance in shaping policy and       practice at a national level.
The HFEA's example of regulation and licensing has been hugely influential       on other regulators of       fertility treatment and embryo research throughout the world.
Archard's role on the Authority is three-fold, and in all three aspects       his expertise as a       moral philosopher is critical.
First, he provides ethical oversight of all of its policy and regulatory       decisions.
He thereby       influences professional standards and behaviour within the fertility       sector, and provides expert       guidance to Government.
Ensuring that the Authority acts in an ethically       appropriate manner       retains public confidence in its key regulatory role and Government       contentment with delegation       of that role to an independent body.
The Chief Executive of the HFEA       comments that `his voice is       listened to with great respect and he is one of the Authority's most       influential members'.
Archard has been prominent in discussion of every major HFEA issue over       the last seven years,       thereby influencing critical debates in public policy.
This has included the appropriateness of making payments to gamete       donors, where his `lone'       dissenting voice was reported in the national press       (http://www.telegraph.co.uk/health/healthnews/8836470/Egg-donors-to-receive-750-flat-fee.html         ),       and the debate on the licensing of the treatment of mitochondrial       conditions, a new and morally       controversial procedure.
Archard made critical changes to the final       consultation document       submitted to the Government.
As a result of the decision taken in March       2013 by the Authority the       door is now open to the United Kingdom being the first and perhaps only       government to allow       research into such treatment.
(http://www.huffingtonpost.co.uk/2013/03/20/three-parents_n_2917206.html)     Second, Archard has brought the insights of moral philosophy into direct       relation with all those       stake-holders affected by the general decision-making of the Authority,       thereby contributing to       widening public access to and participation in the political process.
Thus       he has convened and       chaired workshops on the ethical aspects of key Authority policy, such as       that on the morality       of gamete donation (http://www.bica.net/external-event/ethical-issues-gamete-and-embryo-donation)       and contributed to workshops with clinics on PGD.
Third, Archard has performed a particular licensing role.
In 2013 the       HEFA delegated the       authorisation of pre-implantation genetic diagnosis, of the export and       import licences for       gametes, and of the use of any novel or controversial processes in       fertility treatment to a small       Statutory Approvals Committee, chaired and guided by Archard, meeting       monthly.
The Committee is legally authorised to license the testing of embryos to       detect genetic conditions       by means of Pre-Implantation Genetic Diagnosis (PGD).
The statutory test       that must be met       before a licence can be approved is that the embryos being tested are at       `significant risk' of       inheriting `serious genetic conditions'.
The Human Fertilisation and       Embryology Act (1990) does       not specify what is `significant' or `serious'.
Understanding,       interpreting and applying this test is       down to the Committee Archard directs, which is in effect an expert panel       determining official       policy in this area on behalf of the Government.
Archard ensures that decisions are fair, proportionate, protect the best       interests of all children, are       morally and legally permitted, and are the best possible within the       context of non-ideal decision-making.
This work has been directly informed by his own research on the ethics of       procreation,       the best interests of children, and the appropriate role of ethical theory       in collective decision-making.
Well over a hundred such genetic conditions &#8212; including Alzheimer's, Beta       Thalassemia,       Huntington Chorea, Muscular Dystrophy, and Sickle Cell Anaemia &#8212; have now       been licensed and       around five new conditions are submitted for license approval monthly.
The impact of this work has been on thousands of prospective carrier or       affected parents who have       been able to avoid the transmission of serious genetic conditions to their       children, and on all those       children born without the conditions in question.
It has also determined       the scope of the lawful work       that may be done by fertility clinics licensed in the United Kingdom to       perform PGD.
It has impacted       upon the work of the Government thereby able to delegate decision-making       to the Authority, and       upon a general public that can retain its confidence in the proper       regulation of the uses of biomedical       developments.
The Chief Executive of the HFEA reports, `that we have not       been challenged [in the       courts] to date is testimony to the quality of decision-making and the       skills of Professor Archard as       Chair.'
