     The need for high-quality citizenship education in Northern Ireland is       made all-the-more acute by       the recent history of violence, sectarianism and alienation from the       political process.
As part of the       broader challenge of the peace process, it is clearly important to ensure       that young people have       the skills and knowledge needed to play a constructive part in civil       society.
The work of Archard       and Watkins is therefore of particular benefit because it provides a model       of citizenship education       that is specially suited to the needs of post-conflict societies.
Through       its application in schools       across Northern Ireland, it has helped hundreds of children to develop       their skills in listening,       reasoning and constructive dialogue and to acquire a better understanding       of issues surrounding       democracy, rights and dealing with the past.
The roots of this impact go back to Watkins' research on responsibility       and punishment.
In 2010       and 2011, Watkins gave a series of talks on this research to Northern       Irish schools.
Following on       from the success of these talks together with his growing interest in the       philosophy for children       (`p4c') movement, he was inspired to develop a suite of learning resources       that harnessed together       his own research on citizenship issues with the collaborative,       enquiry-based pedagogy that is       characteristic of p4c.
The resulting `Philosophy for Citizenship' course has since been enriched       by the addition of extra       learning resources based on Archard's research.
In its current form, it       has been delivered in       person by members of the Queen's Philosophy Unit to approximately 360       children across 12       classes in 5 schools.
To extend its reach further, it has also been the       subject of three specially-devised       teacher training courses which have been attended by 51 representatives       from both       primary and secondary schools across Northern Ireland and the Republic of       Ireland.
As a result of these activities, Archard and Watkins' research has       delivered various important       benefits.
First and foremost, it has helped those children who've attended       the course to develop       their intellectual and interpersonal skills and to come to a better       understanding of citizenship issues       in post-conflict societies.
Paul Carswell, Principal of St Bride's Primary       School, Belfast, explains:     `We have run the Philosophy for Citizenship course for the past two years       in six of our P7       classes (approximately 180 children).
The course has been of tremendous       value to the       children.
It has been extremely valuable in developing thinking, listening       and interpersonal       skills.
One activity which generated a lot of discussion was when children       were given a       statement `Who would you forgive?'
and had to justify their responses and       reach agreement as       a group.
These kind of moral dilemma activities add real value to the       curriculum.'
In a similar vein, Elizabeth Smith, Headmistress of Sullivan Upper School       Prep Department,       Holywood, comments:     `We have hosted the Philosophy for Citizenship course for the past two       years.
Archard and       Watkins' work has given the children an important insight into       philosophical issues surrounding       citizenship.
Aside from developing their understanding of questions       concerning fairness,       responsibility and dealing with the past, it has also had an impact on       their ability to work       together, negotiate and reason.'
Secondly, the research has had an impact on the classroom practice of       those teachers who've       attended one of the training courses.
Of the 15 teachers surveyed       following the most recent       course in June, 2013, everyone agreed that it would make a positive       difference to their subsequent       teaching.
Ciara Lynch, a primary school teacher from St. Seachnall's       National School, Co. Meath,       remarks: `The training course was excellent.
The teaching resource pack       was very helpful.
I am       trying to use all of these materials in my teaching'.
Sarah Wright, a       teacher at Victoria Prep       School, Belfast, writes: `The Philosophy for Citizenship course has not       only improved my class's       listening and communication skills, but it has also inspired me to use       some of the course materials       and ideas elsewhere in my teaching &#8212; for example, as part of drama       lessons.'
Thirdly, it has had an impact on broader curriculum design.
Although       obtaining top-down support       for a new subject is an extremely slow process, the work has already       attracted the attention of the       Northern Ireland Council for Curriculum, Examinations and Assessment       (CCEA).
Alan McMurray,       Education Manager at the CCEA comments: `lt is worth considering how the       Philosophy for       Citizenship initiative can be further developed as part of the NI       citizenship curriculum'.
At the       grassroots level, too, a number of teachers have been motivated to press       for philosophy within       their schools.
Vera McClenaghan, a teacher at Hazelwood Integrated Primary       School,       Newtownabbey, writes that, `as a result of the training course, I am       trying to build philosophy into       my timetable on a weekly basis', and Paul Taggart, a politics teacher at       Sacred Heart Grammar       School, Newry, comments that `due to Archard and Watkins' work, I am       pressing my senior       colleagues to include philosophy as part of our "Learning for Life and       Work" programme'.
