     This case study focuses on children as creative users and content       designers, while       simultaneously creating opportunities for collaboration between       researchers and young       children.
It places emphasis on empowering young listeners to lead projects       informed by current       research in the sonic arts.
The meeting place between researchers and       children acts as a       way of publicly articulating the exchange between children in Northern       Ireland as content       designers and local sonic art researchers.
About     "Big Ears" was designed as a public engagement training programme, funded       by the AHRC       between 2011 - 12 and by the HEA in 2013.
Tailored to children and       doctoral students with       a sonic arts background it has benefitted over 40 researchers from ca.
20 different UK HE       institutions since its inception.
"Big Ears" has delivered training in communication skills, public       engagement and offered       hands-on experiences for researchers in communicating their work to a       non-specialist       audience.
The training has received input from several Queen's University       departments that       specialise in public engagement and in work with children, such as the       School of Education,       the School of Sociology, Social Policy and Social Work and the Science       Shop.
SARC       researchers have contributed expertise in the area of ubiquitous mobile       and gaming       technologies, sensor technologies, instrument design, composition and       performance       practice.
The focus of "Big Ears" is to provide innovative training in public       engagement for researchers       while creating vital links between the University and local creative       industry partner, the Belfast       Children's Festival (run by Northern Ireland's leading children's arts       organisation Young at Art,       www.youngatart.co.uk).
This partner has       invaluable experience in public engagement and in       working with children.
Young at Art contribute extensive expertise in       running programmes       designed with and for children and they have a major network for the       distribution of their works       (website, publicity, social networking sites), attracting over 15,000       visitors each year.
Furthermore, "Big Ears" delivers stimulating ways of teaching       communication skills; it offers       skills in designing, managing and planning a project involving children;       it provides hands-on       experience in working and designing with a non-specialist public.
Big Ears Impact Example     Exemplary of Big Ears' impact, which was informed and underpinned by the       research       outlined above, was a collaborative network environment for musical       performance.
In this work, the notion of `haptic aurality' informed the design of a       network instrument that       allowed for children to engage in different forms of listening across two       distinct spaces.
Strategies for the development of participatory engagement in music making       focused       on children developing specific graphic scores for this instrument, while       articulating       musical form.
This work was presented in a performative context, which allowed children       to think       about ways of collaborating across these two spaces while reflecting on       how best to       present the distributed collaborative work to an audience.
As a result       there is       evidence from the feedback that this has significantly impacted upon the       increased       self-confidence of the children involved &#8212; a feeling which is       transferrable beyond this       setting and which can have positive effects on young children.
User Groups     "Big Ears" has impacted on three different user groups:     - local children, and since Big Ears' inception, the programme has       benefitted over 90       children     - local industry partner "Young at Art" has seen a benefit to over 20       members of their       staff who have been involved in running "Big Ears".
- UK researchers, around 40 researchers from across different UK HEI have       gained       access to the public engagement training     Quotes by ethnographer Si&#250;n Carden (2011):     "Big Ears enhanced the University's contribution to the         educational, cultural and social life of Northern Ireland by         providing local children with a unique cultural experience that         was both educational and inspiring."
Children's post-show comments (evaluated by `Young at Art' and an       independent       ethnographer)     2011:     From over 100 notes gathered, the most popular comment was `fun' (30       notes), followed by       comments to do with sound (21), such as `MUSIC!
', `Sonic Arts Sonic BOOM!'
and `SILENT       shhhhhhh'.
There were many (19) enthusiastic comments, like `MAGIC',       `Exciting!'
`Fantastic'       and `Fabulous'.
Notes (16) about the activities included `tecy' (techy),       and `instro-Mental',       `Taming Dragons', and `Evil Gloop', `Crazy, mad, mental, fun, exciting,       apprehensive, bit       scary'.
One child wrote `This place is fandaby dosy'.
2012:     When asked `What was your experience like?
Children comments included     "Great; Superb; Cool; Great Fun; Great, amazing; Tremendous, fantastic;       Really good".
Please consult the ethnographic report, which includes ca.
20       pages of evaluation and       related materials.
2013:     Ethnographer's comments about the children engaged in the 2013 event:       "The change in self-confidence       and stage presence became apparent..."     "The sonic art pieces ... were based on story-lines and themes developed       by the children,       featuring dragons, zombies, dinosaurs, car-shootings, far-away planets,       princesses..."     "Sound was complemented by light, fused with poems and narratives,       illustrated by       drawings, and flavoured with a dance performance".
"It was impressive to see how much creativity can be set free in just one       day if children       are encouraged to follow their imagination and trust their abilities"     Children's comments included       "It is epic"; "This is amazing"; "This was brilliant" and "Really cool".
