     The impact of the research will be described in relation to participating       individuals       (intergenerational local communities in Sounds of the City), the public       visiting the exhibition       (over 60 000 during five months) and initiatives which will translate the       project's methodologies       and approaches to further exhibitions in different regions (Sounds of the       City in Brasilia and       Sounds of the City : Rio which will be taking place in 2014 with local       favela communities and in       collaboration with the Universidade Federal do Rio de Janeiro).
Beneficial impact for participating communities is focused on       raising awareness of sound in everyday life and hence       enriching cultural life.
Connecting younger and older       individuals from opposite ends of the sectarian divide in       Northern Ireland in a collaborative project focusing on       Belfast as a city makes a contribution to reconciliation       through the sharing of experiences.
The project also impacts       on the preservation of cultural heritage through sound and       presents it publically in a professional art context.
This impact was achieved by developing exhibition materials       through workshops, interviews and field-recording sessions       with community members.
Workshops acted as a basis from       which to inform each group about the project's aims, methods       of listening, methods of documenting sound and the other topics relating       to soundscape studies       and acoustic ecology.
They also provided a central point for allowing       participants to organize       outside activities and share materials for the exhibition.
Participants       gained listening skills as well       as a vocabulary for describing listening experiences.
The younger group of       participants benefited       from the acquisition of practical skills in sound recording and editing.
Written questionnaires completed by fifteen participants at the end of       the Belfast project       revealed that 93.33% felt that the project had increased their awareness       of sound.
When       asked to rate the extent of their awareness of sound in everyday life       post-`Sounds of the City'       on a scale of 1-5 (5 representing maximum awareness 1 being minimum), the       survey       averaged at 3.733.
The overwhelming use of positive language and       willingness to not only       engage but also to suggest a wide range of possible activities to take       place in the future,       point towards a positive experience of the project.
The exhibition in Brasilia benefited from widespread media presence,       including national TV       (Rede Globo) and was able to articulate further impact through, for       example, the visit by an       education centre for the visually impaired on 14th March 2013.
This group       was able to       reflect on the experience of sound and place and expressed how the       exhibition acted as a       trigger for their own experiences: "I was able to identify the sounds that       I heard.
They       reminded me of when I was a child in Minas Gerais and went to the       waterfalls" (Izabel       Gonalves Costa, 45 years old, blind), "Through sound we know where we       are", "I compared       the sound of city centres with remote places.
I suggest you make some       recordings in S&#227;o       Paulo.
I used to live there and there is a great contrast between the       centre and the       periphery from this point of view."
(Fernando Rodrigues, 36, blind from 6       years old).
From the point of view of internationalisation, the exhibition in Brasilia       performed a role in       terms of showcasing Belfast through the sonic arts (a relatively unknown       artform in Brazil)       from the perspective of local individual listening experience.
The       international recognition of       the city of Belfast and its association with ground breaking sonic arts       practice is referred to in       speeches and letters by the First Minister, Deputy First Minister and       British Ambassador.
"When we look at our history we're having to look at postcards and old       photographs but this       tremendous initiative [...] to put this exhibition together where we have       sightseeing by sound       if I can put it that way to experience Belfast."
(First Minister, Peter       Robinson)     "Going through the exhibition and seeing places that are familiar, sounds       that are familiar is a       very extraordinary experience."
(Deputy First Minister, Martin McGuiness)     Wider impacts of the project include:     - innovative creative practice showcasing local everyday experiences in a       high       profile museum environment     - stimuli for positively engaging with the city through participation in       the ongoing       Belfast Sound Map project, now the focus of an AHRC Cultural Engagement       Grant       in       partnership with the Belfast City Council (Belfast Soundwalks)     - contribution to the international recognition of the city of Belfast       through the exhibition       in       Brasilia and related media coverage     The development of workshop methodologies which will be transferred to       other cultural contexts &#8212; Sounds of the City: Rio Mar&#233; 2014, at the Mar&#233;       Favela and in partnership with the Universidade Federal do Rio de Janeiro.
