     The Family Planning and Reproductive Health Indicators Database funded by       US Agency for International Development (USAID) has thermal care as one of       the five best practices for all newborns.
Since the highest period of risk       for neonatal deaths is within the first 24 hours, the thermal care       strategies detailed in our review are key to improving new born health and       survival and can be used effectively at home deliveries, as well as at       health care facilities.
The results in this review showed that hypothermia       could be prevented by the use of special plastic wraps or bags, plastic       caps, heated mattresses and skin-to-skin contact in the delivery room just       after birth.
As many of these interventions are low cost the       review findings has been strongly recommended for implementation in         practice in Low and Middle Income Countries and are directly       related to achieving the United nations' Millennium Development Goal #4 to       reduce infant and child mortality(1).
The review was the basis of a strong recommendation for the use of low       cost thermal interventions for the essential care of premature babies       (2) and its reach has been demonstrated through its use as the foundation       of numerous clinical practice guidelines worldwide since its first       publication in 2005.
Examples are provided below from the UK (3), Europe       (4), North America (5), South America (6) and Australia (7).
Its       widespread use in practice guidelines is reflected in the review being       among the top 10 most accessed reviews in the Neonatal Group having been       accessed 1,558 times in 2009 through the Cochrane Library alone.
Ongoing       access data suggested that it also remained in the top 10 in 2010.
The       significance of our review in this area is reflected not only in being widely         accessed by a range of users through the Cochrane Library, but also       by the many translations that are now available through WHO and       Minds Medical Information Services.
It has also been made available       through the National Institute for Health website (NIH) and the World       Health Organisation (WHO) library       (http://www.nichd.nih.gov/cochrane_data/mccalle_01/mccalle_01.html;       http://apps.who.int/rhl/newborn/reviews/cd004210/en/index.html).
Reviews and commentaries have also highlighted the importance of the       review in terms of reach.
As simple cost-effective interventions these       have been highlighted by WHO and a recent review article (8) as being able       to impact in both developing countries and crisis settings.
The       review has been documented as the evidence source in a RTI International       technology summary on infant warmers (9).
RTI International are supported       by the Bill and Belinda Gates Foundation to provide information on       technologies to save lives in low-resource setting.
It has also been cited       as the evidence source in the development of a low cost innovation       which is a sleeping bag with a pouch for a hot water bottle that can be       used in rural and low resource settings for low birthweight babies (10).
Based on the findings of the review, the Reproductive Health Library on       the WHO website also provides a commentary by Wariki WMV and Mori R recommending         implementation of 'community-based hypothermia prevention approaches       involving behaviour change and home visits'.
The commentary also       recommends that `an integrated package of preventive and curative newborn       care and social networks that target multiple levels of community       stakeholders should be developed and utilized'.
http://apps.who.int/rhl/newborn/cd004210_Warikiwmv_com/en/index.html.
The review was also cited as evidence in a case review which highlighted       the additional benefits of plastic wraps in the case of a 24-week       infant who was placed in a plastic wrap and experienced a cord bleed soon       after birth.
The rapidness of the problem indicated an additional       advantage of the application of plastic wraps (reported by Smith and       Usher, Journal of Neonatal Nursing 2013).
The use of these wraps not only       offer increased observation of the infant but also offers the opportunity       for family contact with the vulnerable infant prior to transfer to NICU.
