     This relatively recent programme of research is already impacting on the       delivery of care to women       with diabetes.
The preconception counselling resource, launched in 2010,       is the UK's first widely       distributed multimedia preconception counselling resource to be made       available to women with       diabetes and their healthcare teams.
Ultimately, it is aimed at preventing       unplanned pregnancy and       preparing women with diabetes for pregnancy.
All diabetes care teams at 15       hospitals within the       five local Health and Social Care Trustsi and a substantial       number of GP practices adopted the       resource with some 5,000 DVDs distributed to women with diabetes of       childbearing age in       Northern Ireland.
Consequently, the resource is now embedded in routine       care throughout the       region and is widely used as a preconception counselling tool.
This       programme of work has been       awarded a prestigious UK Diabetes Quality in Care 2013 Award for `Best       Improvement Programme       for Pregnancy and Maternity'.
Early evaluation of the DVD's integration into routine care suggests a       significant improvement in       pregnancy planning.
Between June 2011 and June 2012, 64% of all women with       diabetes in       Northern Ireland who attended for antenatal care had received the DVD       prior to pregnancy with       70% viewing it in preparation for pregnancy.
Of those women who viewed the       DVD, 36%       subsequently contacted their diabetes care team for specialised       pre-pregnancy care (PPC), 32%       made lifestyle changes and 25% were already attending for PPC.
Only 7% did       not seek advice or       make lifestyle changes.
In 2007 the CEMACH report highlighted that two       thirds of women received       suboptimal care.
Early interim results suggest that the DVD has had an       impact on pregnancy       planning indicators: 76% of women reported that they received PPC.
Findings also suggest a 50%       increase in the number of women taking folic acid 5mg pre-pregnancy.
Final       results will be       available in 2014 and will establish the full impact of the DVD on       pregnancy planning indicators       and on maternal and neonatal outcomes in women delivering in Northern       Ireland.
Assuming the       resource increases the number of women attending for PPC, it is likely       there will be cost benefits       for the health service.
While no relevant UK statistics are available, an       American study suggests       net savings of $34,000 dollars for each patient receiving PPC.
Conversion of the DVD to website delivery format in March 2012 ensures       sustainability beyond the       underpinning research project and seeks to maximise the beneficial impact       of this work beyond       Northern Ireland: 1003 website hits in the first year, including hits from       11 different countries:       http://go.qub.ac.uk/womenwithdiabetes.
The resource is available via the Primary Care Intranet to       all GPs in Northern Ireland; resource links have been disseminated via the       Diabetes in General       practice group to 140 GPs with an interest in Diabetes in the Republic of       Ireland.i Leading diabetes       services sitesii host a link to the website; Diabetes UK; NHS       Diabetes Innovations Hub and Insulin       Dependent Diabetes Trust.
Reach has been further extended through use as       an educational       resource in five cross-border PPC clinics operated on the island of       Ireland.i Holmes and Alderdice       have secured funding from the Public Health Agency, HSC R&amp;D division,       2013 Knowledge       Transfer Scheme to further maximise impact of the resource among women       with diabetes and       among healthcare professionals.
The resource is utilised as a learning tool for healthcare professionals,       with an e-learning version       integrated into the Midwifery education curriculum in Northern Ireland       http://www.qub.ac.uk/elearning/public/Diabetes/,       and has been the focus of several conference       presentations: 'Innovations in Preconception care' workshop, National       Diabetes in Pregnancy       Conference, 2013; Keynote Lecture, National Association of Women       Pharmacists Annual       Conference 2013; Education award nominee (runner up), Diabetes UK Annual       Professional       Conference 2011, where researchers demonstrated the DVD's effectiveness in       increasing       women's knowledge and in enhancing their beliefs and attitudes to       preventing an unplanned       pregnancy and seeking PPC.
In other impacts, DAPIT has added to the evidence generated from 9       international trials to firmly       establish that supplementation with vitamins C and E does not prevent       pre-eclampsia,iii with the       impact of redirecting research and resources to other lines of       investigation and treatment.
Holmes       and Alderdice have received funding from the International Diabetes       Federation to develop and       evaluate a resource for women with gestational diabetes, reflecting the       team's standing as leading       experts in the development of effective educational resources in this       field.
Furthermore, and most importantly, the innovative PPC resource has       received positive feedback       from the target audience with many women expressing a wish that the       resource had been       previously available.iv     `Why didn't I have this for my 1st pregnancy....         it would have helped me so much.'
Woman A1
