     The underpinning research has generated impact in two main spheres:       religious practice and third-sector awareness and policy.
Impact has been enhanced by the UoA's commitment to dialogical methods in       fieldwork and its policy of hosting conferences with contributions by       research users alongside scholars.
(Papers from ASANAS and other       scholarship on the field made freely available through Journal of         Alternative Spiritualities and New Age Studies (2005-11) ).
Religious practice     Impact is particularly evidenced by the adoption and re-articulation of       terms and knowledge drawn from Bowman and Harvey's outputs and public       engagements.
During her long-term research in Glastonbury, Bowman has given public       lectures to a cross-section of townspeople, and participated in symposia       exploring the relationship between academics and the town.
She has had       on-going engagement with a range of practitioners, e.g.
Christians,       Goddess devotees, non-aligned Pagans and spiritual seekers, and people       involved in the `pilgrim economy'.
Their access to her writing, and in       some cases their participation in films for the Unit's undergraduate       modules, have impacted on practitioner self-awareness and       self-presentation, and their contextual awareness of broader spiritual       trends.
People involved in Glastonbury's `spiritual' or `pilgrim economy'       have used her work to counter the more cynical critiques of such activity,       articulating their business in terms of `calling', bringing spiritual       values to the marketplace, and increasingly reflecting such insights in       their websites and discourse.
Bowman's work has also focused on contemporary Celtic spirituality.
Her       term `cardiac Celts', for those whose Celtic self-identity results from       `elective affinity', has been adopted by practitioners, including the       Cyberwitch website, which cites Bowman's `brilliant essay on the topic' (http://www.cyberwitch.com/wychwood/library/WhenIsACeltNotACelt.htm).
Harvey is regularly invited to talk at Pagan venues and events, e.g.
an       annual talk at the Milton Keynes Pagan moot and at the Rainbow Future's       Druid Camp.
Interviews on Paganism or animism have been posted on websites       and YouTube, e.g.
by Keltoiradio (Italy) and the Earth Medicine Alliance       (USA).
Reception of Harvey's research among religious practitioners has inspired       increased confidence and even the adoption of ways of defining, speaking       about and experimenting with animism.
The Earth Medicine Alliance (USA)       website (http://earthmedicine.org/voicesoftheearth)       notes that `Animism: Respecting the Living World helped inspire the       founding of the Earth Medicine Alliance'.
The Bioregional Animism website       (Germany) (www.bioregionalanimism.com)       comments, `We quote you for a damn good reason!
Why reinvent the wheel!'
Their definition of animism as focused on inter-species relationality       rather than as `belief in spirits' demonstrates the impact of Harvey's       argument.
Similarly, the founders of the UK's Midwinter Bear Feast (a core       event for a self-identified `animistic spirituality group') emailed Harvey       to say that, `This now established religious Rite was inspired in a large       part by your research and writings', and that `We always refer to your       work when explaining the origins of the Midwinter Bear Feast'.
This is       corroborated in their website (www.ancientmusic.co.uk/bear_tribe/about.html).
Third-sector awareness and policy     Among alternative and mainstream business people in Glastonbury, Bowman's       `spiritual economy' work is recognised as having provoked more nuanced       academic and popular understanding of spirituality as a positive economic       force.
Having addressed the Glastonbury Chamber of Commerce, she has been       thanked for helping to raise awareness among local councillors of       Glastonbury's international importance as a pilgrimage site, something       that had not previously been fully acknowledged.
This will influence how       the town promotes itself in future, both in terms of conventional and       spiritual tourism.
Her work, like     Harvey's, has promoted broader understanding of changes in religious       expression and new forms of interpreting, presenting and interacting with       cultural heritage.
Harvey's research played a key role in the Druid       Network's 2009 application for UK charitable status, a striking example of       how work of this kind has informed and influenced practice among       policy-makers.
Following the Charity Commission's rejection of an earlier       case, the Druid Network approached Harvey for a supporting statement on       the grounds of the high value placed on his work by Pagan movements.
Harvey's statement is cited by the Charity Commissioners (www.charitycommission.gov.uk/media/92221/druiddec.pdf)       both for what it says about Druidry and Paganism, and also for its comment       on the inherent diversity of all lived religions (further illustrating the       UoA's importance in foregrounding vernacular practice).
The Druid       Network's website       (druidnetwork.org/about-the-druid-network/charitable-status) includes an       acknowledgement by the chair of the charity's trustees that `Harvey's       report went a long way in helping' resolve the Charity Commissioners'       concerns about `cogency, coherence, seriousness and importance'.
In addition to the Druid Network being awarded charity status, impact       also includes a 2012 request by a Plymouth Brethren Christian Church group       for advice and supporting statements to aid in their ongoing application       for charity status.
