 The 2001 riots in Bradford, Oldham and Burnley placed ethnic segregation and neighbourhood cohesion at the top of the domestic policy agenda.
In response, the Labour Government commissioned the Cantle Report (2001), established an independent Commission for Integration and Cohesion (reporting in 2007), and asked Lord Goldsmith to review British citizenship (reporting in 2008).
Within this context, Laurence and Heath's report [R4] was recognized to be the most important piece of research underpinning the Government's policy on cohesion, as evidenced by the Department for Communities and Local Government's Cohesion Delivery Framework: Overview, which acknowledged `a heavy reliance on Laurence and Heath's multi-level modelling of the 2005 Citizenship Survey [R4], as this is the most robust, nationally representative evidence we have on community cohesion in England' [Section 5: C1, p.23].
The Department's Director of Analysis and Innovation can confirm the importance of this research in shaping policy [C10].
One impact of the research is difficult to document but nonetheless worth emphasizing.
The finding that ethnic diversity does not reduce social cohesion made it impossible for informed policy-makers to deflect blame on to immigration.
This finding was cited by the then Secretary of State, Hazel Blears MP when debating with the American social scientist Robert Putnam (at the Conference `Healthy, Wealthy and Wise', 23 June 2008) [C2, p.15].
The positive lessons from the research were embodied in a number of policy documents issued by the Department for Communities and Local Government:  Justifying this policy emphasis within government, The Economic Case for Cohesion Report [C3, pp.4, 10] uses their research [R4] to argue that enhanced cohesion will have tangible economic benefits, including reduced crime levels and better health.
In implementing policies to enhance cohesion, the Department issued a slew of documents for local authorities, funders of local projects, and community activists [C4, C5, C6].
These documents translated Laurence and Heath's research into practical guidance.
For example:  &#8212; Inter-ethnic friendships increase social cohesion: this finding led to the recommendation that agencies should fund local projects that build relationships among different groups, rather than projects catering to particular ethnic groups; &#8212; Perceived unfairness in the allocation of social housing reduces social cohesion: this finding led to the recommendation that local authorities refine allocation procedures (through `choice-based lettings', for example), and also make strenuous efforts to dispel popular myths that certain groups (like asylum seekers) are privileged over others.
Beyond central and local government, multiple organizations have incorporated Laurence and Heath's research into their policies and practices.
The newly formed Equality and Human Rights Commission commissioned a report on how to measure what they conceived as `good relations' [C7].
The report drew heavily on Laurence and Heath's research [R4].
For instance, one especially influential finding was the strong negative effect of economic deprivation.
The report argued that the Equality and Human Rights Commission should collect measurements going beyond its statutory equality groups, in order to recognize how economic deprivation undermined `good relations' [C7, pp.18-20, 24].
Consultants also regularly draw on Laurence and Heath's research.
It was extensively cited in a report for the South East England Development Agency by SQW [C8], a consultancy which advises public bodies on sustainable development, and in a report on local public services by Ipsos MORI's Social Research Institute [C9].
