     Demographic trends and cultural pluralism have together raised new       challenges for end of life care       services.
This research goes to the heart of these challenges.
The impacts       are cumulative and       ongoing.
They are best described under two streams: social and spiritual       care at the end of life.
The underpinning research has created a significant cultural shift amongst       health and social care       practitioners and a step change in service provision for dying and       bereaved people.
It has also       contributed to public and policy debates about how we as a society       `manage' and respond to       death.
The non-academic beneficiaries of the underpinning research are       people at the end of their       life, their families and carers, healthcare and social care professionals,       clergy and the funerals       industry, policy advisors and implementers.
Stream 1: Social care at the end of life       Following her participation in a Westminster Forum Seminar on End of Life       Care, at which the       urgent need to engage social care professionals in delivering the national       End of Life Care       Strategy 2008 was highlighted, Prof Holloway was appointed as Social Care       Lead for the National       End of Life Care Programme (NEoLCP).
Referencing Holloway's research, the       Social Care       Advisory Group of the NEoLCP published its report `Supporting People to       Live and Die Well: a       framework for social care at the end of life', in July 2010 (see 5.1).
Also known as the Social Care       Framework (SCF) this was rolled out at 9 Regional Roadshows attended by       1400 people from all       sectors of social care.
Also in phase 1 of the SCF implementation, 8       test-sites were commissioned       and evaluated, addressing the 10 objectives of the SCF, with the aim of       strengthening the paucity       of evidence available to service commissioners.
By March 2013, when the       NEoLCP closed,       designated End of Life Care Leads had been appointed in over 100 local       authority adult social       services and over 200 end of life care champions in social care had signed       up; by July 2013, the       total membership of the integrated (health and social care) end of life       care facilitators and       champions network had grown to 600.
The SCF and End of Life Care Guidance       are both endorsed       by the Association of Directors of Adult Social Services (ADASS) and       published on its website.
By       March 2013 over 40 of the 153 Adult Social Care Departments had approved       local End of Life       Care Action and Business Delivery Plans and over 500 requests were       received by ADASS for the       Sharing Successful Strategies progress report on its publication in       July 2013.
Drawing on Holloway and Adamson's analysis of the data accumulated over       Phase 1 of the roll-out       of `Supporting People to Live and Die Well' (2g) 13 regional projects were       established to address       specific local needs and build on earlier initiatives, with a view to       embedding end of life care in       ongoing mainstream social care practice.
Also in phase 2, there has been a       particular focus on       social workers and social work education through the launch in July 2012       of a `Route to Success       for Social Work' (which references Holloway's research) and the insertion       of end of life care skills       in the new Professional Capabilities Framework (JUCSWEC).
The newly       established College of       Social Work profiled Professor Holloway's work and developments in end of       life care in its July       2012 newsletter and hosted an on-line debate with Professor Holloway as       guest.
Discussions are       underway to establish an end of life care `community of interest' in the       College and the ADASS       Workforce Network has invited the development of an end of life care       national workforce strategy       in social care.
The combined impact of this stream of activity has been to significantly       raise awareness in       mainstream social care of the importance of end of life care at the same       time as raising the profile       of social care amongst healthcare end of life specialists, and to promote       tangible service and       practice developments on a national scale.
Stream 2: Spiritual care at the end of life       Holloway's research on humanistic spirituality and spiritual care at the       end of life is widely known       amongst health and social care practitioners, as evidenced by numerous       invitations since 2008 to       present to mainly practitioner audiences, e.g.
at 2 national conferences       of the National Council for       Palliative Care, the Making Research Count networks in York and Norwich,       the Glasgow Schools       of Social Work Public Lecture Series (also podcast), the Cheshire       Association of Hospices Annual       Lecture, conferences at St Christopher's, Princess Alice and       Leicestershire and Rutland Hospices,       and the Churches Regional Commission.
There has been significant uptake of her research findings on       spirituality amongst healthcare       professionals, hospital chaplains and parish clergy, and her `Fellow       Traveller Model' for spiritual       care is gaining increasing currency.
For example, she has been asked to       assist hospices in       developing interdisciplinary models for spiritual care and is an invited       member of the European       Association for Palliative Care's symposium on Spiritual Care.
A Spiritual       Care systematic literature       review was commissioned by the Department of Health in 2010 because audits       of the Liverpool       Care Pathway indicated that Standard 7 - Spiritual Care &#8212; was barely       addressed in clinical       practice.
It is being widely used as the starting point for addressing the       inhibitions experienced by       practitioners, both in the UK and further afield (for example, Hospices       New Zealand has used it to       inform the development of their spiritual care guidance for practitioners       (5.6); the Interdisciplinary       Centre for Palliative Care at the University of Munich Medical School       requested and received       permission from the DH to translate into German (5.9).
Holloway's research (3.1, 3.4, 3.5) also informed the structure and       content of a 6-session module       on spirituality developed within the e-learning platform End of Life Care       for All (e-ELCA) launched       in April 2011 with 1576 active users of the module up to 31 July 2013       (5.10)     A second strand derives from the research into contemporary funerals       (3.5) with a specific focus       on the evidence for and nature of spirituality and religion within today's       personalised, reportedly       secularised, ceremonies.
Although a local study, the findings of this       research have had national       impact for funerals professionals and the wider public and was presented       by a British Humanist       Association (BHA) celebrant at the BHA Annual Conference in October 2010.
For the funerals       professionals this involved the development and piloting from December       2010 - March 2011 of a       training programme for celebrants, at the request of Cooperative       Funeralcare, the Anglican       Diocese of York and the BHA (total 100 pilot participants).
A further       request has been received       from the Berkshire Archdeaconry and Prof Holloway was a keynote speaker at       the National       Cremation and Burial Society's annual conference in 2012 (lecture       subsequently published in       Pharos International:The Official Journal of the Cremation Society of         Great Britain and the         International Cremation Federation: Statistics issue, 2013).
For the wider public, a number of media outputs have prompted enquiries       from individuals:             Education Guardian 24 March 2009 p.11: 'The Final Ringtone'        The Church Times article February 2012        Funeral Service Times articles September 2010 and April 2011       Telephone interview for Five News, 16 April 2009        Yorkshire Post 16 March 2009,'Funeral duty for university study         team'        Hull Daily Mail 30 March 2009, 'Building up a picture of         modern-day spirituality'       BBC Radio Humberside live interviews 18 February 2011 and 29 March         2009       BBC Radio Leeds live interview 5 April 2009          Parts of the body of underpinning research were undertaken by the       University in collaboration with       other HEIs as follows:Exploring and understanding the views of Chinese         older people about cancer         and end-of-life care - with Sheila Payne (PI) and Jane Seymour (CI)       both at University of Sheffield       at the time.
Spiritual care at the end of life - with Wilf McSherry (University       of Staffordshire) and John Swinton       (University of Aberdeen)     Towards Transcultural Spirituality- with Prof Cecilia Chan, Hong       Kong University.
