     From November 2007 the project was subject to technology transfer for       implementation by       Caterpillar Electric Power Division (EPD) in association with the UoA.
EPD       funded, and have been       intimately involved in the gen-set control research and associated       technology transfer, and are its       principal beneficiaries1.
The underpinning research described above gives Caterpillar a technology       edge through which       increased market share could be obtained due to its ability to offer a       more competitive, class       defining, gen-set product to its customers.
Primarily this is because,       while recent advances in       engine technology have seen the power developed from, for example, a       9-litre engine, increase       from 200kW to about 300KW, paradoxically, there is a decline in load       acceptance.
The load       acceptance capability of gen-set packages is typically of the order of       only 40% of the steady-state       rating.
This means that owners of a 1 MW site must typically purchase a       2.5MW gen-set to ensure       adequate load acceptance capability and this in turn leads to operational       inefficiencies and       proportionally higher emissions.
The key benefit of the UoA's novel       advanced non-linear control       system is that load acceptance has been raised to approximately 70%.
This       negates the necessity       to significantly oversize gen-sets simply to meet initial load acceptance       requirements.
Hence, the       size of gen-set required is reduced, as is fuel consumption, resulting in       lower gaseous and       particulate emissions, as well as lower operating costs.
[text removed for publication]     The first of these projects made extensive use of the UoA world class       gen-set test facility and       depended heavily on UoA expertise2.
The UoA's involvement in       the second development was       through design specification consultancy, as well as endurance testing and       prototype       development1,2.
[text removed for publication]     Three advanced control products based on this research have been       developed and are currently       being marketed by Caterpillar.
EM10a, EM15b,       excitation modules are power electronics modules       designed to provide excitation current to the generator and are used in       association with a gen-set       controller that is capable of executing the Integrated Voltage Regulator       (IVR) control algorithmc.
These three products are compatible for use with Self Excitation, Internal       Excitation and       Permanent Magnet generator excitation types.
Together they operate to       provide robust, precise       closed-loop control of the generator voltage and optimized transient       performance.
[text removed for publication]
