     Fusion Antibodies is a UK-based biotechnology company that offers       contract research offerings to third parties to produce custom proteins       and antibodies.
The impact of the research undertaken by the Scott lab was       to improve the company's ability to rapidly produce high-quality purified       proteins, thus improving the speed and cost effectiveness of their service1.
On average, the company were able to speed turnaround of protein orders       from 3 months to around 1 month.
Furthermore, the innovations led to the       successful production of reagents that previously had not been       successfully produced, thereby increasing the reputation and       competitiveness of the company.
This research was carried out from       2004-2007 as part of a Knowledge Transfer Partnership (KTP) scheme2,       and then subsequently commercialised under Fusion Expression TechnologyTM       (FETTM)3.
The KTP associate employed under       the project, Dr Henry Kwok, won the best regional KTP scheme award4,5       in 2008 and was shortlisted for the UK award5.
Dr Jill       Caswell was awarded her PhD from the School of Pharmacy in 2012.
The FETTM platform has been marketed internationally by Fusion       Antibodies since 2008 and is the underpinning technology platform for the       contract research service that they provide1, 3.
This       service supports the employment of 12 people (from 4 original members of       staff) and has generated, on average, &#163;300,000 income per annum.
The       application of the FETTM platform is marketed worldwide and to       date international orders from biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies       have been secured from Austria, USA, Canada, Croatia, France, Germany,       Denmark, Italy, Israel, Switzerland, Norway, Finland, Sweden, Ireland,       Spain and Portugal1.
A particular example of the impact has been the development of a range of       mycobacterium tuberculosis protein antigens by Fusion Antibodies.
These       antigens have now been licensed to Enfer Scientific Ireland, who have       developed them into the EnferplexTM TB assay6,       which is currently undergoing clinical trials in Ireland, UK and USA.
