     In this case study, impact is seen in (i) transfer of the research         from the laboratory to a         global sponsor, (ii) a major shift in the sponsor's policy priorities         for microbicide delivery         (moving to a controlled release VR system that is coitally independent         and away from         immediate release, coitally dependent gel products), (iii) investment in         successful Phase I         and II trials, and a multi-million dollar investment in Phase III by         both IPM and the US         government (NIH), and (iv) use of the product by thousands of women         enrolling in the trials         for protection against HIV infection.
HIV/AIDS is the leading cause of death for women aged 15-44 worldwide,       with most deaths       occurring in sub-Saharan Africa.
For physiological reasons, women are       twice as likely than men to       contract HIV from a single act of unprotected sex.
However, societal and       cultural prejudices mean       that women are often highly dependent on male cooperation to protect       themselves from infection.
Compared with other female-initiated microbicide strategies, vaginal ring       products are widely acknowledged to offer the greatest potential.
Their       ability       to be used covertly without the knowledge or co-operation of the male       partner, the relatively high user acceptabilitya and the       expectation of       increased user adherenceb in long-term use schedules       suggest that a       microbicide-releasing ring against HIV will challenge existing sexual       norms       within many developing world cultures by empowering women to take control       of their own sexual health.
Malcolm and Woolfson's work on VR microbicide       delivery will provide women, for the first time, with a means of       protecting       themselves from heterosexually acquired HIV infection, without requiring       support from the male partner.
This is reflected in the change of       direction from the key microbicide       development agency, IPM, where &#163;millions are now being invested in       advanced trials (Phase III) of       the first microbicide VR, developed by Malcolm and Woolfson, as a result       of the impact of their       technology on the microbicide field.
Following initial failings with the first generation non-specific       anti-HIV compounds, microbicide       research became focused on potent small molecule ARs similar to those used       orally in Highly       Active Anti-Retroviral Therapy (HAART).
With this approach, a VR device       must continuously       deliver an AR compound into the vaginal tissue over an extended time       period in       order to provide long-term protection.
This required the pre-clinical       development of an appropriate VR by Malcolm and Woolfson showing product       performance characteristics (drug release, stability, durability, ease of       manufacture) sufficient to justify the substantial financial commitment to       take a       product through clinical trials.
Malcolm and Woolfson served on IPM's first Scientific Advisory Board in       2004c       and the group is currently listed as IPM's VR microbicide development       partnerd.
The dapivirine-releasing VR developed by Malcolm and Woolfson has been       adopted by IPM as its       lead product, on the basis of its sustained drug release kinetics and       excellent safety profile.
IPM       and its partners are funding a       full clinical trials programmee       for the dapivirine VR, as       detailed below.
Since 2008f,g,       three Phase I safety and       availability clinical trials, IPM       001, 008 and 013 have been       completed in Belgium.
Also       completed are a series of       Phase II trials in HIV negative       women.
Trials IPM 001, 008       and 018 determined dapivirine       concentrations in plasma and       vaginal fluid samples, with       safety assessed by pelvic/       colposcopic examinations,       clinical laboratory tests, and       adverse events.
VRs were well       tolerated with similar adverse       events observed in the placebo       and dapivirine groups.
Dapivirine was successfully distributed throughout the lower genital       tract at concentrations over 4       logs greater than the EC50 against wild-type HIV-1 (LAI) in MT4 cells.
Mean plasma       concentrations of dapivirine were &lt; 50 pg/ml, an important observation       since high systemic drug       levels are undesirable in a vaginal microbicide due to the potential for       development of resistance to       the virus in infected users.
Based on these successful trials and         related safety studies, the         dapivirine VR developed by Malcolm and Woolfson has now entered into two         major, multi-centre         pivotal Phase III trials in Africa, which commenced in August 2012.
These trials         (described below) involve thousands of women In using the dapivirine VR         as protection         against heterosexually acquired HIV AIDS.
ASPIRE, also known as MTN-020, is a Phase III clinical study       funded by the US National Institutes       of Health through the Microbicides Trial Network (MTN).
It seeks to       determine safety and efficacy       of the dapivirine VR for protecting against the sexual transmission of HIV       when used by women for a month at a time.
The study, which has started to       enrol 3,476 women across several sites in Africa, will take approximately       two       years to conduct.
Simultaneously, IPM's pivotal Phase III RING STUDY       (IPM       027) is enrolling 1650 women.
IPM have published a detailed `Access       Strategy' (May 2011)h for licensing andworldwide       availability of the dapivirine       VR, with these pivotal trials being key to final product registration.
This trial       information, involving substantial investment by IPM, demonstrates the       outcome of the pre-clinical dapivirine VR research reported in 2005 and       2006 by Malcolm and       Woolfsoni, j.
