     Impact on practice     During 2011-12, a pilot of this service was undertaken in the South       Eastern Local Commissioning Group (LCG; a health administrative area       somewhat similar to a Primary Care Trust in England) and proved       successful.
Seven pharmacists with appropriate training, based on the       Fleetwood model, worked with nursing homes and general practitioners       (GPs).
The pharmacists identified residents registered with the GPs, and       reviewed their medication.
This involved using paper-based and       computerised records to assess prescribing, and then a subsequent visit to       the nursing home to clarify any issues with the lead nurse.
The pharmacist       then liaised with the prescribing GP, and made recommendations which       included stopping and starting medications, dose changes, formulation       changes (e.g.
a liquid product being recommended rather than a tablet) and       therapeutic switches (one medicine being substituted for another).
A       common intervention was stopping or reducing the dose of psychoactive       medicines (antipsychotics, hypnotics and anxiolytics).
Other interventions       included requesting blood tests to be undertaken, correcting discrepancies       in medication records, updating resident allergy status on GP records and       referring residents to other services.
The pilot resulted in &#163;42,896       annual savings in 317 residents.1 Building on the pilot       activity and on evidence gained in the research, a service has now been       commissioned across Northern Ireland, which engages specially trained       pharmacists to undertake medication review of patients resident within       nursing homes and optimise use of their medicines.1 In 2012/13       financial year, 31 pharmacists worked with 31 general practices across all       of N. Ireland.
Information collated by the Health and Social Board to date       indicated that the medication regimens of 1052 nursing home residents were       reviewed by these pharmacists, and 2200 interventions were made.
Just       under 350 medicines were started, 1170 were stopped, 485 dose adjustments       were made, along with 206 formulations changes.
This has resulted in       &#163;190,000 annual savings for this financial year.
Impact on policy     The Fleetwood service has been externally reviewed by the NHS Centres for       Review and Dissemination.
The Centre was established in 1994 to provide       the NHS with information on the effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of       treatments and the delivery and organisation of health care.
It also       offers an independent view on the reliability of conclusions proposed by       studies.
The Centre confirmed that the Fleetwood model was a robust and       cost-effective intervention.
The review stated that "The economic         evaluation was carried out alongside a pragmatic randomised controlled         trial (RCT) and its clear and robust methods should have ensured the         validity of the authors' conclusions".2     The Northern Ireland Dementia Strategy, published in November 2011, cited       the findings from the Fleetwood model research.3 The findings       were also highlighted in a recent policy document from the Royal       Pharmaceutical Society (Scotland), entitled "Improving pharmaceutical         care in care homes".
This document highlighted the Fleetwood model       as one which represented strong evidence for future service development.
4
