     The central impact which draws together all three research strands (2.1,       2.2, 2.3) is the education and training resource `Society, Health and         Disease in a time of HIV/AIDS' (2010, 3rd edn).
This       resource has been widely used by health and social care professionals       across South Africa since the first edition was published in 1996 (5.5;       5.6).
The third edition (2010) involved substantial reworking, the       addition of much new material and a change in title to reflect a more       central emphasis on HIV/AIDS.
Pan Macmillan records indicate that from       2002, 6594 copies have been purchased across southern Africa, 3608 have       been sold since 2008 (5.3).
The resource has a distinctive format,       designed for training in both urban and rural settings in South Africa.
It       is interactive, it includes original research based material (written by       the authors), key readings (including published research by the authors)       and educational tasks (drafted by the authors) designed to help the       student / practitioner work through the material and ideas presented       (5.5).
This training resource enables students and health care workers to       understand the social and cultural basis of HIV/AIDS &#8212; transmission,       treatment and management &#8212; thus influencing their practice with HIV       positive service users in particular (5.6).
The resource has been prescribed in nine (of seventeen traditional and       comprehensive) HEIs throughout South Africa since the publication of the       first edition.
These include: The University of South Africa, University       of Kwa-Zulu Natal, Pietermaritzburg, University of Cape Town, University       of the Western Cape, University of the Witwatersrand, University of       Namibia, Baragwanath Nursing College, Democratic Nursing Organisation of       South Africa.
The main beneficiaries of this resource are health and       social care professionals and people living with HIV/AIDS who receive a       more culturally and social informed service (5.4).
The success of the       first and second editions led Pan Macmillan to support the production of       the third edition.
The three research strands identified in section 2 (all of which       influenced the production of the educational resource) led to other       publications, thus having wider impacts on policy formulation and public       debates on HIV/AIDS.
This was particularly important in the context of       initial government refusal to provide ART to people living with HIV/AIDS       (see above references to the research).
In the foreword to the book Waiting         to Happen: HIV/AIDS in South Africa, Mr Justice Edwin Cameron stated       `The book draws on an impressive and authoritative range of papers that       address the social, cultural and historical roots of the epidemic in a       region heavily burdened by AIDS.
It is therefore published at an acute       time' (pg 7) (5.1).
During the period in which the research was carried       out and published, government policy in South Africa changed to adopt a       centrally funded roll-out of ART, significantly changing the trajectory of       the epidemic.
This research was part of a body of social science research       which contributed to this policy change.
All of the projects have received       external funding and have involved international collaboration.
Waiting to happen: HIV/AIDS in South Africa was also published in       a separate version in the United States.
In 2004, 1500 copies of this US       edition were printed &#8212; only 63 now remain in stock (5.2).
This text was       recommended reading on a course at Yale University, Aids in Africa,       between 2006/ 09.
The body of scholarship which has as its primary focus the socio-cultural       context of HIV/AIDS has been published in different formats.
The research       has been published in leading international journals of medicine and       public health thus informing academic and scholars working in the area.
However, in the context of HIV/AIDS in resource poor countries it is       incumbent on scholars to produce and reproduce strong research material in       a way which will serve to combat the epidemic and improve the quality of       life and services for those people living with HIV/AIDS.
The training       resource and the strands of research identified above have succeeded in       doing this (5.4).
Other researchers contributed to this research.
`The social and cultural       complexity of adherence to ART', was conducted jointly with Professor Leah       Gilbert (University of the Witwatersrand, Johannesburg).
It was funded by       the National Research Foundation, South Africa (R192 000, 00).
`Waiting to       Happen: HIV/AIDS in South Africa' was written jointly with Graeme Reid now       Human Rights Watch (NY), Morna Cornell, University of Cape Town.
Masculinities, Risk and HIV/AIDS, was funded by the National Research       Foundation, South Africa (R34000.00)
