     Current farm production of Atlantic salmon in the North Atlantic is about       1 million tonnes per year.
Marine cages are vulnerable to damage by storms, predators and collisions,       and escapes       inevitably occur.
It is estimated that some two million Atlantic salmon       escape each year in the       North Atlantic, which is equivalent to about 50% of the total number of       wild adult salmon in the       area.
Escaped salmon enter rivers where they breed and interbreed with       wild salmon, thereby       changing the genetic make-up of wild populations.
Farm-reared brown trout       are stocked in most       European countries where native populations are also present.
In Britain       and Ireland over two       million such trout are stocked each year.
Many local angling groups also       maintain hatcheries for       stocking both species.
The key findings of our salmon studies were that offspring of farmed,       first and second generation       hybrids, and backcrosses both to wild and farmed salmon showed reduced       survival compared with       wild salmon, and that repeated escape events can cause a reduction in       survival and reproductive       success of vulnerable wild populations potentially leading to their       extinction.
Brown trout       investigations showed four detrimental impacts of stocking farm-reared       brown trout into wild       populations: (1) Loss of genetic diversity among wild populations, such       diversity being essential for       long-term survival and continued adaptation to changing conditions; (2)       Reduction in fitness due to       loss of local adaptations as a result of interbreeding with farm-reared       trout; (3) Reduction in fitness       as a result of interbreeding with farm-reared trout, which are maladapted       for life in the wild due to       domestication; (4) Loss of key life history types, and consequent       reduction in diversity of angling       opportunity and experience.
Due to the fact that almost all the brown trout population genetic       research in the UK and Ireland       had been carried out at QUB, together with key inter-related work on       Atlantic salmon, Ferguson       was asked by the Environment Agency (England &amp; Wales) to produce a       report on genetic impacts       of stocking on indigenous brown trout populations.
Ferguson's (2007)       report is one of the main       sources listed under Research References by the Environment Agency (EA) in       their 2008 Review       of Brown Trout Policy.
It was described by the EA as part of their "work       with leading authorities on       trout fisheries management, analysis of scientific research, and an       extensive consultation       process".
Ferguson's report examined evidence on the impact on wild trout       stocks of stocking       domesticated fertile brown trout and on the potential alternative use of       sterile fish.
This policy       review was pivotal for the change of brown trout stocking policy in       England in Wales.
The       Environment Agency made the decision in 2008 to stop giving consent to       stock rivers and lakes       with fertile (diploid) farm strain brown trout in England and Wales from       2015, only stocking with       infertile (female triploid) brown trout or the progeny of local broodstock       reared under a suitable       regime being permitted.
As a direct result of work carried out at QUB and in response to the       Species and Habitats Review       Report, published in 2007, brown trout has been added to the list of       priority fish species in the UK       Biodiversity Action Plan, which is the UK Government's response to the       Convention on Biological       Diversity, signed in 1992 in Rio de Janeiro.
Following advice to the       Northern Ireland Department of       the Environment's Environment and Heritage Service (EHS), later NI       Environment Agency (NIEA),       on the existence of unique brown trout populations, Lough Melvin was       declared an Area of Special       Scientific Interest (ASSI) in 1997.
Under ASSI status, no stocking with       farm strain trout is allowed.
Indeed any change in management requires NIEA permission.
The Wild Trout       Trust, a major       charity dedicated to the conservation of brown trout in Britain and       Ireland, produced a statement in       2012 providing background and advice to fishery managers on brown trout       genetics and stocking.
This 15-page document includes five citations of QUB work and, as a       scientific adviser to the Trust,       Ferguson made a substantial contribution to drafting it.
Following concerns about the impact of salmon farm escapes, the WWF set       up a dialogue       involving key scientists and farm industry representatives.
Ferguson was       invited to be a member of       the working party.
The final global standards for the industry (published       February 2012) in respect       of genetic impacts are based substantially on QUB publications.
The North       Atlantic Salmon       Conservation Organisation (NASCO), an international body established by       inter-governmental       convention, sought QUB advice on genetic impact of escaped farm salmon and       on supportive       breeding (use of offspring of native broodstock) on various occasions over       the past 20 years.
Current (2009-2011) NASCO international guidance draws significantly on       this advice and our       publications.
European government agencies (e.g.
Scotland, Norway) have implemented       advice on trout       stocking and farm escapes.
New legislation came into force on August 1,       2008, regulating the       introduction the stocking of all species of freshwater fish within       Scotland, including trout and       salmon.
Internationally, results of QUB studies on salmon escapes have       been central to the       development of a national policy for the farming of European origin salmon       in Canadian waters       commissioned by the Canadian Science Advisory Secretariat (Verspoor et         al., in press:       corroborated by Professor, University of the Highlands and Islands) on       behalf of the Canadian       Government.
