     The implementation of batteries of innovative tests, developed by Elliott       and his colleagues, in the control programmes of regulatory laboratories       around the world has had a major impact through the protection of       consumers globally and enhancement of trading opportunities.
Without such       tests many contamination incidents would go unchecked and the ability of       many countries to monitor imported foods and support their own exports       would be greatly inhibited.
The globalisation of the trade in animal feeds and food has brought about       many benefits, e.g.
cost reduction and year round availability of       foodstuffs.
However, one of the biggest problems it has caused is a       massive increase in the importation of multiple products into Europe from       countries with low standards of feed/food safety.
Since the BSE crisis of       the 1980's European consumers have become more and more concerned with the       safety of the food they eat.
This has led to a marked reduction in their       trust in governments' ability to protect them from food-related hazards.
Among the most feared risks are those relating to dangerous chemicals in       food.
There are several thousand licensed veterinary pharmaceuticals and       pesticides and many hundreds of illegally used compounds.
Added to this       are the problems with dioxin/PCB contaminations, heavy metals, mycotoxins       and fraud issues involving nitrogen substitutes (such as melamine).
An       additional complexity is that these chemicals must be measured at very low       concentrations to meet legislative requirements (usually parts per       billion).
The time to undertake the analysis and costs involved add a       further dimension of difficulty to contaminant analysis/detection.
During       a period spanning nearly 20 years Elliott's work at QUB in delivering       methods that met, and continue to meet, ever-increasing demands has become       recognised globally.
The majority of laboratories around the world, both       private sector and governmental, employ at least a number of these tests       in their routine testing programmes.
The global sales of diagnostic test       kits plus verification from a number of leading governmental monitoring       laboratories helps reinforce this claim.
Elliott and colleagues have       organised many training workshops for scientists working in regulatory       environments from all over the world to learn the QUB procedures.
These       have been performed in conjunction with the EU Community Reference       Laboratories for Drug Residue Control, the EU Directorate Generals SANCO       (Food Safety) and DG TRADE.
In addition, in collaboration with the UN FAO,       training workshops organised across the developing world have achieved       global reach.
In 2001 QUB (Elliott) was a founding member of the       international School for Advanced Residue Analysis in Foods       (http://www.saraf-educ.org/).
This international School, held twice       annually, has trained over 600 scientists from 90 countries in methods       developed at QUB.
In 2010 this initiative was extended from funding from       the Marie Curie programme to develop training opportunities specifically       for European postgraduate students.
The development of easy to use and reliable ELISA and biosensor-based       test kits for the detection of drug residues in foods has been another       excellent means of transferring the research to food control laboratories       globally.
Kit sales now extend to well over 50 countries around the world       (2013 data).
Indeed new product lines are being developed in collaboration       with QUB via funding for postgraduate students, many of whom get jobs       working in the associated diagnostics companies (some via KTP projects)       upon completion of their degrees.
Tests to detect illegal dyes,       antibiotics and toxins in foods were launched in 2012 by Neogen.
Good testing methods alone are not sufficient to prevent feed and food       contamination.
The costs associated with developing and implementing       robust monitoring programmes are substantial.
It is impossible to test       every batch of animal feed and foodstuff produced for every possible       contaminant that might be present.
Elliott and his team undertook one of       the largest studies of its kind in the world.
They analysed every reported       chemical-based food contamination incident recorded globally over a 5-year       period.
From this they were able to determine frequency of events relating       to the types of feed and food commodities, the geographic origin of the       contaminated materials and the possible health risks and industry risks       associated with each contamination event.
Using a set of algorithms and       intimate knowledge of chemical analytical techniques, Elliott produced a       scheme for industry to set up a self-monitoring programme.
This unique       scheme was implemented in 2013 in Northern Ireland by the Grain Trade       Association as a pilot and will be rolled out to the rest of Ireland and       the UK in 2014.
Other global regions are using the QUB model to develop       much more robust national monitoring programmes.
