     Fisheries in Bangladesh is second only to the garment sector in total       national export earnings.
Shrimp alone accounts for about 80 - 85% of the total export earnings from       all fisheries       commodities.
About 25% of the total shrimp export earnings comes from the       Giant Freshwater       Shrimp, Macrobrachium rosenbergii.
Bangladesh is one of the top producers       of this shrimp       globally.
This and other shrimp species exported from Bangladesh are       mostly the products of       aquaculture.
Besides its role in export, the shrimp aquaculture based       industry is one of the major       sources of rural employments for men and women, supports several       categories of rural based       ancillary industries &#8212; all significantly contributing to the country's       overall economic development.
Clearly, the success of the shrimp based industry is extremely important       for sustained economic       development of this country.
The yearly total value only from frozen       shrimp and fish exports       fluctuated between US$322 million and US$ 611 million during the last 10       years.
Due to the       detection of contamination by nitrofurans in large quantities of shrimp by       Belgian authorities in       2008, exports fell by approximately 17%, by comparison with the average       over the previous 5       years.
By 2009 a further 16% deduction in exports resulted.
The nitrofuran incident impacted hugely on the shrimp industry and entire       Bangladesh society in       many different ways: (i) An immediate export revenue loss valued at many       millions of pounds, (ii)       loss of Bangladesh image in the international market for Bangladesh       fisheries products, (iii) closure       of thousands of shrimp farms and tens of hatcheries across the country,       (iv) loss of thousands in       employment in the sector, (v) a huge economic loss which was felt right       across the country, both       immediate and fears of even worse long-term damage.
The European Commission, based on Kennedy's research realised the error       that had been made       and on the 15th November 2011 issued a formal repel of the emergency       measures that had been       put in place with regards Bangaldeshi aquaculture products.
Now, just five       years since the 2008       crisis unfolded, due to the research conducted at QUB there is a much       stronger case for       Bangladesh to be considered as a producer of safe food.
Indeed, the       Bangladeshi industry now       views the future with high levels of optimism.
Despite the setbacks of       recent years, there is an       industry-governmental plan to increase production from 60,000 tonnes of       prawn annually from       80,000 hectares of farms.
This is double the current output of the       country.
Kennedy's nitrofuran       research has had a massive and positive impact of the livelihoods of       thousands of the world's       poorest people.
Kennedy's research uncovered the complex cause of the nitrofuran       contamination problems.
He       worked with the Bangladeshi industry and government not only to uncover       the true causes of the       problem but on a much wider scale to greatly improve the safety and       quality of their entire       aquaculture industry.
Kennedy was able to convince the Belgium government       that their       laboratories had made a serious error in alerting the entire European       Union (and rest of the world)       about a contamination that never actually occurred.
This had a massive       follow on impact of the       stance of the European Commission with regards Bangladeshi shrimp imports       into Europe.
As a consequence of the shrimp crisis in 2010 and further European       Commission penalties, the       Bangladeshi government banned the use of all antibiotics in all animal       feeds as part of their       response to the on-going emergency.
However, this ban had an       unintentional, yet devastating,       effect of causing marked increased mortalities in the Bangladeshi poultry       industry caused       particularly by necrotic enteritis and causing yet more economic losses to       the agri-food sector and       extreme hardship to subsistence farmers and their families.
The       profitability of this industry is vital       to the nation, as poultry is the principal animal protein source for the       Bangladeshi population.
At       two meetings in Dhaka, (January 2013) chaired by the Minister of       Agriculture and the Chief       Veterinary Officer, respectively, Kennedy advised relaxing the ban &#8212;       permitting the use of the four       "beneficial antibiotics" in poultry feed.
This advice has been accepted       and is being implemented via       the Bangladeshi parliament, thus averting another food crisis in the       region.
The EU's investigations of the shrimp problems did uncover vast gaps in       the ability of this country       to provide local consumers and export customers with safe food.
Through       Kennedy's research and       high level advise to industry, governmental agencies and government       laboratories a much better       system in now in place to safeguard citizens all over the world who       purchase and consume       Bangladeshi produce.
