     Our impact on legislation, designations, policy and practice     Northern Ireland and Republic of Ireland: Our research on spread       rates, vectors and impacts of IAS in Ireland, and the need for a       cross-jurisdictional approach to controls (Sections 2, 3), had informed       ten key recommendations to the Governments of Northern Ireland (NI) and       the Republic of Ireland (RoI) in the 2004 Review of Invasive Species         in Ireland by Quercus.
These were implemented through Invasive         Species Ireland (ISI),S1 a joint venture between       the NI Environment Agency and the National Parks and Wildlife Service       (RoI), contracted to a partnership of Dick and Maggs (QUB), EnviroCentre       Ltd (Maguire/John Kelly) and the RoI's National Biodiversity Data Centre.
QUB case studies were used to prioritise current and potential IAS and       deliver risk assessments and management plans for 20 species.
This       prioritised list informed the revision of the Schedule 9 lists in the       Wildlife Order (NI) 1985 (as amended), as part of the Wildlife and Natural       Environment Act (NI) 2011,S2 giving the Department of the       Environment NI (DOENI) the power to introduce an Order prohibiting sale       and spread of IAS.
A similar list (e.g.
all non-native freshwater crayfish       species) based on our risk assessments was used to give the Minister in       the RoI powers to prohibit the introduction into the wild of any       non-native species listed in the Third Schedule of Regulations 49 and 50       of the European Communities (Birds and Natural Habitats) Regulations 2011.S3       DOENI's (2013) IAS Strategy for Northern IrelandS4       likewise uses our research as delivered through ISI.
The Strategy       was launched by the NI Environment Minister at ISI's annual       Stakeholder Forum in May 2013 and addresses international obligations of       NI and the RoI on IAS.
ISI is the main delivery mechanism for the       Strategy, responsible for implementing seven of its nine key       actions designed to reduce the risks of IAS, improve legislation and       address international obligations.
These key actions were originally       developed from our primary research, as a key recommendation in our 2004 Review.
Great Britain: Publications by Dick and collaborators elucidating       the ecological impacts of the Killer Shrimp in mainland Europe led       directly to its listing as one of the 100 worst IAS in Europe, explicitly       citing two of Dick's research papersS5.
Following discovery of       the Killer Shrimp in Great Britain in 2010, a Task Group of the       Environment Agency, DEFRA, CCW, Natural England, and the GB Non-Native       Species Secretariat (NNSS) prepared a Rapid Risk Assessment which uses       eight of Dick's research papers to develop its biosecurity advice and       containment strategiesS6.
Europe: Three of Dick's publications are used to highlight and       evaluate the dangers of Dikerogammarus villosus for European       ecosystems in the 2009 document Technical Support to EU Strategy on         IAS: Assessment of the impacts of IAS in Europe and the EU.S7       NI and RoI report on ISI to the European Network on IAS (NOBANIS).
Our research as reported by ISI was used in the 2010 Assessment         to support continued development of the EU Strategy to combat IAS.S8       This document highlights the leadership role of ISI:       "...IAS-specific [risk assessment] protocols ... may be capable of scaling       up to a broader level.
Joint risk assessment initiatives between       neighbouring member states ... are in place for the island of Ireland       (Invasive Species Ireland initiative)...".
Whereas generally in Europe       "there are no structures in places to leverage cooperation" between member       states, in Ireland "the Invasive Species Ireland initiative cover[s] the       all-island biogeographic unit".
These supporting documents were used in       drawing up the EC's 2013 proposed Regulation on the prevention and       management of the introduction and spread of IAS.
Under the Regulation,       now under consultation, risk assessments and scientific advice would be       used to create a list of 50 target species.
IAS policy in practice: QUB is lead partner of the CIRB       project (2011-14)S9 funded under the Interreg IVA programme,       co-funded by DOENI and the Department of Arts, Heritage and the Gaeltacht       (RoI).
CIRB promotes native biodiversity by controlling and where       possible eradicating harmful riverbank IAS (Giant Hogweed, Japanese       Knotweed, Himalayan Balsam and Rhododendron) from 15 river catchments in       Ireland and western Scotland using herbicides and biosecurity measures to       prevent re-infestation.
In three successive years all four species were       controlled along 50 km of riverbank in Ireland and 560 km in Scotland,       including 100% of Hogweed and 68-100% of the other species, with       documented recovery of native biodiversity.
Biosecurity measures to       prevent anglers accidentally spreading IAS were developed with Inland       Fisheries Ireland based on research by Dick and others.
They include       disinfection kits, a permanent disinfection stationS10, and a       "no dip, no draw policy".
By June 2013, public engagement events had       hosted 35756 visitors; 107 stakeholders were involved, and 39 volunteers       had qualified as sprayers.
