     Our impact on legislation, designations, policy and practice: The       incorporation of our research outputs (Sections 2, 3) into policy       development and captive breeding of the critically endangered (IUCN Red       List) freshwater pearl mussel has benefitted this species and its habitat       locally, nationally and internationally.
In Europe, Special Areas of       Conservation (SACs) are the legal instrument enforcing protection under       the Habitats Directive, with a statutory requirement for regular       monitoring.
Legal protection ensures a direct link between policy and       practice as it addresses issues that affect this species, such as       over-fishing and habitat deterioration.
Northern Ireland: Our research1,2 is cited, with       detailed results and ongoing and future activities, in the Northern       Ireland Environment Agency (NIEA)'s current Margaritifera         margaritifera Species Action Plan (SAP).S1 This       undertook to establish appropriate culturing programmes for the       enhancement of populations in suitable rivers by 2010, and re-establish       one extinct population by 2015.
Because natural populations are dominated       by ageing individuals, captive breeding is required to produce young       mussels for restocking rivers.
In 1995, the research collaboration between       QUB and Ballinderry Fish Hatchery (funded through Department of the       Environment Northern Ireland and WWF)3 started using       techniques differing from the initial mussel cultivation attempts in the       Czech Republic and Germany.
Elsewhere in Europe, and in similar programmes       for endangered freshwater mussels in the USA, mussels are harvested from       host fish and grown in cages.S8 Our method, developed       with the Ballinderry Fish Hatchery, releases fish carrying larval mussels       into semi-natural containers to grow on, which is less labour intensive,       hence cheaper and more practicable.
S6     350 nine-year old captive-bred mussels were released between 2008 and       2009 into natural sediments in their natal Ballinderry River where the       remnant population consists of &lt;900 mussels.
Each mussel was       individually PIT tagged and survival rates after three years were very       high (99% at some sites).
This compares very favourably with survival       rates elsewhere of 0-20% after two years, summarized in Table 2 of McIvor       and Aldridge's 2008 report for CCW.S7 In 2009, the       Ballinderry Fish Hatchery Trust won an Association of Rivers Trusts       Contribution to Science Award for setting up Europe's first successful       freshwater pearl mussel breeding project, with our scientific input.
We       achieved the NIEA's SAP target of developing an appropriate culturing       programme by 2010, which resulted in a policy document for ex situ       conservation and reintroduction of pearl mussels adapted from the IUCN       Guidelines for ReintroductionsS2.
Our habitat       suitability modelling6 has identified sites for reintroduction       experiments, important progress towards the SAP target of reintroducing an       extinct population by 2015.
In 2013, 240 captive-bred juveniles 4-21 mm long, all PIT tagged, have       been released to sanctuary sites in the natal river, and an equal number       will be placed in specially designed `mussel-silos' that ensure constant       water flow.
Our research has contributed to the establishment of sanctuary       sites to which mussels from remnant, functionally extinct populations in       the same river are moved with juveniles from the captive breeding       programme &#8212; a novel approach in Europe.
Sanctuary populations are used for       further captive breeding and release.
The Mussel Rescue ProjectS6       runs from 2012-15, with UK Lottery funding (&#163;450k) awarded to Ballinderry       Rivers Trust and scientific input from Roberts, Reid, O'Connor and PhD       student Rebecca Kyle.
It includes catchment-level restoration and       contributes to the strategic River Basin Management Plan for the Neagh       Bann, as part of the delivery of the EU Water Framework Directive       (2000/60/EC).S6     Great Britain: The UK Biodiversity Action Plan (BAP) for Margaritifera         margaritiferaS3 cites our work1 to       provide background information on selection criteria for Special Areas of       Conservation (SACs).
JNCC's policy of selecting SACsS4       for Margaritifera further cites our research on population sizes       and age structure1, noting that increasing rarity in mainland       Europe gives extra significance to UK populations3.
Europe: Our research findings on the rapid and drastic decline of       pearl mussels in north-west Ireland2, due to poor water quality       and high siltation from land drainage and run-off from agriculture and       forestry, directly informed Article 11 surveillance under the EC Habitats       Directive in the Republic of IrelandS5.
Because our       captive breeding program1 is amongst the most successful in       reviews of captive breeding techniquesS7-S8 it is now       being emulated in AustriaS10, where the pearl mussel is       one of the most threatened species, with no natural reproduction.
Following the complete failure of all previous attempts at assisted       breeding of mussels in the River Waldaist, an 18-year action plan is       underway, including use of our captive-breeding techniques and fish       hatcheriesS9.
This began in 2009, funded by the Office       of the State Government of Upper Austria.
