     Roberts' research has had substantial impact on national and       international policy formation in five       areas:     (i) Impact on initiatives to reform UK and US military training:       Since 2003 Roberts has been a member of the UK Defence Academy Advisory       Board, which       includes three academic representatives and gives advice on all the       activities of the Defence       Academy.
In February 2013, he submitted proposals based on his research [R2,         R5], suggesting       changes in the coverage of the law of armed conflict in the Advanced       Command and Staff Course       that aimed to increase the content on law and how it relates to armed       operations.
The Board       accepted his proposals in principle, and implementation within the Defence       Academy is ongoing       [C1].
He also pressed for more emphasis on language learning to       meet context-specific needs in       conflict regions [R1, R3, R6] &#8212; a matter being taken forward by       the Academy [C2].
In parallel,       Roberts has been contributing to the restructuring of the training in the       law of armed conflict       throughout the Army, led by the Operational Law Branch of the Army       (Warminster), and in       particular, at their request, is involved in reviewing a new version of       the Army's Operational Law       Training Directive.
Roberts' research on the laws of war has also informed revisions of the       US Laws of War Manual.
In 2009, he was invited to join the International Peer Review Group for       the US Department of       Defense to evaluate the existing draft manual and recommend changes as       part of the first       revisions since the 1950s (and the first to cover all four armed services)       [C3].
During the year-long       review Roberts' work generated changes to the new draft manual,       particularly regarding the       provisions on military occupation, which were supported by the Laws of War       Working Group of the       US Department of Defense in 2010 [R4, R5, R6].
The draft       four-service manual, which awaits       publication, has been described by the Chairman of the working group as       the most comprehensive       laws of war manual produced by any country [C3].
(ii) Impact on recommendations to improve UK detention policies and           practices in Iraq and           beyond:       As a result of the laws of war research [R2, R4, R5, R6],       including work on military occupations       and on detainees and torture in the `war on terror', Roberts was selected       in 2010 as one of seven       retained experts to the Baha Mousa Public Inquiry to assist in examining       the adequacy of current       policies, doctrine and training in relation to the treatment of captured       personnel [C4].
Drawing on       his research [particularly R2], Roberts outlined       developments in the UK armed forces since 2003 in       relation to custody and interrogation techniques, and made recommendations       for future detention       policy, practice and training.
He gave written and oral evidence to the       Inquiry, 12 October 2010.
The key points made, both analytical and prescriptive, informed the work       and conclusions of the       Inquiry, and were referred to in its final report, 8 September 2011 [C5].
The government accepted       the findings of the Inquiry, including its recommendations for       improvements to detention policies,       practices and training [C5].
(iii) Impact on the House of Commons Foreign Affairs Committee's           recommendation to re-focus           UK aims in Afghanistan:       Roberts' expertise on the changing character of war [R1] led to       invitations to give evidence to the       House of Commons Foreign Affairs Committee Inquiry into Global Security:       Afghanistan.
His       evidence (23 January 2009), citing his research and record of publication       on terrorism, guerrilla       warfare, and counter-insurgency doctrines, focussed on unique features of       Afghan society and on       the complexity and difficulty of the task undertaken by NATO and the UN [C6].
This evidence was       mentioned many times in the Committee's final report, and informed the       Committee's central       conclusion that the UK, the UN and NATO should scale down their more       ambitious and       unrealizable projects and focus on security.
Publication of the report in       2009 contributed to       decisions to re-focus engagement in Afghanistan.
(iv) Impact on the International Red Cross's conclusions on the           legal issues arising in           contemporary forms of occupation:       Roberts' research on the laws of war and foreign military occupations [R4,         R6] led to the invitation       to join a Group of Experts convened in 2008 by the International Committee       of the Red Cross to       consider the legal issues arising in contemporary forms of occupation.
Roberts attended three       sessions held in Geneva during 2008-9, presenting a written submission on       how occupations end.
The ICRC's main conclusion, citing the evidence presented by Roberts, was       that the existing body       of international law on occupations does not need fundamental       renegotiation but can be       interpretatively applied to the new circumstances of occupations [C7].
The resulting report guides       the ICRC's work in occupied territories as well as its representations to       states and to international       bodies [C8].
(v) Impact on United Nations' policy regarding the application of           laws of war to UN actions           in the field:       Roberts' research on the UN's role in international security matters [R1,         R6] and on the laws of war       [R5] has been cited in high-level discussions within the UN.
The       work on the laws of war was       drawn upon, for example, in making decisions in March 2013 regarding the       status of the       intervention brigade within the UN's peacekeeping operation in the       Democratic Republic of the       Congo [C9].
The value of Roberts' research to the UN has been       publicly acknowledged by former       UN Secretary General, Kofi Annan [C10].
In sum, Roberts' work has shaped how a broad range of stakeholders       including governments, the       UN, and the International Red Cross respond to new forms of conflict and       how they interpret their       rights and responsibilities in these situations under the laws of war.
It       has had extensive reach       informing outcomes as diverse as military training, detention practices,       the definition of the scope       of combat operations, the deployment of humanitarian aid and peacekeeping       operations &#8212; with       implications for combatants, their enemies, detainees, and civilian       populations.
