     The psychological welfare of animals kept in rescue kennels, zoos, and as       pets, in various       places around the world (e.g.
USA, Australia), has improved significantly       as a result of research       conducted at the Animal Behaviour Centre.
This has resulted from new       policies and guidelines       that have been put in place as a direct result of the Centre's research       and also the development of       new commercial products stemming from the Centre's research findings.
Research from the group directly impacted several sets of guidelines       about how to best house       dogs kept in kennels and shelters, highly stressful environments that can       have a negative impact       on mental well-being.
These guidelines have international reach and       include, in 2009, Australia's         National Health and Medical Research Council Guidelines on the Care of         Dogs Used for         Scientific Procedures [7], and, in 2010, the American Veterinary         Medical Association's Model Bill         and Regulations to Assure Appropriate Care for Dogs Intended for use as         Pets [8].
Since Wells and her colleagues published their research showing that       classical music       improves the psychological welfare of dogs (having a calming effect),       rescue shelters around the       world, including Canada, USA, Australia and the UK now routinely expose       animals in their care       to classical music.
Much of the work has been disseminated through media       reports and heavily       downloaded review papers.
Zoo animals across the globe have also been significantly impacted by the       group's research.
The       group's findings fed directly into zoo research guidelines put forward by       the British and Irish         Association of Zoos and Aquariums in 2005 and still in place for the       full REF time frame [9].
These       research guidelines refer to Queen's research into the effects of visitors       on the welfare of animals,       in particular gorillas.
As a result, leading zoos including London,       Edinburgh, Belfast, Dublin and       Paignton, have installed, within the REF period, camouflage netting in       gorilla housing after research       from Queen's showed that shielding great apes from visitors was better for       the animals'       psychological well-being.
Pet dog behaviour research from the group has, from 2005, been included       in DEFRA       information for dog owners, and today, still continues to shape policies       for dog owners designed       to help reduce their pets' nuisance barking [10].
A large number of       veterinary websites, leading       pet food companies (e.g.
Purina) and pet health care blogs also frequently       refer to Wells' work on       the therapeutic effects of psychological therapy for pets (for example:       http://www.purina.co.nz/Home/All+About+Dogs/Living+Together+Dog/On+The+Move+Dog/Car+Travel+W ith+Your+Dog.htm;       http://www.vetstreet.com/dr-marty-becker/do-pets-like-some-kinds-of-music-more-than-others)     Beyond shaping guidelines and policies, the group's research has also had       very significant, and       important, commercial impact, influencing product development.
Their work       on the benefits to       animal welfare of being exposed to different sounds, including classical       music, has triggered       musical composers to produce CDs designed to reduce stress in companion       animals.
These CDs       include 2008's Through a Dog's Ear [11] and 2010's Music My         Pet.
These CDs are successfully       used to calm animals in rescue shelters, and in the home.
This amounts to       a very large number       of animals benefitting from music designed to improve their welfare.
For       example, the Through a         Dog's Ear CD, developed on the back of Wells' research (for support       see       http://throughadogsear.com/research/),       is being used in over 1700 dog rescue shelters around       the globe (see http://throughadogsear.com/shelter-program/).
It has been sold to over 150,000       pet owners, amounting to almost &#163;2 million in sales.
More recently, knowledge transfer links with companies such as Devenish,       an agrifood company       based in Northern Ireland, have resulted in the development of a novel       feedstuff that improves the       faecal consistency of pet dogs.
Devenish, who have recently diversified       into the companion animal       food market, has recently applied for a patent for the product (Devi Q),       and the feedstuff is soon to       appear on the open market.
