     Educational research from the School of Psychology at Queen's is       impacting the lives of children, parents and teachers in Northern Ireland,       in other parts of the UK and internationally.
Teaching Thinking     The revised curriculum introduced in 2007 by the Northern Ireland       Curriculum Council (CCEA) was informed and directly shaped by research       carried out in the School of Psychology at Queen's.
The current       legislation is expected to remain in place for 10 to 15 years.
The lives       of all children between 4-14 years (estimated 230,000 children annually)       and all children between 4-6 years (estimated 48,000 children annually) in       Northern Ireland schools will continue to be impacted each year by this       revised curriculum.
The ACTS framework that McGuinness developed fed directly into CCEA's       Thinking Skills and Personal Capabilities Framework, which is now       mandatory for all 4-14 year olds in Northern Ireland's curriculum.
During       a secondment (50%) to CCEA, McGuinness developed professional development       materials for teachers and pupil resources including a DVD on the Thinking       Framework and guidance booklets for teachers and schools for Key Stages 1,       2 and 3.
McGuinness's work also contributed to the design of the Wise         Up and Think storybooks for 4-5 and 6-7 year olds.
All of these       resources are freely available on the Northern Ireland Curriculum website.
Since these resources became available, the 2012 Chief Inspector's Report       in Northern Ireland has been positive about the development in children's       thinking, particularly in primary schools.
Commenting on the contribution       made by Professor McGuinness, the Curriculum Manager who led the revisions       to the NI Curriculum, said "As a major part of that work Professor       McGuinness led the development of the first statutory framework       for Thinking Skills and Personal Capabilities (TS&amp;PC) in the UK (and       perhaps in the world &#8212; pre-dating the publication of the OECD's Definition       and Selection of Competencies (DeSeCo) Project)".
The Welsh Skills Framework for Thinking was introduced in all schools       from 2007 and remains part of the Welsh National Curriculum.
During       2004-2008 Professor McGuinness acted as an Advisor to the Department of       Education in Wales and the Curriculum Council in Wales to help develop       thinking skills for their revised curriculum for 3-19 year olds.
She was       also a member of the steering committee that helped support the roll out       of the pilot project in nine local authorities.
The Development of       Thinking and Assessment project was extended to all local authorities in       2009 and continues to influence the Welsh Assembly Government's workshops       on preparation for PISA (OECD).
In Scotland, McGuinness contributed to a series of videos in the Journey       to Excellence series, made to support Scotland's `Curriculum for       Excellence'.
The videos now form part of the Journey to Excellence,       Learning Together Resource: Active Learning, made in June 2010.
Professor McGuinness was also invited by the British Council in Thailand       to be an advisor to Thailand's Ministry of Education, which between 2006       and 2009 developed a thinking curriculum in primary and secondary schools.
She advised and mentored a school-based project to infuse thinking skills       into Thai lessons.
An evaluation of the project was presented to the       Ministry in 2008 (McGuinness, 2008).
In 2009, teachers and Ministry of       Education officials from Thailand visited Northern Ireland to see ACTS in       practice in schools.
Thanks to McGuinness's work, Queen's was asked to host the 15th       International Conference on Thinking (2011).
The conference's aim was to       reach beyond researchers and academia and to spread ideas and practices       about teaching thinking into all educational sectors, businesses and       cultural and leisure practices.
The conference was attended by almost 600       delegates from 23 different countries around the world.
Over 50% of the       delegates were teachers and curriculum designers.
As part of the       conference's outreach activities, a Master Class on business innovation       and design was included in the conference programme and sponsored by       InvestNI.
Selected papers from this conference form a special issue of the       international journal published by Elsevier, Thinking Skills and         Creativity, guest edited by McGuinness and O'Hare (2012).
Growing       from the conference, a Teaching Thinking Network in Ireland (Northern       Ireland and Republic of Ireland) was launched in 2013.
Furthermore,       Professor McGuinness, in collaboration with international colleagues, won       a competitive bid (2013) to advise the International Baccalaureate       Organisation (IB) on the positioning of thinking in their three       international programmes.
IB programmes are delivered in 145 countries,       with access to over 1 million students.
Play-based Curriculum     The evaluation of the Enriched Curriculum pilot project was commissioned       directly by CCEA in 2000.
The research communication model was designed       from the beginning to be formative as well as summative, that is, it would       both monitor teaching and learning, provide continuous feedback, and also       assess learning throughout the process.
From 2001-2010, dissemination       seminars were held with principals from the participating schools, along       with local authority curriculum advisers, so that they could fine-tune       training and practice for subsequent cohorts.
This project strongly       influenced the Foundation Stage curriculum, which became statutory for 4-5       year olds in 2007 and 5-6 year olds in 2008.
The research carried out informed the creation of professional       development resources based on playful structure for on-going use in the       classroom.
These pedagogical materials are freely available on the       Northern Ireland Curriculum website and have informed the development of a       CPD course for Foundation Stage teachers which was delivered by       Stranmillis University College for the first time in 2012-2013, with plans       for further expansion underway.
Play-based learning is also having impact in the Republic of Ireland,       where the Department of Education commissioned additional work using       Queen's methods to develop policy on teaching in early years settings.
The       final report on this work was presented to the Department and to an       invited audience of representatives from policy makers, researchers and       practitioners in the field of early childhood care and education in       Ireland in November 2010.
Their Early Years Policy Unit confirmed that the       work "made a positive contribution to our knowledge and understanding of       practice in early childhood care and education settings in Ireland".
The       full report is published online on the Republic of Ireland's Department of       Children and Youth Affairs website.
