     One of the growing health threats in the UK and internationally is the       pathogens that cause bloodstream infections.
In 2011-2012 there were 99000       reported cases of bloodstream infections in England, Wales and Northern       Ireland, with E.coli accounting for 36% of these cases.
The overall number       of cases has been increasing, with about half of these resistant to       antibiotics and therefore untreatable by conventional methods and       approximately 5% resulting in death.
The growing resistance of such       pathogens to antibiotics is claimed to pose a threat equivalent to       terrorism, according to the UK Government's Chief Medical Officer, and       indicates the need to identify alternative avenues besides medication for       prevention and control.
In the case of E.coli, one of these avenues is       enforcement and compliance around food hygiene, given that this particular       pathogen is often spread through infected raw and ready-to-eat food.
The       underpinning research described in this case study has been instrumental       in helping to define the food hygiene regulation necessary to battle the       threat of E.coli and other food-borne pathogens in the UK.
Such regulation       has been instituted by the Food Standards Agency (FSA) and has resulted in       a significant increase in business compliance with food hygiene       regulations.
In September 2005 there was an outbreak of E.coli O157 in South Wales,       with a majority of the 157 victims being children from 44 schools.
Thirty-one people were admitted to hospital, of whom some developed       serious long-term health implications; a five-year-old boy died.
It was       the second largest outbreak of its kind in the UK.
Professor Hugh       Pennington was appointed to chair an inquiry into this outbreak and       commissioned Professor Hutter to prepare a report on Risk Regulation         and Compliance.
Her 2008 report [A], drafted with the assistance of       former CARR graduate Dr Tola Amodu, set out the key principles of food       hygiene regulation in the UK and considered issues of enforcement and       compliance.
The report highlighted the main tensions characterising risk       regulation in an area such as food hygiene populated predominantly by       small businesses (i.e.
restaurants, butchers, etc).
It drew directly upon       the findings of Hutter's research, particularly those relating to the       weaknesses in government policies that advocate self-regulation and the       difficulties of generalist inspectors working with more technical       concepts.
The report was taken as evidence that informed the Inquiry's       recommendations concerning regulation of food hygiene [B].
In particular,       it was instrumental in the formulation of four key recommendations       presented in the Inquiry's formal report [C].
These were as follows:            'Light touch' enforcement of individual food businesses should be kept         under constant review, as some small businesses lack the capacity to         appreciate and manage food hygiene risks and require more attention and         support (Rec 7)       Training should be developed to ensure environmental health officers         have the necessary knowledge and skills to regulate food hygiene (Rec 9)       Decisions about confidence in food safety management by a business         should be evidence based (Rec 12)       The Food Standards Agency (FSA) should develop a means to assess how         hygiene inspections are conducted by local authorities (Rec 15).
Following the publication of the Inquiry's report (March 2009), the FSA       established "as a matter of priority" a Food Hygiene Delivery Programme       (FHDP) to prioritise, direct and measure progress in its programme of work       to improve food hygiene delivery and enforcement across the UK [D].
Chaired by the FSA Director of Operations, it was set up to drive forward       actions to respond to the recommendations of the Public Inquiry.
Hutter       was consulted on the FHDP and provided specific advice on such issues as       non-state regulation, local authority enforcement and encouraging business       compliance.
In early 2012 Professor Hutter was invited to give the seventh Chief       Scientist's lecture to a gathering of FSA scientists, at which she       detailed her research on governance and regulation in managing food safety       and hygiene [4].
Her findings were disseminated more broadly through an       article in FSA's official publication Bite [E] and in a blog by       FSA Chief Scientist Andrew Wadge [F].
Professor Hutter was also invited to give oral evidence to the FSA's       Review of Delivery of Official Controls (RDOC), which was tasked with       supporting and improving the activities of local authorities and port       health authorities in monitoring and securing business compliance with       laws and regulations related to food handling and hygiene.
The evidence       she provided "fed into the thinking of the Review of Official Controls       work" [G], particularly in terms of its guiding principles and expected       outcomes.
Derrick Jones, Head of FSA's Analysis and Research Division, noted that       the oral evidence and written research by Professor Hutter has "helped to       inform the Agency's on-going development of our compliance and enforcement       strategy...providing a broader context for enforcement regulation and       evidence on what small businesses find helpful in their relationships with       regulators, and stimulating us to think about our further research needs       for supporting and developing our strategies" [G].
In November 2012 the FSA reported that 80% of expected progress on       Recommendation 7 of the Inquiry report had been achieved and 100% on       Recommendations 9, 12 and 15, with the fully completed recommendations now       mainstreamed into business as usual [D].
Specific changes included:            introduction of a 'cause for concern' initiative of focussed action         for businesses failing to achieve compliance (Rec 7)       a programme of training for local authority enforcement officers,         official veterinarians and meat hygiene inspectors on `Effective         Evaluation of Food Safety Management Systems', attended by over 2600         officials (Rec 9)       an evidence-based approach to audits and enforcement by Official         Veterinarians (Rec 12)       revision of the local authority inspection process and issuance of a         new guide for local authorities called Making Every Inspection Count         (Rec 15).
In terms of downstream impact, business compliance was significantly       improved, with 81.6% of supervised businesses in the 'broadly compliant'       category, up from 64% in October 2009.
Only 15.2% were 'not broadly       compliant' and 3.2% a 'cause for concern', compared to 27% and 9%       respectively in 2009.
In assessing overall impact, the FSA concluded that the Public Inquiry       and the establishment of the FHDP "have been key in informing the future       direction of food safety and official control delivery in the UK.
They       have been the catalyst for a number of significant developments in FSA       policy with the intention of lasting impact on public safety" [D].
Professor Hutter's research underpinned four of 24 recommendations taken       forward from the Inquiry and now mainstreamed in the FSA's new approach to       food hygiene regulation, as well as informing the work of the Review of       Delivery of Official Controls and FSA's own ongoing strategic research       programme.
Hutter's influence on food hygiene and safety regulations has extended       beyond the UK, e.g.
the Food Standards agency in Australia and New Zealand       (FSANZ).
E.coli infections are an important cause of foodborne disease in       this region and a significant expense for the health system.
Individuals       are ill from 3 to 31 days and 41% end up in hospital at an overall cost of       over $3000 per case.
According to FSANZ's Principal Economist Jason March,       Hutter's research has been useful in "framing and formulating our       responses to a number of food regulatory issues", including reducing the       risks associated with "infrequent yet possible disastrous outbreaks" like       E.coli and "recognising and taking into account the actual regulatory       capacity of all the businesses across the food supply chain, particularly       the small farmers that typically fall outside the present voluntary       arrangements" [H].
