     Under the leadership of Professor Lynn Martin (appointed in 2009) CfE has       grown to employ 35       full-time staff dedicated to supporting nascent entrepreneurs and       advancing business growth in       established SMEs and social enterprises.
Knowledge generated through the       research described in       sections 2 and 3 has informed learning programmes and resources       characterised by an emphasis       on strategic space, which is greatly enhanced when opportunities can be       created for owner-managers       to consider the firm's longer-term objectives.
Strategic space is conveyed       to business       owners as taking time to work "on the business rather than in the       business".
Below are highlighted       examples selected to illustrate the range of CfE's practical engagement       with businesses and to       evidence some of the significant ways in which this has helped owners of       established SMES, start-ups       and social enterprises to develop themselves and their organisations.
Strategic space and peer learning &#8212; established small firms     The Leading Edge programme was developed by CfE to activate the       idea of "strategic space"       through an emphasis on regular times for critical thinking and reflection.
Leading Edge worked with       SMEs in financial and professional services in Greater Manchester, funded       by the European       Regional Development Fund (ERDF).
In July 2008 analysis of the economic       impact of this project       identified a strong positive contribution to turnover, level of       employment, and quantity and variety of       new processes initiated in the 82 participating firms.
Increased turnover       directly attributable to the       programme was &#163;3.8 million and 77 new jobs were created [A].
The       success of Leading Edge led       to CfE winning the contract from the Regional Development Agency to run       five LEAD programmes       for leaders in SMEs and social enterprises (again informed by Jones' work       on strategic space [A,         B] and embedding peer-to-peer learning as discussed by Lee [I-3]).
The number of LEAD       programmes at MMU increased to six owing to high demand and high quality.
LEAD at MMU       provided a framework to increase profitability, innovate and grow the       business for 120 owner       managers of small businesses and social enterprises with core development       of strategic space and       peer support.
As one participant reported, "I'm now really aware of the       benefits of reflection &#8212; it's a       simple thing but been a great aid in managing the business"     SMEs and social enterprise leaders on the 10,000 Small Businesses         Programme also have the       opportunity to develop strategic space and strong peer networks.
MMU is       one of only four       universities in the UK awarded contracts by the Goldman Sachs Foundation       to deliver this five-year       programme, which commenced in 2010.
Created by Babson University and       developed for the UK       by the four university partners, it is based upon action learning,       peer-to-peer support, strategic       space and managerial capability to underpin better decision making,       financial management and       access to funding.
127 businesses had completed the programme by the end       of July 2013 in the       North West.
Access to funding has been particularly successful having       enabled participants at       MMU to access approx &#163;3M of growth funding.
Other direct impacts across       the programme       include: 77% of participants created net new jobs, 66% grew revenues and       16 businesses have       been nominated for, or have won, prestigious national awards [B, C].
In addition, the connection between social and economic benefits which       forms a large part of CfE's       work has led to new social enterprises being developed, and to new       community schemes being       formed by participants in the North West [D, E].
The Knowledge       Action Network programme in the       North West is designed to help businesses uncover and address their       business challenges, fully       funded under ERDF.
Unlike the 10,000 Small Businesses Programme, KAN is       available to sole       traders as well as employing businesses.
Participants benefit from       specialist coaching,       membership of a Knowledge Action Group of business owners, expert speakers       and master       classes &#8212; all informed by research-based knowledge about strategic space       and peer learning.
KAN       commenced in October 2013.
By the end of July 2013 KAN at MMU had assisted       67 businesses       and already evidenced 4 jobs created and 6 businesses with improved       performance [F, G].
Support for student and graduate enterprise     Enterprise Champions addresses the low level of graduate founded       start-up businesses across       the region.
In Phase 1 of the project (2008-2010) the CfE team worked with       over 400 students on       skills assists interventions, resulting in 32 new businesses.
Phase 2       (2010 to 2013) featured new       add-on activities to embed transformative learning, such as two-day       "business boot camps".
The       boot camps engage participants with intensive start-up support covering       finance, marketing,       pricing, and problem solving.
Boot camps were held in June 2012 with 40       participants in       Manchester and 40 at Crewe.
As a result, 20 attended individual follow up       sessions and 15 started       trading.
These activities were informed by the body of research at MMU       about nascent       entrepreneurs associated with NES, including the work of Rouse and       Jayawarna [3], who enriched       understanding of finance for start-ups, and Lee et al.
[4] who       stressed the importance of       transformative learning and cognitive social capital.
Overall, by July       2013 Enterprise Champions       Phase II at MMU resulted in 31 jobs created and 28 new businesses       commenced trading [H].
Baroness Hanham, Parliamentary Under Secretary for Communities and Local       Government       praised the excellence of the programme and MMU's "enterprise culture" [I].
Sustaining Social Enterprise     Mike Bull's research with social enterprises led to the creation of Balance,       an on-line diagnostic       tool to help social enterprises self-analyse, reflect and identify where       their skills, strengths and       shortcomings lie.
Balance draws on the concept of strategic space as well       as research with social       organisations that uncovered the complexity of their transitions to social       enterprise [6].
Under       ESRC KE funding a new section on the diversification of income sources was       added in April 2010.
Since then, 540 social enterprises have registered to use the tool and 380       assessments have been       completed.
Social Enterprise North West offers Balance as part of the       support they provide and       have to date purchased 240 licences (2012 - 2013) [J].
The Social       Solutions Academy, which       supports the learning and development of over 350 social entrepreneurs,       public sector       representatives and private sector executives said it is "really easy to       use and provides a good       snapshot for social businesses".
