     There is a political demand that policies are made transparent, but Nudges       rely on less than fully rational decision-making and they work better when       their implementation is not made fully transparent to the subjects.
Bovens       has argued that there is a difference between type transparency       (i.e.
transparency about the use of Nudges in policy making) and token         transparency (i.e.
transparency at the time of implementation of a       particular Nudge).
Nudge policies should be type       transparent and though they need not be token transparent, they do need to       be in principle token transparent&#8212;i.e.
it should be possible       for an attentive subject to recognise a Nudge at the time of       implementation.
This insight is taken up in a UK House of Lords Behaviour         Change Report which cites Bovens' work [7] and in key RLI       recommendations [8, 9].
In his RLI contribution, Bovens makes a range of specific recommendations       which are reflected in the RLI's recommendations to the Dutch government:       (i) behavioural policies should respect the private sphere and life-style       of citizens, unless there is harm to others; (ii) behavioural policies       that provide rewards for the targeted behaviour should make sure that the       rewards are in the same sphere as the targeted behaviour to avoid       charges of cynicism and manipulation; (iii) government should maximise the       mitigation of new risks that are introduced due to the institution of       behavioural policies; (iv) behavioural policies should reach vulnerable       groups and not encourage segregation and stratification; (v) social       advertisement should be truthful so as not to erode trust in government;       (vi) behavioural policies should be seen as part of a mix of policies to       encourage sustainability (including regulation); (vii) behavioural       policies are best implemented at a local level; (viii) local initiatives       must be carefully monitored: There should be a threat of regulation if       partnerships with businesses fail and outputs should be measured so as to       identify models of good practice.
This contribution is included in a       document containing three other academic contributions, an overview, and a       set of policy recommendations by the RLI and was approved by the RLI in       June 2013.
The material has been communicated to Dutch policy makers and       it is at the core of the RLI's advice [8, 9] to the Dutch government and       parliament.
The Royal Netherlands Meteorological Institute (KNMI) advises the Dutch       Government on the climate adaptation policy which is embodied in their       Delta Programme [10].
In 2012, they published the "Advisory Board Report:       KNMY'13 Scenarios".
In 2011/2012, the Chief Scientist of the PBL       Netherlands Environmental Assessment Agency, Professor Petersen, who is       also a core member of the KNMI Advisory Board, approached the LSE Climate       Modelling Group (CMG) for advice on what kinds of evidence should form the       basis of future climate policy decisions.
Should the KNMI follow recent       trends and adopt a probabilistic approach, or should it follow a       scenario-based approach?
This issue is pressing in the UK as well, because       the UK government has opted to endorse a probabilistic approach and funds       a large scale project (UKCP09) that provides decision makers with       fine-grained probabilistic forecasts for future values of a number of       decision-relevant weather variables.
The LSE group's research shows that the scenario-based approach is       preferable because probabilistic approaches make claims that are not       warranted by the scientific evidence.
Furthermore, the content of reports       based on probabilistic approaches is conveyed to the citizens through the       media in such a way that they do not become aware of the severity of the       situation which leads to inaction among politicians and policy makers on       the ground.
Scenario-based approaches display both a higher level of       scientific sincerity and accountability and warrant greater penetration to       the citizen base.
Petersen has been affiliated with LSE as a Visiting Professor since 2009       [11].
Through his interaction with LSE CMG he has become convinced of the       perils of probabilistic climate predictions and shares the group's       rejection of such methods as a basis for decisions in public policy.
He       had a crucial influence on the contents of the Advisory Board Report [12].
He communicated the LSE CMG's critical outlook to the Board.
Notwithstanding considerable pressure to adopt the now-fashionable       probabilistic approach, KNMI has decided not to do so and its choice for a       scenario-based approach permeates the document.
We do not pretend that there was a one-way street from the LSE CMG       research over Peterson's intervention to the KNMI's final position.
Ideas       are born and developed in context with mutual enrichment.
But the import       of the LSE CMG's work and Frigg's co-authored publications is substantial,       as is clearly evidenced in the attached letter by Peterson [13].
Our work has had an impact on the terms of the debate and on the content       of the advice to policy makers offered by the RLI [8 and 9] and the KNMI       [13 and 14].
Why does this impact matter?
First, RLI's       recommendations set out the potential and moral scope of behavioural       policies in the Netherlands, which has so far been relatively averse to       such policies in comparison to, say, the UK and Germany.
Such policies       leave the choice set intact and hence respect freedom and they stimulate       the search for creative local solutions, Second, LSE CMG's work, through       the KNMI advice, counteracts a recent international trend towards       probabilistic climate forecasting as a basis for policy making.
This trend       is worrisome because it is not supported by scientific evidence and hence       erodes trust in science and because it adds needless and unwarranted       complexity to the information provided to policy makers
