     Primary impacts relate to themes identified in Section 2 and are evident       at policy level, in terms of       shaping and informing the policies of governments,       international agencies, interest groups, NGOs       and business associations.
All impacts are relevant to the period 2008       onwards, and presented       below with principal institutional users and by geographical scope (i.e.,       impact on institutions at (a)       international &amp; multilateral, or (b) country &amp; regional       level).
a.
Shaping and Informing Policy &#8212; International and Multilateral level     Investment for Development (UNCTAD) &#8212; T&#252;selmann has contributed       extensively on issues of FDI       and sustainable development as a member of the UNCTAD Expert Group on       Investment for       Development.
His research summary/briefing paper re: efforts in developed       economies to extend       FDI through subsidiary development and upgrading (co-authored with       Buzdugan) was presented to       an expert Group meeting (attended by 150+ economic development ministers       and policy-makers       from UN member states, WTO, EU and ILO) in January, 2013.
T&#252;selmann       identifies insights,       lessons and strategies for application by policy-makers in developing       countries.
The UNCTAD       Director of Investment and Enterprise) attests that discussions triggered       by Tuselmann's       contributions will inform future UNCTAD activities designed to improve       frameworks for sustainable       development [A].
Upgrading economic reform and improving outcomes in emerging economies         (IMF/World         Bank/EU) &#8212; MMU research designed to bolster the success of reform       frameworks in MENA       countries, and to minimise negative impacts on social and economic       development, have       contributed to increased public understanding of the potentially damaging       consequences of       inappropriately configured reform packages [B, C].
Aid and reform       policies of the IMF and World       Bank now explicitly embody social development and anti-poverty features,       measures that have       been championed strongly by El Said on the basis of his findings.
Countering radicalisation and violent extremism (UN) &#8212; MMU       research is central to developing       work on counter-radicalisation and its benefits (security, stability and       sustainable development       etc.).
El Said's research (facilitated by membership of UN, EU and US       State Department Expert       Groups on Countering Violent Extremism and the United Nations Terrorism       Implementation Task       Force) has (a) helped to shape the debate on security inside the UN, and       (b) contributed to wider       public debates concerning solutions to radicalisation [D].
In       particular, El Said's identification of       best practices and novel and more effective means of countering violent       extremism has contributed       to a shift from military approaches towards those based on `soft'       solutions.
A senior UN official       attests that El Said's work has contributed directly to UN efforts to       raise awareness and to promote       state-sponsored counter-radicalisation and rehabilitation programmes.
He       also commends the       major impact of this work on the design of `soft policy' programmes at       national level [E].
Similarly,       the George Marshall Centre (a leading US-European security and defence       institute) acknowledges       the value of El-Said's research, and has applied his findings directly in       its capacity-building and       training and development programmes for government and homeland security       officials [F].
In       addition, El Said has been involved in substantial public awareness       raising activity re: both novel       approaches to countering violent extremism and appropriate structuring for       economic reform       frameworks (via press publication and media commentary, most notably for       Middle East       broadcasting and press agencies including Al Jazeera and Jordan Times) [C].
b.
Shaping and Informing Policy &#8212; National and Regional level     Stimulating FDI, advising inward investors (German-British Chambers of         Industry and Commerce)       &#8212; T&#252;selmann's research concerning (a) the attractiveness of the UK as a       location for higher value-added       FDI and subsidiary upgrading, and (b) the value of subsidiary embeddedness       in host       economies provides core findings to underpin the Chamber's advisory       services for German       investors in the UK.
The Chamber also employs MMU research concerning the       interplay of host       country location factors and multinational strategies in its investor       counselling.
The Chamber's       Director General confirms that MMU studies have played a key role in the       Chamber's activities       designed to support the investment decisions of German MNCs [G].
Internationalisation and investment strategy (NWDA) &#8212; findings       from research relating to German       MNE investment activities, in combination with evidence concerning other       major investor countries       in the UK, informed the NWDA's Internationalisation Strategy and its FDI       promotion programmes       (both created to attract, retain, expand and upgrade FDI in the region).
The programmes were       designed to deliver significant FDI-related benefits for the North West in       terms of productivity,       exports, and employment [H].
Innovative practise in employment relations and enhanced performance         (Academy of Social         Sciences) &#8212; T&#252;selmann's research relating to employment relations       and firm performance has       been explicitly highlighted by the Rt Hon Vincent Cable MP (Secretary of       State for Business).
Cable commended MMU's work insofar as it details the role of       high-performance foreign-owned       firms in driving innovative good practise in employment relations and       participation.
The research       thus provides learning points for UK firms, and evidence to inform       evolving government policies [I].
Participative employment relations and the future of manufacturing         (TUC) &#8212; the TUC deployed the       results of T&#252;selmann's surveys on foreign-owned subsidiary performance and       employee relations       practices in its evidence to the 2007 Trade and Industry Committee of the       House of Commons on       the Future of UK Manufacturing.
The TUC continues to draw on this research       to inform its       activities, in particular, making the case for the adoption of       participative employment relations       systems (on the basis of the latter's contribution to strong firm       performance) [J].
