     Informing strategy and policy       Research on Local Authority Collected Waste and Commercial &amp;       Industrial waste by CSWM led to       contributions such as the Defra Waste and Resource Research Strategy (1),       and Developing the       Future, the East Midlands Waste Strategy (2) and other regional       research projects (3).
Since then       the CSWM has been working in partnership with Defra on the design of Waste       Places criteria and       practice, using analysis to guide future strategy and plans (4, 5, 6).
This on-going body of work       has established CSWM as one of the leading research and training groups       within wastes       management.
In the early 2000s Defra recognised that ever-increasing waste arisings       was a significant       environmental issue and that Local Authorities needed to be equipped with       knowledge, ideas and       techniques, if they were to produce cost effective plans to reduce Local       Authority Collected Waste       arisings as required by European Directives and national targets.
One       component of this would be       to develop networks of Local Authority staff that could synthesise       available best practice into their       plans.
Training local authority staff     To facilitate this, WRAP financed a major Local Authority training       programme between 2005       and 2013 which drew heavily on the findings of CSWM research as a       significant amount of the UK       research evidence on the topics of waste reduction and waste prevention       has come through work       published by the CSWM.
The training on wastes prevention was designed and       produced by the       CSWM and included a module called Strategic approach to waste         prevention.
This module used       the findings from CSWM research as case studies that enabled Local       Authority staff to       demonstrate a critical understanding of research findings related to waste       prevention.
Examples of       the CSWM research used in the training included the Defra funded Dorset       project (3) that explored       methodologies designed to measure the impact of prevention activities, and       the `Defra `Zero Waste       Places` initiative, 2009&#8212;12.
Training was delivered via a mix of online       tutoring followed by two days       of face-to-face seminars, using a dedicated research manual, produced by       the CSWM.
Over a       period of 3 months, delegates produced an initial waste prevention plan       for their Local Authority       that was then analysed and amended by CSWM members.
Delegate feedback from       this was       extremely positive (see below).
In England currently there are about 360 Local Authorities involved in       waste management.
Between 2005 and 2011 the Northampton CSWM team trained 260 Local       Authority delegates (&#8776;       45% of England).
Between 2007-2011 some 204 delegates were trained from       120 Local       Authorities (&#8776;33% of England).
A detailed independent evaluation was carried out, via in-depth       interviews of delegates of the       prevention training (7).
Delegate responses regarding the perceived       value of training, were as       follows:            96% stated that it enabled them to evaluate the role of waste         prevention;       95% stated that it enabled them to identify and appraise barriers;       99% stated that it enabled them to develop skills to critically         evaluate the applicability of         a range of options and techniques and tools;       92% stated that it enabled them to develop a critical understanding of         research         outcomes and their application to pro-environmental behaviour;       99% stated that it enabled them to evaluate approaches that have been         developed to         monitor and measure the impact of waste prevention;       99% stated that it enabled them to critically analyse the role of         Local Authorities and         partners in promoting waste prevention.
In total, 92% of all delegates produced an outline waste prevention plan       for their Local Authority       area, based on the training they undertook with CSWM.
These plans were       examined by CSWM       members, revised and returned, for implementation by the staff in their       Local Authorities.
The impact of the training     The training that CSWM conducted for Local Authority staff had a       significant impact on the       behaviours of those staff (8).
Some 41% of those trained said that       they made significant changes       to their waste management policies, such as development of a more       cost-effective research-led       prevention plan.
For those making changes, evidence was provided that:            71% had diverted more waste from landfill;       28% increased the tonnages recycled;       33% stated changes could not have occurred without the research-based         training       45% took part in informal networks to share best practice.
Over the period 2008-12, the volume of Local Authority Collected Waste in       England fell by       some 10%.
At the Local Authority level, it is clear, using a range of       Defra metrics, that those Local       Authorities with robust waste prevention plans are seeing the largest       decrease in waste arising per       head of population.
In 2010, five of the Local Authorities that had been       trained, and then produced       a new or amended waste prevention plan, were in the top 10 of Local       Authorities with greatest       reduction of household waste arising (using BVPI 84a - kg per head).
These       were Peterborough (-11.1%), Bromsgrove (-9.7%), Colchester (-9.3%), North Kesteven (-8.6%) and       Ealing (-8%).
These statistics, together with letters of support (8-10), provide       evidence that the training of       Local Authority staff provided by the CSWM has had a significant impact on       the policies and       procedures which Local Authorities across England have developed in order       to minimise waste       generation.
As one of the letters of support (8) states: "it is       clear, from both the continuous       feedback and the independent evaluation, that the research work conducted       by The University of       Northampton, and delivered in the training, had a major impact upon the       delegates....enabling       them to adopt best practice in developing effective plans for their       employing authorities."
