     Nature of the Impact     The Warm Homes and Energy Conservation Act 2000 committed government to       publishing a       strategy to ensure that `so far as reasonably practicable persons do not       live in fuel poverty', its       wording implying by 2016.
The ensuing strategy document adopted a measure       used in previous       academic literature, that a household is `fuel poor' if modelling of the       energy efficiency of its home       suggests more than 10 per cent of net income would have to be spent on       fuel to reach particular       temperature standards and meet other needs.
There have been technical       changes over time,       including several following the Sefton/Chesshire `peer review' [4], but       this measure has continued       to be used in the annual official fuel poverty statistics.
The 2010 Autumn Statement announced that government would commission an       independent       review of the fuel poverty measure from first principles.
Professor Hills       was subsequently asked to       carry this out, supported by a team based in the Department of Energy and       Climate Change       (DECC).
The review drew on insights from earlier research within CASE,       from other institutions,       and new analysis by the review team [7].
The report's statistical analysis       shared the Royal       Statistical Society's 2012 award for `excellence in official statistics'.
On publication in March 2012, the government announced that later that       year it would issue a       consultation paper in response.
Shortly afterwards, the Deputy Prime       Minister announced that a       further part of the resources which energy companies must provide to       support energy efficiency       measures under the Energy Company Obligation (ECO), equivalent to &#163;190       million per year, would       be ring-fenced for a `Carbon Saving Communities Obligation'.
This reacted       to analysis in the       report and by others pointing to the potential regressiveness of ECO as       previously designed       (because its costs will be met by consumers), unless a sufficient       proportion of its benefits went to       those with low incomes.
The consultation paper published in September 2012 welcomed the       `considerable insight that       [Professor Hills' review] has brought to this issue, as well as the       renewed focus the Review has       generated on how we tackle the problem' [A, p.3].
Following the review's       key final       recommendation, it announced that an `updated, refreshed' [A, p.3]       strategy for tackling fuel       poverty would be published in 2013.
It committed the government to moving       away from the current       official definition and put forward a new framework for measurement.
It       stated that the government       agreed with `Professor Hills' assessment of the weaknesses of the current       definition, and ... that       the Low Income High Costs framework [developed by Hills] provides a better       approach to       understanding the issue of fuel poverty and intend to adopt it as the main       measure of fuel poverty       in future' [A, p.24].
In terms of technical construction of the indicator, the consultation       proposed adoption of all but one       of the review's detailed recommendations, including measurement of income       after housing costs       and adjusted for family size, how relative energy costs should be       measured, and how thresholds       for low income and high costs should be set (the exception was the       treatment of certain disability       benefits, although DECC later said that parallel statistics will be       published reflecting both       treatments).
DECC's 2013 Fuel Poverty Statistics, which cited Hills' work       extensively, included       data on the new proposed basis, alongside the current measure [B].
In July 2013 the government published its response to the consultation,       announcing that it will       `adopt the overall Low Income High Costs framework as the new indicator of       fuel poverty.
This will       be used in future assessments of fuel poverty in England' [C, p.6].
It also published a `framework for future action', announcing that it       would be proposing       amendments to the 2013 Energy Bill to underpin a future government       strategy for fuel poverty (to       follow enactment of the Bill).
The document suggested that the `new       definition is a powerful tool' to       `design effective solutions' [D, p.5], using the basis of the `outstanding       work' undertaken by       Professor Hills [D, p.5 and p.7].
Wider Implications: The citation for Professor Hills's knighthood       in June 2013 stated that: `His       independent review of fuel poverty will help to target assistance at those       who need it most, with a       long-lasting impact through quality of life improvements for some of the       most vulnerable in society'.
The Unit's research therefore led to a significant change in official       understanding and       measurement.
In turn this has contributed to a change in the focus of       policy and distribution of       resources available for energy efficiency improvements, potentially       leading to more effective       policies benefiting several million people.
This should have benefits in       reducing hardship, health       problems, and mitigating adverse side-effects of climate change policies.
