     The Infrared Multilayer Laboratory is recognised as a world leading       facility in the field of optical thin-film interference coatings for Space       and Astronomy.
The beneficiaries from this research flow through to the       collective public user community as satellite data for improved weather       forecasting, atmospheric and climate research, and observations of the       universe through infrared astronomy.
The following examples highlight the       impact of this research to three differing sectors of the remote-sensing       community.
Earth Observation       The High Resolution Dynamics Limb Sounder (HIRDLS) is an infrared       instrument for atmospheric monitoring of global temperature and trace       constituents from the upper troposphere into the mesosphere.
The       instrument operates with 42 precision narrow-band interference filters       integrated into a focal plane detector arrays to provide simultaneous       multi-channel observations of a target scene at discrete wavelengths       across the thermal waveband.
Launched on the NASA Aura spacecraft in a       polar orbit in 2004, the instrument provides an unprecedented wealth of       atmospheric information with enhanced resolution relative to earlier       instruments.
HIRDLS can monitor rapid vertical changes in temperature and       composition previously unobserved on a global basis and provides       atmospheric measurements over virtually every point on the Earth surface       in a repeatable pattern, permitting observation of atmospheric phenomena       changes in the same geographic locations throughout the lifetime of the       mission.
The fine spatial and spectral resolution has resulted in ongoing       research discoveries and refinements in global atmospheric circulation       models, including; unique measurements of Cirrus cloud distribution       mapping in the upper troposphere (2010), equatorial wave structure       propagation (2011), gravity wave momentum fluxes in polar and monsoon       regions (2011), and stratosphere-troposphere intrusions resulting from low       ozone concentrations (2011).
Planetary Reconnaissance       The Diviner radiometer experiment on the NASA Lunar Reconnaissance Orbiter       uses infrared filters to investigate the thermal radiation, mineralogical       composition and structure of the lunar environment to gather data as a       prelude to future human exploration of the Moon.
High precision narrow       bandpass filters manufactured by IML are used to identify possible       locations of ice formation, map mineralogical rock compositions and lunar       soils.
The filters provided crucial measurements during the Lunar LCROSS       impact mission in 2009, witnessing energy dissipation and cooling during a       planetary impact.
The impact shows strong evidence of trapped volatile       chemical compounds that originate from primitive outer solar system       bodies.
Diviner has discovered further cold traps in the Moon's south       polar region where sub-surface temperatures are cold enough to cold-trap       water ice and other volatile species.
Moon "red spot" regions were       discovered to exhibit high Silicic composition, quartz, silica-rich glass,       alkali feldspar and pyroclastic FeO deposits, providing evidence that the       Moon is a complex body that has experienced a diverse set of igneous       processes.
Infrared filters designed and manufactured by IML for the Mars Climate       Sounder experiment on the NASA Mars Reconnaissance Orbiter were deployed       to observe the temperature, pressure, humidity and dust content of the       Martian atmosphere.
The measurements obtained through these filters are       assembled into daily global maps to show how the Martian weather       circulates and varies over time.
Discoveries from this instrument have       provided copious information about ancient environments, ice-age scale       climate cycles and present-day atmospheric changes.
Carbon dioxide       snowfalls were also detected from south polar clouds, making Mars the only       body in the solar system to exhibit this strange weather phenomenon, and       tracking of regional dust storms in the lower atmosphere of the red       planet.
Ground-based Astronomy       Cooled astronomical filters were developed for ground-based astronomy       under the auspices of the European Southern Observatory (ESO) VISible       InfraRed Instrument (VISIR) on the Very Large Telescope (VLT), Chile.
This       consortium represents the majority of infrared telescope instruments in       the world, namely; VLT-VISIR, UKIRT-Michelle, GTC-CanariCam, AURA-Gemini,       SUBARU-COMICS, ESO-TIMMI2, VLTI-MIDI, W.M.
KECK-LWS, NASA IRTF-MIRLIN, and       TIRCAM.
IML were responsible for the spectral design and manufacture of       narrow bandpass filters in the N-band (7.5-14 &#956;m) and Q-band (16-28 &#956;m)       atmospheric windows deployed in all of these instruments.
The successful       manufacture of these complex filters has enabled scientists to investigate       astronomical phenomena not previously attainable.
The range of infrared       filters distributed throughout the astronomical community has resulted in       a vast collection of astrophysical discoveries ranging from; particulate       interstellar and circumstellar hot dust properties, planetary gas       emissions, star and planet forming nuclei, and structure of luminous       infrared galaxies.
