     The two central impacts of McLean's research have been (1) to contribute       to a change in the Treasury's methods of collecting and calculating       regional expenditure data, now used to guide policy and analysis, and (2)       to shape acceptance of a needs-based approach to regional funding as an       appropriate basis for the reform of funding arrangements for Scotland and       Wales.
(1) Contributing to a change in the methods for recording and           calculating regional public expenditure across all UK           government departments     HM Treasury accepted the recommendations of the McLean Report on       recording and calculating regional expenditure data in full.
Following       specific recommendations of the report, HM Treasury and the Office for       National Statistics (ONS) developed a joint approach to the calculation of       more reliable figures on domestic (and European) regional expenditure to       inform the Public Expenditure Statistical Analysis (PESA).
In       2008, the Treasury rolled out requirements for all departments to use       these methods for collecting and issuing data and provided detailed       guidance based on the McLean Report on how to attribute various       types of spending in the now annually required PESA return.
This allows       policy debates to be informed increasingly by a more accurate picture of       the fiscal position of the UK's twelve regions [C1].
The McLean Report also underlined that appropriate data reports       should be produced for policy- makers; tailored reports are now used to       assess specific outcomes such as the effects of formula funding, demand       driven expenditure, and expenditure based on policy decisions.
The impact       of these changes has been gradual, as departments have increasingly       produced better data.
Only now, for instance, is the true level of EU farm       support across the UK's regions becoming clear, and McLean's methods       continue to underpin Treasury initiatives.
As the Permanent Secretary at       HM Treasury noted in his opening remarks, at recent meeting for academics       working on public finance (25.01.2013), "we use the McLean Report all the       time here" [C2].
As well as informing PESA, McLean's analysis is       also used by the ONS in order to produce their regional Gross Value Added       tables and by the Scottish Government for the publication of their annual       expenditure and revenue publication [C2].
The beneficiaries of the reforms to the Treasury's Public Expenditure         Statistical Analysis include not only politicians, civil servants,       analysts, and journalists who rely on the PESA statistics to make       assessments of the effects of regional spending, but also stakeholders in       discussions about the spatial redistribution of public expenditure in the       UK.
For example, this data is used in the Institute for Public Policy       Research's (IPPR) analysis of public funding in the North of England which       provides northern stakeholders with a better evidence base and an       understanding of the spending review process; the data is also used in       current debates about Scottish independence [C3].
(2) Shaping efforts to replace the Barnett Formula by a fairer           funding formula responsive to needs     McLean's analysis of the limitations of the Barnett formula has shaped       acceptance of the need for a change of the funding formula for Scotland       and Wales and the wider policy debate about fiscal devolution.
Scotland: McLean's research on the effects of the Barnett Formula       contributed to the launch of a joint initiative by the UK government and       Scottish Parliament to replace Barnett as the mechanism to adjust public       expenditure for Scotland.
McLean was appointed to the Independent Expert       Group, which advised the Calman Commission on Scottish Devolution       in 2008-9 with a view to improving the financial accountability of the       Scottish Parliament [C4].
The Expert Group's four reports were       adopted by the Commission, including its core recommendation that the UK       should vacate 10p in the pound of Income Tax for Scottish taxpayers, and       that the Scottish Parliament should be required to set a rate for funding       devolved services.
This recommendation became part of the Scotland Bill.
Independently of the Expert Group's work McLean also contributed to the       wider policy debate about the funding regime for Scotland by giving       evidence to the Scotland Bill Committee of the Scottish Parliament [C5],       and by publishing in the media on the Calman proposal to make the Scottish       Parliament responsible for decisions at the margin between taxing less and       spending more [C6].
The Scotland Bill was endorsed by both the Scottish and UK Parliaments       and now forms the Scotland Act 2012 [C7], which is set to create a       democratically elected and fiscally responsible Parliament for the first       time since 1707.
If the Scottish people reject independence, the Scotland       Act will come into operation immediately.
If they accept independence, the       scheme will remain available to both governments &#8212; Scotland and UK &#8212; as a       model for reforming fiscal transfers.
In either case, the Barnett Formula       is now likely to expire and to be replaced a more needs-guided approach.
Wales: McLean's research insights on the Barnett formula [R1]       also played a role in informing the proposal by the Independent         Commission on Funding and Finance for Wales (the Holtham         Commission) to replace Barnett with a needs-based funding regime for       Wales.
The Commission was established by the Welsh Assembly Government to       consider the benefits and drawbacks of the Barnett Formula, and to       identify possible alternative funding mechanisms including tax-raising and       borrowing powers.
McLean was invited twice to speak at the Holtham         Commission in 2009-10, and presented evidence on the effects of the       Barnett Formula and arguments for a more needs- based funding regime [C8].
His analysis that the Barnett Formula failed to give Wales a block grant       that was commensurate for its needs was accepted by the Commission.
In its       final report, published in July 2010, the Commission recommended that the       Assembly Government should pursue the introduction of a needs-based       formula for determining the Welsh block grant instead of the Barnett       Formula, a recommendation that is entirely consistent with McLean's       arguments and findings [C9].
The Holtham Commission's       final report was welcomed by Labour, Conservative and Plaid Cymru       politicians and is contributing to the growing weight of evidence against       the Barnett Formula in the debate about the funding regime for Wales.
In sum, McLean's research has generated impacts of UK-wide reach and       lasting significance: the McLean Report informed the Treasury's       reforms of the PESA-regime which has resulted in more accurate regional       expenditure data across the United Kingdom.
This change allows policy and       debate to be informed increasingly by the true fiscal position of the       twelve UK regions.
The revised data has also helped McLean to demonstrate       the need to reform the Barnett Formula, which influenced the conclusions       of the Calman and Holtham Commissions, as well as the       fiscal structure for Scotland envisaged in the Scotland Act 2012, and       contributed to the growing acceptance of a needs-based formula for       determining the block grant for Wales.
