     Impact on ethical discussions and public engagement     This research has garnered considerable public interest through magazine       articles, radio and television pieces (international news, discussion and       documentaries), e.g.
cover story on Wired Magazine http://www.wired.com/wired/archive/8.02/warwick.html,       Late Night with Conan O'Brien (NBC), Ideas that Changed the World (BBC)6       in 2010, YouTube clips, blogs and Wikipedia discussions.
Warwick has been       featured in multiple radio and news outlets, and popular science       television programmes discussing this research, e.g.
Museum of Curiosity       on Radio 4 in 2013.
The work has been presented at various prestigious       lectures, e,g.
IET         Pinkerton Lecture in 2012 World         Science Festival in New York City 2009, schools, TEDx talks, e.g.
University of Chicago         in 2011, University         of Warwick in 2012, and through invited talks at medical,       philosophical and technical conferences.
An exhibition in London's Science       Museum was devoted to the work using cultured neurons in a robotic       machine, and was in place for 18 months from 2008.
The Science Museum       maintains a website specifically dedicated to our research7, a       resource used by schools and colleges as an integral part of their course       structure.
The research also featured in the 2012 Wellcome Trust (London)       "Superhuman" exhibition, http://www.wellcomecollection.org/press/press-releases/superhuman.aspx,       which was visited by nearly 80,000 people1.
The work has been       subject to many schools projects and presentations globally, some under       the auspices of the Royal Society via its Acclaim project, others due to       local organisation.
In 2011, Google selected the implant research as a       major source of inspiration for young scientists.
The work was used as one       of only five examples in the world for the Google Science Fair8.
The collaboration with Dr Ben Whalley integrating cultured neurons into a       robot body appeared as a story and video in New Scientist2.
The       two versions of the video have collectively been viewed over 2.5 million       times9.
The work was also included in the Faraday Schools       programme13in 2013.
Impact on human health and quality of life     As a direct consequence of the first successful BrainGate implant in a       human, studies have subsequently been performed to assist individuals who       are paralysed to considerably enhance their quality of life4,12.
The research carried out at Reading showed that the concept of       technological integration with the human nervous system was possible, the       Unit pioneered the first direct human neural control of a robotic arm, its       success and lack of adverse effects contributed to the obtaining of       ethical approval for further implantations of the BrainGate system4.
The subsequent use of BrainGate has improved patient outcomes, as       demonstrated in human trials reported in Nature in 201212.
BrainGate has enabled paralysed individuals to control technology around       them directly from their neural signals.
Research on the use of BrainGate       has now moved on to a formal human clinical trial (trial identifier:                www.clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT00912041).
In 2013 the       Director of the Neurorehabilitation Engineering Center at the University       Medical Center Gottingen, NL used a similar approach for prosthesis       control by neural signals and specifically referred to Reading's work in       his design11.
In 2009 the Director of the Alfred Mann Institute for Biomedical Eng.,       USA, integrated Reading's research with biocompatible tech and       specifically referred back to the Unit's work10     Research into the intelligent deep brain stimulator is on going2       although in a Mail on Sunday article of 2008 the design of an intelligent       on demand stimulator by the team was hailed as "the most significant       recent advance in biomedical engineering"14.
Impact on government awareness of technology developments and their           implications     In (2010)The         Danish Council of Ethics used the Unit's research to question the       ethical aspects of cyborg technology, leading to the release of a suite of       recommendations http://bit.ly/1e7tO4d       At the UK government's Future Horizon Scanning Meeting in 2009, the       University of Reading team was specifically involved5 in       developing the government's stance on national security.
This included       issues such as identity, neural control and communication as considered in       our research.
As a consequence the Reading team is also involved in the       planning and presentation of the forward looking "Cross-Government Futures       Symposium" to be held in Feb 2014.
The Symposium is designed to consider       differing views and perspectives about the future and what they will mean       for UK Government strategy and policy beyond the next Parliamentary term5.
In terms of these issues the group's direct, practical work across the       spectrum of neural implants and growing brains, as described here, is of       direct relevance in shaping future Government policy.
