     The report 'High Street Britain 2015' (HSB-2015) used MMU       research to highlight how small       business failures threaten key government policies including the drive for       diversity and social       inclusion.
It galvanised decision makers and stakeholders at national,       local and community levels       who used MMU research to inform key policy changes and new strategies for       place management.
Impacts on public policy     In April 2008, the Competition Commission completed its inquiry into the       UK Grocery Retail Sector       concluding that action was "needed to improve competition in local       markets" including a       strengthened and revised Code of Practice, to be enforced by an       independent ombudsman: both       recommendations based on MMU research on the independent retail sector's       role in supporting       town centres, presented in oral evidence to the inquiry by Parker [A].
This led to 2010's The         Groceries Code, a legally binding document for retailers designed to       ensure all businesses have       access to fair and open markets, and, in April 2013 to The Groceries         Adjudicator Bill which       created the UK's first independent adjudicator to oversee the relationship       between large       supermarkets and their direct suppliers [B].
MMU research on the role of place management models in providing a       mechanism for       public/private partnerships to add commercial and social value directly       informed Department of       Business, Innovation and Skills (DBIS) guidelines.
It is cited in `Understanding         High Street         Performance', the 2011 DBIS guide to issues that the public, private       and third sectors need to       consider when investing in high streets.
Similarly, the Department for       Communities and Local       Government's (DCLG's) 2012 review of shopping parades draws on MMU       research on the       demise of the independent retail sector [C].
HSB-2015       continues to be referenced in government       publications including the 2012 Parliamentary Briefing Paper on Town         Centres, Planning and         Supermarkets [D].
As a direct result of the AGORA project, MMU-developed principles of       place management were       adopted and continue to inform UK Government initiatives impacting at       local level.
Examples       include the DCLG's Business and Town Centres Project which uses       AGORA's model of       partnership funding to underpin analysis and support for 36 towns (15       added since 2008)[E].
During 2011, Parker was guest speaker at the annual general meeting of       more than 100 members       of the local community action group that successfully challenged a &#163;50m       Sainsbury redevelopment       plan for Crosby's town centre [F] and chaired Bristol's High       Street Scrutiny Inquiry.
In Bristol,       Parker's keynote committee address, introducing the issues and giving       examples from other cities       of how the problems might be addressed, was webcast live.
'Cover it live'       technology allowed &gt;130       local stakeholders to participate in the discussion.
Bristol's new High       Street Strategy includes       recommendations regarding accessibility and funding for place management       directly informed by       MMU research [G].
Impact on professional practice     The Institute of Place Management (IPM) is an international       organisation supporting people       working in urban planning, town and city centre management based on a       concept developed by       MMU researchers.
Established in 2006, it has grown to 300 full and &gt;600       affiliate members (July       2013).
Through IPM, professional standards and models of place management       identified in the       AGORA project are disseminated through a programme of continuing       professional development,       master classes, conferences and, through the Journal of Place         Management and Development       (launched in 2008 and edited by Parker) and the Place Bulletin       circulated to &gt;900 subscribers       worldwide [H].
Impact can be demonstrated by Hallett Cove's       (Australia) adoption of a new       structure for place management in 2013.
The town's urban designer (details       uploaded to the       system) said "... (IPM's) masterclass offered insight into how others are       applying best practice       place management...and into the types of strategies which could engender       sustainable and       resilient place outcomes".
Rev Kevin Wood, member of the Hallett Cove       steering committee said       "To get local people involved (...) really is exciting.
"[I]     The President of the National Association of British Market Authorities       says "MMU research and       the IPM has been the driving force professionalising the place management       sector."
[J]     Media and increased public understanding     In May 2013 BBC Radio 4's You and Yours (Y&amp;Y) programme broadcast a       week-long series on       the various challenges facing the high street (3.5m listeners).
Parker       featured in two of the       programmes in the series.
Y&amp;Y's reporter/producer, said "Cathy's       analysis of both national and       local policy helped the production team's understanding of the issues,       contributed to the structure       of the series and gave context to the complex subject matter.
The points       raised were put to the       Minister responsible, Mark Prisk" [K].
Other recent media appearances by Parker include in-depth interviews for       BBC News 24       (13/12/11), BBC1's Sunday Politics Show, Radio 5 Live, and Andy       Crane's BBC Manchester       programme (all May 2013).
