     Impact on policy     Research published since 1996 has had an international impact on the       scientific evidence base for       understanding plant-pollinator interactions and has influenced the ways in       which pollinator       conservation and pollination as an ecosystem service have been conceived       as an issue requiring       national and international legislation.
For example, Waser et al.
(1996) and Ollerton &amp; Cranmer       (2002) were used as evidential material in programmes that are the basis       for international       conservation policy such as the Millennium Ecosystem Assessment [1].
The Millennium       Ecosystem Assessment is currently the single most important and       influential driver of international       conservation policy and the recent UK National Ecosystem Assessment [2]       arose from findings of       the 2005 global Millennium Ecosystem Assessment.
The UK National Ecosystem       Assessment in       turn has underpinned the UK Government's "Protecting biodiversity and       ecosystems at home and       abroad" policy [3] and (of particular relevance here) the "Bees and       other pollinators: their health       and value" policy paper which is currently being discussed [4] .
In the USA both Waser et al.
(1996) and Waser &amp; Ollerton       (2006) were cited within the "Status of       Pollinators in North America" report [5] which is driving       pollinator conservation policy in the USA       and was an important influence on The Food, Conservation, and Energy Act       of 2008 (the "Farm       Bill") that "authorizes a range of incentive-based conservation programs       on agricultural       land..[and].....makes pollinators and their habitat a priority" [6].
Public engagement with science     Professor Ollerton has disseminated his research widely, including talks       to amateur societies,       interviews for print and broadcast media (e.g.
[7]) and discussions       with journalists and film and       television producers.
This non-academic dissemination has influenced both       the production of film       and television documentaries and the uptake and efficacy of national       pollinator conservation       campaigns.
For example Professor Ollerton was a science advisor for the Walt Disney       Studios feature length       documentary Wings of Life, narrated by Meryl Streep.
Professor       Ollerton has also acted as a       science advisor to the recent BBC Scotland television series How to         Grow a Planet, broadcast       2012.
He was a science advisor and on-screen expert in the BBC Gardeners'         World &#8212; Science in         the Garden special edition (filmed August 2009, broadcast November       2010).
Professor Ollerton's       particular expertise in the complexity of ecologically generalised       plant-pollinator interactions       influenced the work of the directors/producers and meant the focus of       these programmes was       rather different than it might otherwise have been [8].
For       example, there was greater emphasis       placed on wild pollinators (as opposed to managed honeybees) and the       fundamental importance of       nesting sites and other non-food resources was highlighted, as well as       flowers that provide nectar       and pollen.
Impact on gardening practices     Most recently Professor Ollerton was an advisor and on-screen expert for       the BBC's award winning       series Sarah Raven's Bees, Butterflies and Blooms.
These three       programmes were widely       acclaimed for their efforts to raise the profile of pollinator loss in the       UK and for providing some       partial solutions to the problem in terms of changing the types of plants       grown in both private and       public gardens, and in the wider countryside.
As part of this series       Professor Ollerton worked with       the producers, Sarah Raven herself, the Horticultural Trades Association       and the Royal Horticultural       Society to develop and launch the "Perfect for Pollinators" labelling       system to be used by       commercial plant growers, nurseries and garden centres.
This initiative       has the benefit of enabling       gardeners to be able to make easily informed planting choices which will       benefit particular pollinator       species etc.
In Spring 2013 Professor Ollerton's research group carried       out a study (funded by the       University of Northampton) to understand the impact that the       RHS Perfect for Pollinators campaign had had on pollinator-friendly       gardening practices [9].
Interviews were conducted with managers of 53 garden centres and nurseries       across the UK and       all said that they had plants for sale that were of potential benefit to       pollinating insects.
Almost       65% of outlets said that they believed the recent media interest in the       decline of pollinators       stimulated demand for plants and seeds that offered pollen and nectar       rewards.
Over 66% said       they had personally noticed a difference in customer purchasing decisions       as a result of the media       interest in the decline of pollinators.
Almost 38% of plant retail outlets       said they had heard of the       RHS Perfect for Pollinators logo, with 21% actually using it in the store.
Of those that had heard of       the logo, 30% said they were not using it because they had created their       own labelling system.
A       survey of garden centre customers revealed that almost 98% of people were       aware that pollinating       insects are in decline, with approximately 80% commenting that media       coverage had informed       them about this issue.
More than 77% said that when buying plants or seeds       they particularly       looked for varieties that might be beneficial for pollinating insects.
To       help them make their       selections 76% said they relied on plant labelling such as Perfect for       Pollinators, and/or staff       knowledge.
