     Technological progress and acceptance of new thinking in the leather       industry is conservatively slow, but the link-lock theory appears to have       been embraced surprisingly quickly.
Since the first publication of the       link-lock theory in the technical leather literature in 2008, the theory       was refined for further dissemination in the technical magazine World       Leather, Oct/Nov 2010.
The theory was used extensively in the argument for       predicting the processing by which desired characteristics could be       conferred to leather, published in the Journal of the Society of Leather       Technologists and Chemists, 2011, 95(6), 231, taken from the Procter       Memorial Lecture given to the Annual Conference of the Society of Leather       Technologists and Chemists of UK in 2010, and presented to the       International Union of Leather Technologists and Chemists Societies       Congress in Valencia, Spain in 2011, a biennial meeting of the technical       arm of the global leather industry.
The theory was extensively treated in the following book, the first       treatment of leather science since 1993, in which the future of tanning       was reviewed in the light of the new thinking: Covington, A.D., Tanning         Chemistry.
The Science of Leather, Royal Society of Chemistry       Publishing, Cambridge, 2009 (ISBN:978-0-85404-170-1)     The link-lock theory, however, has been disseminated beyond academia into       the global leather and associated industries: it is known to be being used       in the thinking of leather scientists in the USA and Europe.
In       particular, The American Leather Chemists Association (ALCA) gave       Covington the Alsop Award in 2011 for `outstanding scientific or         technological contribution to the leather industry'.
It should be       noted that ALCA were founded in 1903 specifically to promote the       advancement of science and engineering in their application to the leather       and leather product industries.
In practical terms, the link-lock theory is informing the development       programme of the Lanxess company of Germany.
They are currently marketing       a new tanning agent based on poly (carbamoyl) sulfonate, In order to       optimise the effect of the reagent in the market, the link-lock theory is       being used to define how the technology can be extended in terms of       combinations of other chemicals with the base reagent.
In this way, a new       generation of tanning processes can be devised, allowing tanners an       organic option to the global standard of chrome tanning and a means to       avoid the environmental difficulties of using metal chemistry (contact Dr.       Dietrich Tegtmeyer, Lanxess).
Link-lock is also the basis of the thinking in trying to define the       development of a new generation of tanning chemicals being undertaken by       Buckman International, an American based chemical supply house for whom       Covington acted as Consultant in 2011.
Since there is a developing market       for leather which is chromium free, they like other supply houses are       interested in supplying alternative tanning reagents to the tanning       industry.
Here, the particular interest lies in organic alternatives to       chromium(III) chemistry and any successful alternative must match as many       of the properties of chrome tanned leather as possible.
The only way to       achieve high hydrothermal stability, required in modern applications of       leather, is to use the principles of link-lock (contact Mr. Elton Hurlow,       Buckman).
The ECCO company, a multinational leather business based in The       Netherlands, Indonesia and P.R.
of China, currently sends cohorts (ca.10       pa) of its brightest technologists to the University of Northampton for       the MSc in Leather Technology.
The purpose is to educate them in the       latest thinking, in which link-lock theory and associated developments are       central.
Graduates return to their factories equipped with the ability to       engage in development programmes to make operations more profitable: this       is the return on the investment made by the parent company (contact Mr.       Arthur Jones, ECCO).
