     Every year about 50,000 people of working age in the UK have a stroke       (Stroke Association Fact Sheet 09: Stroke in younger adults 2011).
Estimates of the proportion of people who do not return to work after a       stroke indicate that it is at least 27% (NICE Clinical guideline on         stroke rehabilitation: the rehabilitation and support of stroke patient,       2011; Stroke Association Fact Sheet 09: Stroke in younger adults       2011).
Engaging charities, the NHS and government services with the       research has had very considerable impacts on understanding the needs of       working age individuals who have suffered strokes and the kinds of       services they require to help them begin again.
Research contribution to the work of the Stroke Association: The       research findings (see Section 3 [1,2,3,4]) have made a very considerable       impact on the work of the Stroke Association.
The research conducted to       evaluate a pilot service for working age individuals recovering from a       stroke has had, and continues to have, an impact on the growth of services       developed and supported by the Stroke Association across the UK.
In 2009,       the Stroke Association included enablement and social inclusion in `Back       to Life' services and return to work support in `Life After Stroke' [5].
Benefits to stroke victims, carers, families, employers, communities         and society: The key beneficiaries from this research are       individuals who have had a stroke, their carers, families and employers.
Communities and society have also gained as individuals have returned to       work, become less isolated and participated more in society.
The 2010/2011       report from Bridgend Positive Action for Stroke contains impressive       testimonials from people who have had a stroke describing how the       services, based on the recommendations of a pilot service evaluation       conducted by Professor Corr, have had a very considerable impact on       changing their lives [6].
Continuation of service to stroke patients: The excellent research       made a distinct and material contribution to the continuation of the day       service in Cardiff [7,8], currently the only service in the UK funded by       the Stroke Association.
The new manager, with experience of delivering       therapeutic services, appointed following the evaluation in 2000/2001       continues to manage the service.
Recommendations adopted: Changes to the post-stroke day service in       Cardiff take up the recommendations of the research.
These include regular       input by an occupational therapist, discussions with individuals and       support relating to return to work &#8212; input from the Disability Employment       Office and the Shaw Trust.
Individuals are encouraged to set SMART       (specific, measurable, attainable, relevant and time-bound) goals that       help them focus on their specific needs.
Between October 2008 and October       2012, 53 individuals joined the Cardiff day service and 50 were       discharged.
Of these, 26 improved their mood and reduced isolation, and 10       returned to full or part-time work.
During the research period (1998-2000       see Section 2) only one of the 26 individuals discharged from the service       returned to work.
The recommendations have enabled five individuals per       two-year period to return to work, an increase of 400%.
New services in Wales: Based on the research [1], in 2005 the New       Opportunities Fund (the forerunner of the Big Lottery) awarded a       three-year grant to establish ten Positive Action for Stroke services in       Wales.
These were rebadged as community integration services in 2007 and       three (Bridgend, Ceredigion and North Carmarthenshire) continued with       funding from local authorities or other grants.
Between October 2008 and       October 2012 these three services benefitted 84, 23 and 3 individuals       respectively.
The remaining seven services did not secure ongoing funding.
Three evolved to become stroke clubs and four were disbanded.
Service replicated in England: The Community Integration Service       approach based on the research (see Section 3 [1]) has been replicated in       England [9].
In 2009, a service funded by the North of England       Cardiovascular Network began and in 2012 reported lasting improvements to       more than 279 individuals (26% supported to return to work and 77%       supported to reintegrate into social and community activities).
Those       helped to return to work required fewer benefits and hospital       readmissions, had improved their economic wellbeing and contributed as       tax-payers saving the government and NHS money [9].
The NHS refers to the       Confederation of British Industry estimate (2008) that the cost to the       economy of a working day lost to sickness is about &#163;77 suggesting that the       costs of people not returning to work after stroke are substantial [10].
Findings used in guidelines and tools: Dissemination of the       findings through peer-reviewed journal papers (see Section 3 [1,2,3]) and       conference presentations had led to significant use in guidelines and       tools.
The research has informed the Stroke Association [5] and other       rehabilitation practitioners, researchers, guideline developers and       service deliverers on issues such as return to work and community       integration services for individuals who have suffered a stroke.
The 2011 NICE clinical guidelines [11] for stroke rehabilitation now       include `return to work' as a quality measure (see Section 3 [3]).
The Canadian Occupational Performance Measure (COPM) is used in more than       35 countries and has been translated into over 20 languages.
The COPM       cites Corr and Wilmer 2003 (see Section 3 reference [3]) as an important       reference on its web page [12].
The University of Illinois at Chicago       (UIC) Model of Human Occupation (MoHO) Clearing House [13] also refers to       the research (see Section 3 references [1,3].
Innovation award: In 2012 Professor Susan Corr won an innovation       award for identifying other patient groups that might benefit from       services similar to those developed based on her research evidence [14].
