     Traditional metal processing techniques involve strong mineral acids and       bases.
These processes evolve large volumes of aqueous effluent which must       be treated before emission and this can be a significant environmental       hazard.
The processes also have inherently poor power inefficiency due to       the electrochemical instability of water.
Scionix Ltd was formed as a       University spin-out (1999) to commercialise ionic liquid technology as an       alternative and currently holds 4 key patents [1].
Scionix Ltd. is now one       of the world's major producers and innovators in the field of ionic       liquids [2], disseminating technologies and techniques which       simultaneously benefit industries such as electronics manufacturing,       aerospace engineering, metal finishing and surface coatings.
These       benefits include reduced energy costs, reduced environmental emissions and       reduced user hazard.
Each process is underpinned by recycling protocols       and economic evaluations.
Typically the company produces 1000 to 3000 kg       of ionic liquids p.a.
which is significant for such a nascent technology.
The company has developed several commercial scale processes in       collaboration with UoL and the end users.
These include chromium plating       [text removed for publication] electropolishing (Rolls Royce, Anopol and       Northbridge Motorsport) and silver plating (P W Circuits) and each process       delivers environmental and efficiency improvements over the aqueous       process.
Rolls Royce, PWCircuits and [text removed for publication] were engaged       through industry briefing events organised by national/international trade       associations (Institute of Material Finishers/ European Institute of       Printed Circuit Boards).
The technology was showcased through the Ionic       Liquid Demonstrator which is an industry facing showcase based at UoL       containing six pilot plants each using &gt; 50 kg of ionic liquids [3].
Since its opening in June 2009 more than 25 businesses have used the Ionic       Liquids Demonstrator Unit including Dow, MacDermid, HydroQuebec and       Silberline.
All have trialled new processing techniques with their       products including printed circuit boards, batteries and colloidal       dispersions.
Prototype materials, devices and processes have been       produced.
A European consortium POLYZION used the facilities and was       successful in developing rechargeable zinc batteries with a specific       current density of 1000 W kg-1, excellent cycleability       (&gt;1000 cycles) and a large open circuit potential (~1.9V) [4].
Chromium Plating: Chromium is the industry standard for hard metal       coatings and is currently solely carried out using highly carcinogenic       chromic acid.
The establishment of the first Cr(III) route to hard chrome       is a significant development.
The process developed with [text removed for       publication] is coating steel tubes with hard chromium using a novel       rotating electrode arrangement to decrease the volume of ionic liquid       needed and further improve the safety of the plating process.
The       exclusive license signed between [text removed for publication] and       Scionix sees private sector investment of &gt;2M Euro.
The original work       in this area led to Abbott being awarded the Industry and Green Medals by       the Royal Society of Chemistry [5, 6].
Electropolishing: Rolls-Royce Aerospace was assisted by Ryder       working at their Derby site (originally under the auspices of the Royal       Society Industry Fellowship scheme (2010-2012) and then under a HEIF       funded Fellowship).
He developed a new approach to superalloy processing       using electrochemical etching.
To deliver the impact it was necessary to       understand the role of ionic liquids in electrolytic removal of oxide       films and dissolution of metals from Ni super alloy castings.
The       mechanism of scale formation was elucidated in collaboration with Rolls       Royce.
The surface chemistries, morphologies and mathematical modelling of       the cooling process were also studied in high temperature melts.
The scale removal is greatly simplified using ionic liquids and is not       possible from conventional aqueous acid electrolytes.
Typically these       parts are deployed in the Trent series of engines that power Boeing and       Airbus passenger aircraft.
The project succeeded in streamlining       production of the blade components by scale removal (using ionic liquids)       prior to the expensive heat-treatment and annealing processes.
This cannot       currently be achieved because alternative techniques for scale removal,       before heat-treatment, cause solid state recrystallisation in the alloys       producing grain boundaries that lead to stress fractures.
Rolls Royce       Aerospace has now embarked on a technology readiness pathway leading to       the use of Leicester's ionic liquids technology.
The company is now       collaborating with Ryder to solve specific production problems associated       with surface scale in engine production parts, with a view to fully       implementing ionic liquids technology in its production processes.
Silver Plating: Since October 2009, PW Circuits of Leicester has       operated a full coating process developed by the Leicester Ionic Liquids       Group based on an 8 tank line using c.a.
1 tonne of ionic liquid.
Simple       immersion of a copper coated printed circuit board in a mixture of       ethylene glycol and choline chloride with silver chloride produces boards       which not only meet all industry requirements but actually improve over       existing techniques in functions such as solderability.
The liquid       developed significantly reduced the cost of immersion coating as it used a       less expensive silver salt than the current industry standard.
The quality       of the product in terms of its solderability and resistance to tarnishing       was independently verified by the European Institute of Printed Circuits       [7].
The processes commercialised to date and their key impacts are listed       below and many of the impacts have been independently verified.
[8]                                Process               (Users)           Current               Technology Issues           Impact               of New Technology                             Chromium plating [text removed for publication]           chromic acid (carcinogenic)           Three-fold decrease in power consumption             Uses CrCl3                             Electropolishing (Rolls               Royce, Anopol, Northbridge Motorsport)           H2SO4, H3PO4, HF, chromic acid           Safe in contact with skin             Four-fold decrease in power consumption             Metal recoverable             Greatly decreased failure rate (superalloys)                             Silver Plating (PWCircuits)           Acid based &#8211; leads to board failure through track             etching             Silver cyanide complexes           Reduced cost (uses silver nitrate)             Reduced light sensitivity             Non-acidic &#8211; no track etching             Improved solderability
