     Musculoskeletal soft tissue injuries such as damage to the Achilles       tendon and rupture of the anterior cruciate ligament, one of the four main       ligaments in the knee, are prevalent in both recreational and elite       athletes.
The Achilles tendon is the tendon in the lower leg athletes most       commonly injure and is the most common to rupture spontaneously1.
Injury to this tendon alone is estimated to affect around 10% of the       general population and 50% of elite male distance runners2.
Affected individuals can suffer long-term disability and, in some cases,       require surgery3.
A recent US study found that rupture of the       Achilles tendon has increased over recent years, and 68% of cases were       associated with sports activity.4 Likewise data from the US       suggests that between 100,000 and 250,000 surgical reconstructions occur       annually due to ACL rupture5.
With the growing popularity of       sport increases in these injuries are more likely, with a corresponding       increase in burden on healthcare services.
Identifying people at risk will mean that, by taking preventative       measures such as changing training programmes or sporting behaviours, they       are likely to reduce the incidence of injury with a commensurate reduction       in pain, disability and long-term physical inactivity.
Injury to these       tendons and ligaments means formerly active people cannot exercise, which       increases their likelihood of gaining weight making them more at risk of       cardiovascular disease and other diseases related to over-weight such as       late onset diabetes, with a further economic impact on health services.
The economic benefit of this genetic screening test, in terms of reduced       healthcare costs, has not yet been fully estimated.
However preventing       such injuries is anticipated to make a substantial cost saving, in terms       of reducing the need for treating patients.
For example, it has been       estimated that in the US the annual cost of reconstructive surgeries due       to ACL rupture exceeds one billion dollars5.
One current UK       estimate for self-funding patients is &#163;6,101 to treat a ruptured Achilles       tendon and &#163;6,260 for ACL repair, plus approximately &#163;500 in each case for       diagnostics and a further &#163;1,000 for braces and physiotherapy6.
The research findings that genetic mutations appear to increase the risk       of these injuries were disseminated from 2005 to 2013 through publications       in the scientific literature (section 3, refs 1-5).
As the research       developed there were presentations at international conferences aimed at       informing practitioners such as clinicians and sports professionals of the       implication of the results of the research.
At a conference (the Clinical       Sports Medicine Conference Cape Town, South Africa, October 2010), which       explored the interaction between biomedical scientists and sports injury       clinicians, Dr Raleigh gave two presentations on his work7.
The       research was also presented to those involved in sport at an elite level,       for example via the annual meeting of the International Olympic Committee,       in Monaco, April 20118.
This collective effort by Dr Raleigh and Professor Collins9       resulted in the successful filing in 2011 of four international patents10       for a genetic screening test.
The patents were filed by the South African       Medical Research Council in collaboration with the University of       Northampton and Cape Town University.
The Sport Injury Genescreen&#8482; is now       being used, in combination with patients' lifestyle data, to predict their       risk of certain musculoskeletal soft tissue injuries.
In South Africa, the       private healthcare company gknowmix (http://www.gknowmix.com/)       has been granted the licence for using the patented gene screen invention       to assess individuals' risk of sustaining a musculoskeletal injury, such       as an Achilles tendinopathy or cruciate ligament rupture.
Gknowmix       commercialised this test because its development and impact fitted with       their mission `To engage clinicians and medical scientists in the       development and implementation of innovative Pathology       Supported Genetic TestsTM', and their vision `To       provide a global genetic testing service delivery system and database       tool for seamless conversion of research and innovation'.
An important part of the concept for gknowmix is the integration of the       tests themselves and the expert report written and approved by the       scientist involved in the development of the tests.
This ensures that the       patient and requesting clinician are aware of all the implications of the       results of the tests and lifestyle analysis, and the interventions       required to reduce risk.
As such Prof Collins is now approving test       reports for clinicians in South Africa and Dr Raleigh will be in the UK.
The availability of the tests was marketed by gknowmix online in March       2013 at a cost of &#163;140, with the first requests being received in August.
As of summer 2013, twenty South Africans have benefited from DNA analysis       and assessment of their risk of musculoskeletal injury.
Athletes from       Slovenia are currently undergoing screening9.
A similar Pathology-Supported Genetic Testing (PSGT) algorithm for breast       cancer screening also marketed by gknowmix has recently been estimated In       a South African study to save 600m Rand in chemotherapy costs9.
Although it is difficult to make a direct comparison, this does       demonstrate the power of PSGT to save healthcare costs and patient       distress.
