     The `Like Shadows: A Celebration of Shyness' exhibition, held at the       Phoenix Gallery during Brighton's `White Night' festival on 29 October       2011 attracted over 7,000 visitors.
Beyond academia, the exhibition has       had a significant impact on a number of distinct user-groups and       beneficiaries, both directly &#8212; on the night itself &#8212; and indirectly, over       the longer term.
Firstly, gallery visitors in the local community.
The White Night       is a major arts festival in Brighton, attracting thousands of visitors and       aimed explicitly at widening community participation in the arts, beyond       the usual (middle-class) gallery-going population.
Thus, by holding our       exhibition at this event, we effectively communicated the research to       local people; over 7,000 visitors attended over the night [see Section 5,       C2].
Importantly, also, these visitors provided us with some useful       feedback (through questionnaires and comments via the specially designed       `ShineUs' device; see below) about their experiences of shyness in museums       and galleries, and suggestions about how these environments could be made       more accessible.
There was a clear preference for exhibits that provided       some instructions, explanation or `rules' as to how the technology worked,       to reduce visitors' anxieties about `getting it wrong', and a preference       for exhibits with clear signage.
Visitors also reported that they enjoyed       having some exhibits that allowed for a more passive spectatorship rather       than demanding active engagement; the `relaxation' areas we had set up in       the gallery (quiet corners with sofas, refreshments and artworks that       could just be looked at) were very popular throughout the evening.
These       findings were communicated to artists, curators and other audiences,       through the dissemination activities detailed below.
Secondly, curators benefited from hearing this visitor feedback,       and from the impact of the event in general.
Our research team       collaborated with local curator Helen Sloan throughout the project, and       she reported that the experience had positively informed her working       practices.
In particular, our critique of the `ideal visitor' model that       was implicit in most interactive exhibits (the assumption that visitors       will be comfortable and confident with using technology, as well as       extroverted enough to perform in public without embarrassment) led her to       rethink the design and layout of exhibitions she curated to make them more       `shy-friendly' [C1].
Helen's non-academic dissemination activities, like       ours, have encouraged curators to consider a wider range of possible ways       of engaging with contemporary artworks, on a continuum from active       engagement to passive spectatorship.
Helen presented the research findings       to other curators through a non-academic conference presentation       (Association of Art Historians conference, Open University, Milton Keynes,       March 2012), and a book chapter (Sloan, H. (2013) `Performativity in the       art gallery', in Remes, O. and Trench, C. (eds) Performativity in the         Gallery: Staging Interactive Encounters.
Oxford: Peter Lang Ltd),       which contributed to debates about the `inclusive museum/gallery' to the       arts and heritage industries more widely.
Susie Scott, gave an invited       presentation about the research to a workshop of artists and curators at       the Museums and Cultural Institutions as Spaces for Participation       Symposium (Roskilde University, Denmark, December 2012), which encouraged       a lively debate about shyness and accessibility.
Thirdly, the artists who exhibited at the event said that they       had found the experience worthwhile in informing their own working       practices, by learning how to make their artworks more publicly       accessible.
Several of the artists told us that they had become more aware       of the issue of shyness in gallery visitors, and were interested in the       theoretical question of shifting the responsibility for `dealing with'       this onto the arts institutions.
The Sussex artist-in-residence, Anna       Dumitriu, in particular, found the experience helpful in opening up new       areas of research and generating ideas for future artworks.
She and other       exhibiting artists, such as Tom Keene and Alex May, confirmed that the       event had been useful to them in building their public profile and leading       on to other opportunities for work [C3, C4, C5].
Dumitriu, May and Keene       also presented a non-academic paper about the project at the ISEA       (International Symposium on Electronic Art) conference in Istanbul,       Turkey, in September 2011, thus disseminating the research findings       further within the artistic community.
Comments from the artists and       curator are shown in Section 5.
Fourthly, two of the Co-Investigators (Dan Chalmers and Ian Wakeman) in       Informatics designed a new piece of technology, which was deployed       during the exhibition event and has had a demonstrative impact on software       systems in other, everyday settings.
This device, called `ShineUs', allows       visitors to leave anonymous feedback comments on a projector screen by       scanning QR codes on physical artefacts (in this case, the exhibited       artworks) into their mobile phone, from which comments can be sent via SMS       text message, Facebook or Twitter.
The device was designed to enable       consumers participating in discussion forums to control the extent of a)       the public visibility of their comments, and b) their anonymity/personal       exposure, according to their individual preferences for different levels       of sociability, active engagement, trust in the others present, and       `technological comfort zones'.
At the White Night, 30 people left comments       about the exhibits: for example, 16 users said that they felt less than       confident about understanding art, while 18 rated themselves at the higher       end of a scale of self- defined shyness.
Since then, the device has also       been used in other contexts, such as a Farmer's Market (where customers       shared comments and advice about the goods available) and an academic       computer-science conference (where delegates chose to leave more critical       comments about presentations using higher levels of concealment and       anonymity).
