     In 2006, Baluch and Brunswick were involved in hosting a workshop at       Middlesex University on `The Role of Orthographies in Reading and       Spelling'.
A major text based on this &#8212; Reading and Dyslexia in         Different Orthographies (edited by Brunswick, de Mornay Davies, and       Sine McDougall who at the time was professor of psychology at Middlesex) &#8212;       was published by Psychology Press in 2010 to positive reviews (5.1).
Baluch's collaboration with Danaye-Tousi (who at the time was advisor to       the Iranian Ministry of Education, and is now Assistant Professor of       General Linguistics at the University of Guilan in Iran) stemmed from       Baluch's work on Farsi orthography.
The research has been directly applied       in Iran to the way in which teaching across the national curriculum is       delivered.
This collaboration resulted in Danaye-Tousi being awarded       second prize in the Farabi International Awards for her work on elements       of the Iranian National Language Curriculum (5.2),and has lead to other       research and impact, including UNICEF-funded work on the education of       Afghani refugees (of which there are approximately 1.4 million in Iran).
It also lead to significant changes in how Farsi is taught throughout       Iranian schools, and has lead to more precise target setting and measures       of achievement for all children from first to twelfth grade.
The       significant scope of this impact has been recognised officially by the       Iranian Government (5.3).
The work has also informed the delivery of       teaching at Guilan to BA and Masters level students (5.4).
Specific       impacts of the research include greater attention on literacy acquisition       and the role of word recognition, reading comprehension and working       memory.
These impacts apply directly to educational planners and teachers,       and indirectly to students.
Brunswick's research into the psychology of language and developmental       dyslexia has influenced policy in the British Dyslexia Association (BDA),       on whose Board she served for six years as a Trustee.
The BDA is the       second largest dyslexia charity in the UK with reach into universities,       schools, communities and government.
The direct effects of the revised       policies have been improvements in public services for children and adults       affected by dyslexia, for example through rewriting the organisation's       official definition of dyslexia to take proper account of best research       evidence, and these policies were drawn on in the conclusions of the Rose       review of primary education (2009).
Through her work for the BDA she was       invited to edit the annual BDA Dyslexia Handbook (2009/10) which       summarises academic research and makes it accessible to people with       dyslexia, their families and teachers.
All members of the BDA receive a       copy.
Thus, she has directly facilitated public engagement with scientific       discourse, removing the need for a non specialist reader (who may of       course have reading challenges) to negotiate academic literature.
She is       regularly asked by the organisation to comment on its behalf on scientific       developments in dyslexia and to explain these to the public, appearing,       for example, on BBC News 24, and her research was recently featured in a       BBC4 Documentary, `Growing Children'.
She served on the organising       committee for the BDA's 8th International Conference (held in       June 2011), and is currently helping organise the 9th       International Conference (to be held in March 2014).
She was appointed       associate editor of the journal Dyslexia (Wiley) which published a       special issue in November 2011 including articles from invited conference       presenters.
Subscribers to this journal include members of the BDA,       parents, teachers and Special Educational Needs Co-ordinators from around       the world.
The BDA gave Brunswick an `Outstanding contribution to the       field of dyslexia' award in 2012 (5.1).
Brunswick's book, Dyslexia &#8212; A Beginner's Guide (Oneworld),       written for the general public and published in 2009, is recommended       reading on BDA training courses and in university Dyslexia Support Units       around the UK.
It directly disseminates academic research to parents,       teachers and employers of dyslexic individuals and has been very       positively reviewed (5.6).
In January 2011, this book was selected by       Warwick University's Knowledge Centre to be their book of the week.
An       extract from the book, on the genetics of dyslexia, was featured on the       website for discussion (5.7).
A U.S. school library edition of this book       was published in January 2011 - this version is available to high-school       students and their teachers across America to teach them about dyslexia.
At the request of the BDA, a second book, Supporting Dyslexic Readers         in Higher Education and The Workplace (Wiley-Blackwell) has been       published, which disseminates current research and practice in supporting       the particular needs of dyslexic adults to educational and occupational       psychologists, specialist dyslexia tutors, speech and language therapists,       researchers, disability advisors and welfare officers.
The impact of our research is thus international, including       non-English-speaking countries.
Beneficiaries range from user       organisations (e.g.
BDA), professionals in education and related services,       and people with dyslexia and their families.
Through public engagement in       Britain and the United States, it is also enhancing understanding of       dyslexia in the general public.
