     Impact 1.
Community Cohesion through Memories of Cinema-going     With initial findings published in 3.1, and in collaboration with       colleagues at Bristol and Oxford Brookes, Hipkins analyzed 20       interviews commissioned by the group on memories of cinema-going in Italy       in the 1940s and 1950s, which have been archived online at Memoro (www.memoro.org),       a non-profit organization dedicated to the collation of oral history in       Europe.
Since its launch in 2008, Memoro's website has attracted over 11       million page views.
From May 2010 to July 2013 the videos of the       interviews linked to Hipkins's research project uploaded to the Memoro       site have been viewed 8,676 times (5.1).
The project also considers       the experience of interviewees within community frameworks in the present       day, and in October 2011 findings from the original research were       presented by members of the team at a national meeting of the Italian       University of the Third Age in Turin (5.2), to encourage Italy's       older population to access the interviews and debate the role of       cinema-going in Italy's past.
Impact 2.
Teaching Film in Schools and in HE     The research produced by film specialists in ML has informed and       influenced the teaching of European cinema and film theory at both       secondary (A/AS) and HE level.
Hayward's book Cinema Studies:         The Key Concepts, is now in its fourth edition [text removed for publication] (5.3).
As the sales figures indicate, the book has become an essential reference       text for film studies students at both A-level and in HE.
The first       edition of Cinema Studies: The Key Concepts was published in 1996,       just before Hayward's arrival in Exeter.
Revisions to the three subsequent       editions of the book (the latest, fourth edition was published in Spring       2013) have all been completed since Hayward's appointment to Exeter.
They       comprise significant revisions and additions to the first edition.
The       length of the book has increased from c.150,000 words (first edition,       1996) to c. 240,000 words (fourth edition, 2013).
Sizeable new entries,       which reflect new research, have been added since the second edition in       areas such as Postcolonial Cinema, World Cinema, Action Movies, Cult       Cinema, Digital Cinema, CGI and 3-D Technology.
Hayward's book was the       first publication in what is now an established series of `Key Guides' for       its publisher, Routledge, which now extends to nearly 100 titles.
Cinema         Studies: the Key Concepts has been translated into Korean and       Chinese, with advances paid on licences for further translation and       publication in Arabic, Greek and Turkish (5.3).
Higbee's monograph on French director Mathieu Kassovitz (3.4)       is listed as required reading on numerous HE modules in the UK relating to       film studies, French Studies, and Cultural Studies.
La Haine       (Kassovitz, 1995), which is analysed in detail across two chapters in       Higbee's monograph, is taught widely as an optional text across numerous       A-level French syllabuses (AQA, OCR, Edexcel) and as a set text in the       WJEC examination board.
(In June, 2010, 2480 students were entered for       WJEC nationally.)
Higbee's monograph is cited as a reference text in the       bibliography of Cornerhouse Study Guide for students of AS/A2       French (5.4).
In October 2008, Higbee delivered a mini-lecture and       workshop on La Haine to 30 A-level students from Torquay Girls'       Grammar School (TGGS) in October 2008.
The Head of French at TGGS said of       the event: `Our students found the lecture very inspiring and there was       definitely a "buzz" in the following lessons' (5.5).
Elsewhere, drawing on her work on Spanish cinema of the 1960s (3.5),       Faulkner participated in a Study Day linked to the Spain       (Un)censored' Film Festival at the BFI in 2008, aimed at the general       film-going public, teachers of Spanish cinema and A-level students,       attracting 122 attendees (5.6).
Impact 3.
Enhancing Cultural Life and Public Appreciation of European         Cinema culture     (a) DVD commentaries     As a result of her research on the film's star, Simone Signoret, Hayward       was invited to provide an audio commentary for the UK DVD/Blu Ray release       of Les Diaboliques (Clouzot, 1955) by Arrow Films in 2007.
[text removed for publication] (5.7).
(b) Film Festivals     Drawing on her research into 1960s Spanish cinema (3.1), Faulkner       was invited to participate in the `Spain (Un)censored' Film Festival at       the BFI in 2008 (5.6).
She introduced La caza (Saura, 1966)       to a public audience of 116 people.
Linked to research for his monograph       on Kassovitz, which also deals with broader questions of multicultural and       immigrant identity in French cinema (3.5), Higbee was       invited to participate in a symposium `Cinemas of the Maghreb' as part of       the 2010 Carthage Film Festival (JCC).The symposium attracted c.100       attendees, a mixture of academics, journalists and industry professionals,       and was reported on the Africultures website (5.8).
Handyside       organised a `Beaches' film season at the Plymouth Arts Centre centre in       2012.
Drawing upon on her methodology for analysing cinematic       representations of beachscapes in (3.3).
Handyside wrote       introductory notes to three screenings that attracted c. 900 spectators in       total (5.9).
(c) Introductions to Public Film Screenings     In September 2012, Higbee co-founded the Exeter Screen Talks, a       partnership between film specialists in the College of Humanities,       University of Exeter, and the national chain Picturehouse Cinemas.
Working       in collaboration with the Picturehouse's national programmer and the       manager of the cinema in Exeter, film specialists from the College of       Humanities design a programme of fortnightly screenings, deliver       introductions to each film and host a discussion with members of the       public after the screenings.
Faulkner, Handyside, Higbee and Hipkins       have delivered six introductions between September 2012 and June 2013 as       part of the `Hidden Classics of European Cinema' strand of the Exeter       Screen Talks, attracting a total of 210 spectators.
The project also has       impact beyond the region, particularly through the use of social media       (Facebook and Twitter) as well as the blog entry (written by the academic       giving the talk) that is published online at least a fortnight before the       screening and remains on the blog as an archive of each talk (5.10).
