     The impact comprises institutional changes in the delivery of play       activities (the "PLUS"       programme) specifically intended to support and develop numerical skill       acquisition in preschool       children.
An evaluation study confirmed the efficacy of the programme,       which has now been rolled       out to preschools in Kingston, Surbiton, New Malden and Wimbledon.
The       preschools have       confirmed that they will continue to deliver the programme as part of       their regular activities.
By adopting the "PLUS" programme (devised by Kingston University       academics, with training       delivered by staff and postgraduate students from the university), the       institutions have improved       the numerical skills of their children, evidenced by an intervention study       conducted by KU.
The       intervention was a controlled study designed to evaluate changes in number       abilities following       implementation of the PLUS programme on a daily basis for five weeks.
From       December 2012 to       April 2013, five trained postgraduate students from the MSc Child       Psychology programme and two       research assistants visited 5 local nurseries.
During these one-hour       visits the students played       PLUS games devised to improve the children's ANS abilities, comparing       pairs of children in an       intervention group receiving the PLUS activities, and a control group (who       read books with the       researcher instead), matched on IQ scores.
Before and after the       intervention study, children's       number and reading abilities were measured using standardised tests.
The       results confirmed that       children in the intervention group performed significantly better on tasks       that involved their       approximate number system (ANS) post-intervention (mean= 38.3; SD= 10.8)       compared to pre-intervention 	  (mean= 42.1, SD= 11.6); t(17)= -3.03, p =       .008.
In addition, there was a significant       improvement in their counting abilities t(17)= -3.74, p =       .002 (average counting pre-intervention       was 18.4 digits, SD= 21.6; post-intervention mean was 22.8, SD= 20.2) as       well as visuospatial       working memory abilities; t(8)= -2.79, p= 0.023 (mean       pre-intervention score: 3.3, SD= 2.5; post-intervention 	  score mean = 5.6, SD= 2.2).
In contrast, for the control       reading group there was only a       near-significant improvement for verbal working memory (p= 0.054),       not for counting or ANS       abilities (all p's &gt; 0.05).
The intervention study clearly showed that       PLUS improved the       preschoolers' number abilities (full data/outcomes report available on       request).
From April to June 2013, staff at 5 additional preschool settings were       trained to administer PLUS       on a daily basis to all of their preschool children.
Evidence from       managers (see attached) is       available to confirm that PLUS has been incorporated into their daily       provision.
On the basis of the       programme's success, the Operations Manager for a number of preschools (Dicky         Birds Nurseries         Ltd.) has promoted the PLUS scheme with its regional nurseries,       leading to adoptions of the       programme in Surbiton (Claremont Hall Nursery and 62 Claremont Road       Nursery), Wimbledon       (Dundonald Road Nursery and Queens Road Nursery) and New Malden (New       Malden Nursery).
Other adoptions include in Tolworth (Surbiton Advantage Nursery and the       Playtime Nursery),       Norbiton (Coombe Day Nursery) and Kingston (Dolphin Nursery and       Preschool).
Questionnaires were distributed to nursery managers and staff to evaluate       their views on the       learning scheme.
The 79 responses show that the intervention and training       has raised awareness       amongst staff in terms of how number abilities in children might be       developed, and how the types       of number games local nurseries incorporate in their daily care provision       have benefited from       PLUS.
Letters from preschool managers demonstrate high levels of       satisfaction with the       programme and a willingness to continue with it; they also demonstrate       that the preschools intend       to maintain a relationship with KU in order to benefit from research-led       initiatives in future.
