     Dr Samara's research since 2010 involved four extended visits to the Arab       sector in Israel, where he shared his ongoing research and emerging       results with a range of organizations that were interested in the       applications of research on bullying.
These included presentations and       meetings with the Alhikma Association in Tira (a registered charity that       implements projects to tackle violence) in July 2010; head teachers of       primary and secondary schools (August 2011, August 2012); the head of the       Islamic Courts and the Head of the Islamic High Court in Israel (August       2010); school inspectors; school parents' committees (August 2010); the       Head of Tira City Council and the Head of the Tira City Educational       Department (August 2010); and the head of Atid (a company that manages       schools in the region) in August 2012.
After these meetings, Dr Samara worked with the education department and       with two large schools: Ibrahim Qasim Secondary School (850 students and       100 members of staff) and Al-Ghazali Primary School (500 students and 100       members of staff) in Tira City in the central district of Israel       (population: around 25,000) to set up their anti-bullying policies on the       basis of the recommendations published later in Smith et al.
(2012) and       Lereya et al.
(2013).
The anti-bullying procedures were then introduced in       the remaining 11 schools in the city of Tira during 2012-13.
Work in the       schools was facilitated by a close working relationship with the Inspector       of the Education Ministry in the Arab Sector in Israel (20% of the Israeli       population).
Unlike in England, in Israel there is no regulation requiring       schools to have specific policies for bullying.
Dr Samara therefore       introduced the first anti-bullying policies for these schools, based on a       culture-relevant interpretation of the outcomes of Smith et al.
(2012) and       Lereya et al.
(2013).
Dr Samara then worked with the Head of Atid in 2012 to extend the       anti-bullying policies across the region: Atid is the largest,       privately-owned, educational network in Israel and specializes in       management of advanced technological schools and colleges (25,000       students).
Atid owns 9 colleges, 20 high schools and 5 youth institutions,       employing 1500 professional instructors.
The anti-bullying policies that were introduced spanned the 34 items that       were identified as core to a successful anti-bullying policy and also took       account of the importance of parenting and the involvement of parents in       school policies, as highlighted by the research.
The anti-bullying       strategies include specific preventative measures, such as: playground       work; peer support; clear instructions for sanctions based on the severity       of the bullying action (with follow-up to assess the effectiveness of       sanctions); and complaint boxes for students to write notes about       bullying.
Schools drew up specific regulations to deal with bullying,       stated in explicit anti-bullying policies, and based on the stage and       severity of the incidents.
The responsibilities of each member of staff       (teaching and non teaching), parents and bystanders are made clear in the       policy.
Staff, parents and bystanders now have access to advice on exactly       how to support victims and how to help pupils who bully to change.
Schools       were instructed on the importance of record keeping and checking for       bullying to and from school.
Impact has also been achieved outside of the schools domain: the Islamic       (Sharia) Religious Courts of the Arab sector changed their way of dealing       with family violence and victimisation related to abuse and neglect.
These       courts typically make child custody decisions in cases of divorce.
The       area of coverage of these courts is the entire Arab sector, around 1.5       million people (20% of the Israeli population).
The Head of the Islamic       (Sharia) Religious Courts instructed judges on how to deal with incidents       of bullying and victimisation based on Dr Samara's research.
These       instructions were introduced via a seminar and an internal memorandum       where the definition of bullying and its forms and subgroups, and the       effect of parenting styles and the relationship to bullying subgroups were       explained.
Judges were not previously aware of how different forms of       bullying and victimisation relate to different parenting styles, domestic       violence and child abuse.
This has helped them to make better decisions in       child custody cases, for instance.
A third domain of impact was achieved through changes implemented by the       Tira City Council via the project "City without Violence" (covering around       25000 people).
The project includes sports activities which emphasise       tolerance between pupils in schools, as well as the implementation of       anti-bullying interventions that include talks for students, staff and       volunteers on how to deal with bullying and victimisation.
Talks were       provided (in cooperation with the social work department of the city       council) for parents on spotting risk factors related to victimisation       (2010-2013).
These have directly incorporated proposals from Dr Samara's       research.
The relationship was established through extensive communication       between Dr Samara and the head of the city council, who was keen to       introduce new initiatives following a wave of violence in the city of Tira       over the last decade.
