     Impact 1: Educational Practices and Policy     Boughton's and Coveney's research has helped shape educational practices       and policy, specifically with regard to the teaching of both French       Linguistics (in H.E.)
and practical French Language (H.E.
and schools).
Partly because of the social and/or communicative significance of the       topics they analyse, several research publications by Coveney and Boughton       feature prominently on syllabuses and reading lists for advanced       undergraduate/graduate courses in French Sociolinguistics at universities       in the UK and abroad (5.1).
Coveney's research has also impacted on       major textbooks for French linguistics and of general sociolinguistics,       which have been widely used in 2008-13.
He is the third most frequently       cited researcher in French: A linguistic introduction (Fagyal et       al., C.U.P, 2006), and has more publications in the bibliography than any       other French specialist, apart from Fagyal herself; he is the most       extensively cited researcher on European French in Sociolinguistics:         method and interpretation (Milroy &amp; Gordon, Blackwell, 2003);       his results on ne-omission are the principal example of       quantitative research on French presented by F. Gadet in her popular       textbook, La variation sociale en fran&#231;ais (2nd ed.,       Ophrys, 2007).
Coveney's impact in teaching resources is further       exemplified by the reading and correcting he has done for major textbooks       (as confirmed in the Acknowledgements or Prefaces), which have continued       to be widely used throughout 2008-13: Exploring the French Language       (Lodge et al., Arnold, 1997), described as "accessible to students while       at the same time providing a wealth of sound, up-to-date information on       linguistic principles and methods" in French Review (the journal       of the American Association of Teachers of French); The French         Language Today (Battye, Hintze &amp; Rowlett, Routledge, 2nd       edition 2000), which the reviewer on Linguist List considered to       be "an excellent introduction to French linguistics"; and Sociolinguistics:         method and interpretation (Milroy &amp; Gordon, Blackwell, 2003),       described by a reviewer on Amazon as "a valuable resource not only for       students but also for experienced researchers".
The web pages of the Committee for Linguistics in Education, a resource       for the training and support of teachers of Modern Foreign Languages       (launched in 2007) includes a link, in the section on `French: variation       and sociolinguistics', to a Guardian article on Boughton's       research on social-regional accent variation.
Coveney contributed a       significant amount of the other material on French linguistics and       sociolinguistics to this web page, which had 6,518 hits between 1.1.08 and       31.7.13, according to StatCounter.com.
(For corroboration, see 5.2.)
The influence of Coveney's work on French phonetics (3.4) is       acknowledged in a significant DVD resource for French pronunciation       practice, available in both French-language and English-language versions,       aimed at learners in H.E.
and schools, respectively (5.3).
The       resource's website states that Coveney (2001) was one of the main       scholarly sources used in the development of the course.
(The author of       the DVDs reports that 1,100 sets of them were sold up to 31.7.13.)
A 2009 assessment of language teaching practices (Etienne &amp; Sax,       `Stylistic Variation in French: Bridging the Gap Between Research and       Textbooks', The Modern Language Journal, 93/4, 584-606), discusses       how stylistic variation is treated in current French language textbooks,       concluding that insufficient attention is paid to non-standard variants       (such as on for `we', and ne-omission).
The authors argue       for greater focus on stylistic variation, referring extensively to       Coveney's research (e.g 3.3), thereby confirming its impact in the       field of language learning.
Impact 2: Social Cohesion through Language     Linguistic research has policy implications for social cohesion and       well-being, language contact situations, and immigration.
As a result of       his on-going research (leading to 3.5, for example), Goglia was       invited in 2008 to advise on linguistic aspects of a pilot programme on       African culture for children of African immigrants in the Veneto, Italy (5.4).
His expertise in language contact in immigrant communities helped inform       public educational policy as part of a scheme to enhance social cohesion       through improved educational attainment among disadvantaged immigrant       groups.
He advised specifically on the most appropriate medium of       instruction, resulting in the eventual choice of English over Italian or       West African pidgin English.
Coveney's research publications led to him giving key advice and support       for the initial phase (September 2006 to mid-2008) of a new       sociolinguistic survey of Parisian speech (5.5).
His letter of       support for the project helped unlock funding of 12,000 euros from the       Mayor of Paris' public research initiative, aimed at improving social       welfare and social cohesion: the website of this initiative specifies       priorities such as cultural heritage, integration and solidarity.
The       sociolinguistic survey gave rise to a website with a substantial set of       recordings and transcripts, in which a cross-section of Parisians speak of       their experience of living in different districts of Paris.
From its       creation in May 2009, the project's web-site had 16,071 visits (the site's       web counter).
Impact 3: Public Appreciation of Language Matters     Coveney's research has also contributed to the enhancement of the public       appreciation of spoken French.
His work on interrogatives (e.g.
3.3)       was referred to several times during a 2011 Radio France         Internationale broadcast, on variation in French questions (5.6).
The programme's guest, a French Professor of Linguistics, explained that       Coveney's research has shown, for example, how different interrogative       structures in French are not interchangeable for all communicative       functions.
RFI is the French equivalent of the BBC World Service,       and in 2011 40.5 million people around the world listened to it at least       weekly (http://www.rfi.fr/com/20100120-chiffres-cles-rfi).
The podcast of the programme has remained available since the broadcast.
Coveney's work on subject pronouns has been referred to in the Canadian       press (5.7).
