     Increased public understanding of medieval game cultures and European         manuscript production (Impact 1)     Based on her research into manuscript culture, Cayley won       REACT-HEIF funding (&#163;6,250), and a REACT Project fund grant (&#163;30K) to       create an iPad App to introduce school age pupils (Years 6-13) to medieval       manuscript culture and to the celebrated Exeter Book (c. 950) in       particular.
Through the App they discover the history and origins of the       manuscripts and engage directly with images and stories from the       manuscripts themselves.
Unlike in libraries, where books are freely       accessible, people rarely see these manuscripts as they have to be kept in       secure storage.
The Exeter Manuscripts project aims to reverse the       historic invisibility of these amazing old books, and to help Devon and       the South West rediscover their written heritage.
The Exeter Manuscripts       Project held three study workshops focussed around Cayley's research in       local schools in 2012.
These were led by Cayley in collaboration with Sara       Hurley, Story Worker and Community Artist, and Cara Patterson, Visual       Artist and Illustrator, as well as an interactive designer from Antenna.
Pupils from Isca College, St. Sidwell's C. E. Primary, and Exeter College       (c. 45 individuals) helped to design the App, and composed and illustrated       riddles, inspired by the Exeter Book.
This later formed part of an       exhibition in Exeter Cathedral from 23rd October-4th November 2012, `From       Medieval Manuscripts to Calligraffiti: Discovering Exeter's Written       Heritage', curated by Cayley, the Canon Librarian, and Ellie Jones,       Archivist at Exeter Cathedral Library (c. 2,100 visitors over 14 days,       including a preview day).
User testimonies illustrate the democratisation of access brought about       by the project, which: "brought medieval manuscripts to life for them [the       pupils] and they were excited by the prospect of being able to interact       with the `real thing' via an App.
Literature of this age is not normally       freely accessible to school children" (Head of Languages, Isca College).
A       school governor from St. Sidwell's Primary wrote a riddle, inspired by       Cayley's workshop, in the School newsletter which went home to all 236       pupils and their parents: "I brought knowledge from Exeter University; I       brought fun for everyone; I held a workshop, we did a lot; I then put it       on show at the expo.
Who am I?
Dr Cayley and her crew, that's who!"
To       accompany the exhibition, the Cathedral ran a series of events: two public       workshops involving Exeter Library Special Collections' Head, Christine       Faunch; two `calligraffiti' workshops for children; and a public lecture       on the Exeter Book.
Cayley was interviewed about the Exeter Manuscripts       project on ITV West Country Tonight at 6pm on Monday 5th November 2012,       and gave a radio interview on BBC Radio Devon as part of the Shep and Jo       show on Thursday 1st November, 2012.
The key impacts of this project lie in the novel way that publics will be       connected to culture, benefitting from insights from leading researchers.
This relationship with one of the world's leading cultural App developers       is at an early stage, and already bringing about major changes and       benefits (including a doctoral student supervised jointly by Cayley and       Antenna).
The initial stages of the project saw over 2,000 individuals       explore and engage with their medieval cultural history.
A previous public       exhibition (`The Treasures of Exeter Cathedral Library and Archives',       July- September 2009; c.7,350 visitors over 7 weeks) organised jointly by       Cayley and the Cathedral to coincide with the Eleventh Biennial Early Book       Society Conference held at Exeter from 9-12th July 2009       (selected papers were published as part of item 3.1), laid the groundwork       for further collaboration between the University and Cathedral which has       culminated in mutually beneficial research and grant income.
Following       Cayley's involvement, Exeter Cathedral secured a Heritage Lottery Fund       (HLF) of &#163;763,000 to support the Cathedral's education and learning       programmes over three years (from Dec 2011-14).
This followed a previous       award from the HLF in October 2010 of &#163;45,800.
Exeter Cathedral used       recent collaborations with the University, including that with Cayley, as       part of their application materials.
The grants have enabled the creation       of a dedicated education space in the Cathedral for the first time, and       the employment of specialist education and archives staff.
The Cathedral       is the most visited place in Exeter for both day and overnight visitors       (110,000 paying visitors in 2012).
Influencing artistic practice, and engaging regional         communities (Impact 2) 		Roberts' collaborative work on obscenity in       Renaissance France, including an on-line database of obscenities, as well       as his co-edited critical edition of Bruscambille, have led to impact as       part of his AHRC Research Grant, `Gossip and Nonsense: Excessive Language       in Renaissance France'.
Roberts is working in close collaboration with an       Exeter-based artist to re-imagine Renaissance French double-entendres and       nonsense through Japanese-style woodcuts created by the artist and       displayed on-line at the project's blog: http://gossipandnonsense.exeter.ac.uk/.
Statistics for the `Gossip and Nonsense' project blog from 1/6/12-31/7/13,       show 566 visitors, 958 visits and 1761 page views; there were 1980 page       views of the database of obscenities during the same period.
Jones'       work with the festival director of Winter Warmed, influencing his artistic       practice, feeds into this impact, as well as serving to stimulate public       engagement with theatre and the visual arts (see below).
Cayley's       Exeter Manuscripts Project has engaged regional communities centring on       local Devon schools, Exeter Cathedral, and Exeter Cathedral Library and       Archives.
Stimulating public engagement with theatre and the visual arts (Impact         3) 		Jones' research on the intersection of theatre, prose       fiction and the visual has led to public events focusing on the ways       theatrical repertoires are changing in response to the visual arts.
As       part of the Winter Warmed theatre festival (January-Feb 2013), Jones       participated in two public discussion sessions held at the Bike Shed       Theatre, Exeter.
Entitled `Fervent Thoughts', the sessions focused on       comedy and performance (lead: Dr Laura Salisbury, Birkbeck) and theatre       and installation art (lead: Jones).
The festival, which combined       productions of well-known plays by Samuel Beckett with a range of scripted       and devised work by professional and amateur groups, was conceived in       dialogue with community groups including Clyst Vale Community College,       Exeter College and Uncommon Players.
Jones engaged with practitioners in       preparation for the festival, bringing a research perspective to       productions of Endgame and Breath.
Jones acted as academic       advisor to the Festival Director, and fed insights from Jones 3.5 into the       staging of Breath (dir.
Bull), conceiving the piece as straddling       installation and performance spheres.
The Festival Director confirms the       value of Jones' research to his staging of the performances, "Discussing       your insights into Beckett's pre-occupations was helpful to me in the       period of early rehearsals, challenging [...] my thinking, and your       participation in the discussion sessions added some serious theoretical       gravitas to our programme, which was borne out in the interest shown in       the discussion itself" (email cited in 5.7).
In the wider conception of       the festival, the creation of `Beckett's Snug' brought discussion of       Krapp's Last Tape into the space of the auditorium and helped       bridge the divide between practitioners, academic and audience by hosting       sessions like `Fervent Thoughts' and further post-show discussions.
