     Geoengineering RD&amp;D is at a very early stage, but it is developing       fast, and international bodies such as the International Panel on Climate       Change (IPCC) and the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) have       recognized that it is certain to become very significant within the next       few years.
InSIS research at Oxford has had substantial impact in shaping       the UK government's initial approach to the governance of this process and       continues to shape discussions in international circles.
In 2008, based on his research on the need for technological innovation       to deal with climate change,[R3,R4] Rayner was invited to give       evidence to the Committee on Innovation Universities and Skills inquiry       into the UK's engineering skills base, which argued for UK government       funding for geoengineeering research.
Following on the heels of Rayner's involvement in this Committee Inquiry,       and publication of the Royal Society Report in 2009, the House of Commons       Science and Technology (S&amp;T) Committee launched a joint inquiry into       geoengineering with its counterpart committee in the US House of       Representatives, and invited submissions.
[Section 5: C6] In       response to this request, the interdisciplinary group of Oxford       researchers, with Pidgeon (Cardiff), proposed a set of five principles for       the governance of geoengineering research, which have subsequently become       known as the Oxford Principles (see section 2).
The S&amp;T Committee's report [C1] discussed each of the       principles at length [pp.29-23], concluding "We endorse the 5 key       principles to guide geoengineering research."
[pp.50-51] The       Committee further recommended that the UK Government and other interested       countries formulate proposals for the international regulation of       geoengineering RD&amp;D through the UN, stating "The starting point for       the formulation has to be the five key principles which we have discussed       in this chapter.
"[p.40]     The subsequent official UK Government response to the Committee [C2]       also accepted the Principles as government policy,[pp.5-7]       recommending that they, along with four additional principles, should be       the basis for international regulatory efforts, "We welcome...the       Committee's suggestions for a set of principles and objectives on which to       base future development of regulatory arrangements for both research and       deployment.
"[pp.9-10]     The Principles were also presented to the March 2010 international       Conference on Climate Intervention in Asilomar, where, as The         Economist reported,[C3,C8] they were "generally endorsed" by       the scientific research and policy community, and were subsequently       elaborated upon as the centrepiece of the conference report.
[C4]     In 2013, the Principles were reiterated in a parliamentary briefing by       the Parliamentary Office of Science and Technology: "Given the       environmental and social costs of implementing NETs [Negative Emissions       Technologies], a group of academics have suggested five principles by       which decision-making on NETs might be guided.
[The principles are:]            Regulation as a public good, with private sector involvement       Public participation in decision-making       Full public disclosure of research plans and results       Independent assessment of impacts       Governance before deployment          These were welcomed by the Science and Technology Committee as a basis to       begin the discussion of principles that could be applied to the regulation       of NETs.
"[C5,p.4]     In summary, the Oxford Principles have made a direct and significant       impact on the initial design of the policy process in a very short time       and continue to influence international policy discourse.
[C7]     In addition to the activities reported above, Rayner has continued to       raise public and policymaker awareness of the issues.
He was interviewed       on the topic on the Today Programme in January 2010.
He has been cited on       and has written about geoengineering in the New Scientist (12 Sep       2009, 11 Oct 2010).
In the past three years he has presented more than 20       public lectures and policymaker workshops on geoengineering governance       around the world.
