     The Commission Report (see Sources 10 and 11) draws on and was informed       by several       publications on which Fleurbaey worked at LSE.
It cites several of them on       pp.
57, 154-155, 202-3,       214-215, 251, 255, and 285.
Thereafter:     1.
Changes in the data collected, reported and used by the European         Statistical System     [Source 12, p. 1] states:     "In order to translate the recommendations of the Stiglitz-Sen-Fitoussi       Commission report       (...) into concrete actions, the European Statistical System Committee has       decided to work       further on the following priority areas: household perspective and       distributional aspects of       income, consumption and wealth; [and] multidimensional measurement of the       quality of life       (...).
It is proposed that about 50 concrete actions will be carried out       by 2020."
Among other things, the European Statistical System (ESS) commits itself       to:     a.
The introduction of new cross-country standardised measures of the       following goods: non-market       consumption; leisure time; financial fragility; health; the quality of       social       relationships; and subjective well-being.
b.
New multi-dimensional measures of quality of life.
The latter include       new data on "material       living conditions, productive and valued activities (incl.
work), health,       education, leisure and       social interactions, economic, job and physical insecurity, governance and       basic rights,       natural and living environment as well as overall experience of life"       [Source 13, p. 21].
c. Assess inequalities in these indicators in a comprehensive way [Source       13, p. 21].
For several reasons, these changes are of great importance.
First, by       making available new,       reliable, cross-country comparable indices of many aspects of well-being,       the ESS will allow public       debate and decision-making to draw on more than just the established       indicators, which have       traditionally focused on economic matters, such as income and employment.
Second, the richer,       standardized data on the distribution of key indicators in the population       will allow for a better-informed       debate on distributive issues, including the extent and badness of       particular inequalities       within and between particular member states and the sensitivity of       inequality to policies in different       states.
Third, the resources of the ESS will be devoted to valuable       innovation in the space of social       indicators.
In sum, these commitments by the ESS are an important step       towards ending what the       Stiglitz-Sen-Fitoussi Commission called the "mis-measuring of our lives"       and the impoverishment       of public debate and policy-making that stems from an excessive focus on       average attainment and       on economic indicators.
2.
Public debates around the world     The Report of the Commission on the Measurement of Economic Performance       and Social       Progress was launched on September 14, 2009.
It had an immediate impact on       the debate among       the public, opinion-makers, politicians and global institutions.
The       report was published on major       newspapers' websites, and was discussed extensively by at least 60 leading       newspapers around       world, including the Wall Street Journal, The Guardian, Time,       etc.
(See Source [14].)
Several major       conferences on the report were organised, including by the Bertelsmann       Stiftung in Berlin and the       OECD in Paris (see Sources [15] and [16]).
As of September 2013, according       to Google Scholar,       the report has been cited in academic research and government institutes'       documents over 1000       times.
3.
Policy debates in international and national organisations     The work Fleurbaey undertook for the Commission and at LSE has led to       further policy-relevant       use of his ideas:            In recognition of the importance of Fleurbaey's contribution to the         Stiglitz-Sen-Fitoussi         Commission, he was appointed to the Working Group III of the IPCC, 5th         Assessment Report         (2010-2014).
Chapter 3 of this Working Group's report (on Social,         Economic and Ethical         Concepts) is strongly influenced by work Fleurbaey did at LSE; he is         coordinating lead author         of Chapter 4 (on Sustainability and Equity).
In France, steps towards using the "equivalent incomes" approach         advocated by Fleurbaey in         the reimbursement of medicines were discussed with Fleurbaey at the         French Health Care         Authority (Haute Autorit&#233; de Sant&#233;) on 30/10/2012 and at the French         Parliament on         22/11/2012 with his co-author Prof. Erik Schokkaert (see Source [17]).
(Schokkaert held the         2012-13 Belgian Chair in the LSE Philosophy Department and is currently         a Visiting Professor.)
Schokkaert and Bovens ran a conference on Fleurbaey and Schokkaert's         work in June 2013         with participation of the UK Office of National Statistics and the OECD         (see Source [18].)
These impacts are important for several reasons.
Politicians and the       public rightly want to know: (i)       what matters to the quality of individuals' lives; (ii) how to measure the       things that matter; (iii) how       these things are distributed in the population; and (iv) how they       should be distributed on grounds of       fairness.
Through his work at the Commission, the IPCC, and his engagement       with policy-makers,       Fleurbaey's research at LSE has impacted on all four issues.
Fleurbaey's       collaboration with the       department on these research topics remains close&#8212;he has co-published on       these topics with       Voorhoeve, Bovens, and Schokkaert.
