     The report on obesity is still the BPS's position statement in relation       to this issue and continues to be available to download from their website       [1].
The BPS sent out a press release to all major media outlets [2] and       appeared on BPS Facebook and Twitter feeds, and the story       was reported by a number of national newspapers, including the Guardian       and Daily Telegraph.
The report was picked up by various online       media including Medical News Today and Obesity Australia       [4, 9], and features on websites offering health advice to the general       public on obesity in adults because of the importance psychology plays in       the treatment of weight issues, thus far neglected as an intervention       within treatment programmes [5, 6, 10].
The report was disseminated widely, including to Andrew Langsley, the       Secretary of State for Health.
In November 2010, when the report was       nearing completion, Waumsley was invited to attend a House of Lords cross       party seminar on behaviour change interventions to prevent and tackle       obesity [3].
This occurred in the context of London preparing for the       London 2012 Olympic Games where fitness and health would naturally be       promoted and where creating a legacy was important, yet half the       population was identified as obese or morbidly obese.
The debate       acknowledged the power of food companies and their partners in the       advertising and marketing sector to influence eating behaviour, and a       psychological approach to obesity was welcomed.
An outcome from the debate       was the recommendation to take the issue to a cross party discussion       across Parliament.
Further correspondence followed with Professor the Lord       McColl [7].
Reducing obesity and improving dietary behaviours is currently       an area of government policy [8]     Waumsley was invited to participate as one of three expert discussants       for a special panel on obesity at the BPS Annual Conference (10 April       2013).
The panel was aimed at practitioners with the intention of advising       on evidence-based best practice [9]
