     The research described above resulted in the development of a real time       typing method for M. tuberculosis, which has resulted in a       nationwide change in the methodology used for typing of TB, significant       improvements to the national TB typing scheme and the management of TB       infections.
Delivery of a National Reference Standard     Prior to the outcomes from this research there was no prospect of       real-time high volume accurate typing being provided for English isolates       of M. tuberculosis.
The UK National Reference Laboratories used a       complex, slow and unreliable technique, which only provided results on 75%       of strains which would then require re-typing using a second method,       followed by further analysis to identify specific strain types.
The       research conducted by Professor Peter Hawkey at the University of       Birmingham resulted in a low cost, high volume dHPLC method, with new       primers and targets that provides real-time typing of M. tuberculosis.
The new typing method was fully implemented into clinical service at the       Birmingham National Reference Laboratories for Mycobacterium         tuberculosis, based at Heart of England NHS Foundation Trust in 2004       and continues to be used until the present day.
As a result of the early       work completed by the National Reference Laboratory in Birmingham, where       all isolates were typed and which showed that unsuspected clusters of       cross-infection were occurring, the universal rapid MIRU-VNTR 24 locus       typing was recognised as a key component to enable the delivery of the       Chief Medical Officer's TB action plan [1], which was published in October       2004 and detailed that "molecular strain typing of all M. tuberculosis       isolates and the establishment of a central database linking       epidemiological data is a key component of TB control".
Whilst the       publication of document is outside the period of assessment it provided       the necessary mandate for the other National Reference Laboratories       (London and Newcastle) to adopt the rapid typing technology developed by       Professor Peter Hawkey, this occurred fully in 2010.
Professor Hawkey was a member of the TB Diagnosis and Molecular       Epidemiology (DAME) Group in the HPA which was responsible for producing a       national strategy for TB diagnosis.
The Chair of DAME, Prof Pete Borriello       (Chief Executive of the Veterinary Medicines Directorate), detailed in a       statement to accompany this case study that "the research undertaken at       Birmingham to see if the emerging molecular strain differentiation       techniques could be applied to this problem and turn molecular typing into       a useful public health tool was very important" [2].
The DAME Group argued       successfully for the adoption of the Midlands' TB typing model nationally.
The service model for M. tuberculosis typing established in       Birmingham was adopted by the HPA to deliver molecular typing of every       isolate via the HPA National Strain typing project, which began in January       2010 and is described in the HPA question and answer sheet published in       February 2011 [3] and the 2012 HPA report on TB in the UK [4].
Dr P Monk,       Consultant in Health Protection from the HPA, detailed the following in a       statement to accompany this case study: "as a result of the work you       [Professor Peter Hawkey] have led, there has been a step change in the       control of TB.
The developments of strain typing which came out of the       research you led have allowed us to introduce a national strain typing       service" [5].
The Birmingham strategy of direct real time reporting on the VNTR targets       has become the national reference standard and is currently used in the       other two reference labs (London and Newcastle) for England, Cardiff for       Wales and Edinburgh for Scotland, as detailed in the National Institute       for Health and Clinical Excellence guidance on the clinical diagnosis and       management of tubercuosis [6], which was published in November 2010.
A       compatible variant of the technique is also used in USA, Canada, France,       Holland and Germany [7].
Impact on public health     All M. Tuberculosis isolates in the UK are now typed by the       National Reference Laboratories which are a critical component of the       national Public Health England TB typing surveillance tool used by public       health physicians to delineate and recognise clusters of TB       cross-infection.
The new typing technology has meant that pseudo outbreaks       can be rapidly identified, i.e.
individuals incorrectly thought to have       acquired TB can be rapidly excluded, thus reducing the time and money       spent on contact tracing.
The use of the rapid typing method in the TB       typing project has meant that isolates indistinguishable from those in       previous cases reported to Health Protection Units, regional teams and       nationally could be linked and controlled as a direct result of the typing       information.
Possible epidemiologically linked cases are investigated to       ascertain whether an epidemiological cluster or outbreak exists.
Any       ensuing outbreak investigation aims to identify and treat all cases of       active disease to prevent further transmission.
The public health community are now provided with detailed information on       the relationship of different strains of TB.
The strain typing data when       integrated with epidemiological and social information via Origins       software provides a powerful tool for Health Protection Units to recognise       and track clusters of TB.
Origins is a database which assigns a cultural,       ethnic and linguistic group based on personal and family name; its       application to TB epidemiology was developed by Prof Hawkey.
Data detailed       by the HPA through their TB Strain Typing and Cluster Investigation       Newsletters provides an indication of the level of clusters being       investigated in the UK.
In the period Jan 2011-Dec 2012, of the 144       clusters being actively investigated by Public Health teams, 40 were from       London and 41 from the Midlands [8]; this disproportionate use represents       the early adopter status in the Midlands.
This level of investigation has       only been made possible by the implementation of the rapid typing       technology and associated epidemiological and social information provided       via Origins.
The method has also enabled the almost complete eradication       of laboratory contamination being responsible for false positives; prior       to typing 8% of positive results were contamination.
Impact on patients     The early identification of TB patients, which are part of previously       unidentified clusters of infection, is enabling early treatment and       avoidance of morbidity and mortality, as detailed in a study from the       Netherlands and in the report from the HPA on Surveillance of Mycobacterium         tuberculosis Strain Typing [7, 9].
Impact on local clinical practice     In 2006, the University of Birmingham team established a secure website       (Document Gateway) so that TB teams across East and West Midlands could       access the data in real-time.
This was so successful that from 2008       onwards Birmingham and Black Country isolates have been managed in monthly       multidisciplinary meetings with clinicians directly responsible for       managing the patients, public health clinicians and TB control nurses       examining typing data.
In January 2010, in response to requests from users       and through the continuing support from the HPA, the service was expanded       in parallel with nationally agreed guidelines and increased the resolution       to beyond that of the methodology originally used by the main reference       lab.
This work was done by Dr Evans, Dr Grace Smith (Head of Regional       Reference Laboratory) and Professor Peter Hawkey working directly with       clinicians.
