     Antibiotic resistance is a global issue, with the number of pathogenic       bacteria being resistant to front line,       therapeutic antibiotics increasing.
A recent report by the UK Chief       Medical Officer (Annual Report March       2013) detailed that that infections cost the UK economy over &#163;30 billion       per year in economic cost and       antibiotic resistance significantly increased mortality rates (to ~30% for       infections with resistant bacteria       compared with 15% for infection with drug susceptible strains), over half       the ~5000 UK deaths from sepsis       each year caused by E. coli are a result of infection with       multiply resistant strains.
The US Centres for       Disease Control and Prevention has recently estimated infections with       resistant organisms to cause over 2       million illnesses in the US per annum with over 23000 deaths resulting.
These figures demonstrate the       global nature of the problem and the impact in developed countries, the       situation is worse in the developing       world.
With the increasing demand for biocide based antibacterial and       preservative products, the risk of the       emergence of new resistant strains has increased.
The work described above       has had an impact on the       development of European policy and has informed the drafting of new         legislation governing the licensing       of biocidal products across the European union.
The research described above by Professor Laura Piddock and Dr Mark       Webber at the University of       Birmingham provided a scientific and mechanistic insight into how biocide       exposure can select antibiotic       resistance, proved that common mechanisms of resistance are relevant to       both biocides and antibiotics and       that mutants selected after biocide exposure are fit in animal models.
The       research also identified       significant gaps in the current knowledge base regarding the mechanisms by       which bacteria respond to       biocides and commonalities with response to antibiotics, as well as a       dearth of data on biocide tolerance in       clinical and environmental isolates of pathogenic species.
The impact from       these findings was the provision       of significant new information for policy makers and opinion leaders to       formulate opinions as to the safe use       of biocides and recommendations for future research priorities at a       European level (1).
This report gave a       series of recommendations including instigation of research programmes to       develop surveillance       programmes to identify levels of biocide tolerance, develop standards for       testing of the propensity of       biocides to select for resistance and to monitor biocide production and       environmental accumulation levels.
The research was directly and exclusively quoted in 2010 in the EC       Scientific Committee on Consumer       Safety `Preliminary opinion on triclosan': `the identification of         mechanisms of microbial resistance including         genomic and proteomic aspects, is commendable and should be extended to         other biocides' (2).
The research has not only helped to shape EU opinion but also influenced       changes to the law governing the       use of biocides.
The new `EU biocides regulation (No 528/2012)' (3) was       released in 2012 and became       legally binding across the EU from 2013.
This includes requirements for       any new biocidal product to       demonstrate that it does not select resistance to itself or target       organisms before it can be registered and       used in any formulations.
This legislation supersedes the previous       `Biocidal products directive'.
In the UK       alone 652 biocidal products are currently licensed under the previous       directive, as detailed on the Health       and Safety Executive website of licensed biocides (4).
The new regulations       influenced by this work will       apply to at least this number of products in a growing market.
The       research described was highlighted in a       report published in October 2013 on antibiotic resistance in the       environment (5), which was prepared for the       Houses of Parliament by the Parliamentary Office of Science and       Technology.
All biocidal products now submitted for regulatory approval required to       be allowed to be sold in the       European Union must now have been demonstrated not to select resistance to       themselves or other       antimicrobials, this will prevent biocides being used that provide a       selective pressure that can drive       antibiotic resistance.
Whilst the new legislation has only been legally       binding since September 2013 the       German federal bureau for risk management (BfR) recommended a ban on       triclosan in 2009 (6) in all non-medical 	  contexts, the BfR ruling relied heavily on the report mentioned       above from the EC Scientific       Committee on Consumer Safety `Preliminary opinion on triclosan' to form a       basis for its decision which in       turn used research from Birmingham to shape its conclusions.
The EU in       turn imposed a similar ban across       Europe in 2010 in response to the BfR recommendation and a petition from       Ciba (the manufacturer of       triclosan) to remove triclosan from the approved list of biocidal products       (this ban was over-ruled in 2012       after appeal from users of triclosan due to procedural problems with the       original ruling, further legal       consideration is pending at the time of submission).
The work was disseminated by publication in international peer reviewed       journals, conference presentations       and informal discussion with government agencies e.g.
quarterly meetings       with colleagues at DEFRA.
