     Fetal therapy is a relatively new subspecialty that allows fetal and       perinatal morbidity and mortality to be reduced.
Such treatment is       concentrated in specialist centres and there is a strong call amongst       maternal care specialists and national services for such interventions to       be evidenced-based [1].
Such interventions have to be targeted at       congenital conditions which are potentially fatal but have a reversible       course if treated or the long term consequences of fetal disease can be       ameliorated by in-utero intervention.
The Fetal Medicine Centre led by       Professor Kilby and affiliated to the University of Birmingham has been       instrumental in critically appraising evidence for accurate diagnosis of       fetal conditions and systematically evaluating outcomes of prenatal       intervention.
This is particularly evident in their contribution to       clinical guidelines and practice in management of monochorionic twins.
Monochorionic twins have conjoining of the feto-placental circulations       and `share' a single placenta.
This form of twinning is associated with a       high perinatal mortality (8%).
Complications, such as single twin demise       (death) and twin to twin transfusion syndrome (which complicates 15% of       monochorionic twin pregnancies) have high fetal mortality rates.
Handicap       and brain development problems in survivors complicate up to 15% of       survivors, even with treatment.
Work led by Professor Mark Kilby has been pivotal in critically       evaluating risks of single twin demise in monochorionic twins and       outlining optimal investigation and management.
In addition, in-utero       treatment of severe twin to twin transfusion syndrome is complex and has       been controversial.
Critical appraisal of the evidence base informing       management strategies for this morbid disease have been incorporated by       the Cochrane Pregnancy and Childbirth Group into guidance on interventions       to treat twin to twin transfusion syndrome [2].
Alongside this, Professor Kilby has been instrumental in ensuring that       his research in monochorionic twins has been incorporated into national       and international discussion and further peer-reviewed clinical guidance.
In 2005, Professor Kilby convened an international scientific working       group that held a week long symposium at the Royal College of       Obstetricians and Gynaecologists (RCOG) to gather current expertise and       evidence relating to the management of multiple pregnancies.
Expert       opinion was published as a discussion vignette [3] which then formed the       basis and stimulus to the creation of a further peer reviewed,       evidence-based clinical guideline.
To achieve this, Prof Kilby co-chaired the working group that produced a       set of RCOG "Green-top guidelines" in 2008[4].
This type of guidance has       been specifically developed by RCOG to provide systematically developed       recommendations that assist clinicians and patients in making decisions       about appropriate treatment for specific, specialist conditions.
They are       concise documents, providing specific recommendations on focused areas of       clinical practice.
In this case, the aim of the guidelines was "to         describe and, if possible, quantify the problems associated with         monochorionic placentation and to identify the best evidence to guide         clinical care, including routine fetal surveillance and treatment of         complications at secondary and tertiary levels."
It was important to follow this up with official national recommendations       that would more formally influence practice on a broader scale.
Typically       this is achieved via the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence       (NICE), which sets accepted practice for patient healthcare, used by       groups ranging from NHS, Local Authorities, employers, voluntary groups       and others involved in delivering care or promoting wellbeing.Prof Kilby       was chairman of the national, multidisciplinary NICE Clinical Guidelines       Group (within the National Collaborating Centre for Women's and Children's       Health) which produced the 2011 national guidance for the management of       twin and triplet pregnancies [5].
This was the first time NICE had       published detailed recommendations for healthcare professionals on       managing multiple pregnancy, and therefore remains a crucial set of       information informing current and future practice.
These data were also       summarised in a vignette for healthcare professionals to help ensure their       further dissemination and impact on clinical practice [6].
