     The School of Archaeology has moved beyond merely talking to the public       about its work (`dissemination') to involving the public in data gathering       and analysis (`citizen science') and, further, to developing       collaborations in which research goals, methods of data gathering,       analysis and publication are established in discussion with communities       (`knowledge exchange').
In addition, our research has enhanced public       understanding of the past through broadcast and web- based media and       through public events connected to the research.
Fieldwork, organized around a series of excavations offering training and       mentoring to volunteers, has been key to this impact,.
Gosden and Lock set       up the Hillforts of the Ridgeway project in 1995 as a series of research       and training excavations for Oxford undergraduates and students in       Continuing Education.
A group of volunteers was key to organizing the       fieldwork, processing finds and analysing excavation records, and has now       been working together for 20 years.
Inspired by their involvement, some       members have gone on to assume leadership roles within our projects,       conduct their own research, or even undertake a career change and become       professional archaeologists (see reference to Levick below).
The Marcham project grew out of Hillforts of the Ridgeway at the       instigation of the landowners, whose interest in Gosden and Lock's       research, encountered via the Department of Continuing Education, led them       to support the excavation of Iron Age and Roman remains on their land by       setting up a family trust [C1].
This in turn led, in 2012, to a       pioneering, HLF-funded, community archaeology project to analyse the finds       and records from Marcham under the supervision of members of the School       (the `Trendles' Project).
Griffiths was involved in supervising the excavations at Marcham.
His       experience of leading the `Community Trench', staffed entirely by over 100       members of the public between 2008 and 2011,supported by a Local Heritage       Initiative grant [C2], led him to set up Archeox in 2010.
Archeox       is pioneering in the extent to which it is community-led; the local MP for       East Oxford has written: `I have been particularly impressed by the work       of the Oxford archaeological community project...which I hope can be a       model for continuing work of this kind In the future.'
[C3] It       involves groups who have traditionally had few links with the University       in a part of the city with below- average social, educational and economic       indicators.
Archeox currently has 580 registered volunteers who have       contributed over 162,000 hours to the project [C4].
The Dorchester excavations are run in collaboration with Oxford       Archaeology (OA), a professional archaeological practice, and the Friends       of Dorchester Abbey, who obtained an HLF grant to support community       involvement in our work and coordinated publication of a popular booklet       on the dig co-authored by members of the School and senior members of OA [C5].
Former Marcham volunteers took part in the Dorchester project, and the       Dorchester community initiated its own test- pitting programme in 2012 as       a result of this work [C6].
Volunteers have their own finds       processing days supervised by Delaine, who lives locally.
The project has       a blog providing a daily excavation `diary', as well as a Twitter-feed and       Facebook page.
The website receives c 700 hits p.a., over 50% of       which come from 11 countries outside the UK; while 46% of readers of the       blog come from 8 countries outside the UK.
Our fieldwork has provided a springboard for some volunteers to become       researchers in their own right.
Two doctoral students supervised by Gosden       and Lock began as Marcham volunteers and have since carried out       large-scale landscape surveys in the region.
One, Paula Levick, has made a       career change into archaeology, and, since 2012, has helped to run the       `Trendles' Project.
Twelve volunteers have taken archaeology degrees as a       result of working with us.
Educational work has been integral to these projects and has included       visits from hundreds of children from some 20 schools, Work Experience       students, and `loan boxes' of archaeological finds that teachers can       borrow [C7, C8].
The Headteacher of one local primary school wrote       that `the annual excavation...at Marcham has been an integral part of our       Local Studies and Roman Britain work in school for years....Many of our       children take their families on open days and at least one of our       ex-pupils now works on the site and has gained a degree in archaeology'.
Another has established a school test pit, having been `inspired by how       much the project influences the local community' at Dorchester [C8].
We estimate that during 11 years at Marcham over 8000 people attended Open       Days, dozens of whom subsequently took part in the excavations.
Gosden,       Griffiths, Hamerow and Lock have given over 100 lectures to local groups,       reaching thousands in the process.
The projects have received considerable       media coverage, ranging from Channel 4's `Time Team' and BBC's `Digging       for Britain' (2012) to local radio, television and newspapers.
The School of Archaeology's fieldwork has thus provided thousands of       members of the public across South Oxfordshire with first-hand       archaeological experience and enhanced their understanding of their local       heritage [C9, C10].
Locals who visited Marcham often commented that       they `had no idea there was something here' and one volunteer observed: `I       didn't know that people like us could get involved in archaeology'.
Lives       have been enriched in this way.
For example, one long-term participant in       the Marcham project, a former officer in the American air force, asked to       be buried in his excavation clothes, reflecting the positive role that       archaeology had come to play in his life.
This case study stresses the human dimension of the research's `impact':       a close-knit group of amateurs and professionals has grown out of our       research, which has inspired individuals, enhanced a sense of community       and added to the public understanding of the region's past.
