     The United Nations have set out eight Millennium Development Goals       (MDGs), international development objectives that were officially       established following the Millennium Summit of the United Nations in 2000.
All 189 United Nations member states and at least 23 international       organisations have agreed to achieve these goals by the year 2015.
The       fourth and fifth of these goals are `Reducing child mortality rates'       and `Improving maternal health'.
Scale of the issue            Over 700 women die every day from pregnancy-related         complications.
99% of maternal deaths occur in developing countries.
Over 1,000,000 children are left motherless each year as a         result of this.
Babies who survive the death of their mother seldom reach their first         birthday.
Human resource shortages in the health services have been widely       acknowledged as a key threat to the attainment of the health-related MDGs,       and there is a very clear need to optimise the capacity and capability of       the existing workforce in developing nations.The work driven by Prof Arri       Coomarasamy and colleagues in the University of Birmingham has made a       significant impact on the thinking of policymakers at an international       level, reflected both in international guidelines and recommendations, and       in local policy and strategy in maternal health units in the developing       world.
With respect to traditional birth attendants, it is       estimated that more than 50% of all births in developing countries are       attended by TBAs, with the rate as high as 80-90% in rural parts of some       countries.
This form of support has proven very popular with women giving       birth in these settings, but without suitable training and support they       are not knowledgeable or skilled enough in what is required to undertake       safe deliveries, nor do they have appropriate materials/equipment.
Despite       previous investment in training programmes for TBAs to upskill the group,       prior to the research undertaken by Prof Coomarasamy and colleagues, the       main international health organisations were heavily promoting skilled       birth attendants for all women and correspondingly discontinuing       interventions to improve skills and practices of TBAs.
However, this       discontinuation was not based on high-quality evidence of either benefit       or lack of benefit of these traditional workers.
While skilled birth       attendants are obviously ideal, they are likely to remain in short supply       in rural parts of the developing world in the foreseeable future for       economic reasons.
They therefore do not represent a practical or at least       imminent solution.
Carers for babies and mothers clearly need to be appropriately trained,       equipped and linked to health services to reduce mortality in both groups,       and to this end Prof Coomarasamy's team have worked to promote further       evaluation of effects of TBAs, not instead of, but alongside increasing       coverage of skilled birth attendants.Their work has clearly demonstrated       reductions in neonatal, perinatal and maternal deaths where TBAs were       appropriately trained and involved, and an editorial review in the British       Medical Journal in December 2011 stated that this research `provides       compelling evidence that trained and supported traditional birth       attendants save babies lives' [1].
Similarly, for non-physician clinicians Prof Coomarasamy's team       were able to demonstrate that maternal and perinatal mortality was not       significantly different following caesarean section, the most common       operation to save mothers and their children in sub-Saharan Africa.
The evidence around both groups delivered by Prof Coomarasamy's research       has been of major importance to international views on the utility of both       traditional birth attendants (TBAs) and non-physician clinicians (NPCs) in       caring for mothers and children during pregnancy and birth.To ensure that       this work truly makes an impact, researchers at the University of       Birmingham have been progressing correspondence, meeting and delivering       presentations to individuals from relevant national and international       bodies.
These include:            Margaret Chan (Director-General), World Health Organisation (WHO) &#8212; 1st         March 2012       Andrew Mitchell MP (then UK Secretary of State for International         Development) and Nina Gora (Gender and Governance Manager), Oxfam &#8212; 11th 		May 2012       Sir Sabaratnam Arulkumaran (then President) International Federation         of Gynaecology and Obstetrics (FIGO) &#8212; 9th October 2012       Rushanara Ali MP, Shadow Minister for International Development &#8212; 24th         November 2012          Organisations such as WHO know where to target training so that NPCs will       be better able to perform obstetric surgery safely and effectively, and       Prof Coomarasamy, together with other colleagues who contributed to this       research, chiefly Profs Christine MacArthur and KK Cheng, provide informal       advisory services to WHO as it designs and formulates its own wider global       research programme.
The team has also facilitated discussions at       international conferences such as the annual FIGO congress (October 2012)       to promote the further evaluation of the benefits of better training TBAs       and NPCs in the developing world.
Additional engagements include guidance       of the integration of TBAs into practice, given directly to clinicians in       Nigeria.
Following these discussions, a personal letter was sent from WHO to the       team in 2012 [2] noting that "your letter pointing to the recent       evidence on the effects of trained traditional birth attendants came at       a time when several WHO departments were involved in developing WHO       recommendations on optimizing the delivery of key, effective       interventions to improve maternal and newborn health through       task-shifting".
This correspondence further confirmed that, in line       with the recommendations of their research, the guideline panel       was in favour of recommending lay health-workers to deliver health       promotion and counselling advice for various interventions, administration       of oral misoprostol for the prevention of postpartum haemorrhage, labour       companionship and oral supplements (calcium in areas of low calcium       intake, iron-folate, intermittent presumptive malaria treatment and       vitamin A in areas with deficiency) with targeted monitoring and       evaluation activities.
Subsequent WHO publications explicitly recommended the use of NPCs for       numerous tasks in hospital settings and TBAs "in settings where serious       service gaps exist" [3].
Prof Coomarasamy was the first author explicitly       thanked for his assistance and collaboration in updating the relevant       material and providing additional information.
This is strong evidence       that the team's research has changed international thinking on the       importance of these other skilled groups in maternal and infant care, and       therefore made a substantial impact in the effort towards the reduction of       maternal and perinatal mortality worldwide.
For example, the Deputy       Director of the Ifakara Health Institute in Tanzania wrote to the team [4]       to confirm that:"The extensive and compelling research from your team       at the University of Birmingham into the value of task shifting and the       innovative utilisation of alternative health cadres to maximise the       opportunities to improve maternal health in less economically developed       countries has been crucial to the understanding of this issue within the       Ifakara Health Institute in Tanzania, and our subsequent work adapting       to the recommendations that it has contributed to in international       policy in this area."
The Head of the Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology at University of       Malawi College of Medicine also wrote to highlight: "The importance of       clear and robust evidence of the beneficial roles of traditional birth       attendants and non-physician clinicians in our local context cannot be       overstated.
Whilst we all recognise that universal access to skill birth       attendants and improved coverage of obstetricians would be the ideal,       the reality is that there is a continual struggle to deliver care with       the limited providers available.
The findings of your studies are most       helpful to inform not only our strategic priorities for future       investment but also our daily operational tasks.
"[5]     To support international advocacy around issues relating to maternal and       child health, Professor Coomarasamy was instrumental in the establishment       of the charity Ammalife, and remains a trustee and the charity's primary       contact.
The charity run projects, undertakes internationally-valued       research, provide specialist advice, education and training &amp; work       with others to advance women's health rights.
Ammalife has supported much       of the work detailed in this case study through funding and support for       dissemination, such as work with team member Amie Wilson,who was nominated       as one of Oxfam's Most Inspiring Women in the Midlands in March 2011 [6]       for her contributions to international charity work (including promoting       uptake of the team's research in developing countries).
Ammalife have       campaigned to support the research outlined here through their links with       many of the large international bodies mentioned above, and to raise       public and policy-makers awareness of these issues and the validity of the       solutions proposed.
Through Ammalife, the University of Birmingham research team has       collaborated with Made in Europe to produce an evidence-based resource       pack of the top 20 interventions to reduce maternal death, including the       roles of TBAs and NPCs [7].
The pack has been distributed to numerous       charities across the UK (Muslim Charity, Islamic relief, Muslim Hands, Al       Muntada Trust, Muslim Charities Forum).
This work has raised maternal       health issue awarenessand engagement amongst many prominent Muslim       scholars (58 have confirmed that they are actively supporting the       approaches outlined); supported 776 workshops; and they raised the       proportion of Muslim NGOs increasing programme activity on maternal health       in their budgets and strategies by 30% [8].
The work was celebrated by       Baroness Jenny Tonge (Chair of the UK All Party Parliamentary Group on       Population, Development and Reproductive Health) in a House of Commons       reception [9].
