     Impact on policy and guidance     Since the publication of the research outcomes in 2010, the work has       attracted considerable attention across the UK and internationally.
The       findings from the research described above were used by the DoH in       formulating their national policy for MRSA screening in patients       (published in 2008), which required all NHS trusts to screen all elective       patients on admission and all emergency admissions as soon as practicable       possible for MRSA [1, 2].
The letter supplied by the Inspector of       Microbiology and Infection Control at the DoH details that "the work in       Birmingham was an important contribution to our [DoH] understanding of the       epidemiology of MRSA in hospital patients" and "the study on the use of       rapid screening methods to identify patients colonised with MRSA on       admission was a seminal study that informed and influenced the national       guidance on screening from the DoH" [3].
The importance of the work in       influencing NHS policy and practice is further exemplified in the letter       supplied by the Director of Infection Prevention and Control at the       Hammersmith Hospital, London, who detailed that `the work provided       valuable information to the NHS and all NHS trusts about the effectiveness       and application of such screening in the NHS environment to tackle the       challenge of MRSA" [4].
The results of this work have been widely used       internationally in formulating guidance on the use of screening in USA [5]       and Europe [6].
Impact on Infection rates and patient outcomes     The combination of control measures (including PCR screening) instituted       in England has resulted in a 38% decrease in MRSA bacteraemias from       April-June 2009 compared to April-June 2011 with substantial improvements       in patient outcome, as reported on the Department of Health/Public Health       England website for mandatory reporting [7].
These measures include       screening of the patient, followed by prompt decolonisation and isolation,       with the advantage of PCR testing being that patients are identified       rapidly enabling control measures to be implemented in real time.
This has       the effect of limiting the transmission of MRSA to other patients on the       ward and thereby preventing colonisation and infection.
Impact on clinical practice     Following the completion of the research, a business plan was written by       Professor Peter Hawkey and presented to the Heart of England NHS       Foundation Trust recommending the use of PCR based MRSA screening for       emergency patients.
This strategy was adopted in June 2008 and since the       introduction the number of MRSA bacteraemias has continued to decline and       the Trust has met the targets that the DoH has set.
Annually the Trust       screens 71,000 patients for MRSA using the molecular method.
Heart of       England NHS Foundation Trust published in 2010 that "by using the latest       DNA technology to find patients carrying MRSA within hours of admission       and giving them treatment, the chance of those patients passing on MSRA       was reduced by 50%" [8].
Furthermore the Health Protection Agency       published in 2009 that "the use of rapid surveillance testing can further       accelerate the reduction in MRSA transmission", with Professor Hawkey's       research being cited directly [9].
The proposal for the use of rapid screening form MRSA coupled with       decolonisation in a selected setting (high incidence surgical patients)       has been modelled for cost effectiveness by a collaboration of       international centres and found to be one of the best options [10].
At the 2011 General Meeting of the American Society of Microbiology       (largest US infection society) Professor Peter Hawkey's work was cited by       the Director of Microbiology and Infectious Disease Research at NorthShore       University Healthcare System, as one of the most significant studies (as       it captured &#8805; 80% of missed isolation days) supporting rapid PCR screening       of surgical patients [11].
