     The outcomes of this research have supported policy makers and opinion       leaders to formulate opinions as to the safe use of antibiotics in food       producing animals and have been used extensively by the FDA in their       proposal to ban the fluoroquinolone antibiotics enrofloxacin and       sarafloxacin use in food producing animals, which became law in the USA in       September 2005 (1, 2) and which has, therefore, impacted substantially         on the use of antibiotics in food producing animals and the presence of         antibiotic resistant strains in the food chain since this date and         throughout the impact period.
The major impact of this work within the period of review relates       to the continuing impact of the ban of fluoroquinolone antibiotic use in       animals and the consequent impact on human health.
The ban on the use of       these types of antibiotics has resulted in a reduction in the presence of       antibiotic resistant strains in the human food chain.
Following the ban on       the use of fluoroquinolone antibiotics in food producing animals, studies       have been conducted by a variety of groups including US Food Safety       Research Organisations (3), the FDA (4) and Academics Food Science       Departments (5) to examine the impact of the ban on fluoroquinolone       resistance levels in pathogens isolated from food producing animals.
These       studies have shown varied patterns of resistance for different bacterial       strains, with decreases in the proportion of resistant strains of E.         coli and Enterococcus being identified in isolates from food       producing animals (3-5).
In contrast for Campylobacter, no change in the       levels of resistant strains were identified in samples taken immediately       after the ban, however in more recent studies decreases in the level of       resistant strains have been detected (3-5).
These data suggest that the       ban of fluoroquinolone use has impacted on different species in different       ways, but overall there has been a reduction in fluoroquinolone resistance       rates of pathogenic species in animal isolates present in the food chain.
Latest data from the USA where the fluoroquinolone ban in veterinary       medicine was enforced shows very low levels of fluoroquinolone resistance       in Salmonella isolated from people, whilst rates of       resistant isolates of Campylobacter have remained steady (6).
The work was disseminated by publication in international peer reviewed       journals, conference presentations and informal discussion with government       agencies including the Department for the Environment, Food and Rural       Affairs (DEFRA), Veterinary Medicines Directive (VMD) and Advisory       Committee on the Microbiological Safety of Food (ACMSF) and continues to       this day.
In the UK, the VMD reviewed the licences of fluoroquinolone       antibiotics but did not withdraw the products from market.
Instead they       increased awareness of the impact of the use of fluoroquinolone       antibiotics in animals, through the publication of advisory material (7)       and this has led to a reduction of the amount used by veterinarians.
The       European Medicines Agency is again reviewing the EU policy on antibiotics       used veterinary medicine on a case by case basis and the use of       fluoroquinolone antibiotics in animals reared for food production has once       again come under close scrutiny (8).
Data arising from research carried       out by the Piddock team is part of the portfolio of evidence being       re-examined.
Professor Laura Piddock has also used her international profile in the       field of antimicrobial resistance to launch the `Antibiotic Action'       campaign &#8212; a global initiative designed to inform and educate all about       the need for discovery, research and development of new antibiotics as       well as appropriate use (http://antibiotic-action.com/).
Professor Piddock has also been awarded a Chair from the British Society       in Antimicrobial Chemotherapy in Public Engagement.
These activities have       resulted in significant recent interactions with politicians, policy       makers, industry, the media and general public and allowed her to engage       with broad audiences and explain issues including the use of antibiotics       in animals (9-10).
This activity can be quantified by the number of       articles, radio and television programmes and interviews on antibiotics an       antibiotic resistance pre November 2011 (when Antibiotic Action was       launched) and 2013: using the unique combination of search term words       `Professor LJV Piddock, Director of Antibiotic Action' has been quoted in       print, broadcast and digital media to the lay and specialist press over       7000 times..
