     Birmingham-based research led by Lip and Lane has had international       impacts in AF risk assessment, screening and treatment.
This has been       primarily delivered by their roles with national and international       organisations as expert consultants on AF management, positions which have       been based on the expertise developed through the research described here.
Professor Lip was the previous Clinical Adviser for the current UK NICE       guidelines (2006) and is co-authoring the 2014 revision on AF management.
He has served as Deputy Editor ("content expert") for the 2012 American       College of Chest Physicians (ACCP) guidelines on antithrombotic therapy       for AF [1] and in similar capacities for various guidelines and/or       position statements from European Heart Rhythm Association (EHRA),       including Task Force Chair for a Position Statement on Bleeding Risk in AF       Patients [2].
He also served on the writing committee of the European       Society of Cardiology (ESC) guidelines on AF (2010) and the 2012 focused       update.
Dr Lane is also a member of the ACCP and EHRA document writing       committees.
Both Professor Lip and Dr Lane were part of the BMJ Writing       group (2013) for NHS Shared Decision Making in the development of a       patient decision aid for stroke prevention for AF or atrial flutter [3]       and were recently part of the task force that developed a patient       education website for the EHRA (Lip was Chair) [4].
Along with these       changes to clinical guidance for patient care, the team have delivered the       following impacts in three key areas:     Assessing stroke and bleeding risk     Professor Lip and Dr Lane have developed and validated two risk       stratification scores, CHA2DS2-VASc and HAS-BLED,       based on common clinical information that provide well-validated       approaches for clinicians to assess their patients' risk of stroke and       bleeding, respectively.
These scores have helped clinicians to formally       assess stroke risk and identify `truly low risk' patients who do not need       antithrombotic therapy, and effectively capture those patients who should       be considered for oral anticoagulation therapy.
CHA2DS2-VASc       is easily available for use by GPs as part of the Guidance on Risk       Assessment and Stroke Prevention for Atrial Fibrillation (GRASP-AF) risk       stratification tool for stroke to guide oral anticoagulation treatment,       which is freely available and compatible for use with all GP clinical       systems in England [5].
The simple, user-friendly HAS-BLED score,       comprising risk factors either readily available from the clinical medical       history or routinely tested in (new) patients, allows clinicians to       formally assess bleeding risk, identifying modifiable risk factors       (optimising blood pressure control, removing concomitant anti-platelet,       reducing alcohol intake, and optimising time in therapeutic range for       those patients receiving warfarin), and those who require regular review       (patients at higher bleeding risk).
The CHA2DS2-VASc score has become the principal       tool to assess stroke risk and decide on anticoagulant therapy in the most       recent ESC2010 guidelines on atrial fibrillation [6] and their focused       update in 2012[2], both used in Europe and throughout most parts of the       world.
This score is also used by the Asia Pacific Heart Rhythm Society       guideline, which recommends that the CHA2DS2-VASc       score should be used to assess the risk of stroke for all patients with       nonvalvular AF in the Asia-Pacific region[7].
A narrative form of CHA2DS2-VASc       is used in the 2012 ACCP guideline [1].The HAS-BLED score is similarly       used in international AF treatment guidelines (Europe, Canada) &#8212; notably       those issued by the ESC in 2010/12 (noted above) and the 2012 Canadian       Cardiovascular Society [8].
Both scores are recommended in the UK       Consensus Statement on AF issued by the Royal College of Physicians of       Edinburgh [9].The significant worldwide impact of this work with CHA2DS2-VASc       and HAS-BLED on the management of AF has recently been acknowledged by two       prestigious awards, the Arrhythmia Alliance Team of the Year 2012 and the       BMJ Awards Cardiovascular Medicine Team of the Year 2013.
AF treatment decisions relating to risk     One quarter of all strokes in people aged &#8805;75 years result from AF, and       therefore improving the provision of stroke prevention in elderly people       with AF is a critical aspect of management.
The BAFTA study clearly led to       a change in guidelines and clinical practice by providing clear evidence       for health professionals of the benefit of using oral anticoagulation       therapy in over 75s.
The NHS Quality and Outcomes Framework guidance in       2009 and 2013/14 [10,11] highlighted that "there is clearly a need to         encourage the use of this treatment for AF patients at high risk of         stroke", and both stated "recent evidence from the BAFTA         trial...suggests not only is warfarin much more effective than aspirin,         but that it is not as unsafe &#8212; in terms of risk of serious haemorrhage &#8212;         as previously thought".
The 2013/14 guidelines also noted that "It         is advised that patients with stroke associated with AF are reviewed for         long-term treatment with warfarin".
Screening in primary care     The SAFE study helped to define best practice with respect to AF       screening in the elderly population, comparing the effectiveness       (including cost-effectiveness, i.e.
value for money) of different       approaches of systematic or ad-hoc screening to best diagnose AF.
Together       with the BAFTA trial this has changed the way that AF is now managed at a       national and international level: UK clinical guidance: The       National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (NICE) sets accepted       practice for patient healthcare, used by groups ranging from NHS, Local       Authorities, employers, voluntary groups and others involved in delivering       care or promoting wellbeing.
Results of the BAFTA and SAFE studies were       incorporated into the 2006 National Atrial Fibrillation Clinical Guideline       for Management in Primary and Secondary Care [12].
These directly       reference SAFE, and importantly remain the current guidance informing       clinical practice and patient care throughout the assessment period.The       British Committee for Standards in Haematology Guidelines on oral       anticoagulation published in 2011 also draw on the results of the BAFTA       study [13] International clinical guidelines: The ESC published       guidelines in 2010 for AF management [6] referencing the work of Lip, and       a 2012 update [2] stating ""We therefore recommend that, in patients         aged 65 years or over, opportunistic screening for AF by pulse         palpation, followed by recording of an ECG to verify diagnosis, should         be considered for the early detection of AF".
This work also reached       the USA, with the American College of Chest Physicians [1] published       evidence-based guidelines on antithrombotic therapy in AFin 2012,       incorporating BAFTA results.
Utilising this work for primary care was also       part of the World Heart Federation/International Atrial Fibrillation       Association 2012 guidelines [15] (Lip part of Steering Committee).
