     The impact of the application of HLA-peptide tetramers to the study of       cytomegalovirus infection can be categorized within changing clinical         practice and commercial development.
The development of tetramer technology, with which Professor Paul Moss       was involved, has had an enormous impact on immunology research in       industry and academia.
However, the specific focus of this case study is       on Professor Paul Moss' development of a clear clinical application for       these important reagents.
HLA-peptide tetramers have transformed the ability to interrogate the       function of the immune system and have had an enormous impact on the       understanding of CMV infection.
A PubMed search for `tetramer' and       `cytomegalovirus' identifies 148 individual papers which is representation       of the widespread adoption of this technique since the original paper 12       years ago.
Tetramers have also been used widely in clinical applications       over this timeframe, specifically in relation to clinical monitoring and       cellular therapy.
As indicated above, in 2001 the Birmingham team were the       first to use tetramers to monitor the reconstitution of CMV-specific       immune responses following stem cell transplantation.
This work led to a       plethora of similar publications which correlated such reconstitution with       factors such as level of T cell depletion and control of viral       reactivation.
This work proved so important that Beckman Coulter went on       to develop a set of HLA-peptide reagents which are used and sold as a tool       to monitor T cell reconstitution in order to guide clinical management of       the risk and clinical significance of viremia in the post-transplant       period (1).
Studies have established the value of this approach which is       now used in specialist haemopoietic transplantation centres and is also       finding application in solid organ transplant (2).
In relation to cellular therapy, the manuscript of Cobbold et al       (2005) opened the potential for HLA-peptide tetramers, and other forms of       multimeric reagents, to be used as an approach for accelerating the       transfer of antigen-specific T cells between patients.
This publication       was followed by similar trials within Europe that demonstrate the value of       such an approach in the treatment in patients with antiviral-resistant CMV       reactivation.
This approach has proved therapeutically beneficial in       several reports (3) and is now used as a therapeutic approach in the       treatment of refractory disease.
Indeed, the use of cellular immunotherapy       as a prophylactic means of suppress the initiation of viremia is also       appealing and is subject to large scale clinical trials sponsored by       commercial organisations (see below).
It is within the area of the clinical application of multimer technology       that the University of Birmingham's contribution has been most dominant in       a commercial setting.
Specifically, the UK biotechnology company Cell       Medica was established in London in 2006 with the aim of commercializing       antigen-specific cellular therapy within the clinical arena (4) and has       had a range of impacts through the current assessment period.
The company       is pioneering tetramer-based therapy and Professor Paul Moss has served on       the Scientific Advisory Board of Cell Medica since its foundation.
In July       2012 the company successfully completed series A financing (&#163;17m) and       expanded its operations to include sites in Texas and Berlin (5).
Cell       Medica is currently sponsoring three multi-centre clinical trials,       enrolling exclusively within the United Kingdom, which will ascertain the       value of CMV-specific T cell therapy, performed using multimer selection       and the prophylaxis or management of CMV reactivation in patients       undergoing haemopoietic transplantation (6).
The first trial started in       2008 and the second in 2011, with a third treating children launched in       2013.
Over 100 patients within the UK have entered clinical trials to       assess multimer-based CMV-specific T cell adoptive therapy.
The `health       and wealth' contribution of tetramers to UK medicine has therefore been       significant.
In 2013 the company opened a GMP cell therapy product       facility in Berlin, its European commercial manufacturing facility,       initially focusing on adoptive cellular treatments.
The commercial launch       of the product is planned in early 2014.
In conclusion, the University of Birmingham and in particular Professor       Paul Moss has made a central contribution to the development of clinical       and commercial application of HLA-peptide technology, particularly around       the study of CMV infection and its management.
This has been translated to       considerable scientific, clinical and commercial opportunities within the       UK and beyond.
