     Shifting delivery of anticoagulation services     Impact on Clinical Practice and Patient Health     Primary care research within UoB UoA2 has led to the transfer of oral       anticoagulation services from secondary to primary care, and latterly       patient self-management resulting in improved clinical outcomes for       patients throughout the 2008-13 REF impact period.
The Birmingham Model       for oral anticoagulation management (a primary care based service       utilising near patient testing and computerised decision support software)       was adopted within the NHS through the inclusion of anticoagulation       services as a Nationally Enhanced Service (NES) within the GP contract in       2004 (GSM Contract for Anticoagulation in Primary Care).
The research also       informed the 2006 recommendations of the NHS National Patient Safety       Agency on making anticoagulation therapy safer, recommendations that are       still current [1] and that have, together with the contract changes,       enabled transfer of oral anticoagulation management from secondary to       primary care, leading to significant improvements in both patient       experience and clinical outcome.
Changes in the management of AF     Impact on Public Policy     SAFE demonstrated the effectiveness of opportunistic screening for AF in       UK primary care, whilst BAFTA established superior efficacy and safety of       warfarin as compared to aspirin in patients aged 75 and over.
These       studies have influenced the UK policy framework during the 2008-13 REF       impact period, both through clinical guidelines and NHS GP contracting.
Clinical guidelines published in 2011 by The British Committee for       Standards in Haematology `Guidelines on oral anticoagulation' 2011 [2]       recommend computer assisted dosing, referencing the Computerised Decision       Support research.
The work has also informed the increasing awareness of       AF as a serious cause of morbidity and has directly influenced indicators       within the NHS Quality and Outcomes Framework throughout the REF period,       with indicators to directly influence, through funding arrangements,       provision of anti-coagulation drug therapy for AF patients [3, 4].
Impact on UK Clinical Practice and Patient Health     There has been impact on patient management throughout the 2008-2013 REF       impact period resulting from the policy changes described above, but also       from important NICE guidelines that were produced prior to this, but were       still current during this time.
The 2006 NICE National Atrial Fibrillation       Clinical Guideline for Management in Primary and Secondary Care [5]       references the SAFE study.
This guidance remained current throughout the       period 2008-2013.
Impact on International Policy and Clinical Practice     As well as influencing UK clinical practice, the work of the Birmingham       team has also influenced guidelines in Europe and the USA: These include:       the European Society of Cardiology guidelines, produced in 2010 and       updated in 2012 [6] &#8212; the updated guidelines, referencing the work of the       Birmingham group, indicated that "We therefore recommend that, in         patients aged 65 years or over, opportunistic screening for AF by pulse         palpation, followed by recording of an ECG to verify diagnosis, should         be considered for the early detection of AF"; the European Stroke       Organisation Guidelines for the Management of Ischaemic Stroke and       Transient Ischaemic Attack, 2008 [7]; the American College of Chest       Physicians guidelines, June 2008 [8].
Impact on Education and CPD     Research in this area has led to the establishment of the National Centre       for Anticoagulation Training within UoB, which provides accredited       training for health care professionals involved in the management of       patients receiving anticoagulation treatment [9].
42 CPD courses were run       between January 2008 and June 2013, with 1,234 participants.
Following publication of the research on anticoagulation Fitzmaurice       and Murray have provided two in-depth learning modules for the BMJ       available from 2008 (Fitzmaurice, Cousins, Clark) and updated (Fitzmaurice,         Murray) during the 2008-13 period [10].
BMJ Learning offers       high-quality (peer reviewed, up-to-date, and evidence-based) continuing       medical education in an economical and time efficient manner, for general       practitioners, hospital doctors and other healthcare professionals.
The       anticoagulation modules are accredited by a number of associations,       including Australian Practice Nurses Association, Austrian Academy of       Physicians, The Royal New Zealand College of General Practitioners, The       Colleges of Medicine of South Africa, Oman Medical Specialty Board, and       Kuwait Institute for Medical Specialization.
Comments on BMJ Learning       suggest the modules are received positively.
Screening for AF     This work has informed the increasing awareness of AF as a serious cause       of morbidity and there is on-going work within the NHS Health Improvement       Service to improve detection of AF with parallel efforts being undertaken       to ensure optimum treatment of those patients with appropriate therapy       [11].
The SAFE &amp; BAFTA trials have resulted in a debate (2012) amongst       the Royal College of Physicians around developing a national screening       programme for AF [12].
