     The impact of this research has been twofold: (a) changed conservation       practice to incorporate plants in architectural conservation; and (b)       enhanced information for conservators about the roles of plants in the       conservation of ruins.
(a) Changing conservation practice to include plants in architectural         conservation has been influenced directly and indirectly by the       research [R2].
English Heritage has begun to adopt soft capping,       and has advised many other organisations on the use of the technique [Section         5, C1].
For example, the results of the first phase of field trials       at Hailes Abbey (where we monitored changing moisture levels in walls with       and without soft capping [R4]) were used by English Heritage south       west region as evidence of the success of soft capping, after which larger       areas of the ruin were soft capped as a preventive conservation strategy.
Subsequently, and uniquely in the UK, the whole site was soft capped in       early 2013.
This project cost &#163;50,000 and has received much attention and       discussion [C2].
Further afield, the Institut du Patrimoine Wallon       sought advice on how to soft cap 11th century ruined walls of the abbey       church at Stavelot, Belgium, given its hostile climatic conditions [C3].
Building on the results of the research, the work went ahead in November       2011.
The managers of other sites have also subsequently expressed       interest (e.g.
Chaco Canyon, New Mexico).
Similarly, the soft capping       research [R2, R3, R4] forms the major scientific evidence for the       performance of soft capping in the two-volume report commissioned by       Historic Scotland, launched at a seminar on 15th September 2011, and       underpins their trials of the technique in Scotland [C4].
Indirectly, the research on ivy has been very influential having received       considerable media coverage, provoking many requests for advice from       independent building owners, architects and others wanting to know whether       ivy could be safely left to grow on historic walls.
(b) Enhanced information dissemination about the potentially positive         roles of plants in conserving ruins has been underpinned by the       research as presented at two seminars in London which introduced the soft       wall capping research findings (2007) and the ivy on walls research       findings (2010) to large audiences (c 200 and 100 people respectively) of       conservation professionals (architects, surveyors, inspectors of       monuments) from English Heritage and cognate bodies.
Speakers from the       research project teams outlined the aims, methods and scientific results       of each project.
Points raised during the discussion were included in the       design of the second phase of each research project.
Written versions of       all the presentations from both seminars have been published on-line to       make the results freely available to all [C5, C6].
Both projects       feature on the English Heritage website.
The ivy project seminar report       was number 11 on the top 50 downloads from the English Heritage website       between Jan and May 2012, having been downloaded 1240 times.
The impact of these reports is evidenced by the number of enquiries from       conservation professionals wanting both further information and a chance       to input to the research.
Follow up queries were frequent with well over       30 emails and other requests for advice received.
For example, a       conservation architect, telephoned Heather Viles, in June 2009, after the       soft capping seminar to discuss the team's results in comparison with his       experiences at Thirlwall Castle and suggest new research directions [C7].
A building physicist also emailed requesting further information on the       ivy findings to help inform his conservation advice, saying `...Your       team's work could be of great interest to Building Physicists too.
Ivy may       be a good solution to add extra insulation to new buildings...I am busy       with thermal simulations of low cost housing.
Insulation made from oil is       expensive and my hope is that natural growth around buildings can provide       micro- climates that reduce the needed level of insulation.'
[C8].
Further impacts from the research include invitations to give talks on       the research to a range of professional bodies, courses and meetings in       the UK and abroad, reaching a combined audience of well over 400       architects and conservation practitioners (e.g.
the Stone Conservation       conference at the International Stone Show in London, Conservation       Masterclasses at West Dean College, APS Masonry in Oxford, Getty       Conservation Institute, Los Angeles, International Stone Deterioration and       Conservation Congress, Columbia University).
The media coverage of the ivy       on walls seminar led to an invitation to submit a paper on the project to       a widely-read conservation publication (Viles, HA, Sternberg, T and       Cathersides, A.
(2011) Is ivy good or bad for historic walls?
Journal of       Architectural Conservation July 2011).
As a result of an EPSRC KTS project       with Historic Scotland our research findings have also been incorporated       in their INFORM guides on `Biological Growth on Masonry: Identification       and Understanding' and `Growing Old Gracefully: Appreciating the       Appearance of Historic Masonry Buildings' [C9, C10].
