     This work has had major impacts on international policy and practice &#8212;       including patient groups       who wish to campaign on this topic &#8212; as well as directly for children and       their parents where the       test has been implemented as a result.
The research was described as `a       new milestone in the       history of congenital heart disease' in a Lancet editorial [1].
Impact on international policy     The Lancet paper (2011), HTA report (2012) and subsequent international       media attention led to a       demand from policy makers internationally for advice on implementation of       pulse oximetry.
In the       USA, where CCHD affects about 4,800 babies born every year, Dr Ewer was       invited in 2011 to       advise a working group of the Secretary's Advisory Committee on Heritable       Diseases in Newborns'       and Children (SACHDNC) in Washington, USA with his data described as       `instrumental in creating       recommendations for the screening algorithm' [2] .
Following this meeting,       the group issued a       statement advocating the introduction of pulse oximetry screening endorsed       by the American       Academy of Pediatrics [3] and the American Heart Association [4].
As a       direct result, in 2011 the       US Secretary for Health and Human Services recommended the addition of       pulse oximetry       screening for CCHD across the US [5,6], with the chosen strategy [7]       referencing just the work of       the Birmingham team (reference 14) and one Swedish study.
Seven US states       (including New       Jersey, Michigan) currently perform routine screening; 27 others have       passed legislation towards       this goal, with 3 having active legislation in process.
Current       information on progress towards       legislation can be obtained at [8] and an example of guidance on screening       referencing the       Birmingham team's work for the state of Alabama at [9].
The research has also impacted on provision in Ireland, where the Royal       College of Physicians in       2011 recommended that pulse oximetry `should be undertaken in all Units       across the country',       citing the `seminal research' of the Birmingham team as the basis for the       decision, and indicating       that screening would identify 99 babies per year with the condition [10].
Impact on UK policy     The UK National Screening Committee (NSC) assesses evidence for       programmes against a set of       internationally recognised screening criteria, advises ministers/the NHS       on all aspects of screening       and supports implementation of screening programmes.
The UK NSC will       shortly conduct a public       consultation over whether to add pulse oximetry to the assessment of       newborn babies.
The       consultation highlights the `...considerable research evidence to         demonstrate that pulse oximetry,         as an adjunct to clinical examination, increases the detection rate of         critical or life-threatening         CHDs at the newborn screening opportunity' and that `routine         pulse oximetry is probably the most         promising additional newborn screening modality' under       consideration, for which the University of       Birmingham's work provides the bulk of the underpinning rationale and       evidence [11].
Impact on UK clinical practice and patient health     Although the UK policy situation is still developing, changes in clinical       practice are already       occurring.
A 2010 national survey found that only 7% of UK neonatal units       were undertaking       routine pulse oximetry screening.
A survey of 204 units in 2012 indicated       a rise in these figures,       with 18% of units utilising pulse oximetry routinely and 4% in the process       of introducing it [12].
Of       non-screening units, 70% were considering its introduction.
This survey       and associated       correspondence clearly indicates a shift of opinion among UK       neonatologists about pulse oximetry       screening, with a substantial majority now in favour, albeit with       reservations about cost.
One centre adopting pulse oximetry screening is Birmingham Women's       Hospital, with 8000 live       births per year.
With screening, over a three year period (2010-13) there       were 187 admissions as       a result of an abnormal screening test.
This equates to approximately       60/year, 0.8% of all live       births.
Of the 187 babies admitted, seven had a critical congenital heart       defect unsuspected prior       to screening.
Five further babies had an unsuspected non-critical       congenital heart defect.
Further,       for those 180 babies who did not have critical congenital heart defects,       many other serious health       conditions (including congenital pneumonia, sepsis and pulmonary       hypertension) were identified       through the positive pulse oximetry screening, and only 36/180 (20%)       admitted babies had no       health issues.
This indicates the additional benefits obtained through       incorporating this screening       into routine practice.
If it is assumed that the 18% of units currently       applying pulse oximetry       screening look after 18% of the 700,000 babies born annually in the UK and       that the rates for       Birmingham Women's Hospital are typical, then an additional 63 babies with       congenital heart       defects were detected by pulse oximetry screening in 2012, including 37       babies with critical defects     International campaign groups     A significant impact of the work has been its use by lobbying groups, who       were quick to recognise       the potential benefits of pulse oximetry for screening newborns and have       actively campaigned for       its routine use nationally.
These UK groups all cite the Birmingham Pulse       Ox study as the most       important piece of evidence for their campaigns, and letters of support       have been provided by:[13]             Children's Heart Federation ("The extensive and compelling           research... has been crucial to           our understanding and work around the issue.
It has allowed us to           strongly make the case that           this test should be introduced for newborns in the UK.
");        Little Hearts Matter ("Little Hearts Matter has been able to           use the findings to add credence to           our call for better diagnosis of congenital heart disease with NIPE");        Tiny Tickers ("This research highlights the possibility of a           timely and cost-effective neonatal           solution and has resulted in Tiny Tickers lobbying of NIPE... it is           likely to be enormously           important to babies with undetected heart disease and their families           and community").
Internationally, campaign groups also commonly recognise the value of       Birmingham's work.
A US       website exists for parents to lobby for the use of pulse oximetry and       cites the PulseOx study as one of       "the most compelling pieces of evidence", which "should be part of any       advocacy work" [14].
