     Impact on Public Policy     This research on the effects of epidurals at the University of Birmingham       has directly influenced and changed clinical practice in the UK and       internationally.
The COMET trial is the definitive (and only) trial in the       review of traditional versus modern regimens of epidural infusion in the       UK NICE Intrapartum Care guideline updated in 2008 and still current, and       led to the recommendation stating that: `traditional high         concentration local anaesthetic solutions (0.25% or above of bupivacaine         or equivalent) should not be used routinely for either establishing or         maintaining epidural analgesia' [1].
It had previously been       calculated by others that such changes would result in 10,000 fewer       instrumental deliveries year on year in the UK (Thornton JG, Capogna G.       Reducing likelihood of instrumental delivery with epidural anaesthesia.
The Lancet 2001; 358: 2001).
Forceps births are known to be associated       with increased problems for women, such as faecal incontinence, perineal       pain and pain on intercourse (dyspareunia).
These changes to UK policy are reinforced by Royal College of       Anaesthetists Guidelines (2009, 2013) on the provision of Obstetric       Anaesthesia Services, which recommends that units should be able to       provide low dose regional analgesia, citing COMET as the sole reference       [2].
Internationally, the COMET trial has influenced clinical policy in       Canada and Australia.
The Canadian Agency for Drugs and Technologies in       Health (2010) clinical guidelines on effectiveness and safety of       ambulatory epidural analgesia in obstetrics [3] includes references to the       main Lancet paper and several of the subsequent COMET papers.
These       subsequent papers have provided evidence on safety and leg strength in       relation to ambulation, urinary catheterisation and anaesthetic outcomes       such as speed of analgesia, drug utilisation and requirement for       anaesthetist re-attendance.
In Western Australia, the research was       referenced in 2010 in the Department of Health's Women and Newborn Health       Service, obstetrics and midwifery clinical guidelines [4].
Impact on Clinical Practice and Patient Care     There has been impact on patients throughout the 2008-2013 impact period       resulting both from these policy changes as well as earlier guidelines       that were still current during this time.
The Obstetric Anaesthetists'       Association (OAA) / The Association of Anaesthetists of Great Britain and       Ireland (AAGBI) Guidelines for Obstetric Anaesthetic Services [5]       had recommended in 2005 (with COMET as the sole reference) that units       should have guidelines for management of epidural blocks and should be       able to provide low-dose regional analgesia.
Together, the original       research and the subsequent guidelines and policy changes, have moved the       UK from a situation just before the COMET trial in which only 24% of units       offered low dose techniques in 1996/7 (Burnstein R, Buckland R, Pickett       JA, A survey of epidural analgesia for labour in the United Kingdom.
Anaesthesia 1999; 54(7): 634-640) to one in which UK units rarely use the       traditional high dose technique for standard labour analgesia.
This change       in approach can be directly linked to the COMET study through these       changes in policy and guidance.
This work has also been incorporated into       local unit guidelines e.g.
cited in Guidelines for the Practice of       Obstetric Anaesthesia in Nottingham University Hospitals [6].
The COMET       trial has also influenced clinical care through its incorporation in       textbooks on pain management: an example is the Oxford Handbook on pain       management [7], which references the COMET trial.
Economic Impact     The impact of a reduction in the instrumental delivery rate has had a       corresponding effect on reducing the costs of deliveries.
This is because,       if a woman has an instrumental rather than a spontaneous delivery, the       costs rise due to an obstetrician being required for instrumental       deliveries, the costs of the instruments and the cost of an associated       increase in the length of the hospital stay.
The cost-effectiveness study       that formed part of the COMET trial demonstrated reduced obstetrician       attendance and duration of stay.
At the time the overall cost saving in       clinical time and hospital stay was offset by the greater cost of the use       of the newer drug, but these drugs are now less costly.
In addition,       several studies have shown that forceps deliveries are associated with an       increase in faecal incontinence, haemorrhoids, constipation, perineal pain       and dyspareunia occurring after birth, such problems incurring greater       costs to both the NHS and women themselves.
Little is known about these       symptoms in the longer term following instrumental births, except for       faecal incontinence which has been shown to persist for many years even in       women who have had only one forceps delivery thus continuing additional       costs (evidenced in other research by MacArthur [8]).
The       prevalence of persistent faecal incontinence (including less severe       symptoms) at 12 years postpartum in the largest postpartum cohort study       was 4.6% in women who had only had spontaneous vaginal deliveries, whereas       it was 9.3% in women whose delivery history included a forceps birth [8].
