     This research has generated substantial commercial impact via       additional investment of several &#163;-millions in R&amp;D by 3 major       companies since 2008, and is driving these organisations in developing and       evaluating new/improved oral care products (e1).
It has also led to the       formation of two UK spinout companies: 1) to design and successfully       market an innovative online biofeedback technology into high street dental       practices; 2) to design and market a low cost near patient test for       cotinine in saliva used in smoking cessation and identification of       exposure.
Influence on R&amp;D investment by multinationals     Building on this research and his related expertise, Chapple and his team       have collaborated with Unilever, Philips and Mars, helping them create new       business areas which has led to their related investment in R&amp;D (e1).
Over 30 scientific employees are now involved in this work within these       companies and many more marketing staff.
For Mars, 100 million pet dogs       are potentially affected globally, with the impact being the ability to       diagnose canine periodontitis and also evaluate novel oral care products       without the need for general anaesthesia.
For Philips the potential       application and market is 50% of the developed world human population who       are at risk of periodontitis.
Unilever: As a result of our proteomics work, Unilever has now       adopted several novel biomarkers as key measures of product efficacy       assessment in clinical trials of oral care products.
This is helping them       to evaluate product efficacy and to identify and develop future innovative       therapies.
Our proteomics studies have also led to a greater understanding       of the biological processes within the gingival tissues in health and       disease.
This understanding is impacting upon Unilever's R&amp;D and       driving their development of novel oral healthcare products (e1).
The       importance of our work is evidenced by &#163;800K of funding received from       Unilever during the REF period, and has led to Chapple serving Unilever's       6-person global advisory board on business strategy for 15 years.
Indeed health         impacts have already been realized as our research has underpinned       claim support for new toothpastes from Unilever PLC, sold to customers       worldwide.
Philips: Our work has led to an entirely new R&amp;D arm at       Philips (global) to identify saliva biomarkers to discriminate, for the       first time, periodontal health and disease (e1,e2).
We have also generated       assays for, and identified, citrullinated proteins within saliva, which       are now being developed as early diagnostic tests for seropositive       rheumatoid arthritis (e3).
Inventions and patents have been filed with       Philips (e2,e3), underpinning health and commercial impacts at a       global level.
Philips will adapt findings to existing hand-held saliva       testing devices for periodontal diagnosis in humans in non-dental as well       as dental environments, providing commercial sales.
The health impact will       be to enable objective early diagnosis of periodontitis in patients in       dental practice which is currently a neglected area.
This approach will       also allow periodontal screening in medical practice for patients with       other medical conditions associated with periodontitis, such as diabetes       and cardiovascular disease.
Mars: Mars Petcare UK also participate in a tripartite       collaboration with Philips and the University of Birmingham to develop       handheld saliva diagnostic tests for veterinary practice, eliminating the       need to anaesthetise dogs to diagnose gum disease, and helping to develop       novel pet foods.
Impact on practitioners     This successful research portfolio has stimulated a multi-disciplinary       saliva biobank for biomarker discovery in Renal, Rheumatology, Respiratory       and Diabetes Medicine, at Birmingham's Inflammation Research Facility       (IRF), supported by collaborative research grants (see section 3).
Over       800 saliva samples are biobanked and 1000's more are planned.
The benefits       of the saliva diagnostic program have convinced the local medical research       community to collect saliva from all chronic disease patient cohorts.
Development and commercialisation of a near patient test for nicotine         in saliva     Our research has underpinned the development and commercialisation of a       product used to test for nicotine metabolites in saliva.
This was       originally developed to promote smoking cessation using personalised       biofeedback, but has more recently been employed to confirm the presence       or absence of recent nicotine inhalation (e4).
This was one of the first       patented saliva near-patient diagnostics (e5) and subsequently led this       field.
The trademarked product, "Saliva SmokeScreen" was commercialized by       a UK-based SME, GFC Diagnostics as a spin out of the University of       Birmingham (2007), to promote and develop near-patient test products.
At       December 2012 the SME had grown to five employees and sold 6,500 Saliva       SmokeScreen tests to five major customers across three countries, where       low-cost near-patient tests are essential (e1).
Saliva SmokeScreen enables dentists to increase smoking cessation among       their patients by providing immediate personalized biofeedback of test       results.
The test has also been shown to be able to identify users of       smokeless tobacco, such as betel quid, which causes oral cancer.
A recent       study indicated that Saliva SmokeScreen was a viable alternative to more       expensive ELISA-based technologies making it ideally suited for future       application (e6).
Regular media impact of the application of Saliva       SmokeScreen includes coverage by the BBC (e7).
Development and commercialisation of an online oral health risk         assessment tool     Oral Health Innovations Ltd (OHI) is a University spinout company       (Chapple) with the sole UK and Ireland license for the risk and disease       assessment software "Previser.co.uk".
It was established in 2008 to       develop a practical and evidence-based tool to facilitate individualised       patient biofeedback to drive health behaviour change.
OHI has developed       (2008-2013) a bespoke comprehensive oral health risk, disease and       patient-perception tool &#8212; DEPPA &#8212; for the UK's largest dental capitation       plan operator "Denplan", accessing 6500 dentists and 1.8-million patients       (e1).
DEPPA was piloted in December 2012 by 25 Denplan Excel practices on       over 650 patients.
The pilot demonstrated strong endorsement for the novel       online system, with mean satisfaction scores in all domains exceeding 85%       (1).
The Editor-in-Chief of the British Dental Journal referred to the       system as "truly field changing" since it links outcomes to patient       capitation fee banding, incentivising patients to take greater control of       their own oral health.
The Department of Health has subsequently embarked       on a capitation NHS pilot dental system, on which Chapple has advised.
Denplan launched DEPPA to the media and profession at the BDA conference       26th April 2013 in London, where Chapple spoke about the system and       underpinning philosophy.
Dedicated Denplan training courses with the new       system commenced in 2013 with 1000 Excel dentists having access to the       system and 200 actively using it within the first 3-months of its launch       (e1).
OHI donate profits to research charities, (&#163;10K committed to the UK Oral       &amp; Dental Research Trust in 2013) providing oral healthcare sector         impact underpinning future R&amp;D.
