     A.
Commercial Impact        Topical product development by Unilever     With more than 50% of the adult UK population affected by periodontal       disease, the cost to the UK economy alone was estimated at &#163;2.78-billion       in 2008 (ATP Consulting 2008).
As such, novel treatment modalities for       modulating periodontal inflammation represent an enormous market for       healthcare companies.
Unilever, a global consumer healthcare company, has       invested several million GBP in research &amp; development (R&amp;D)       activities (&#163;1.5-million directly to the University of Birmingham's       Periodontal Research Group) based on our investigator-led collaborative       proposals.
Our work has defined mechanisms by which oxidative stress       drives inflammation in different model systems and we subsequently       developed a Platform Evaluation Capability (PEC1 &amp; PEC2 programs) to       enable the high-throughput screening of natural micronutrients for       anti-inflammatory properties (e1, e2, e3).
We have investigated the       highest-performing new actives in our model systems and elucidated their       mechanisms of action.
This research has resulted in the development of a       new health product concept of micronutritional approaches for modulating       inflammation, its introduction to a global market, and further development       of combined actives to secure intellectual property and patents.
Staff       across Unilever's R&amp;D centres are actively involved in exploiting the       data from ongoing studies, with the novel insights and science being used       in the identification of new technologies and next-generation market       innovations.
A new clinical intervention has been developed from basic research in       collaboration with Unilever PLC (70% Birmingham), which has transformed       traditional approaches to combating gingivitis and periodontitis, and is       delivered topically through a toothpaste formulation.
1.
Proof-of-principle phase-1 product was developed and taken to market       in 2008 in a low profile approach to assess market uptake and introduce a       new therapeutic concept based upon oral tissue nourishment (Unilever       NutriActiv toothpaste &#8212; e1).
This was launched in many of the key and       largest European oral care markets, including France, Italy, Greece and       central Europe (e2).
2.
Pivotal phase-2 studies have been run with a product that employs a       combination of 3 micro-nutrients and a key clinical study is currently       underway with our group (May-Nov 2013), with a view to a new product       launch in 2014/15.
The study outcomes are commercially sensitive but will       be published as a journal supplement for claims support, similar to that       under (e1).
Systemic product application and new market development by NSA LLC     The application of an existing nutritional intervention has also been       expanded to a new global market through an investigator-led Randomised       Controlled Trial (2012), the first of its kind in oral care research.
Based upon our ideas and research, National Safety Associates (NSA LLC,       Memphis), a US-based company who make a product known as "JuicePlus&#174;",       has funded 3 investigator-led studies.
The studies are aimed at       elucidating the clinical benefits of JuicePlus&#174;, a       phytonutrient dietary intervention (in capsule form), as an adjunct to       periodontal therapy (clinicaltrials.gov NCT00952536), as a       mono-therapy (multi-centre, 3-country study underway &#8212; clinicaltrials.gov       NCT01229631) and also as an approach for reducing post-operative morbidity       and improving healing following wisdom tooth surgery (clinicaltrials.gov       NCT01145820).
Successful outcomes from the first study are already       published, creating a new use for the product and a new market (oral       healthcare) for the company.
This has opened up an entirely novel and       substantial business opportunity for NSA (e3) with data from the first       study being disseminated globally via the literature, and in academic and       business conferences in the USA, Europe and the UK.
This has assisted NSA       in the planning and marketing of their global business, which generates       over US$350-million in sales annually (&gt;0.5-million customers in the       USA alone) across more than 20 countries around the world, providing       global reach for such oral health benefits (e3).
Wider market recognition and adoption within healthcare industry     Johnson and Johnson (J&amp;J) have now recently engaged our group in       analyzing, using our in-house assays, the antioxidant capacity of their       mouthrinse formulations (January 2012 &#8212; current), and are planning product       revisions and developments based on these outcomes (e3).
This research has       highlighted to J&amp;J the significant potential of mouthrinses in       contributing to oral health through previously unexplored properties.
Consequently, J&amp;J have invested, to-date, in excess of &#163;100k in       support of R&amp;D activities in this area in partnership with us.
B.
Health and Practitioner Impacts 	Our research on       antioxidant micronutrients and their demonstrable modulation of innate       immune responses has contributed to an entirely new therapeutic field in       Dentistry and has been recognized globally.
Several countries, consortia       of countries through European and International academic associations, and       European bodies have engaged in symposia, workshops and have published       consensus statements from expert groups on the importance of nutritional       advice for periodontal care (e.g.
7th European Workshop on Periodontology       2010 (e4), the leading influence in the discipline in Europe and now the       world).
This document highlights the need to engage patients in practice       with nutritional advice in the management of their periodontal disease.
Our paper in J Clin Perio (e5) demonstrated periodontal health       benefits from micronutrient capsules and was immediately identified by the       editor of the top impact factor dental journal in the world for a pubcast,       and made `open access', in order to facilitate public and practitioner       dissemination.
The message has also reached the world's Integrative       Medicine community, by a published interview on the paper in a US-based       journal, invited within 21-days of the paper's release (e6).
Nationally,       industry-funded road-shows have disseminated these findings (2011-2012) to       dental care professionals (over 2000 delegates across 10 UK venues), and       stimulated substantial interest, with evidence of changes in practice,       provided by feedback from practitioner delegates (e7).
A chapter by       Chapple and Grant was also commissioned in a new textbook Food         constituents and oral health (Woodhead Publishing LTD., Chapter 11,       ISBN:978-1-84569-153-0) which is targeted at educating practitioners in       these new adjunctive treatment modalities.
Our micronutrient results have       also been cascaded to the global integrative medicine community (e8).
C. Environmental Impactm     Our novel toothpaste actives, developed in collaboration with Unilever,       provide a viable alternative to the use of Triclosan, a chlorinated       aromatic antibacterial compound used widely in soaps, detergents,       mouthwashes and toothpastes.
Triclosan is toxic to aquatic bacteria at       levels found in the environment and inhibits photosynthesis in key algae       responsible for a large part of the photosynthesis which occurs on earth.
To be able to replace Triclosan with natural active ingredients that       provide equivalence in clinical efficacy, without adverse effects upon the       environment, is a longer-term goal for companies such as Unilever.
While       this will depend on local product affordability in different countries in       the short term, our phase 2 data now provides proof of principle that this       is an achievable goal using micronutrient approaches and longer-term this       will likely lower the costs of oral healthcare products, targeting       universal affordability (e2, e3).
