     In a ground-breaking collaboration between health and cultural       organisations, the Healing Heritage       research programme has provided new tools for improved service delivery.
By developing rigorous,       evidence-based measures of patient wellbeing, it has further ensured that       object handling is now       recognised by both the public health and the arts and heritage sectors as       an important channel for       collaboration to improve service delivery and quality of life.
Improving patient health and wellbeing: The Heritage in Hospitals       (HinH) project, 2008-11, 	  examined the effects of museum object handling on psychological and       subjective wellbeing and       happiness.
The underpinning research for this project included work with       various hospitals       (University College Hospital, the National Hospital for Neurology and       Neurosurgery in London,       Prospect Park Psychiatric Hospital in Reading and Oxford's John Radcliffe       Hospital) and       residential care homes in London, Oxford and Reading, as well as with four       partner museums       (UCL Museums, The British Museum, Oxford University Museums, Reading       Museums Service)       and the Museums, Libraries and Archives Council (now part of Arts Council       England).
Its most       direct benefits were the enhanced health and wellbeing experienced by the       300 or so hospital       patients and care home residents who participated in it.
The significance       of the health and       wellbeing impacts on the hospital patients and care home residents who       took part in object       handling sessions is indicated by the highly significant (p&lt;.001)       increase in positive emotions       among the participants who demonstrated a 22% increase in positive       emotions between pre- and       post- object handling session scores [c].
Many of those who participated       in the sessions were       suffering from mental or physical conditions with detrimental effects on       their wellbeing.
The object       handling protocol designed by the research proved to have tangible effects       on how they perceived       their own health.
During these 45 minute sessions, researchers encouraged       participants to discuss       and handle objects such as Egyptian amulets, geological minerals,       potsherds and printed artworks.
Conversations recorded during the sessions demonstrated the impacts of       object handling on       individual patients' perceptions of their health.
One mental health       service user, for example, said: `I         can't listen to pop music at the moment because it reminds me of certain         situations that I'm in and         having to deal with, whereas this sort of stuff gets you thinking, but         because it's 5000 years old...         you can't be depressed by looking at a piece of Egyptian pottery,         doesn't work that way.'
[1, p. 211]     Enhancing health service provision &#8212; benefits to healthcare staff:       As well as contributing to       improvements in the health and wellbeing of patient participants, the       Healing Heritage research       (including projects following HinH) also delivered important benefits to       about fifty healthcare       practitioners and various healthcare organisations who have been involved       in it over the course of       the past five years, particularly in terms of enhancing the service       delivery they offered.
The       professionals interviewed as part of the research reported positive       impacts both on their clients and       service users and, subsequently, on the quality of the service they felt       able to provide.
As a mental       health occupational therapist at the Prospect Park Psychiatric Hospital,       Reading, explained: `These         sessions... encouraged social interaction and engagement in meaningful         occupation, supporting         recovery from illness.
Feedback from patients indicated an improvement         in mood and a reduction         in the symptoms of depression or anxiety following participation in         these sessions' [2].
When       questioned about the impact on their working relationships, all healthcare       practitioners surveyed       reported benefits: `seeing people [service users] interact, discuss and         have interests in new things         is just amazing.
[The staff] are more motivated and interested in the         work they do.'
(Disability       Centre staff member) [3].
Partnerships developed through the project resulted in collaborations       with around 50 institutions       across the museum and health sectors, both in the UK and overseas; these       have significantly       extended the reach of the initial project's impacts to many more staff and       patients at participating       institutions.
Thus, the improvements in service delivery and in the       quality of participants' lives may       be extrapolated to individuals in contact with these other programmes       based on the research       outcomes, some of which are described below.
Changing museums practice: The success of the HinH museum       object handling protocol led to       its adoption by several other museums looking to expand their programmes       to cover health and       wellbeing.
For example, since 2010, South Australia Museum has been       working with the 580-bed       Flinders Medical Centre (FMC) to run its own museum object handling       sessions as part of medical       student training, inspired by the UCL research [4].
Closer to home,       Tunbridge Wells Museum cited       Chatterjee's work as providing a framework for and practical guidance on       developing its own       sessions for those suffering from dementia from 2013 [4].
In 2012-13 more than 20 UK museums working, in total, with over 200       museum visitors adopted       the museum-wellbeing measure and toolkit developed by Chatterjee's team.
Museum staff used       the measure to evaluate the impact of their work on various audiences,       including general visitors,       older adult groups from care homes, and young people with learning       difficulties.
Feedback from       museum staff [3] gives some indication of the value of the research to       them.
Staff at the British       Museum wrote: `Something is happening in sessions that's important to         capture, e.g.
with the early         stages of dementia', and the Worcester Infirmary Museum added: `...it         is great for us (a small,         provincial museum with limited budget and limited reach) to be linked to         a UCL project'.
The contribution made by the research was recognised by the award to       Chatterjee in 2012 of a       Heritage Lottery Fund (HLF) grant to train museum volunteers to deliver       museum object handling       sessions in health and social care settings, using the tools developed at       UCL.
Fifteen volunteers       were recruited to work with twelve different London organisations,       including disability centres,       residential care homes, sheltered housing schemes, hospitals and Age UK       Camden to provide       object handling activities for over 500 service users.
As well as       benefitting service users, this       project increased volunteers' object handling and facilitation skills,       improved their communication       skills and developed confidence in working with people in healthcare       settings.
Of 9 volunteers       interviewed, all answered `agree/strongly agree' when questioned about       their skills acquisition [3].
Contribution to debate in policy on arts and health: The       research has stimulated debate on,       and provided a robust evidence base for, object handling as a therapeutic       tool.
As a result, it has       been widely cited as an example of best practice across the heritage and       the public health sectors,       in policy documents and reports, and in policy debate.
Since 2008,       Chatterjee has been invited to       speak at over 25 conferences and workshops, and to write for numerous       sector-wide publications       [5].
In June 2013, for example, she gave an invited keynote speech at an       International Wellbeing       conference in Birmingham, attended by over 100 international delegates       including practitioners and       scholars in public health, hospitals and arts-in-health.
Citations in       policy documents demonstrate       the interest across sectors.
Thus, in a report that repeatedly       acknowledges Chatterjee's       contribution to the development of evidence-based tools, the Royal Society       for Public Health's       (RSPH) Arts, Health and Wellbeing Policy Paper describes it as `a       foundation for new health and       wellbeing practice opportunities for museums and health care sectors to       work in partnership' [6, p.       50].
The research is also cited in the AHRC/RCUK's 2013 document `Health       and wellbeing: The       contribution of the arts and humanities' [7, p.16] and at an RCUK       parliamentary event in June 2013       on wellbeing and health.
This demonstrates the impact of the research in       raising awareness of the       role of culture, and specifically museums, across UK funding councils,       which has in turn led to       increase funding for this aspect of the arts and humanities.
In 2013       Ashgate Publishing, which       produces books for museum professionals and scholars, published [e],       showing the interest in the       research by the wider sector, which is supported by the praise received       from cultural (e.g.
Glasgow       Life, which delivers cultural services in that city) and public health       organisations (e.g.
the RSPH).
In some instances, there is evidence of the ways in which these       contributions to policy discussion       and debate are translated into impacts on museum practice.
The UK Medical       Collections Group, a       subject specialist museums group, recommended in its History to Health       Report that museums       follow `UCL's best practice and take objects into hospitals and other       healthcare settings for       therapeutic purposes' [8, p.14].
This suggests the role of the research as       a tool for encouraging       museums to work in healthcare settings and in providing them with new best       practice examples to       guide their activities.
The significance in this context is suggested by       the fact that, in 2011, HinH       received an RSPH `Arts and Health Award', with a special commendation for       innovative and       outstanding contribution to arts and health research [9].
The RSPH has       since worked with       Chatterjee to expand the reach of these beneficial impacts by       disseminating research findings       through its journals, and to target practitioners through its New Horizons       series [9].
