     Tertiary students need appropriate English language skills to benefit       fully from academic study.
Furthermore, if under-qualified students are admitted to universities, the       economic costs to the       institutions and the negative social and personal impact on the students       can be enormous (Ref5.1       provides empirical data on the severity of these costs).
Soundly conceived       Academic English tests       provide accurate and valid information to universities for making access       decisions and determining       the length and nature of any remedial language instruction required.
CRELLA's research has contributed to a deeper understanding of the nature       of Academic English       and provided a theoretically sound and practically efficient framework for       its measurement.
Its       research has been utilised by all five English language test providers       officially credited as meeting       the UK Border Agency's requirements for student visas (Cambridge, City and       Guilds, IELTS,       Pearson and Trinity College London), as well as by other international       test providers.
Evidence of Commercial Impact            The Password academic placement test          CRELLA's research into language-related academic proficiency underpinned       the design and       development of the Password test to assess students' English       language levels before or after       acceptance on tertiary-level language programmes (Ref5.2 and Ref5.3).
Our original commercial       proposal became the basis for a joint venture business (English Language       Testing (ELT) Ltd) in       2008 with offices in London, Australia and the USA employing five       full-time staff members, 15 item       writers and seven outsourced suppliers.
Now used by some 170 HE       institutions around the world       (see Ref5.3/Password clients), the test has had over       150,000 candidates since 2008 (generating       over &#163;1.6 million in business for ELT) and proved itself as an efficient       means of assessing       students' language levels and identifying those needing language support.
One user, who has       carried out an evaluation study, considers that: `There is no test that       can compete with Password       for its combination of state-of-the-art question design, security,       reliability and simplicity of use,       delivered at such a low cost' and describes it as `an extremely reliable       indicator of academic       language ability and predicted final [language course] grade' (see Ref5.3/testimonials).
CRELLA       recently developed Password Pupil, Password Intro, Password         Arabia and the Password Reading         Test.
Listening and speaking tests are currently under development       in CRELLA.
Evidence of Educational Impact            The International English Language Testing System (IELTS)          IELTS is taken by over 2 million people in 125 countries by those needing       to meet English       language entry requirements for university, professional and immigration       purposes.
It facilitates       access to education worldwide and is used increasingly as an entry       criterion to professional bodies       (Ref.5.4).
More than 7,000 education institutions, faculties,       government agencies and professional       organisations around the world recognise the test.
The IELTS partners are committed to `continual research-based       improvement'.
According to       Davidson and Pollock, Chief Executives of the British Council and IELTS       Australia: `The steady       evolution of IELTS in response to research outcomes ensures its       contemporary relevance and       continued usefulness for test stakeholders' (Ref5.5).
CRELLA's       research has significantly informed       the revision of the test's design, content and production.
86 versions of       the test are in use at any       one time so receiving institutions need to know that these are equivalent.
CRELLA's research has       given IELTS a systematic methodology for ensuring the consistency of content       from one version       of the reading test to the next.
Specific IELTS research studies by CRELLA       staff have       demonstrated the necessity of creating reading and listening tasks which       are cognitively valid,       i.e., involve cognitive processing representative of the processes       occurring in real-life academic       activities.
This has been incorporated into the IELTS test validation       process (Ref5.6).
CRELLA's research has also contributed to the test's strong international       reputation and       commercial success in recent years (Ref5.7 confirms).
The annual       number of IELTS test takers       has increased from just over 1 million in 2008 to over 2 million in 2013       (at c&#163;150 per candidate,       generating over &#163;300 million p.a.).
Educational institutions need to be able to predict students' performance       on academic courses       accurately from test results.
IELTS makes a useful contribution to the       prediction of overall       performance on academic courses.
Weir et al found that in general, the       better the IELTS score the       more likely the student is to perform well academically (Ref5.8:       p28).
Based on returns from 100       staff in 27 departments in 13 UK universities, Hyatt and Brooks report       that 88% of respondents felt       the IELTS Test to be a useful indicator of Academic English proficiency (Ref5.9:       p.16) enabling       them to reject students with inadequate English language proficiency and       target appropriate       remedial instruction for those who fall just below an acceptable       threshold.
Correct use of individual       IELTS profile scores for acceptance purposes invariably contributes to a       fall in the number of       students underperforming in their degree courses because of language       deficiency (Ref5.1).
The Test of English for Academic Purposes (TEAP) in Japan          CRELLA's research and reputation in the Academic English field also led       in 2011 to an invitation to       develop the Test of English for Academic Purposes (TEAP), a new university       entrance examination       for Japan, in partnership with the Eiken Foundation of Japan (formerly       STEP), the leading English       language testing organisation in Japan, with over 2 million test takers       annually and Sophia       University, one of the leading private universities in Japan.
TEAP has       Japanese government       support.
The major aim behind the development of TEAP was to impact       positively on English       education in Japan at the high school level (3.4 million students).
Ref5.10       states: "The long-term       impact of the TEAP project will be felt not only at the immediate level of       the universities which       choose to recognize the results, but will play an important part in       removing the impediment to the       improvement of EFL teaching and learning practices in Japan that the       university entrance exam       system has posed".
The Eiken Foundation is conducting iterative washback studies working       with Green of CRELLA to       evaluate the success of this intention.
TEAP is intended to supersede the       disparate approaches to       English testing currently used in university admissions in Japan in which       speaking and writing skills       go untested.
It serves as a model of the full range of Academic English       skills needed by Japanese       students to cope with the requirements of tertiary-level English-medium       study in Japan.
Our       research into Academic English provided the theoretical and empirical       basis for the TEAP test       specifications, and CRELLA developed both the speaking and writing tasks       and the rating scales.
(Ref5.10).
The new test was announced in 2012 and the Eiken       Foundation has made provision for       up to 200,000 candidates in the first full scale administration in 2014.
The Cambridge Academic Literacy Test          In 2013 CRELLA was commissioned to assist Cambridge English Language       Assessment in the       development of the new Cambridge Academic Literacy Test which will be       aimed at all prospective       UK undergraduate and postgraduate students.
CRELLA provided the initial       position paper on the       nature of academic literacy and subsequently helped write the theoretical       rationale for the test.
It is       currently helping develop the specification and test content.
