     Impact on Recognition and Health Policy     Copello's contribution to charting the scale and nature of how drug and       alcohol addiction impact upon families of addicts, and in developing and       evaluating psychological interventions, is exemplified in his       co-authorship of a 2012 report to the UK Drugs Policy Commission [1].
Worldwide estimates of serious psychological impact on family members of       people with alcohol and drug misuse problems suggest a minimum of 91       million individuals.
In terms of illicit drug use in the UK for example,       this report estimated that 1.5 million adult family members are affected       by the drug misuse of someone in their family [1] and a further 3 million       by alcohol misuse.
The impact of drug misuse on the family costs the UK       &#163;1.8 billion per year with a much larger figure again if we add the impact       of alcohol misuse [1].The stress-strain-coping-support (SSCS) model of       addiction and the family and associated intervention methods have made an       important impact in the area of addiction and more specifically in terms       of the recognition of needs and the help and evidence-based support that       is delivered to families affected by these highly prevalent problems.
As a direct result of these contributions to awareness and debate around       addiction policy, needs of the families of people with drug problems were       recognised for the first time in the ten-year Drug Strategy for England       2008-2018 and included in key objectives [2].
In addition guidelines for       commissioning services for carers and families were produced by the       National Treatment Agency [3] in a document entitled `Supporting and       Involving Carers: A guide for commissioners and providers' (NTA, 2008)       making reference to the work of Copello and other research collaborators       as part of the recommendations.
Impact on Treatment Guidance     Copello has been invited to serve on two NICE guideline development       groups examining evidence for psychological interventions for drug and       alcohol problems (the latter was published during the REF period, in 2011)       [4].
Both the 5-Step method and Social Behaviour and Network Therapy have       been recommended for implementation in the guidelines produced.
This has       led to implementation of the 5-Step Method in family services and to a       demand for training and of Social Behaviour and Network Therapy in more       generic addiction treatment services.
The family intervention strategies       developed here and in an analogous earlier NICE development group for drug       addition, have also contributed to the recent emphasis on `recovery' for       drug treatment in England where the potential contribution of families to       the recovery of people with drug problems is increasingly recognised and       encouraged through practice.
The National Treatment Agency for substance       misuse recommends both the 5-Step Method and Social Behaviour and Network       Therapy for implementation [3], and, as described below, these are       increasingly being taken up by services.
Impact on practitioners and services     The NHS is just one provider of treatment and support for addiction, so       it is significant that other key providers, including prominent addiction       charities and organisations, have widely adopted the 5-Step method and       Social Behaviour and Network Therapy.
Copello and his team have been       heavily involved in providing direct training, and in developing self-help       materials that allow the methods to be used more widely.
During the REF       period, Copello has regularly provided training to large third sector       organisations, including ADFAM [5], Addaction [6], SPODA [7], and Action       on Addiction [8].
The training has focused on the 5-Step Method and its       delivery including continuing supervision, and has helped therapists and       support workers to deliver a structured approach when supporting family       members.
ADFAM [4] is the lead umbrella organisation in the UK supporting       families affected by substance misuse, and providing advice and practical       guidance and training to other groups and individuals working in the       sector in England.
The Family Support Network [9] is an analogous       organisation working throughout the island of Ireland.
Both have received       regular training from the research team, and supply therapy sessions       nationally.
International uptake.
The 5-Step Method work has led to developments in other countries,       including most recently an international meeting that was organised in       York (October 2012) funded by the Society for the Study of Addiction (SSA)       and supported by the World Health Organisation.
The meeting focused on the       development and implementation of the 5-Step Method in countries including       Australia, New Zealand, Nigeria, Uganda, Mexico, Brazil and South Africa.
Work is currently ongoing in a number of these countries to develop,       deliver and evaluate this approach and further funding has been obtained       to develop an international alliance to support dissemination and       implementation of the 5-Step Method in these various countries.
The       benefit of family-based approaches is recognised by trusts and charities,       which are supporting the adoption of these methods [10].
