     The UKCIP Adaptation Wizard, as the major output of the academic       research, described in section 2, has had significant impact on a wide       range of stakeholders.
The research and its dissemination were interlinked       and co-produced by researchers engaging with intended users which       therefore enhanced the impact of the research.
It is designed for       application by a broad range of users and can be applied equally to a       plan, a project, a programme or a policy.
A questions-driven approach       takes users through a 5-step process to assess their climate risks,       develop and implement adaptation responses and continually monitor their       progress.
Background information, templates and resources are provided       alongside tasks for users to complete to help them develop their       adaptation plan.
The UKCIP Adaptation Wizard has been well received in the       UK and internationally.
Wizard web pages are amongst the most frequently       visited pages on the UKCIP website attracting 4000 unique visitors per       year of which 50% are returning visitors and, on average, 20 page views       per day (2012-2013 data).
The impact can be illustrated in three areas:     a) National and local level adaptation tools.
The UKCIP Adaptation       Wizard has inspired the development of national level adaptation support       tools in Germany [C1] and Slovenia [C2] and is       acknowledged as a key influence on the development of the Adaptation       Support Tool (2012) available within Climate-ADAPT (the European Climate       Adaptation Platform).
The Adaptation Support Tool (and consequently the       Wizard) forms the basis for the European Commission Guidelines on       developing adaptation strategies [C3] that was published to       support the delivery of the European Adaptation Strategy (2013).
It has       been adapted to form local level adaptation support tools in both the UK       (in Norfolk and Lancashire) and abroad, for example, the Climate       Adaptation Wizard that has been developed for the State of Victoria,       Australia (2011).
Elsewhere, it has been described as "an inspiration for       those developing similar computer-based tools and resources adjusted to a       developing country setting" [R3] and consideration is presently       being given in developing countries of ways of adapting the tool for       application in those countries, specifically southern Africa.
A review       commissioned by the National Climate Change Adaptation Research Facility       in Australia [R4] concluded that "the UKCIP [Adaptation] Wizard       could be a good basis on which to develop a core product for Australian       use, being up to date, user-friendly, reflecting good principles, and       widely used and recognised in the UK and internationally".
b) UK policymaking.
In the UK, the Wizard has informed the       methodologies of those submitting evidence under the Climate Change Act's       Reporting Power Authority [C4] and formed the methodological basis       of the Government's 2010 Departmental Action Plans (DAPs).
It has also had       a major influence on revisions undertaken to HM Treasury's Green Book       Supplementary Guidance on Climate Resilience in 2009 [C5] and       updated in 2011.
Similarly, Adaptation Scotland produced guidance to       Scottish businesses on how to adapt to climate change [C6] is       based almost exclusively on the UKCIP Adaptation Wizard and UKCIP's       Business Areas Climate Impact Assessment Tool (BACLIAT).
The influence of       the Wizard in decision and policy-making is evident in the fact that       several organisations submitting evidence in 2011 under the Climate Change       Act's Reporting Power Authority have based their climate risk assessment       on the Wizard process [C7].
In addition, the Wizard has informed       the planning and development of a new primary school in Worcestershire [C8].
The UKCIP Wizard is the basis for the Climate Ready Adaptation Wizard [C9]       provided to support organisations in assessing their risks and planning       adaptation.
c) UK private sector.
The Wizard has been successfully applied by       a number of large UK based companies to help them adapt to a changing       climate.
Between 2008 and 2011, UKCIP worked closely with public and       private sector organisations to: test the value and utility of the tool in       real application; better understand how organisations are approaching the       issue of climate change adaptation; and to inform further developments to       the Wizard based on the lessons learnt through critical analysis of each       application.
Participating organisations included the Port of Felixstowe,       National Association of Cider Makers, Midcounties Cooperative, Gentoo       Housing Association, and Kingfisher Plc (owner of 900 DIY-related stories       in 8 countries).
These test cases [C10] have greatly enhanced       understanding of the adaptation process of private sector organisations,       generated valuable refinements to the Wizard, produced case studies that       share learning more widely, enhanced the capacity of those organisations       to adapt to climate change, and, in some cases, resulted in real       adaptation actions.
For instance, for most of these organisations, using       the Wizard has increased their awareness of risks which have then been       introduced into their risk options.
The results are also being used to       improve the resilience of existing facilities and operations and in the       design of new facilities (e.g., stores and properties).
