     Broader coverage, greater sensitivity and improved ease of use.
The BCoS was developed as a stroke-specific cognitive screen that can be       used soon after stroke.
It is more comprehensive in its range of       assessment than those used in current clinical practice, it is able to       assess a wider range of patients, who would otherwise be untestable       because of their difficulties with language and attention, and it does not       require a clinical neuropsychologist (a highly specialised expert) for its       administration.
"The BCoS provides a comprehensive screen, which looks at all areas of         cognitive function.
This has meant that we now only do one routine         screen instead of a number of smaller ones that cover smaller areas of         cognitive function.
The Screen is as aphasic and neglect friendly as         possible, an issue which many of the other assessments routinely used         with stroke patients don't adequately address."
[1].
Previous cognitive assessments for stroke suffered from two types of       problem.
Stroke-specific assessments tend to be lengthy to administer and       narrowly focussed on one particular difficulty, such as language.
Such       assessments are typically used for detailed assessment once an area of       difficulty has already been identified.
In contrast, primary screening for       the presence of a wide range of cognitive difficulties requires a test       that can be administered more quickly and covers more potential       difficulties.
Prior to the BCoS these general assessments of stroke       patients were often conducted using measures primarily designed for use       with other disorders, such as dementia (e.g.
MMSE, MoCA, and ACE-R).
This       is critically limiting, because strokes may lead to difficulties not       observed in dementia, such as apraxia or spatial neglect.
Moreover,       dementia assessments often make moderate demands on attention and       language.
Impairments to attention and language are common after stroke,       meaning that stroke patients cannot be appropriately tested with these       assessments, and consequently their other difficulties may go unnoticed.
To illustrate the improvements made possible by BCoS, in the BCoS trial,       62% of the patients had language deficits and 58% of the participants       demonstrated spatial neglect.
These patients would struggle to take part       in the conventional cognitive screen tasks where reliable responses depend       upon patients' language and visual attention abilities.
Because of its       aphasia- and neglect-friendly assessments, BCoS enabled 45% and 61% of the       above patients to complete all 22 of the BCoS tasks, giving a full       cognitive profile for large numbers of patients who would otherwise not be       tested.
The BCoS is both broader and more detailed than the above general       screens, which is clinically important for analyses of deficits and       treatment.
Importantly, it is also more time-efficient than the expensive       and lengthy single domain stroke-specific test batteries (e.g.
WMS, PALPA)       and more informative than any single one of these, due to its       multiple-domain coverage.
This enables a larger proportion of patients to       be assessed and directed for further, more detailed, investigation and       ultimately rehabilitation.
Critically, whereas such tasks require       administration by a specialist neuropsychologist, the BCoS can be       administered by clinical ward staff after a short training course,       allowing it to be adopted much more widely into clinical practice.
The       clinical benefits of this research havebeen recognised by the National       Stroke Research Network [e.g.
2]; patients [e.g.
3] and health       professionals [e.g.
4].
Training, and uptake of the BCoS screen by clinical and research         community in the UK     The initial testing of the BCoS screen involved recruitment of stroke       hospitals in the West Midlands area, and their associated services in       acute, rehabilitation and community care.
The project team trained over       100 health professionals and researchers throughout this region, which       serves 125,452 stroke survivors, and sees 11,600 new incidences every       year.
Nine hundred stroke survivors were screened in the initial 2011       study, and since then all therapists involved in the research sites have       continued to use BCoS as their screening tool.
Since the launch of the       BCoS in Nov 2011, the team have conducted 7 training days for a further       120 health professionals and academics from UK and abroad.
Though these       events the team has trained and equipped 62 clinical specialist       psychologists and occupational therapists from UK and abroad (Ireland,       Greece to Australia).
On-going research projects (see section 2) are       leading to the recruitment of further hospitals and associated services in       Thames, Bristol and Yorkshire regions.
The development of this work and the launch of the BCoS has attracted       widespread interest from practitioners.
For example, the research team was       invited to give a presentation to the NHS Stroke Improvement Programme       national event 10th Nov 2011"Improving the provision of       psychological care after stroke; making a difference in your service" on       "Cognitive screening and developing the cognitive care pathway".
The       research team are working to meet the new needs for training arising from       this interest.
In June 2012, the Anglia region Stroke and Heart Network (covers 93,385       stroke survivors, 9,700 incidences occur every year) supported 8 stroke       specialists to attend BCoS training, and during 2013 the BCoS team has       trained 33 staff from the Hertfordshire regional stroke care network, for       their adoption of BCoS across their care pathway.
Other stroke services       within and outside of UK are equipped with the assessment tool and       techniques through purchase of the screen (84 copies sold worldwide,       typically one screen is shared within a team of professionals) and       attending the training through Cognition Matters (see below).
The BCoS has been very positively received by practitioners:     "The true strength of this assessment is that staff can see that the         investment of the time to carry it out allows for clearer communication         with the patient and the team and improves treatment planning.
Using the         same assessment tool across our pathway means that staff has improved         communication about patients and saves time when moving patients across         transition points in the pathway.
Feedback from patients is also         positive."
[5].
To cope with the growing demand for training, the team has established a         social enterprise: Cognition Matters (www.cognitionmatters.org.uk).
This is a service initiative set up by the University of Birmingham to       allow recovery of costs from sale of the BCoS and training, which ensures       that our program of training and development is sustainable for the       future.
The work has won several enterprise/social enterprise awards in       recognition of the importance and potential impact of the project [6].
International uptake, training and translation.
In 2012 the Brain and Cognition Centre in Guangzhou (third city of China)       was launched with &#163;200K funding investment from the Municipal Government       and &#163;200K matched funding from the Municipal Hospital.
As part of this       initiative the test has been translated into 3 Chinese languages       (Taiwanese Mandarin, Mainland Putonghua, and Cantonese version).
The UoB       research team have delivered BCoS training to 20 neurologists in the GZ       First Municipal People's Hospital, and are continuing this support with       fortnightly Skype meetings.
This project will seek to validate and       subsequently implement BCoS in their stroke care services.
In this short       time, the Chinese BCoS has been used to assess 200 individuals attending       the hospital and its associated health clinics.
It is expected that this       collaboration will enable broader dissemination of the Chinese BCoS to the       Mainland.
A parallel project has been launched with Hong Kong University       Department of Communication Sciences.
Since 2012 the team has received       requests to approve translation into Hindi Urdu, Spanish, Greek, French       and Korean, suggesting that international uptake will continue to expand.
Influence on clinical practice for other causes of brain injury.
The impact of the BCoS is extended by its recent adaption for assessment       of patients with Traumatic Brain Injury.
The BCoS-TBI has been developed       in conjunction with the head trauma specialists at the Queen Elizabeth       Hospital Birmingham and extends the BCoS project with measures sensitive       to the sequelae of traumatic brain injury (e.g., speed of information       processing and executive dysfunction).
In becoming one of the country's 22       major trauma centres delivering specialist care to military and civilian's       traumatic brain injury, the Queen Elizabeth Hospital Birmingham is       currently evaluating the BCoS-TBI as the first line routine cognitive       screen for all patients receiving trauma services.
In the last 18 months       the BCoS-TBI has also been incorporated into the Commissioning for Quality       and Innovation (CQUIN) initiative for the neurosurgery service at the       Queen Elizabeth Hospital Birmingham.
