     Changes to national policy towards the treatment of sexual offenders         in the UK     This work has produced changes in policy over the last eight years in the       Probation Service in the UK, and elsewhere, as follows:     England and Wales.
Since the publication of the Sex       Offender Psychometric Scoring System (SOPSSys) algorithm developed by       Beech and colleagues (e.g., Mandeville-Norden, Beech, &amp; Middleton,       2006) the Probation Service in the UK has used the SOPSSys system to       allocate its entire population of relevant sex offenders (8,000+       individuals) to longer and shorter offender treatment.
Its use is now       standard practice across the 35 probation trusts across England and Wales.
The benefits of these processes are to allocate individuals to treatment,       dependent upon their needs; and to measure whether treatment has had an       impact &#8212; in order to ascertain whether more interventions are needed for       particular individuals [1].
Scotland.
The work described in Section 2 has led to the       development of new systems, led by Beech, for assessing the treatment       efficacy of a new sex offender treatment programme in Scotland to commence       in 2014.
This has led to the production of a manual &#8212; `The Offender Rating       Battery for Sexual Offenders' &#8212; that will be used to guide the application       of this new system across Scotland.
Reductions in repeat offending     Barnett, Wakeling, Mandeville-Norden and Rakestrow, (2012), [2] used the       SOPSSys data to examine its relationship with sexual and/or violent       reconviction in a sample of 3,402 convicted sexual offenders who attended       probation treatment.
They found that problematic areas (risk domains) that       were dysfunctional before treatment, as measured by the SOPSSys system,       predicted recidivism outcome.
These findings suggest that more intensive       treatment should be offered to those with the highest levels of       psychological problems.
Barnett, Wakeling, Mandeville-Norden and Rakestrow       (2013) [3], using the same sample, examined the relationship between       psychometric test change over treatment and sexual or violent       reconviction.
Those who were classed as not requiring further change in a       major aspect of their problems reliably linked to re-offending had a 25%       lower rate of reconviction than those who still needed to change.
This       demonstrates the efficacy of treatment, which is critically enabled and       targeted by the efficient psychometric approach of the SOPSSys system.
Reduction in costs to the criminal justice system     The SOPSSys enables those in probation services to score offender       assessments on entry to their system in order to classify offenders by the       level of risk posed and to determine the treatment needs of the offender.
Subsequently offenders can be allocated to the correct length, intensity       and type of treatment, reducing the risk of sexual recidivism from       approximately 19% to approximately 11% [4].
The initial cost to the       criminal justice system per re-offence has been estimated at &#163;108,261 per       offender [5] (this includes Criminal Justice cost, Crown Court cost,       provision of a new prison place, and cost of Sex Offender Treatment       Programme).
There is currently a population of approximately 300 sexual       offenders in the community in the UK who were initially categorised as at       high risk of re-offending.
With a recidivism rate of approximately 19% if       offenders do not receive appropriate treatment, this cohort would be       expected to incur &#163;6.2M costs simply for processing their re-offence,       whereas with a reduced rate of recidivism this cost would be &#163;3.6M.
Moreover, costs not only follow from processing the re-offence, but also       from the resulting prison term.
Such savings are substantial given that       the annual cost of a prison place is &#163;40k, and that an offender convicted       of rape will serve a custodial sentence of, on average 8.5 years, and       across other sexual offences an average of 32 months (Ministry of Justice,       Home Office and Office of National Statistics, 2013).
Of course, in       addition to these monetary savings, reduced recidivism also has       substantial benefits for potential victims, for well-being of offenders,       their families and the society into which they are released.
Influence on international policy and practice     The work outlined above has influenced the development in Latvia of a       system to assess pre-treatment need and effectiveness of treatment for a       new sex offender treatment program.
This assessment has been incorporated       in the project entitled through the "Development of Supervision and       Treatment System of Sex Offenders in Latvia" -Project No.LV0068, the       initial phases of which were completed in April 2011.
Probation, prison,       mental health, victim support, prosecutor's office, courts, and local       government) were all involved in this project.
An important part of the       project involved Professor Beech running workshops to train prison and       probation staff in the use of the psychometric assessments (including the       SOPSSys), in order to establish an effective evaluation framework       Assessing efficacy of sex offenders' treatment programs [6].
Prof. Beech and colleagues have been heavily involved in training       frontline practitioners and researchers to use the SOPSSys, in other       countries including Slovakia, New Zealand, Australia, and Taiwan.
Training       workshops/keynotes on these topics over the last few years include:            Best practice in sex offender treatment.
The Max Plank Institute for         Foreign and International Criminal Law/ National Institute of         Criminology, Budapest.
Freiburg Germany 16th -17th May, 2013.
The understanding and treatment of sexual offenders in the 21st         century.
Utrecht, Holland Conference.
April 25th 2012.
Risk assessment for sex offenders.
Department of Social Development,         College of Community and Human Services, Rikkyo University, Tokyo, 2nd         August 2011.
The way forward for sex offender treatment.
Fourth Krakow Conference         of Psychology and Law, Krakow, Poland, 4-5th June 2011.
New directions in risk assessment and treatment for sexual offenders.
Third International Conference on Drugs and Violence, Hsuan Chuang         University, Hsinchu, Taiwan.
10th June 2010.
This conference was open to         practitioners working in the field of sexual abuse (such as         psychiatrists, psychologists, social workers, probation officers, and         lawyers).
International recognition and influence.
Anthony Beech was awarded the Significant Achievement award from the       Association for the Treatment of Sexual Abusers (ATSA).
Dallas, Texas,       September 2009.
ATSA is a North American organization with a membership of       around 3000 people, and this prize has only been awarded to individuals       outside of the US once in the last 20 years.
He has also been awarded the       Senior Award for a significant lifetime contribution to Forensic       Psychology in the UK.
Division of Forensic Psychology, British       Psychological Society, June 2009, again for this work.
In 2012, Anthony       Beech has been elected as the ATSA research chair, and a member of the       ATSA board.
This position has never been filled by an individual who       resides outside of North America.
The ATSA board see this appointment, in       part as reaching out to other countries to influence, and be influenced by       approaches to the assessment and treatment of offenders as developed by       Anthony Beech.
Hence, this appointment is indicative of the influence       Anthony Beech has had in the area, in terms of policy and practical       influence of academic research.
