     TgK Scientific Ltd is a Wiltshire-based SME that employs six people and       produces instrumentation for transient kinetics and spectroscopy.
This       company has commercialised a new instrument that allows the study of fast       biological reactions by rapid scanning Fourier Transform Infrared       Spectroscopy.
This FT-IR Stopped-Flow instrument is the only instrument on       the market to fulfil this role.
It is able to meet customer needs by       incorporating the cuvette designed and fabricated at the University of       Birmingham.
"The innovative cuvette design has made it possible for TgK         to commercialise an IR stopped flow instrument, responding to customer         demand" (s1).
The company specialise in products used to characterise fast reactions in       solution:- stopped-flow, temperature-jump, rapid quench-flow and other       more specialised variants of these such as high pressure stopped-flow, low       temperature stopped-flow and stopped-flow for FT-IR.
They had an initial       request from researchers at the University of Manchester (Professor Nigel       Scrutton, Faculty of Life Sciences) for an instrument to study specific       enzyme reactions by IR spectroscopy.
TgK were aware of Wharton's work, and       were able to combine his cuvette with their sample delivery technology and       the Bruker VERTEX 80 FT-IR spectrometer to produce an innovative Stopped-       Flow instrument that has been successful in the market.
Since 2008, there have been nine sales of the instrument: two in the UK,       two in South Africa, one in the USA, three in Germany and one in China;       hence seven of the nine have been exported.
This has produced sales income       of around ~&#163;200,000 over the four-year period.
Four of the sales were in       2012, with these generating around 10% of the company's &#163;800,000 turnover       in that year.
The product has enabled TgK to extend their product       portfolio and boost sales performance at a time when the instrument market       was under pressure.
The Birmingham contribution to instrument is the cuvette; the unique       design enables biological materials to be mixed and observed after 2-3 ms.       Two incoming liquids are rapidly mixed and uniformly spread across the       observation chamber within the cuvette whilst displacing evenly the liquid       that is already present.
This allows enzyme-catalysed reactions which have       non- chromophoric substrates to be studied in physiological conditions.
The flow cuvette which is central to this product was designed by       Wharton's group with the support of engineering colleagues at Birmingham.
The cuvettes continue to be fabricated in the workshop in the School of       Bioscience, and have generated an income of &#163;47,811 for the University       since 2008.
TgK believe that this collaboration has allowed a novel product to be       commercialised.
IR as a technique is particularly useful for studying       molecules that have no chromophore.
It is also a very complementary       technique to CD in studying protein structure.
Applications have varied       from protein folding and enzyme kinetics to inorganic chemistry including       studies in transition metal catalysis and novel energy production.
Feedback from TgK customers demonstrates the value of this product to       them and its unique nature (s2, s3, s4).
A customer at the       University of East Anglia said "We make very regular use of the         stopped-fb02ow system, which allows us to follow organometallic         reactions in a sub-second timeframe.
Only stopped-fb02ow methods offer         the possibility to examine reactions in this way, and for the systems we         are most interested in only stopped-fb02ow IR offers the detail we need.
To the best of my knowledge, the Tgk Scientifb01c system featuring the         University of Birmingham cell is the only commercial set up available to         carry out this work."
(s3)     Another customer at the Manchester Institute of Biotechnology has       confirmed that they do use the cell in their stopped-flow IR instrument.to       analyse any intermediates and products that are formed during reactions       catalysed by enzymes.
He said "In some cases it is only possible to         study these species by using IR light.....As far as I know this is the         only instrument that is capable of these measurements."
(s4)
