     The collapse of Northern Rock in 2007 gave rise to an urgent need to       inject liquidity into the financial system.
Given this, the Bank of       England was willing to accept a wider-than-usual range of collateral       against loans, but it wanted a correspondingly higher interest rate       against any weaker collateral that it accepted.
The Bank's existing       mechanisms for injecting liquidity into the markets raised a number of       significant operational issues (See Fisher et al (2011) for further       details -[section 5, C5]).
To resolve these issues, the Bank of       England consulted Professor Klemperer, a leading researcher in auction       theory who had played a major role in the design of the auction for the       British 3G telecom licenses in 2000 [C5, p.4 and C6, p.9].
Professor Klemperer's `product mix' auction, described in section 2,       directly addresses the Bank of England's problem.
In the context of       long-term repo operations, the `bidders' in the product-mix auction are       the Bank's counterparties, the `differentiated products' or `product       varieties' correspond to loans of central bank reserves that the Bank       makes against the narrow or the wider collateral set.
The prices at which       counterparties bid are expressed as a spread (in basis points) to Bank       Rate (subject to a minimum spread of zero).
The `overall supply       constraint' is the pre-announced quantity of central bank reserves that       the Bank is willing to supply through the auction.
The product-mix auction meets the Bank's objectives of:            Allowing a broader range of collateral;       Charging different interest rates for the loans depending on the         quality of the collateral in order to reduce moral hazard;       Allowing market conditions, as revealed by the bids, to determine both         the interest rate premium for inferior collateral and the proportion of         inferior collateral accepted; and       Permitting borrowers to specify how the collateral they supply will         depend on the auction outcome.
In 2010, the new auction was adopted as the Bank's standard mechanism for       long-term repo operations [C1, C2, C3].
The considerable       advantages of Klemperer's new auction over earlier mechanisms are set out       in a recent Bank of England paper [C5].
Expressing the bids as       spreads to Bank Rate (with a minimum spread of zero) eliminates the       interest rate risk arising from unexpected movements in the spread of       market rates to Bank Rate.
Moreover, the spread that the Bank charges to       lend against weaker collateral is determined within the auction - as the       market becomes more stressed, counterparties are willing to pay more to       borrow against weaker collateral - and so the Bank no longer has to make a       judgment about the appropriate spread to charge counterparties.
As market       stress increases, and the spread between the rates on wider       collateral-backed and narrow collateral-backed loans widens, the auction       design automatically allows the range of collateral accepted to increase.
As a result, the Bank of England is better able to manage the liquidity of       the financial system, particularly during periods of stress.
A review of       the performance of the new auction design after one year of operation       concluded that "based on the operations to date, the Bank is satisfied       that the operational framework meets the objectives of the ILTRs" [C5,         p.14].
The auction design is highly innovative in the field of central banking,       and was a first of its kind in any field.
Commenting in a magazine article       in 2010, Paul Fisher, Executive Director, Markets and Member of the       Monetary Policy Committee noted "`the Bank's Indexed Long-Term Repo       [auctions] represent a world first in central banking...This is       potentially a major step forward in practical policies to support       financial stability" [C10, p.14].
In a speech in March 2011, Paul       Fisher observed "the academic profession can make a significant       contribution to the field of central bank operations.
In this paper I have       highlighted one example in particular where our thinking has benefitted       considerably from such insight" [C6, p.15].
More recently, The       Bank's Governor, Sir Mervyn King, observed "The Bank of England's use of       Klemperer auctions in our liquidity insurance operations is a marvellous       application of theoretical economics to a practical problem of vital       importance to financial markets."
[C4].
The product-mix auction design has potential to be used in a wide range       of contexts: for instance Klemperer and several other auction theorists       suggested that the US government use this form of auction to buy up "toxic       assets" from troubled banks in 2008.
In the event the US government       changed direction and decided not to buy troubled assets after all.
Looking outside financial markets, other potential applications include       auctions for electricity transmission networks [C7, pp.14-15]; for       planning permission on brown-field v. green-field sites [C9].
