     The expertise of these Exeter researchers was combined in the AHRC       Knowledge Transfer Fellowship `Connecting communities and their maritime       heritage: Cornwall and the sea in the Bronze Age' (October 2011- March       2013; funding to Exeter: &#163;177,000; PI: Van de Noort; CIs: Harding and       Hurcombe).
This project had the full-scale reconstruction of a Bronze Age       sewn-plank boat as its focus.
The project's aims were to connect local,       regional and national communities with their ancient maritime heritage,       and to support building the NMMC's research capacity to enable its       re-positioning as a centre of research excellence.
These objectives       addressed the strategic aims of the EU Objective One programme for       Cornwall in assisting the economic recovery of the region, in particular       through developing high-quality tourism and a stronger knowledge-based       economy.
Over the course of the project, opportunities were also seized to       increase the impact of the Exeter/NMMC project through promoting the       concept of `construction-as-performance' generally, and the theme       of connecting communities to their maritime heritage specifically, to a       wider professional audience.
This has led to it being adopted elsewhere,       including in Finland where a log-boat has already been reconstructed in       this way.
Further projects inspired by the Exeter/NMMC project are planned       at the NMMC, the British Museum, and in Italy.
The AHRC-funded project with the NMMC involved the first full-scale       construction of a Bronze Age sewn-plank boat undertaken in front of the       public (the concept of `construction as performance'), thereby providing       visitors with a new perspective on the size and complicated design of such       a vessel.
This innovative `construction-as-performance' project also       involved a far wider range of sensory perceptions (e.g.
vision, smell,       sound, touch) than is normally achieved in static exhibitions, offering       museums a new concept for engaging with their visitors.
Along with       presenting research through experimental archaeology, it created       unprecedented opportunities for engagement with local, regional, national       and international audiences.
During the course of the project in October       2011-March 2013, the live construction was accompanied by:     (i) an exhibition focussed on Cornwall in the Bronze Age and on the       connections of the UK in that period with continental Europe and Ireland,       and which featured the first UK display of the master copy of the Bronze       Age Nebra Skydisc (found in Germany in 1999) whose gold and tin content       may have come from Cornwall;     (ii) a programme of lectures and education activities aimed at primary       school children in the Falmouth region,     (iii) the dynamic dissemination of progress in the construction of the       sewn-plank boat through social media such as Facebook (the first time a       specific exhibition at the NMMC had its own Facebook page), which has to       date received more than 1,289 `likes' (59% from outside the UK including       mainland Europe, Egypt, Australia and the Americas), and up to 21,621       views the most popular individual post ([A; E]),     (iv) the posting of monthly time-lapse videos on YouTube with over 20,000       views to date ([B; E]).
The project has been reported in 59 separate international, national and       regional printed press reports (eg The Times, The Sunday Times,       The Daily Mail, The Guardian, The Independent, Current         Archaeology, British Archaeology and a full page feature in       BBC History Magazine), and 66 individual online media sites across the       world (eg www.springer.de) ([C]).
The University of Exeter's own web stories were viewed 3,100 times.
The       project, and the successful launch of the boat in April 2013, were       reported by the BBC and ITV in extended reports on national and local       television and radio (e.g.
[D]).
The interest generated is       reflected in the filming that has taken place for a series of       documentaries including the Discovery Channel's `Stonehenge Boat', BBC's       `Stonehenge Connections', BBC Coast 2014 series, and Time Team Special on       Bronze Age seafaring (to be broadcast in 2014).
During the project, 131,835 visitors witnessed the building of the boat       in person, over 500 individuals attended one or more of the public       lectures, over 1,000 children took part in one the specially designed       education programmes, and over 100 volunteers gave at least one full day       to the project.
During the exhibition there were 18,000 additional       visitors compared to the previous year, and during an Archaeology Week in       June 2012 there were 7,500 visitors (compared to 4,500 in the same period       in 2011) ([E]).
Qualitatively, the project was highly rated by       visitors leaving feedback, and the project gained consistently positive       feedback in questionnaires and surveys undertaken by the NMMC ([E]).
The transformation of the NMMC into a centre of research excellence in       experimental maritime archaeology has made significant progress.
This is       evidenced by the co-authorship of academic papers published in       international peer-reviewed journals that report on the reconstruction of       the Bronze Age sewn-plank boat [eg F], and the way that the NMMC       are now building upon their experience and have commissioned two further       projects.
The first of these, with the British Museum, concerns the       full-scale reconstruction of a Viking-period fearing in 2013-14       that will be finished in the courtyard of the British Museum as part of       their special exhibition on the Vikings [E].
The second NMMC       project concerns the full-scale reconstruction of the Romano-Celtic       Barland's Farm Boat (from near Newport in South Wales), a craft from       around AD 300 which was built in a fashion that incorporates Mediterranean       and British boat building traditions.
This project will take place in       collaboration with the Universities of Exeter, Southampton, and University       of Wales Trinity Saint David, and Newport Museum in 2014 [E],       providing further evidence of the transformation of the NMMC's research       capacity.
In addition to the British Museum initiative, a further example of how       the Exeter/NMMC project has been taken up elsewhere is as part of the       separate EU-funded collaborative OpenArch Project, in which Hurcombe is a       core participant, that aims to improve the visitor experience within open       air museums [G].
Hurcombe's OpenArch work package `Dialogues With       Science' includes organising a series of workshops for archaeologists from       open air museums and heritage centres, one of which (October 2012,       involving members from Finland, Italy, the Netherlands as well as the UK),       visited the Exeter/NMMC Bronze Age boat reconstruction [H].
A       participant museum included the Kierikki Stone Age Centre in Finland who,       inspired by the Exeter/NMMC Bronze Age Boat project approached Hurcombe to       advise them on carrying out a similar exercise at Kierikki.
This led in       July 2013 to a staff exchange with Hurcombe going to Kierikki with Brian       Crumby (who supervised the construction of the Bronze Boat at the NMMC) in       order to take part in the reconstruction of a log boat (of northern       European late prehistoric type) as part of one of their `Stone Age Days'       public events [I].
This was carried out in front of visitors using       the `construction-as-performance' approach pioneered at the Exeter/NMMC       project.
It was seen by c.700 visitor and attracted local press coverage,       and the boat is now a permanent resource used by visitors [J].
Another participant at the `Dialogues With Science' event and who visited       the Exeter/NMMC project &#8212; the Parcomontale Terra Mare (the open air site       of the Modena Municipal Museum, Italy) &#8212; are also planning a boat       reconstruction using the `performance-as-construction' approach [J].
