     Exeter's research has raised awareness of the importance of wetland       archaeology within public bodies in Britain and internationally, and       influenced policy with regard to landscape management practices.
Following       English Heritage's (EH) commissioning of Van de Noort to produce its       survey of Monuments at Risk in England's Wetlands [6 above]       he co-wrote their Strategy for Wetlands (2002) which was updated in       2011 [A].
This is a high-level policy for conserving and managing       wetlands that has sustained EH's core activities of identifying,       understanding, protecting, and managing the historic environment.
These reports produced by Van de Noort led to a programme of EH research       in 2011-present valued at c.&#163;462k [B; C].
This English Heritage Strategy for Wetlands, and the       research/data produced by Van de Noort and his team at Exeter, provided       the basis of the multi-agency (EH, Environment Agency, Natural England,       RSPB, and Wildlife Trusts) Wetland Vision's `Map of Historic       Environment Wetland Priority Areas' (2008) which characterises areas of       England with high potential for waterlogged archaeology and       palaeoenvironmental deposits [D].
Wetland Vision has       directed &#163;8m of Natural England funding for the restoration of damaged       peatlands and the (re-)creation of new peatlands (2008-11) [E],       illustrating how Exeter's research has influenced public policy beyond       professional archaeology.
A follow-on project (`Wetland Vision &#8212;       adapting wetlands to climate change', led by NERC's Centre for Ecology and       Hydrology) was commissioned by the Environment Agency to produce a       web-based tool (2012) designed for site managers concerned with the       eco-hydrological status of their wetlands and to support adaptive planning       and broader scale river corridor analysis and the delivery of England's Wetland         Vision.
EH sponsored a heritage strand within it, with Van de Noort       as part of the consortium team, to ensure archaeological issues were       included [C; F].
More widely, Van de Noort's expertise is reflected in his membership of       the `Core Expert Panel' of the International Union for Conservation of       Nature UK Peatland Programme set up in 2009, and his co-authorship of its       report Peatlands and the Historic Environment: Scientific Review 2010       [G] that was debated and supported in the Scottish Parliament.
He       also acted as scientific advisor to the archaeological survey undertaken       on peatlands milled by the Irish state company Bord na Mona (2007-09), and       chaired the review of archaeological research in the Irish peatlands for       Duchas (the heritage division of the Irish Department of the Environment).
The recommendations of this review are reflected in the 2012 Code of       Archaeological Practice between the Department of the Environment, the       National Museum of Ireland and Bord na Mona.
Van de Noort's pioneering       research into in situ monitoring of waterlogged deposits at Sutton       Common has been held up as an example of `best practice' [H].
In       2013 DEFRA appointed Van de Noort Chair of the South West Regional Flood       and Coastal Committee, which was established by the Secretary of State       under the Flood and Water Management Act 2010.
In this position, Van de       Noort has a key role in engaging local communities and authorities, and       external stakeholders appointed by the Environment Agency, in the       sustainable flood protection and coastal management of the South West of       England and, at a national level, in shaping policies in these areas as a       member of the Regional Flood and Coastal Committee Chairmen's meetings.
The aim of the Wetland Vision is to `show where new wetlands       could be created and current wetlands restored ... [to] protect our       heritage and reap the many benefits that wetlands can provide' [D],       while the EH Strategy for Wetlands (2002) stresses the importance       of management at a landscape scale [A].
An example of the impact       that Exeter's research has had in achieving this multi-agency       landscape-scale approach is a sequence of projects where Rippon has been       contracted by Essex County Council `because of his distinctive, historic       landscape focussed approach to research into wetland landscapes in       Britain, and Essex' [I] to provide advice on the management of       specific landscapes as a contribution to local and regional strategic       planning initiatives (eg Thames Gateway Parklands Vision, Thames Gateway       Local Nature Partnership, and South Essex Green Grid Strategy) that aim to       create high quality green space within/between extensive urban areas [I].
In 2009 Rippon was invited by the RSPB and Essex County Council (ECC) to       advise on the creation of a new c.1,500ha nature reserve in the       South Essex Marshes.
An AHRC KTF allowed Rippon to work in partnership       with RSPB and ECC in the development of this reserve which now attracts       260,000 visitors a year (and which the RSPB expects to rise to 350,000       annually).
The preparation of a report outlining the history and key       character defining features of this landscape had an immediate impact, for       example through Rippon's involvement in designing information provided for       visitors and so enhancing their experience and understanding, and in       shaping the design of the reserve in a way that protected key historic       landscape assets that in previous plans were going to be destroyed [I].
One reflection of the positive impact this project had on planners and       countryside managers is that Rippon was subsequently commissioned to       prepare a report (2011) for Southend-on-Sea Borough Council to inform       their Urban Habitats project to increase public access to the countryside       of coastal Essex) [I; J].
Subsequent work (2011-12) with Wessex       Archaeology for the Olympic Legacy Company and ECC has ensured that the       historic landscape is properly understood, protected and enhanced when       providing a legacy for the 2012 Olympic Mountain Biking venue in the       costal parish of Hadleigh that it is anticipated will increase annual       visitor numbers to the existing Country Park by approximately 250,000 by       2017 [I].
An important part of the wetland archaeology research group at Exeter has       been its PhD students, of which many have gone on to use their research in       a professional public policy environment including Will Fletcher (EH       Inspector), Richard Brunning and Rebecca Loader (HER Officers in Somerset       and Isle of Wight), and Jason Rogers (Research Director, Alaska Maritima).
