     The fundamental discovery of molecularly engineered selectivity in       boronic acid sugar recognition       at Birmingham by Prof James has been used by GlySure, an       Oxfordshire-based company, to       provide the novel chemistry for measuring blood glucose in new glucose       recognition technology       designed for use in hospital intensive care units.
Information published       on GlySure's website, and       also confirmed by the company to the University, proves that this novel       chemistry is crucial to the       technology that unpins their business.
The impact to July 2013 is evidenced in both commercial and health terms.
GlySure was founded       in 2006 as a new venture to develop the Birmingham invented glucose       recognition technology.
Since 2008 it has raised &#163;9.5m venture capital investment for this purpose       and had 30 employees       in June 2013 (increased from 16 in 2012), with the company's activities       wholly focused on this       device.
Positive results of clinical trials, which began in 2010, have       been reported by the company.
GlySure's focus is now working on achieving regulatory approval in Europe,       and the company has       reported that it expected to begin CE mark trials in 2013.
GlySure       have reported that the worldwide       market opportunity for Tight Glycaemic Control in hospital intensive care       units is more than       $2billion.
Tight glycaemic control in intensive care units     The value of intensive insulin therapy in reducing mortality and       morbidity in patients being treated       in intensive care units was identified in a landmark clinical study of       more than 1,500 patients in a       surgical intensive care unit reported in the New England Journal of         Medicine in 2001.
[source 1] A       factor hampering implementation of this approach has been the absence of a       practical method of       achieving continuous monitoring of patient's glucose levels in an       intensive care unit.
Clinicians       face difficulties in implementing this extent of tight glycaemic control       through traditional finger-prick       blood samples: taking blood samples in this way is resource-intensive for       nursing staff; provides       intermittent rather than continuous measurement; patients can be left with       sore fingers and hands.
A number of companies, mainly in the US, have tried to find solutions to       this issue over the last       decade, often trying to apply approaches from the diabetes industry to       intensive care purposes, as       described in a 2012 article in the medical business press.
However, none       have been successful in       bringing a product to market.
GlySure is a new entrant to this       market, and has used the findings       from the Birmingham research as a crucial feature of a novel method       designed specifically for       intensive case applications.
[source 2]     GlySure's monitoring system     The GlySure system comprises two main parts; a monitor and a sterile       disposable set (which       includes a fibre-optic sensor and integrated calibration module).
The       sensor interfaces with the       patient's pre-existing intravascular line (arterial or venous) without       disrupting the clinician's ability       to monitor pressure, draw blood or administer medication through those       lines.
The sensor contains       fluorescent indicator chemistry (invented in Birmingham), which produces a       signal that is       proportional to the glucose concentration in the patient's blood.
The sensor is a sterile single-use device.
Its fluorophore-receptor       indicator chemistry is patent       protected and under exclusive world-wide licence to GlySure.
The       reversible nature of the glucose-fluorophore 	  bond enables monitoring throughout the patient's length of       stay with the same sensor.
GlySure argue that their technology exceeds the requirements of       clinicians, while also significantly       reducing time and cost.
Birmingham's contribution to GlySure's system     GlySure were recommended to consider the Birmingham findings by       James and subsequently       obtained a licence from Beckman Coulter Inc. (the original owners       of the patent) to utilise them in       their product.
In 2012, GlySure purchased this patent from Beckman         Coulter, underlining the       importance of this to their activity.
Glysure's Chief Technology Officer has confirmed that the       Birmingham discovery is making a       distinct and material contribution to their product, and that that these       findings have enabled them to       develop a sensor that is highly selective to glucose in a biological       environment [the blood of       critically ill patients] that abounds with both exogenous and endogenous       potential interferents.
This       selectivity facilitates the use of a continuous sensor over many hours       whilst maintaining its       accuracy.
[source 3]     The importance of the discovery made at Birmingham to this device is       described on the GlySure       website, which says: The core to this technology is the         fluorescent/receptor glucose indicator         chemistry.
This chemistry is structured to be selective for glucose and         is immobilised into an optical         cell that is micro machined into the fibre itself.
The selectivity for         glucose is imparted by the         specifically configured diboronic acid receptor that is covalently         linked to the fluorophore and forms         part of the single molecule indicator chemistry.
This         fluorophore-receptor indicator chemistry is         covered by US patent 6,387,672 B1 which is owned by GlySure.
[source       4]     Economic impact     GlySure, which is focused on exploiting the market potential of       this innovatory technology, is based       in Oxfordshire and by June 2013 had grown to 30 employees.
The company has       attracted a total       of &#163;12.5 million venture capital investment since its formation in 2006,       including a &#163;7 million       investment in 2012 to be used to complete the necessary clinical trials as       part of obtaining       regulatory approval for the glucose monitoring system in Europe and the       USA.
Investors include       Amadeus Capital Partners, Delta Partners and Morningside         Venture, all of whom have wide       experience of backing successful technology enterprises.
[source 5] The       company has reported       that &#163;9.5m of this investment has been achieved since January 2008, a       large increase on the &#163;3m       achieved in the first two years of operation.
[source 3]     In June 2013, GlySure announced the appointment of a new       executive chairman with extensive       experience of the medical diagnostics and devices industry to support its       commercialisation       programme.
[source 6]     Health impact     GlySure have reported on a series of trials of their device, with       information on these on their       website and presented industry conferences in 2012 and 2013 [source 7].
These reports say that       early trials in human serum plasma and whole blood confirmed that the       sensor can measure       glucose levels effectively and accurately, with this later validated in in         vivo models.
Human trials       began in late 2010.
[source 8] In January 2012, GlySure reported       that they had completed initial       human trials on over 90 intensive care patients and provided examples from       these trials of       successful continuous measurement throughout a patient's intensive care       treatment of more than       70 hours.
[source 9]     The company have informed the University that the trials have shown       benefits including reduced       patient morbidity, a reduced length of stay in intensive care by around 18       hours and a saving in       nursing costs of around $1000 per patient.
[source 3]     In March 2013, Glysure reported that it expected to begin       European CE mark trials later that year       (the completion of patient enrolment was confirmed on its website in       October 2013) and had       obtained ISO 13485 certification of its quality management system, which       was an important       foundation for these next round of trials.
[source 10]
