     In June 2008, Professor Wren Lewis presented research on optimal fiscal       policy and fiscal rules at a research workshop organised by the Centre for       Economic Policy Research, which was attended by members of George       Osborne's private office [section 5: C1].
In September 2008, a       Conservative Party economic policy document "Reconstruction - Plan for a       Strong Economy" proposed the establishment of the Office for Budget       Responsibility (OBR), citing Kirsanova, Leith and Wren-Lewis (2007) [R2]       and drawing directly from their proposals for a fiscal council to combat       `deficit bias' [C2].
Subsequently, Wren-Lewis and his co-authors       presented their research to the Cabinet Office and the Treasury and had       informal discussions with members of George Osborne's private office.
When       the Conservative party came to power in May 2010, the OBR was established       on an interim basis as a non-statutory body, and in March 2011, the OBR       became a statutory body.
In July 2010, Wren-Lewis was called as an expert witness to give oral       evidence before the Treasury Select Committee for the formation of the OBR       on a statutory basis.
Wren-Lewis' earlier research and proposal for a       fiscal council was noted in the minutes [C3, Formal Minutes, q84].
Drawing on his research on the role and structure of fiscal councils [R1]),       Professor Wren Lewis argued in his evidence to the Select Committee that       the board of the proposed OBR should include independent non-executive       members as well as executive members [C3, Formal Minutes, q88].
On       21 June 2011, two non-executive members were appointed to the OBR.
These       were not included in the interim OBR, but were recommended by the Treasury       Committee for the statutory OBR.
In March 2011, the Budget Responsibility and National Audit Act 2011       established the OBR as a statutory body.
Wren-Lewis was appointed to the       seven-member panel of the OBR comprised of outside experts "to help       develop and scrutinise its work programme and methods", a move indicative       of the influence of Wren-Lewis' research on the subject of fiscal councils       [C4].
Wren- Lewis' recent work on the comparative functions of       fiscal councils has also influenced the operation of the OBR itself.
In       the Ken Dixon Lecture at the University of York on 13 June 2011, the       current director of the OBR, Robert Chote drew heavily on the analysis by       Calmfors and Wren-Lewis [R1] in setting out the justification for       fiscal councils and in comparing of the UK's OBR with fiscal councils in       other countries [C5, p.3].
Since its establishment, the OBR has had       a major impact on UK fiscal policy.
For example, in November 2011, the OBR       revised down its forecast for potential output, which led the Chancellor       in his Autumn Statement to announce plans for additional future austerity       to ensure he met his fiscal targets [C6].
The impact of Wren-Lewis' work in this area has extended beyond the UK.
A       conference on Independent Fiscal Institutions (Budapest, June 2010)       reviewed the experiences of fiscal councils worldwide, and Wren-Lewis'       presentation to the conference drew important distinctions between types       of fiscal council and the extent to which different designs tackle       different problems of fiscal policymaking [C7].
In April 2011, the       research on the role of fiscal councils was presented at the 3rd       Annual Meeting of OECD Parliamentary Budget Officials on 29 April 2011       [C8].
In addition, Wren-Lewis has held informal discussions       with interested political representatives in other countries, such as       Ireland and Slovakia.
He has since joined the Advisory Panel of the Slovak       Council for Budget Responsibility [C9].
Wren-Lewis maintains a webpage on fiscal councils     (http://www.economics.ox.ac.uk/members/simon.wren-lewis/fc/Fiscal_Councils.htm).
The webpage is designed to be an easily accessible account of what fiscal       councils are trying to achieve, and, as such, it has proved a useful       source of information and analysis on fiscal councils for policymakers.
The webpage has specifically been referred to by UK policymakers while       drawing up legislation to put the OBR on a statutory basis (for example, [C3]       footnotes 11 and 12).
A summary of Calmfors and Wren-Lewis (2001) [R1]       on the role of fiscal councils was made available on VoxEU (http://www.voxeu.g/index.php?q=node/6369)a       website supported by the EU to provide research- based policy advice and       commentary for economists in governments, international organisations,       academia and the private sector as well as journalists specializing in       economics, finance and business [C10].
