     Birmingham's involvement in the nuclear sector dates back to the       commissioning of the Calder Hall nuclear power station in 1956.
The School       of Physics and Astronomy has been delivering the Physics and Technology of       Nuclear Reactors (PTNR) Masters course since these earliest days and many       of the key people within the nuclear industry are graduates.
Prof Weaver       was head of the PTNR course before passing it on to Dr. Norman.
The       steering committee for the PTNR course includes most of the major       companies across the UK nuclear industry, whose funding underpins the       courses continuation.
Members of the Birmingham Nuclear group have also       participated in international reviews, for example Prof. D.R.
Weaver       served on the OECD Nuclear Energy Agency (NEA) 2009 review "Research and       Test Facilities Required in Nuclear Science and Technology" and operated       as a consultant to the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) and Prof.       M. Freer provided a review of National Nuclear Laboratory reports into       characterisation of Gen IV technologies and fuel cycles for the Department       of Energy and Climate Change (DECC).
This, and the associated applied       nuclear research programme, provided the foundations for the Policy       Commission on the Future of Nuclear Power in the UK.
Key elements of the       report feature R&amp;D capability and skills capacity, both of which link       directly to the expertise of the Birmingham Nuclear group.
The Policy Commission examining "The Future of Nuclear Energy" was       chaired by Lord Hunt of Kings Heath, and brought together key       representatives from the nuclear industry, national policy, universities,       NGOs, government agencies and the financial sector &#8212; the meetings were       also attended by several international organisations.
The process included       two workshops held in Westminster, London, and debates at the Institution       of Civil Engineers (London), the Lib-Dem Party Conference (Birmingham       2011) and Labour Party Conference (Manchester 2012).
These workshops and       debates were designed to draw out the key challenges facing the UK in the       development of a new nuclear build programme.
These include the impact on       climate change, finance and the energy markets, nuclear supply chain,       nuclear training and skills, public opinion and perceptions, waste storage       and disposal and the nuclear fuel cycle.
In addition, a more forward       looking component of the policy review was an examination of future       technologies (so-called Generation IV) and how these might fit into the       UKs future energy plan.
Altogether, there were &gt;50 expert participants       in the debates and workshops.
The commissioners included academics from disciplines across the       University of Birmingham (Prof. David Weaver, Prof. Lynne Macaskie, Dr.       Paul Norman, Dr. John Walls and Prof. Martin Freer) and external       commissioners: Prof. Richard Green (Imperial), Richard Rankin (Idaho       National Laboratory, US), Stephen Tindale (Centre for European Reform),       Simon Webster (Head of the Unit responsible for managing the Euratom       programme of EU-funded research activities in nuclear fission science       &amp; technology) and Prof. Andrew Worrall (Technical Authority for       Reactors and Fuels at the UK National Nuclear Laboratory now ORNL, US).
The connection between the research and track record of the nuclear group       and the work of the policy commission exemplified through Prof. Weaver.
Reach       The final report of the commission was published on 2nd July       2012, and launched at an event involving a panel discussion with Tim Yeo       MP (Chair, Energy and Climate Change Committee), Professor Martin Freer       (Policy Commission Academic Director) and Stephen Tindale (Climate and       Energy Consultant, Associate Fellow at the Centre for European Reform and       a member of the Commission).
The discussion was chaired by Fiona Fox       (Chief Executive, Science Media Centre).
The aim of the workshops,       described above, was to generate debate on some of the key areas across       parties who would not normally be brought into contact; these included;       AREVA, French Alternative Energies and Atomic Energy Commission (CEA),       Nuclear Information Service (anti-nuclear), OECD Nuclear Energy Agency,       UK Atomic Energy Authority, Culham Centre for Fusion Energy (CCFE),       Weinberg Foundation, Chatham House, Department of Energy and Climate       Change, Environment Agency, Babcock International, Nuclear Industry       Association, Social psychologists (Cardiff University), National Nuclear       Laboratory, EDF Energy, The Royal Society, Office for Nuclear Regulation,       journalists, Energy UK, University academics (Birmingham, Oxford,       Manchester, Imperial, Cardiff), Nuclear Decommissioning Authority, GE       Hitachi, Committee on Climate Change, Office for Nuclear Development and       the Senior Advisor to the Secretary of State for Energy &amp; Climate       Change and Department for Public Health and Health Professions, Welsh       Government.
In addition to the workshops, a first debate was held in September 2012       at the Lib Dem conference, chaired by Prof. David Eastwood (VC       Birmingham), including Lord Hunt, Rt Hon.
John Hemming (Liberal Democrat       MP, Birmingham Yardley), Dr Susan Juned (Director and Senior Consultant,       Greenwatt Technologies Sustainable Solutions) and Prof. Martin Freer.
A       further debate was held at the Institution of Civil Engineers, London,       chaired by Lord Hunt, with a panel formed from Sir Jonathon Porritt       (Co-Founder, Forum for the Future), Dame Sue Ion (former Group Director of       Technology for British Nuclear Fuels Ltd), Ron Bailey (anti-nuclear),       Keith Parker (Chief Executive, Nuclear Industry Association) and Prof.       Martin Freer.
This second debate formed part of the discussion for a BBC       world service `One Planet' programme on nuclear energy and the "Naked       Scientist".
Comment pieces authored by the commission were covered in       newspapers in 22 countries and 8 languages: Arabic, Chinese, English,       French, Macedonian, Polish, Portuguese and Spanish (including Al Jazeera &#8212;       English).
The conclusions of the report were covered in Public Service Europe [1],       an exclusive in the Sunday Telegraph [1], NEI Nuclear Notes blog `Whither       British Nuclear Energy', Out-Law.com `Government must take some of the       financial risk of new nuclear to encourage investment, says report',       Securing the Future [1] and Nuclear Future (magazine of the nuclear       industry).
Elements of the report were also featured on BBC Sunday       Politics Show, featuring a section with Prof.
Freer and an undergraduate       student on the future of nuclear in the UK and the policy commission.
The       Commission also hosted a fringe debate at the 2012 Labour Party conference       in Manchester involving Tom Greatrex MP (Shadow Energy Minister) and       Geoffrey Lean (Environment Correspondent, The Telegraph).
Significance       The report [2] was submitted to the department of Business Innovation and       Science (BIS) to help shape their review of UK Nuclear R&amp;D       capabilities performed by the Government's Chief Scientific Adviser, Sir       John Beddington.
Several hundred copies of the report were circulated to       DECC and leading policy makers in the UK and organisations in the EU and       US.
The report outlined a number of measures that UK policy makers must       take to deliver Nuclear New Build and is designed to inform those with the       opportunity to affect energy policy &#8212; feedback has been good: "With so         many publications and views in the energy space it is difficult to pick         out those that really make a difference.
Your July 2012 Nuclear Report         is however very, very good.
Well done to your team and thank you."
[text removed for publication] &#8212; Chief Executive Ofgem.
[3] [text removed       for publication] of the National Nuclear Laboratory observed "It is         clear that the work through the Policy Commission has already made an         impact and it is likely that many of the recommendations that the report         makes will be considered and enacted upon."
[4] [text removed for       publication] remarks "I have received a number of comments from         Parliamentarians concerning the quality and impact of the report.
I have         no doubt that it is proving to be highly influential and authoritative".
[5, 6] The report was also cited in the 2012 IoP review of "A Review of UK       Nuclear Physics Research".
[7] [text removed for publication] Head of       Nuclear Policy, EDF, advises "I know the work has been a reference         source for policy officials within the Departments of Business,         Innovation and Skills and Energy and Climate Change.
The work has also         been useful and relevant to the Advisory Group on Nuclear R&amp;D         chaired by Sir John Beddington.....".
[8] In 2013 the Government       published "The UK's Nuclear Future".
[9] The report, including its many       sub-documents, refers to the work of the Birmingham Policy Commission and       many of the Commission's recommendations are reflected in the conclusions       of the Government report and subsequent actions.
For example, the       commission report recommended "Development of world-class nuclear research       capabilities should be a national priority.
Materials research, involving       both nuclear fuel post-irradiation examination and characterisation       (fission) and development of advanced structural materials (fusion and       fission), is a critical area for advanced nuclear technology in general,       and the solid basis of UK expertise in these fundamental fields would       benefit considerably from enhanced national support."
&#8212; DECC has now       funded &#163;15M for a new world class National Nuclear Users Facility for       nuclear materials research and &#163;12.5M for a UK stake in the Jules Horowitz       materials test reactor.
Similarly, the commission suggested "The       Government should set up a statutory Nuclear Policy Council, or similar,       modelled on the Committee on Climate Change, that can establish and       champion a long-term, technically informed, roadmap for nuclear energy in       the UK.
", and subsequently a series of national committees have been       formed which include Nuclear Innovation Research Office (NIRO) which will       develop and take forward the work of the newly created Nuclear Innovation       Research Advisory Board (NIRAB).
It is not possible to establish direct       cause and effect, but the statements from those involved in the       development of the Government position [4, 8] indicate the importance of       the report in shaping the government's conclusions.
The Commission's report and the subsequent debates on its findings have       informed the complex policy debate surrounding changes in UK policy, with       the potential nuclear new build programme estimated to correspond to an       investment of over &#163;40billion in the UK economy, not to mention the       potential for energy security.
Sustainability       As part of broadening public understanding of the issues around UK energy       policy, nuclear energy and nuclear safety a number of activities have been       coordinated.
These include presentations to the Birmingham Lunar Society       and Manchester Literary and Philosophical Society (both "learned       societies") and to 6th form school students and teachers.
Following on from the Commission Freer has been asked to provide input to       a report by the Committee on Climate Change on greenhouse gas emissions       from nuclear power, participate in debates on the economic conditions       surrounding the Electricity Market Reform bill, on the future of energy       organised by the FSB and to contribute to a meeting on nuclear energy at       the Royal Academy of Engineering.
He has also written a number of comment       pieces for the "Conversation" and "Pan European Networks".
