     It is standard practice in the oil and gas industry to use reservoir       simulators based on numerical methods such as the finite difference or       finite element techniques.
This kind of approach has been shown to be       enormously successful over the years in modelling a wide variety of       physical processes in the reservoir e.g., faults, rock layering effects,       complex fluid phase behaviour, etc.
While reservoir simulators of this type will continue to play a crucial       role in the industry, it is well known that to use them takes considerable       expertise and time.
Because of the numerical nature of the modelling       process, gridding, time stepping, stiffness and convergence issues require       care and attention.
Extremely long execution times are often necessary for       certain types of problems, e.g., hydraulically fractured wells, and to       maintain numerical stability.
Analytical techniques, for the reason outlined above, can therefore play       a valuable role in the industry.
Such techniques, although they may have       some simplifying assumptions, allow a reservoir or production engineer to       perform a quick and reliable study of their reservoir in order to obtain a       broad understanding of the dynamical processes and make approximate       costing forecasts.
Moreover, analytical solutions are extremely fast to       compute and provide none of the stability, time stepping and convergence       issues seen with a numerically based simulator.
Also, a necessary step in       many reservoir studies involves the history matching of observed data by       optimizing model parameters.
The history matched model is then used for       performance prediction.
Given the speed and reliability of analytical       results, there is a clear opportunity to exploit their use in history       matching studies.
There has been much work in the literature regarding analytical       approaches, particularly for well testing applications, but also from a       full field reservoir standpoint, where multiple wells and reservoir       boundaries must be accounted for to forecast production over the required       timescales.
Algorithms for full field simulation problems based on       analytical approaches have been presented in the literature for porous       media with homogeneous and isotropic permeability in a variety of sources.
A more complex problem involves the application of analytical approaches       to full field scenarios where the reservoir has inhomogeneous and       anisotropic permeability and variable geometry.
The programme of research reported in this case study has been developed       in collaboration with, and supported by, Schlumberger Technology Centre,       Abingdon, UK.
It has involved the novel development, via matched       asymptotic expansions, of a predictive analytical theory for describing       the flow of oil in a thin anisotropic, inhomogeneous porous layer, with       injection and extraction via line sources and sinks.
This provides a       tractable model for oil extraction from spatially extended reservoirs.
The       objective has been to provide a computationally rapid tool to enable       multiple realisations of extraction strategies to be assessed and compared       rapidly, with the goal of optimizing the oil well locations in a new       reservoir.
The user friendly computational tool that has been provided via       the matched asymptotic theory developed in this case study has more than       achieved this goal.
Pre-existing, fully numerical models require the order       of days to obtain a single realisation, and are also sensitive to       parameter changes, and therefore model modification.
However, the       computations associated with the theory developed here provide an accurate       realisation in less than two minutes of computational time on MATLAB, and       the computations are stable and robust to parameter changes.
[text removed       for Publication] (Group Leader, Schlumberger Technology Centre, Abingdon)       has commented `This new approach now makes strategy assessment for new         oil reservoirs, via multiple computational realisations, followed by         optimization, a significantly viable and attractive approach.
Ideas from         this approach have been implemented by Schlumberger in their recent         efforts to build a semi-analytical Gridless Reservoir Estimation and         Analysis Tool (GREAT)' .
Moreover, Schlumberger report that there is       further good potential to employ this method in parallel with pre-       existing numerical simulators at Schlumberger, to speed up performance,       and therefore to considerably extend their viability as optimisation       tools.
The project has been supported by four one-day workshops in May       2006, June 2007, May 2008 and September 2009, involving the Computational       Oil Recovery Research Group at Schlumberger Technology Centre, Abingdon.
The workshops focussed on dissemination and discussion of the developing       theory, its application and implementation, and computational methodology       and efficiency.
In addition D J Needham presented two research seminars at       Schlumberger Technology Centre, Abingdon, relating to the description of       the theory being developed and aspects of implementation of the theory.
In       a broader context, the research project outlined in this case study has       significant implications for the worldwide petrochemical industry through       the commercial services provided by Schlumberger to this industry,       particularly in respect of current resource management and the necessity       to optimise extraction strategies as efficiently as possible in the face       of declining reserves.
Associated with this activity has been the       production of three detailed reports for Schlumberger:     `The unsteady flow of a weakly compressible fluid in a thin porous layer       I: Two-Dimensional Theory'.
(D J Needham, S Langdon) Contract Report to       Schlumberger Technology Centre, Abingdon     `The unsteady flow of a weakly compressible fluid in a thin porous layer       II: Three-Dimensional Theory'.
(D J Needham, S Langdon) Contract Report to       Schlumberger Technology Centre, Abingdon     `The unsteady flow of a weakly compressible fluid in a thin porous layer       III: Three-Dimensional Computations'.
(S Langdon, D J Needham, B A       Samson*, J P Gilchrist*) Contract Report to Schlumberger Technology       Centre, Abingdon     The work has also led to three significant publications in high quality       Applied Mathematics journals.
(* Author employed at Schlumberger Technology Centre, Abingdon )
