     The key to the success of SubSafe has been the demonstration of       innovation in technology-based       training for complex engineering systems, with specific reference to the       submarine training sector,       where the increasing "absence" of submarines alongside at naval bases (due       to streamlining in the       Armed Forces and the development of more advanced naval platforms) would       otherwise have a       negative impact on RN recruits' knowledge uptake and retention.
This       situation is unlikely to       change in the coming decades as the sizes of current-generation submarine       fleets reduce and       fewer, more advanced vessels (such as the UK's Astute and Successor       classes of submarine)       come into service.
The same situation exists within international navies, such as Canada and       Australia, where future       submarines (and, indeed, surface vessels), although technologically highly       advanced, will be       smaller in number and will remain at sea for much longer periods than is       currently the case.
The       results of the SubSafe experimental programme have demonstrated       (not only to the RN, but to       interested senior observers from the Royal Canadian and Australian Navies       as well) that SMQ       students are likely to benefit significantly from games-based training,       even in the absence of       submarines alongside, and such training will improve their familiarisation       and, thus, their safety       awareness when they are eventually exposed to real, complex submarine       spaces and systems.
UK Adoption/Impact.
As well as the installation of SubSafe       into the Waterfront Learning Centre       at HM Naval Base, Devonport in April, 2011, the results of the SubSafe       programme were influential       in the establishment, at HM Naval Base, Faslane, of a new training       facility developed by Babcock       International for the Astute Class submarine (again in 2011).
Feedback from the operators of this       facility indicate that, from the first four courses undertaken, all 80       students passed the SMQ       process first time, and follow-up investigations show that the time taken       for subsequent on-the-job       (consolidation) training is significantly less than that given to other       submarine trainees who have       received more conventional forms of training.
Although specific financial       savings cannot be       released due to MoD and commercial sensitivities, the Babcock training       team (as emphasised in       Letter 1 from the company's Submarine Training Director) believes that 400       man weeks per year is       being saved as a result of adopting technology-based training as developed       during the SubSafe       programme.
Babcock has put an agreement into effect, enabling the       University of Birmingham to       provide human factors and simulation consultancy for its future submarine       training programmes.
Government/Policy Impact.
At a government agency strategic       level, and acknowledged at       Admiral level, including Flag Officer Sea Training (FOST), the SubSafe       programme has also       provided inputs into RN policy (Letters 2 and 3).
SubSafe has       influenced the MoD's Submarine       Training &amp; Education Programme, STEP, and the future adoption of       simulation and virtual       environments to support submarine design and training, including the       establishment of a dedicated       SUBFLOT (Submarine Flotilla) Team to determine future submarine       capabilities.
STEP is a       combined MoD, RN and industry team set up to optimise training and       education to sustain the UK's       nuclear defence capability.
The STEP Team is also planning to set up a UK       Submarine Enterprise       Academy, which would be another exploitation path for the SubSafe       project.
In addition to the       STEP development, the University of Birmingham has also been recruited to       provide specialist       simulation know-how to Dstl, as part of their Future Submarine Command       Space R&amp;D Programme.
SubSafe was also one of two success stories cited in the 2011 MoD       Chief Scientific Advisor's       Commendation, presented to Stone in recognition of excellence in defence       science and technology       (CSA Citation Text).
Peter Luff MP, Minister for Defence Equipment,       Support and Technology,       subsequently wrote to Stone in support of this and commending SubSafe       as addressing the       "significant challenge of submariner training" (Letters 7 and 8).
International Impact.
The results of the SubSafe       programme have also been exploited by       international navies to justify developing their own virtual SMQ training       packages.
Both the Royal       Australian and Canadian Navies have acknowledged the important role played       by SubSafe in their       evolution of similar technologies for their own submarine fleets.
Letters       4 and 5, for example, from       senior training figures in the Royal Australian and Canadian Navies,       include comments such as       "The usefulness and practical employment of the SubSafe program was       impressive; we will use       the experience and information to refine our product, to achieve the       knowledge transfer that we       seek"; "(the) SubSafe virtual submarine project has greatly       inspired the Royal Canadian Navy       Learning Support Center in pursuing the development of the Canadian       Virtual Naval Fleet Project";       and "The lessons learned from your project provided our personnel with       expertise that really       facilitated our decision to use PC based virtual environments to support       spatial and system       awareness training and also greatly oriented our design and development       process."
SubSafe Simulation Re-Use.
Another       key element in the impact success of SubSafe has been       the early attention paid to the design of the 3D media to support rapid       re-use for related training       and visualisation opportunities.
As a result, related industrial impacts       have been evident with other       future Royal Navy vessel programmes, where early concept designs have       exploited the tools       developed by the University and lessons learned from the SubSafe       programme.
These include the       Type 26, or Future Surface Combatant (coordinated by the Naval       Design Partnership) and       Successor, the future submarine (coordinated by BAE Systems).
Other       safety training       demonstration projects based on SubSafe and presented to the Royal       Navy have included a       disabled submarine rescue simulation and an ergonomics study of the       deployment of CO2-absorbing       Lithium Hydroxide "curtains" within the Forward Escape Compartment.
These       examples       have also provided the Birmingham Research Team with a range of assets,       tools and techniques       suitable for application in other defence and civilian engineering       contexts, such as those mentioned       in Section 2.
Exploitation &#8212; RN Court Hearing.
Another example of       effective early design for media re-use       and exploitation was the modification of SubSafe to provide a       world first animation sequence for       legal proceedings at a Coroner's Court of Inquiry in 2009.
Presented by       the (then) Commanding       Officer of the Britannia Royal Naval College, Commodore Jake Moores, the       animation sequence       related to an incident onboard the British nuclear submarine HMS Tireless       in March 2007 (also       mentioned in Letters 2 and 3).
Whilst conducting under-ice exercises north       of Alaska, and during       what should have been a routine lighting of a Self-Contained Oxygen       Generator (SCOG), the unit       exploded, resulting in two fatalities and one serious injury.
Company Formation and Awards.
The SubSafe project       led to the formation and launch, in 2009,       of an innovative micro-small-to-medium-sized enterprise, MODUX, to provide       3D modelling and       simulation support to the University of Birmingham Team (during the       transition of the early       research output into a more "productised" version &#8212; SubSafe 2       (Letter 6)).
This company is still       (2013) actively involved with the University VR team in such areas as       simulation for Counter-Improvised       Explosive Device Awareness Training and future explosive ordnance robotics       simulation.
Along with the Birmingham Team, MODUX (and Cranfield       University) received the       BAE Systems Chairman's Bronze and Silver Awards in 2011 for achievements       relating to (amongst       others) the SubSafe project.
Additional Dissemination.
The SubSafe project       features in a BBC educational TV series &#8212; The         Designed World &#8212; which focuses on engineering and the social impact       of design and technology       (http://www.bbc.co.uk/programmes/p011n89f).
Finally, the Case Study forms an important part of       a booklet entitled Human Factors Guidance for Interactive 3D and         Games-Based Training Systems         Design (Reference 6 in Section 3), 1500 copies of which were       published in 2012 (MoD-sponsored)       for free national and international distribution (industrial, academic and       government), in addition to       on-line access (at www.birmingham.ac.uk/stone).
Concluding Statement.
SubSafe is an example of how       human-centred research conducted       during both the early design and, later, experimental evaluation stages of       a very new interactive       software concept, can lead to significant real-world uptake, impact and       influence on a wide-reaching       scale, from UK and international industries to national and foreign       government policy       makers and safety-critical training providers.
The research has also been       influential in helping to       overcome many of the negative perceptions of VR-based R&amp;D endeavours,       brought about by the       "technology push" biases and associated failures evident in the       1990s/early 2000s (Reference 6 in       Section 3).
