     This research has had a direct impact on national policy debates relating       to the use of HCAs, the appropriate staffing and management of the HCA       workforce, as well as its training [Section 5: C9, C11].
Locally,       the research has influenced regional and trust policy and practice.
National Impact:     The HCA is an unregistered role, with no statutory minimum training       requirements or any means of `striking-off' of `poor' performers.
Governments have adopted a light touch approach to HCA registration,       reflected in the current position - a proposed form of voluntary       registration.
However, pressure has grown for a stronger form of       registration, not least in the wake of the Francis Report on the failures       at the Mid-Staffordshire Trust.
National policy makers have drawn upon the       Oxford research in seeking stronger forms of registration [R2, C1, C4].
As the RCN note in referring to this research, `recent studies have shown       that registered nurses have a deep anxiety regarding the absence of       national regulation of healthcare assistants' [C6].
More specifically, the research [R4] has impacted onthe           development of appropriate staffing levels.
It has highlighted       the problems associated with current skill mix practice, based on a crude       distinction between qualified (nurses) and non-qualified staff (HCAs) [R1,         R2].
In revealing the different forms assumed by the HCA role, the       research has also supported calls for skill mix to display greater       sensitivity to the varied nature of the HCA role and post holder       capabilities [R4, R6].
As the Cavendish Report [C5: p.18]       notes,' Kessler et al's research supports the assertion that advanced       skills... that were once the remit of registered nurses are now more       common for a certain kind of HCA'.
The research has also impacted on national policy deliberations on           the management of the HCA workforce [C11].
In general terms, NHS           Employers, the organisation providing advice to Trusts on the       management of their workforces, includes a summary of the Oxford research       on HCAs and a link to the full research reports [C11].
More       specifically, the Oxford research has drawn attention to the uneven and       underdeveloped nature of HCA training [C11].
This evidence has been       extensively used by those policy makers and practitioners calling for more       robust training standards amongst HCAs [C1].
These calls have       directly led to the government introducing minimum training standards for       these workers.
Indeed, `Skills of Health' [C3] makes considerable       use of the research (including 10 separate references to the team's work)       in making the case for more development opportunities for healthcare       assistants.
Moreover, the Cavendish Review, an inquiry, commissioned by the       government into the training and development of HCAs, draws heavily on the       research [C5, C9].
There are 13 references to the work in the       final report, which also makes extensive use of the substantive findings [C5,         C9].
For example, the report uses a case study from the second       research project [C9], on a values based approach to recruitment,       in calling for the development of national systems to support the adoption       of such an approach across the NHS in taking on HCAs [C5,         Recommendation 6].
Cavendish also presents findings from the Oxford       research on the backgrounds and previous work experiences of newly       recruited HCAs as the basis for recommending the introduction of a       training certificate for all HCAs [C5, Recommendation 3].
The       government has committed to implementing all the Cavendish       recommendations, including those based on the research described above,       with preparatory work, particularly undertaken by Health Education       England, already at an advanced stage [C9, C11].
Local Impact:     At lower levels in the NHS, the research has impacted on the development       of regional policies and practices.
For example the Oxford research is       referred to in a leaflet published in NHS Wales entitled `Streamlining the       role of the healthcare support worker' aimed at healthcare providers       dealing with Neonatal Abstinence Syndrome.
More significantly, the research has impacted at Trust level.
This impact       has been delivered through various routes or mechanisms, reflected in the       use of the findings made by a wide range of Trusts.
These routes-to-impact       include:     i) Dissemination: In writing-up and disseminating the       material, the research has helped the spread of `good' practice, with       evidence to suggest that Trusts have drawn upon this `good practice' to       develop new approaches to the management of HCAs.
For example, York       hospital's introduction of values-based recruitment (VBR) for HCAs, which       was written-up as an innovation case (second project), impacted on Oxford       University Hospitals (OUH).
OUH became aware of the York VBR model by       reading the research case, and piloting it.
Off the back of this pilot,       OUH has received a grant from the Health Foundation to roll-out VBR across       much of its workforce [C7].
ii) Exposure: The research exposed the difficulties faced       by Trusts in the use and management of HCAs, which in turn prompted change       in local policy and practice.
For example the Hillingdon case study in the       first project established that patients valued, but were unable to       distinguish between, HCAs and nurses.
In response, the Trust developed a       patient handbook clarifying the HCA role.
At the same Trust, the absence       of a meaningful HCA `voice' was revealed: in response the Trust       established a new HCA forum [C8].
iii) Deep Engagement: Deep engagement has been involved in       both of the projects.
A number of Trusts, including OUH and Hillingdon,       developed a strong relationship with the researchers, providing an       opportunity to use data collected over many years in assessing an       initiative and contributing to its roll-out across the Trust [C7, C8].
For example, OUH introduced an HCA academy based on an extended HCA       induction, a portfolio of HCA competences and the creation of a new HCA       educator role.
In assessing this initiative as part of the second project,       the researchers drew upon data from the first project to benchmark these       recent developments: exploring whether and how the academy had impacted       HCA attitudes and behaviours [C7].
iv) Evaluation: The research has impacted on Trusts through       a robust `before' and `after' evaluation of various initiatives.
The       outcome of these evaluations has provided the evidence basis for the       roll-out of the initiative across each Trust.
Examples included:            The administration of medicine: Traditionally reserved for registered         nurses, this task was extended to Assistant Practitioners (APs) in one         Trust case, North Bristol.
Interviewing and surveying APs and nurses         before and after the introduction of a pilot was formally part of the         Trust's evaluation of this initiative, influencing its adoption.
The development of an Emergency Department Technician role: Extending         the HCA role to perform tasks such as plastering was designed to improve         care quality for patients visiting A&amp;E. In tracking HCA experiences         before and after its introduction at Hillingdon, the research         contributed to the `bedding down' of this role [C8].
v) Facilitation: The research team organised workshop       activities designed to develop HCA capabilities.
In one Trust case, the       Royal Wolverhampton Trust, the research contributed to the development of       HCA capacity to constructively challenge more senior healthcare       professionals.
The researchers designed, organised and delivered a       workshop to develop constructive challenge amongst HCAs, and then assessed       the impact of this workshop on HCA behaviours [C10].
In summary, the Oxford research has been noteworthy for impacting on NHS       policy and practice at different levels of the NHS, in so doing has       contributed to the development of a more productive and safer nursing       workforce.
