     The impact of the above work is broadly in the provision of information       for design guides and codes of practice, specifically the Railway Group       Standards produced by the Railway Safety and Standards Board, the CEN       codes on Railway Aerodynamics and the Rolling Stock and Infrastructure       TSIs (Technical Standards for Interoperability, which have been developed       to allow railways to operate across national borders).
The use of these       documents is mandatory in any new railway project / train design and thus       the influence of changes to these codes is felt across the sector.
Changes       to the codes may not have direct economic benefits to the infrastructure       or train operators (indeed they may increase immediate costs), but the       impact will be felt in terms improved safety and reliability and, in the       case of the TSIs, in allowing international operations across borders.
The       specific impacts of the ongoing work can be described under a number of       headings as follows.
Revisions to CEN code EN 14067-4 and Rolling           Stock TSI for the train slipstream measurement methodology (2012).
The work on train slipstreams in projects 1, 4 and (most importantly) 6,       and reported in references 1, 2 and 3, have been used to develop a revised       methodology for the testing of new trains to ensure that the slipstream       velocities measured caused by the trains do not exceed safety limits.
The       most important concept to emerge from this work was the inherently       stochastic nature of train slipstream measurements and a full appreciation       of the need to properly treat the resulting sources of uncertainty in the       codes.
After analysis of the data, it proved possible to greatly simplify       the existing methodology, that required tests to be carried out for       multiple train passes both at trackside and above a platform, such that       the platform based tests are no longer required.
This simplification will       result in costs savings of the order of a hundred thousand euros in the       authorisation process for a new train.
An example of this would be the       current work on the authorisation of the double unit Class 350 in the UK,       where the adoption of a simplified testing technique will substantially       speed up the certification process.
Provision of data for the development of a National Annex to the           CEN code for transient pressure forces due to train passing (2012).
The work of project 8, and reported in reference 4, in which the moving       model TRAIN rig was used to determine the transient train passing       aerodynamic pressure forces on a variety of structures, was used to       develop a UK National Annex for the Eurocode EN 1991-2, that related       specifically to UK track spacings rather than the continental track       spacings assumed in the main text of the code.
Without the information       contained in the new National Annex the code is very conservative from a       UK perspective, and the new provisions allow for much more economical       design of trackside structures.
For example, it will allow the design       loads due to passing trains on overbridges to be reduced by around 50% in       some cases, which, depending upon the design used and bridge span, may       result in savings of many tens of thousands of pounds in the construction       of any new bridge.
Development of wind tunnel testing methodology for trains in cross           winds for Railway Group Standard and CEN code (2009/10).
This       work was again based on the experience of Baker and the work carried out       in projects 2 and 5 and partially reported in reference 5.
It resulted in       a methodology for wind tunnel testing that is included in the Railway       Group Code of Practice GM/RT2542 (2009) and as an Appendix in the CEN code       EN 14067-6.
(2010).
Measurement of slipstream velocities and pressure transients for a           variety of practical applications (2012-2013).
A number of       recent projects have been carried out that incorporates the applied and       fundamental knowledge obtained in all the projects listed above.
The first       of these involved full scale measurements of the slipstream velocities       experienced on an overhead line installation vehicle as trains pass at       line speed (Network Rail) with a view to establishing safe working       practices.
This will enable work to proceed on overhead line installation       in such a way that allows traffic on the adjacent line to continue to       operate.
This uses the methodology developed in project 6 and reported in       reference 3.
A Network Rail study indicates that the cost savings of such       an operation over the normal method of obtaining a complete possession       will be of the order of &#163;1.2m / year during construction, and this       methodology is being used in the Great Western Electrification process.
The second involves the use of the TRAIN rig measurements of train       slipstreams and pressure transients for the proposed high speed line north       of London (Arup and HS2), in order to allow track spacing to be       determined.
This builds on the work of project 8 as reported in reference       4.
Finally, work has recently been carried out on the TRAIN Rig for HS2,       to measure train slipstreams and pressure forces on passing trains.
This       information is required to determine safe track worker clearances for the       very high speed running that is envisaged, in order to validate the       assumption of the proposed track spacing (which is on the critical path       for the design of HS2); to optimise aerodynamic forces on passing trains,       and to allow modelling to be carried out on the effect of the new line of       birds and flying invertebrates.
This work is based upon the work of       projects 6 and 7 as reported in papers 3 and 4.
Provision of expert witness advice for a court case and an inquest           (2008 and 2012/3).
The work of project 3 and reported in       reference 4 has enabled advice to be given in a court case and an inquest.
The first of these (in 2008) involved a high-sided vehicle loaded with       lightweight building material (insulation) which was blown sideways such       that the wheels on one side lifted off the road.
This caused an oncoming       vehicle to swerve and have an accident.
Analysis suggested that the driver       of the lorry would not have been able to avoid the situation.
The inquest       concerned the death of a pedestrian when a lorry blew over onto him,       allegedly due to high winds caused by the construction of a high rise       structure.
The advice offered was again based on the outcome of project 3       and reference 4, and, whilst the verdict of the coroner is pending, the       advice offered may lead to significant revision of the methodologies and       criteria for assessing the effect of tall buildings on wind conditions       that affect both pedestrians and vehicles around the base of the building.
It can thus be seen that the fundamental research work outlined above       underpins and directly informs a number of practical applications.
The       work has proved to be of significance to a wide reach of organisations &#8212;       specifically codification bodies, train designers and builders and train       infrastructure operators, as well as being of legal significance in some       court cases.
The impact takes a number of forms but will have economic       impact (in terms of more efficient ways of train aerodynamic testing, or       of solving specific issues in a cost efficient way), impact on       practitioners and professional services (in terms of the specification of       new and revised codes of practice) and also impact on public safety (in       making the railway safer for passengers and trackside workers).
The work       continues in project 8, which is examining the inherent conservatism in       railway aerodynamic codes of practice through the carrying out of full       scale aerodynamic measurements on the operating railway.
