     Most utility services, including electricity, water, gas and       telecommunications, are distributed using buried pipelines or conduits, or       via directly buried cables, and the majority of this buried utility       infrastructure exists beneath roads.
The difficulty of accurately locating       these buried pipes and cables means that there are far more excavations       taking place than should be necessary; an estimated one in four of all       holes are dug in the wrong place.
This increases the direct costs of       maintenance to service providers and the social costs in terms of       disruption to the public and businesses.
In 2006 the road user delay costs       alone due to streetworks were estimated as &#163;5.1 billion per year for the       UK (source 1), indicating the economic benefits that would be achieved by       a reduction in unnecessary works.
The MTU project has been a crucial catalyst for the industry, leading to       a clearer understanding within it about the step-changes needed to realise       these potential savings.
Important elements of these requirements have now       been put into place as described below, with the Birmingham MTU       researchers making a distinct and material contribution to their       establishment and implementation.
The impact achieved to date has been primarily on practitioners and       professional services within the sector; these are the crucial building       blocks for realisation of economic impact in the future.
Impact 1 - new professional training facility informed by research - MTU Centre           of Excellence: A new national test and training facility for       underground utility mapping, designed as part of MTU2, based on MTU1 and       MTU2 research, was opened in September 2012.
The design developed by the       Birmingham team was adopted by a contractor (JK Guest), who invested       &#163;2million to build the site and associated training facilities in       Lancashire.
The Centre is designed to upskill practitioners and educate       clients as well as to provide testing facilities for the MTU team and       other interested researchers.
MTU2 assisted JK Guest with the development       of NVQ accredited skills modules, which were released in June 2012.
The       number of people trained on the test site by the end of July 2013 was over       600, with the initial focus on civil engineering clients and contractors       (e.g.
TfL and HAA).
Hence, the greatest effect and benefit for the       construction industry as a whole has been to allow these companies to       measure the competence of the individuals and companies they employ to       carry out their surveys.
(source 2) This initiative alone covers a variety       of the impact (awareness, behaviour, capacity, practice and         understanding)     Impact 2 - new professional standard informed by research - BSI           Publically Available Specification for underground utility detection,           verification and location, sponsored by the Institution of Civil           Engineers(ICE): MTU2, together with industry partners,       promoted the need for a national standard equivalent to those in the USA,       Canada and Australia to raise the profile of utility mapping in the UK and       ensure there is a common understanding within the industry about the       different levels of survey available.
They were successful in making the       case for this and as a result in 2012 the British Standards Institution       agreed to create a new specification which was sponsored by the ICE.
Dr       Metje from the University represents the MTU on the Steering Committee as       its only academic member, and has contributed, in particular, by       ensuring that the standard is future proof and includes the latest MTU       findings.
The specification is expected to be published in January 2014.
This will make a real, measureable difference to the industry which was       highlighted by Nick Zembillas in Civil Engineering Surveyor (Nov.       2012) about national standards for utility detection stating that the       advantages are "Firstly, engineers and surveyors work within a         guideline that meets a client's expectation and secondly, the client is         assured that we hold full responsibility for the utility surveys we         produce...and more importantly help eliminate risks associated with         underground utilities during construction."
Thus, the research has       resulted in a change in policy and practice.
Impact 3 - professional bodies have used research to define best           practice - establishment of the Utility Mapping Association (UMA):       MTU1, MTU Network, MTU2, MTU PTI raised the profile of utility mapping at       industry events such as NoDig Live.
It helped to stimulate a debate and       worked closely with JK Guest who set-up the UMA in Sept. 2011.
The UMA       involves some of the biggest players such as Atkins plus representatives       from other large associations such as The Survey Association.
This was       highlighted in a CIRIA briefing in Dec. 2012.
The UMA is a significant       step forward as previously the industry was fragmented, and MTU had       identified the potential benefits of greater co-operation.
MTU is       represented by Metje on the Steering Committee - a 3 year appointment to       ensure the latest thinking from around the world and MTU outcomes are       disseminated.
The UMA seeks to "Work with all stakeholders to inform and       assist in the establishment of a set of standards that reflect       good practice in utility detection and mapping to help promote       clear measurable accredited competence levels".
Impact 4 - professional bodies have used research to define best           practice - invitations to join agenda-setting professional           organisations and groups: Through Metje (MTU2), UB is       represented on a number of influential, agenda setting groups such as the       `Buried Assets Centre of Knowledge' (since April 2012), the Balfour Beatty       Utility Solution's `Ground Breaking - Breaking Ground' initiative (since       Dec. 2011) and the ICE Municipal Engineering Panel (since Sept. 2012) as       well as the US Transportation Research Board Utilities Committee (since       April 2011).
The invitation to join these groups demonstrates the great       value the industry in the UK and USA has placed on the MTU research and       the willingness to embrace the findings of the research in the near       future.
Impact 5 - Public policy and public engagement: MTU2 and       MTU PTI have explained the challenges associated with buried       infrastructure and how they can be addressed to politicians, councillors       and civil servants.
Non-traditional methods have been used to ensure wide       coverage.
For example, an animated video was developed (July 2011 -       available on YouTube) explaining the research and a specific workshop       aimed at politicians and civil servants was held (March 2011).
The MP for       Solihull, Lorely Burt, stated that "...what we all take for granted is         the service that's delivered to our homes and businesses underground and         I don't think you see much resistance to this type of project and it is         absolutely vital" and the Councillor Andrew Carter stating that "...         the end product of that [MTU project] hopefully will be some new         technology which all the utility companies and indeed local authorities         can use to their mutual advantage... and I was absolutely fascinated by         the details of the project that UB is leading and it could lead to         something extremely valuable."
The project also attracted the       attention of BBC Radio 4 which broadcast a 30 minute programme focused on       the project, Mapping Britain's Underworld, in May 2012 helping to       raise public awareness of the issues.
Robert Burns from Balfour Beatty       Utility Solutions said on this programme that the "MTU project is         important to us because what it actually starts to do is to bring a lot         of these [locating] technologies into one platform.
It's a very complex         situation and people are always looking for this silver bullet".
Impact 6 - International reach of MTU: MTU2 (UB, Civil       Engineering) has established three MSc level training modules (equivalent       to 60 credits in total) for the Malaysian Association of Land Surveyors in       order to train the next generation of utility surveyors.
This training was       delivered in the autumn 2011 (45 participants) and 2012 (25 participants)       in Malaysia.
This link was established as a direct result of the       international outreach and dissemination of the team at Birmingham.
Additionally, MTU2 provided CPD training to groups of approximately 30       Malaysian surveyors both at UB and at the national test facility for 2-3       days in 2010, 2011, 2012 and 2013.
Furthermore, the Principal Assistant       Director of Survey (Utility Mapping Section) at the Department of Survey       and Mapping Malaysia (JUPEM) was sent to UB to read for a research degree       funded by the Malaysian government.
The above is evidence of the worldwide       impact and reputation of MTU.
Based on the developments and experience       with the national MTU tests site, some form of collaboration for a new       Malaysian test site is currently been explored.
Impact 7 - Development of the Smart Pipes initiative: MTU       focuses on the location of buried assets, but it promoted in its 25 year       vision the condition assessment of the pipes for proactive asset       management to become reality.
This challenge was taken up by the Smart       Pipes initiative which is now in its implementation phase as a result of a       TSB award in July 2013.
The aim is to instrument pipes with small       (millimetre size) off-the-shelf pressure and accelerometer sensors at a       high temporal and spatial resolution to identify the formation of leaks       and their location at an early stage, thereby saving the UK over 100Ml/d       (or approx.
&#163;5000/d in water alone), with significant international       applications.
The TSB grant is worth &#163;645k with &#163;265k direct input from       industry (2 water companies, 2 contractors).
The key is to ensure       continuous power and in-turn power efficient communication nodes.
This has       been the focus of research with the development of an isotopic battery       capable of generation 0.8 03bcW and a communication node currently       requiring ~7 03bcW.
