     The Birmingham research led to the development of HDM-4 which is a widely       used tool for road       investment appraisal and decision-making, generating improvements in       public policies and       services.
Developing countries are major beneficiaries of the tool, which       is the de facto standard       used by the World Bank for their road investment decisions and has been       used to assess more       than 200 of their projects since 2008.
The success of the software has led       to the commercial       success of HDMGlobal, a consortium which manages the distribution and       development of HDM-4       under exclusive licence from the World Road Association-PIARC.
HDM-4 has       also been utilised       for economic assessment and road systems investment management in the UK.
Road investment appraisal in developing countries with HDM-4       HDM-4 has achieved wide uptake through being adopted as the World Bank's de         facto standard       for appraising road investment proposals from the developing world.
HDM-4       is included as the       sole Highway Development and Management Tool and Highway Design and       Maintenance       Standards Model on the World Bank list of Road Software Tools       (http://go.worldbank.org/FF0CT8M770).
HDM-4 has been used similarly by other multilateral and       bilateral agencies.
Developing countries have benefited from HDM-4 as it       provides an       economically-based objective means for road agencies and donors to       appraise road investment       and thereby identify road building and maintenance projects, which if       funded through grants or       loans, will create economic and welfare improvements.
Since 2008, the World Bank has reported to the University that it has       used HDM-4 to assess over       200 funded projects, with an estimated total value of approximately       US$55.16 billion, of which       about $29.5 billion were World Bank loans, credits or grants.
For example,       the World Bank used       HDM-4 to assess the &#8364; 306 million Northern Corridor Transport Improvement       Project (225 km       sections of Mombasa &#8212; Malaba/Kisumu roads in Kenya; and the road       feasibility and design studies       for the rehabilitation of the Lodwar- Nadapal 248 km highway in Kenya       where the World Bank       provided a $ 4.0 million loan to meet the cost of the feasibility and       design studies for strengthening       and upgrading of the road link (source 1).
HDM-4 has also been used by lead organisations in developing countries to       justify proposals they       make to attract investment from international donors.
For instance, in       2009 HDM-4 was used to       determine the costs and benefits of the long-term maintenance of the       African North-South Corridor       Aid-for-Trade road network, an important 8,600km road network connecting       Dar-es-Salaam in       Tanzania to the copper-belt of Zambia and the ports in southern Africa.
The resulting analysis, and       further assessment through HDM-4, was used to prioritise road upgrading       projects on the network       and also to determine the financial and economic rates of return on       projects in the wide context of       the Corridor as a whole.
This latter aspect formed part of the case put       forward by TradeMark       Southern Africa (the regional economic body) to win over $600m investment       in the Corridor from       international donors by June 2013 (sources 2 and 3).
Governments throughout the developing world use HDM-4 routinely for road       investment appraisal.
For example, in Uganda, it has been used since 2010 to review the design,       cost and economic       benefit of upgrading 836 km of roads to bituminous standard (source 4).
In       Bangladesh, the Roads       and Highways Department have used HDM (III, then 4) for the last 14 years       to assess annually the       maintenance needs of its highways and district roads and to prioritize       maintenance expenditure so       that the most economically beneficial roads are given the highest       priority.
(source 5)     Since 2008 more than 350 senior executives from over 30 countries have       been educated through       the World Bank-conceived and approved mechanism for the dissemination of       road sector research,       known as the Senior Road Executives Programme held in Birmingham.
The       programme       curriculum includes the fundamental concepts associated with HDM-4.
The       executives are       primarily from developing countries and are in decision making positions;       their education in the       HDM-4 methodology will have added to their contribution to their       countries' economic development       (source 6).
Commercial impact through HDMGlobal       Following the initial success of the HDM initiative, HDMGlobal was       established in 2005 as a new       consortium to commercialise HDM-4; its commercial success is a further       result of the Birmingham       research.
HDMGlobal is based at the University of Birmingham Research       Park, and is a       consortium of the University, Atkins and URS-Wilson with other partners       from the UK, Australia,       France and Chile.
The consortium was initially given a five-year       concession by the World Road       Association-PIARC for the exclusive right to distribute HDM-4 from June       2005; following the       success of HDM-4 Version, PIARC extended this for a further five years in       2010.
Since 2008, HDMGlobal sold more than 1440 licences for HDM-4: 600 to       countries with special       economic needs; 450 to other countries; 110 to academic institutions; over       180 educational       licences to commercial training institutions; and 100 other licences.
This       has generated an income       of &#163;1.6m for the consortium, of which over &#163;0.4m has been paid to the       World Road Association-PIARC       in royalties.
(sources 7 and 8) The organisations which make up the       consortium are       regularly commissioned to undertake assessments using HDM-4 and provide       training.
Exploitation of HDM-4 in the UK       HDM-4 has also been used to feed into assessments of the value for money       achieved from road       investment in the UK.
The Department for Transport (DfT) commissioned an       assessment       completed in 2009 using HDM-4 to analyse the English local road network to       quantify their long-term       maintenance needs and assess the effects of different maintenance funding       levels on the       condition of the network and costs to road users.
HDM-4 was adapted and       calibrated to provide       accurate results for England and linked with the DfT's database to       facilitate strategic analysis.
(source 9)     HDMGlobal have also utilised the research on the strategic planning       maintenance framework to       work with the DfT on the current Highways Management Efficiency Programme       (www.dft.gov.uk/hmep).
The outputs from this include freely available       software to demonstrate the       impact of investment in maintenance on road condition, which could       facilitate shifts in public       budgets in favour of road maintenance.
Work to develop equipment to collect accurate data for input into HDM-4       at low cost has ultimately       led to the accreditation in 2013 by the UK Transport Research Laboratory       of a new Chinese-developed       data collection vehicle.
The Birmingham researchers have continued the       development       of the SPM component systems which combine the HDM-4 analyses with       observed road       conditions to enable the use of HDM-4 in road asset management to be fully       exploited by a road       agency.
Working with Highway Management Services Ltd and Key Traffic       Systems (a major       developer of highway software to UK local authorities), the component       management systems have       been redeveloped; this allows data collected by TRL-accredited vehicles,       such as the one noted       above, to be seamlessly imported into the systems and easily used for       HDM-4 analysis and these       systems are now being used to manage the road maintenance of two London       Boroughs.
(source       10)
