     The Birmingham research findings have contributed to high profile       public and policy debates on the likely effect on crime patterns of       reductions in police staffing levels and changes to criminal justice       policy.
These issues are particularly relevant in the context of the       intense pressure on public expenditure in the UK since 2010 and the high       level of political and public attention given to crime and policing.
More       recently, the findings have featured as part of a debate about why crime       rates have continued to fall during a recession and the appropriate policy       conclusions to draw from this trend.
The research created impact in the following ways:     1.
By stimulating informed debate about crime reduction policy among       important stakeholders in the criminal justice system such as policy       makers (e.g.
the Home Office, Ministry of Justice), practitioners (e.g.
the Police Federation), and opinion shapers (e.g.
policy forums and think       tanks interested in crime and criminal justice),     2.
By increasing policy-makers' and criminal justice professionals'        understanding of the complex relationship between policing,       sentencing and crime levels, and the implications of different policy        prescriptions, and     3.
By improving wider public understanding of the issues through       coverage in numerous print and on-line media (e.g.
The Economist, The       Guardian, Society Central and Police Life Magazine),       exemplified by the significance of individuals who commented on and       discussed this report and the underlying research in the media.
The findings were widely publicised by a think-tank, Civitas, and were       reported in the national press as challenging the perspectives adopted by       government ministers at the time, including those held by the Secretary of       State for Justice and the Minister of State for Policing and Criminal       Justice.
Public policy on police staffing levels and implications for crime        detection     The public policy implications of the Birmingham team's research findings       on the relationship between police staffing levels and crime detection       were first taken forward by Civitas, a highly respected independent social       policy think tank, which identified the significance of the papers (R3 and       R4 above) and included them in a January 2011 Briefing, Police       reductions could see crime rate surge (source 1 below).
Following       this, Bandyopadhyay was commissioned by Civitas to write two reports for       publication.
The first of these, An Analysis of Crime and Crime Policy       (R2), was published in March 2011 and drew on the Birmingham research to       explore the factors which had affected the extent of criminal behaviour in       England and Wales over the previous decade.
The second report, Acquisitive       Crime: Imprisonment, Detection and Social Factors (July 2012), put       forward the analysis of the impact of sentencing on crime levels (Source       2).The Deputy Director of Civitas has said that these reports "...proved       to be of urgent interest to the public, the press, as well as several       government bodies" and provoked significant high-level debate amongst       criminologists and policy researchers (source 3).
Civitas accompanied the publication of these reports with press releases       which highlighted the challenge they presented to public policy.
They said       the March 2011 report challenged Government claims that police cuts would       not endanger the public; and that the 2012 report showed that tougher       prison sentences would actually contribute to reducing property crime       (source 4).
These were &#8212; and remain &#8212; issues of extensive public and       political concern, and led to further comment in the national press and       within the policing policy community.
The reports were circulated to civil servants in the Home Office and       Ministry of Justice by Civitas, leading to a meeting between Bandyopadhyay       and senior Ministry of Justice officials who, as a result, expressed an       interest in expanding their evidence base.
This developing relationship       was followed-up by a high profile seminar organised by Civitas in November       2012, where Bandyopadhyay used these findings to debate crime policy with       Richard Garside, Director of the Centre for Crime and Justice Studies (an       independent body, established in 1931, that works for a safe and just       society), before an audience of Whitehall officials, including the       Ministry of Justice's Chief Scientific Adviser and representatives from       the Police Foundation (an independent think tank concerned with developing       knowledge and understanding of policing and crime reduction).
There was also growing media response to the Civitas reports.
The       findings on the impact of detection were reported in The Guardian       (7th January 2011) under the headline "Police cuts will boost       crime says thinktank Civitas", prompting comment from the police minister       at the time, Nick Herbert MP, and a response from his Labour shadow.
The       first commissioned report prompted further coverage, including from the Daily       Mail (Mail Online, 14th March 2011) focusing on the       effect cuts in police spending could have on crime levels (source 5).
Typical of the debate prompted by the analysis of the effect of       sentencing was an article in The Observer, "Longer prison terms       really do cut crime, study shows" (7th July 2012) which       generated 282 reader comments and the subsequent response in The Daily       Telegraph on 11th July (generating a further 477       comments), with other pieces in The Daily Express and The       Sunday Times.
In response, Jack Straw MP, the former Secretary of       State for Justice, wrote an opinion piece (12th July 2012)       commenting on the Birmingham research findings in the CIVITAS report.
The       CIVITAS report was particularly timely as government ministers, especially       the Secretary of State for Justice at the time, the Rt.
Hon.
Kenneth       Clarke MP, were debating with some of their backbench colleagues about       whether there was evidence that "prison worked" (source 6).
Policing websites and blogs also commented on the findings; for instance,       Simon Reed, Vice-Chairman of the Police Federation of England and Wales       (the national organization representing 124,000 police officers),       commented that this was a significant report which showed "that a       reduction in police officer numbers as a result of a 20 percent cut to       policing is highly likely to lead to increased crime rates and create a       more dangerous society" (source 7).
Understanding falling crime rates     Bandyopadhyay participated in a panel discussion on `Why crime rates are       falling' organised by the Criminal Justice Alliance (CJA) in April 2013.
The CJA is a coalition of 70 organisations &#8212; including campaigning       charities, voluntary sector service providers, research institutions,       staff associations and trade unions &#8212; committed to improving policy and       practice across the criminal justice system.
Alongside Bandyopadhyay, the other panellists were Professor Mike Hough       (Professor of Criminal Policy and Co-Director of the Institute for       Criminal Policy Research, Birkbeck College, University of London), Richard       Garside, Director, Centre for Crime and Justice Studies, and Sara       Thornton, Chief Constable, Thames Valley Police.
The panel discussion was       chaired by Mark Easton, the BBC's Home Editor and the audience included       representatives from the Home Office, the Sentencing Council (an       independent body created by the Ministry of Justice to promote greater       transparency and consistency in sentencing), the Howard League for Penal       Reform (a long-established criminal justice charity), the Police       Foundation, the Police Federation, and NACRO (which works with offenders       and those at risk of offending).
This enabled Bandyopadhyay to disseminate       his work to a wide audience of government policy makers, professions and       agencies working in various parts of the criminal justice system, and       influential think tanks shaping policy and practice.
The Office of National Statistics (ONS) cited this research as one of the       possible explanations of reductions in acquisitive crime in England and       Wales in their publication Trends in Crime &#8212; A Short Story 2011/12       (July 2012) (source 8).
Bandyopadhyay's analysis was also reported in The       Economist (April 20th 2013) (source 9) as part of an analysis of       crime trends.
Subsequent articles published by Police Life and Metropolitan       Life (both May 2013) by Bandyopadhyay, both professional journals       targeted at serving police officers, have also drawn upon his research in       analysing changing crime patterns.This has shown that the data can be used       to provide a consistent explanation for crime patterns.
