     The insights, frameworks, tools and approaches developed under the GEN       research programme       have had an impact in a number of ways across a variety of industry       contexts.
The particular       relevance for practitioners lies in the way the approach links plant-level       and supply-chain level       performance measures of effectiveness and efficiency - which have long       been used to assess       improvements arising from new technology, process configurations or supply       chain structures -       with broader changes in the global manufacturing landscape.
This landscape       has been       dramatically changed in the recent decades driven by globalization,       emerging markets, new       competitors and changing technologies.
For the UK this has meant many       well-established       engineering and manufacturing sectors are shifting operations to       lower-cost locations, including       emerging BRIC economies (Brazil, Russia, India and China).
At the same       time, manufacturers in       emerging economies are trying to upgrade their technical and operational       capabilities through joint-ventures, international acquisitions or other forms of cross-border       collaborations.
These trends give       rise to a number of opportunities and threats for UK firms.
There is       greater scope to exploit high       value engineering capabilities, but greater risks of losing key       competitive assets.
Understanding       the complex dynamics of global value networks and developing capabilities       for systematic       engagement with such networks present major challenges to UK firms.
GEN research findings have been used to provide practical guidance to UK       manufacturers looking       to develop novel approaches to enhancing industrial performance in high       value engineering,       advanced manufacturing and innovation areas.
GEN's direct contributions to       industry have taken       place through three main forms of engagement, all of which have improved       the effectiveness of       practices in the industry, thus achieving commercial and economic       benefits.
One of the leading companies Zhang has worked with has been Rolls-Royce.
The company's       Head of Supplier Engineering has written to confirm this collaboration and       said that he is ".. very         confident in the industrial value of your research for enhancing the         performance of engineering         operations on a global scale" and that he expects to see "..benefits         and tangible improvements         gained from your research in introducing a systematic approach to global         engineering networks."
[s1]     1.
Extending awareness of GEN across the engineering industry       There is an increasing awareness of the importance and value of GEN       approaches to the       engineering industry, as evidenced by a series of invited presentations to       industrialists and       policymakers.
The GEN research findings have been disseminated to a wide       range of industrial       audiences through the High Performance Engineering (HPE) Forum, of which       Zhang has been a       member since 2008.
The HPE forum provides a platform for sharing       experiences and supporting       GEN research.
Two major engineering meetings were held at the Royal       Academy of Engineering       and the Institute of Mechanical Engineers in London with participation of       senior engineering       managers to steer GEN research, validate the findings, and assess the       implications of the research       findings in their businesses.
The Forum has 12 core members including major engineering companies from       a wide range of       industrial sectors including aerospace, defence, automotives, electrics       and electronics.
The Forum       organisers have confirmed that "around 60% of the member companies         have directly benefited         from GEN frameworks and methods through various engagement activities.
Recently applications,         with our facilitation, include global engineering strategy review and         engineering network         restructuring guided by decision making tools originated from GEN.
These         application projects         helped to improve the effectiveness and efficiency of the companies'         engineering operations on a         global scale.
Tangible improvements have been observed in many different         areas, e.g.
reducing         engineering expenses, improving communication, supporting novel working         approaches,         introducing innovative business initiatives, etc."
[s 2]     Under the EC-HVEN platform, co-ordinated by Zhang, there have also been a       series of industry       and policy focused workshops, seminars and invited talks to international       audiences.
Most recent       workshops include: the global engineering design workshop in Denmark with       industrial participants       from six companies in March 2013; an engineering services workshop in       Harbin with industrial       participants from six companies in April 2013; and the manufacturing       services and business model       innovation workshop in Hangzhou with industrial participants from five       companies in April 2013.       International activities have included invited talks for industrialists at       the Global Manufacturing       Conference in Hangzhou 2010 and at the Manufacturing Service Out-sourcing       Conference in       Shanghai 2011; and for policymakers, an invited seminar focusing on the       Industrial Upgrading and       Strategic Development in Guangzhou 2012 and an invited talk at the Global       Engineering Workshop       in Washington 2012.
2.
Application of GEN decision-making tools       Extensive impact has been achieved by providing decision-making tools for       the formation and       implementation of global engineering strategies.
These tools include       practical frameworks such as       structured working sheets for data collection and performance analysis,       combined with knowledge       of new and emerging (technological, industrial, market) opportunities.
They are normally used by       companies with support of academic researchers, industrial fellows or       consultants.
A typical toolset on engineering value chain analysis covers topics such       as engineering value chain       mapping, key success factors assessment, comparative analysis of value       creation mechanisms       and the development and selection of network design archetypes.
These draw       on BBS research       findings presented in nine in-depth case studies and applied projects in       the aerospace,       automotives, defence and electrics and electronics industry sectors.
In such projects long-term performance measures of (1) effectiveness (how       closely an       organisation's output meets its goal and/or customer requirements) and (2)       efficiency (how       economically the organisation's resources are utilised when producing the       required output or       providing a given level of customer satisfaction) provide some validation       of the added value.
A       commonly cited measure put forward by corporate partners in the GEN       network is cost savings       resulting from process or supply chain consolidation, standardisation and       integration leading to       economies of scale or scope at the level of a particular plant or       corporate division.
Other users cite       the benefits of clarifying cost-benefit trade-offs between different       structures and configurations as       part of re-location or foreign direct investment (FDI) projects, or to       analyse the relative merits of       joint-ventures and M&amp;A propositions.
3.
Improving communication between managers in the engineering value         chain       GEN has also contributed to a significant improvement in communication       between managers       working at different stages of the engineering value chain.
Zhang's       research at BBS led to the       development of the key principles and practical mechanisms to influence       behaviour in the       workplace.
Part of the value of the GEN framework was to connect       high-level visions of a       company's engineering network with the detailed processes and procedures       managers were       familiar with, but which varied by department.
The GEN configuration framework ensured the consistency of the key       organisational and strategic       elements in network design and operations, which have been used to guide       companies to optimise       their engineering networks or design new networks to support their       businesses or their customers       better.
The improvement of communications has been achieved in practical terms       through involving       engineering managers from different parts of the business.
In a GEN       application workshop, for       example, participating managers spend two to three days to understand the       similarities and       differences between their departmental approaches, resolve process       barriers and develop       strategies and action plans to optimise their engineering networks, or to       design new engineering       networks for future success.
Their effective interaction at such workshops       is facilitated by the       structured guidance from the GEN approach.
This focuses discussion on a       shared assessment of       whole-system network configuration and value creation (i.e.
how the total       is more than a sum of the       parts) and trade-offs between various options.
4.
GEN in Excellence Engineering Education System in China       The GEN framework has also been adopted as an essential input for the       Excellence Engineering       Education System in China co-developed by the Chinese Academy of       Engineering, Cambridge       University and Tsinghua University, and intended to provide a novel       framework for Chinese       engineering education.
This will contribute to China's engineering       education policies and strategic       plans for the coming 20-30 years through the Chinese Academy of       Engineering and the Ministry of       Education.
The Project Leader has confirmed that Zhang's research on GEN       and EC-HVEN has       made a major contribution to this work, particularly in helping to shape       the theoretical foundations       and in identifying emerging trends in theory and in practice.
[s3]
