     The EU KLEMS project developed methodology and implementation methods to       create a database on measures of economic growth, productivity, employment       creation, capital formation and technological change at the industry level       for all European Union member states and selected other OECD countries       from 1970 onwards.
The direct beneficiaries of this work have included       national statistical offices, the European Commission, Eurostat (the EU       statistical office), the European Central Bank and national agencies.
The       scope of published data is being extended as a result of this, and the       resulting information utilised to inform further policy analysis and       development.
Impact on compilation of national statistics       Following presentations in 2007 by O'Mahony to the main European fora on       national statistics, including Eurostat's Working Group on National         Accounts, the EC Economic Policy Committee and the ECB-led Committee         on Monetary, Financial and Balance of Payments Statistics, leaders       of statistical agencies in the EU decided that for policy purposes it       would be useful to investigate the value and feasibility of incorporating       EU KLEMS type productivity statistics routinely in national accounts.
Participants in these fora, which included chief national accounts       statisticians and chief advisors to finance ministers, agreed that these       data provide an important input to policy evaluation, in particular for       the assessment of national and international goals concerning       competitiveness and economic growth potential.
The outcome of these       discussions was the setting up of a taskforce by Eurostat to look into the       feasibility of including productivity measures in national accounts       (source 1, pp12-13; and source 2, page 32, below).
The taskforce met on       several occasions with the EU KLEMS team acting as advisors and O'Mahony       attending one of the meetings in Luxembourg in 2008.
The EU KLEMS Task Force recommended that all EU statistics offices should       attempt to routinely produce productivity measures based on EU KLEMS       methodology.
Some national statistical offices were quick to respond, such       as the UK Office for National Statistics [source 3] and Statistics       Netherlands (source 4).
Others which faced more severe budget constraints       plan to produce the measures in the medium to long term.
There have also been impacts on methods employed by National Statistical       Offices in their standard national accounts.
A notable contribution of the       work carried out at Birmingham Business School was facilitating the       inclusion of capital stock measures by the Irish Central Statistical       Office since 2009; prior to this they only produced investment series.
This arose following a number of visits during 2007 to 2008 by O'Mahony to       CSO who presented the EU KLEMS Irish capital stocks series, demonstrating       the feasibility of producing such measures.
Informing policy drivers for economic growth       EU KLEMS data has also been used to inform policy on drivers of economic       growth.
Policy users of the database and the subsequent research carried out by       the project leaders include the European Central Bank, national Central       Banks such as the Bank of England and Bank of France, many EC DGs       especially DG Economics and Financial Affairs, DG Enterprise and Industry,       DG Information Society and DG Employment, as well as numerous national       government departments including HM Treasury.
DG Economics and Financial       Affairs have a web-page on EU KLEMS (source 5).
The President of the ECB identified the collection of data for updating       the EU-KLEMS as a Bank priority in a speech in 2008 (source 6).
KLEMS data       was also used to identify the issue of lower growth in productivity in the       European financial sector compared to that in the US by a member of the       Executive Board of the ECB Ronda (source 7).
DG Economics and Financial       Affairs used the EU-KLEMS database to assess the EU-US productivity gap       (source 8).
EU-KLEMS data were also used by the Bank of England's       Executive Director Financial Stability in an analysis of the contribution       of the finance sector to economic well-being (source 9; see section 3 of       this speech).
As well as disseminating the research to producers of statistics, the       research team devoted considerable effort to presenting the research       findings to policy workshops and conferences.
The EU KLEMS mid-term       conference in Brussels in November 2007 (report issued by DG Economic and       Financial Affairs, March 2008) was attended by over 100 representative       from EC and National governments with an endorsement of the database for       use in policy analysis by the then EC Commissioner for Economic and       Monetary Affairs, Joaquin Almunia (source 10).
The EC Commissioner for       Enterprise and Industry (1999-2004), Erkki Liikanen, organised a policy       conference in 2005 at the Bank of Finland to publicise the EU KLEMS       project.
Subsequently the data and research have been used to inform policy.
The       uses of the data range from informing the setting of interest rates by       central banks, budget projections by finance ministries, informing policy       initiatives targeted at raising investment in information technology, use       of skilled labour and innovation more generally.
