     Murinde's work on `African banking' has helped shape banking regulation       and stock exchange reform in a number of major African countries including       Nigeria, Algeria and Egypt.
This was achieved through take-up of his       models by the African Development Bank (ADB) and through his further       collaboration with the African Economic Research Programme and with senior       African policy makers.
This provided timely input for African countries in       the process of revamping their regulatory policies in transition from       Basel I and Basel II rules to the new Basel III codes for regulating banks       and financial markets.
As a consequence, the African Development Bank       invited Murinde to contribute directly to knowledge and capacity building       in Africa, and he was subsequently appointed the first Director of the       African Development Institute at the African Development Bank in May 2011,       on a three-year secondment from the University of Birmingham.
He returns       to the University of Birmingham in June 2014.
Enhancing competitiveness in the financial services sector through the         ADB     The ADB has 53 African member countries and its mission is to spur       sustainable economic development and social progress in its regional       member countries, thus contributing to poverty reduction [see source 1       below].
The immediate impact achieved from Murinde's work was that the       models in the core paper were operationalized by the ADB to guide the bank       in helping their African member countries enhance their competitiveness in       the financial services sector.
The Chief Economist and Vice President (CE&amp;VP) of the Bank asked       Murinde to lead a team of Bank staff to produce a blueprint.
The output,       titled "Restructuring for Competitiveness: The Financial Services Sector       in Africa's Four Largest Economies", was part of the African         Competitiveness Report 2009, produced by the African Development       Bank, the World Bank, and the World Economic Forum.
The team of       collaborators include Mr Louis Kasekende (CE&amp;VP of the African       Development Bank at the time) and Mr Kupukile Mlambo (who was Advisor to       the CE&amp;VP at the time and is now Deputy Governor of the Reserve Bank       of Zimbabwe).
The impact of the work was that it underpinned the African       Development Bank intervention in the financial services sector in Algeria,       Nigeria and Egypt.
The research output also formed the key information for the subsequent       strategic meeting of Committee of 10 (C-10).
The C-10 is a committee of 10       African Ministers of Finance and Central Bank Governors of Algeria,       Botswana, Cameroon, Egypt, Kenya, Nigeria, South Africa, Tanzania, the       Central Bank of West African States (CBWAS), the Central Bank of Central       African States (CBCAS).
The African Development Bank serves as the       Secretariat, jointly with the African Union (AU) and the Economic       Commission for Africa (ECA).
The C-10 introduced policy measures that the       CE&amp;VP of the ADB has said were "instrumental in maintaining bank         viability and mitigating the adverse effects of the financial crisis of         2007-8.
The major policy consensus was on strengthening of bank capital,         which is also the key finding throughout Murinde's work."
[source 2]     Another example of impact of the core paper was that the Chief Economist       &amp; Vice President of the African Development Bank commissioned a       research project, led by Murinde, to use modified versions of the       empirical models in the core paper to generate country-specific case       studies.
Murinde led a team of Bank staff and researchers from Africa and       the UK to conduct eight empirical case studies of competition and       efficiency of the banking sector in Algeria, Egypt, Ghana, Kenya, Nigeria,       South Africa, Tanzania and Zambia.
These technical studies were published       in a Special Issue of the Bank's journal, African Development Review,       Vol.
23, No.
1, March 2011, guest edited by Murinde and a staff of the       Bank, Kupukile Mlambo.
The African Development Review is a       professional journal devoted to the study and analysis of development       policy in Africa which emphasises the policy relevance of research       findings, rather than purely theoretical and quantitative issues.
After the completion of the case studies, the African Development Bank       asked Murinde to extend the work on Nigeria and undertake a special study       that would inform the Board of Directors of the Bank about the viability       of Nigeria's banks, in order to guide the intervention and portfolio       interest in these institutions.
A special Board paper was completed in       October 2010 and presented to the Board in March 2011, to identify the       financial viability of the top banks in Nigeria.
The African Development       Bank subsequently increased its equity stake in the viable banks.
It is       important to note that Nigeria banks have spread across the African       continent, with branches in Ghana, Kenya, Uganda, among other countries.
Hence, the impact of this research goes beyond Nigeria and extends to       other African countries where the banks operate.
In addition, the case studies provided strategic input into the Senior       Policy Programme of the African Economic Research Programme (AERC), the       leading think tank in Africa.
The AERC asked Murinde and his team to       produce a non-technical version of the case studies for the Twelfth Senior       Policy Seminar (SPS XII) of the AERC, which was held in Mombasa, Kenya, on       22 - 24 March 2010.
Participants included the Governor of the Central Bank       of Kenya, the Deputy Governor of the Bank of Uganda, senior bank managers       and senior bank regulators from 18 African countries.
The output of       SPS-XII was published by Palgrave Macmillan, on behalf of the AERC, as Bank         Regulatory Reforms in Africa, edited by Murinde [source 2].
African voice on banking regulatory reform     Subsequently, some African senior policy makers at the AERC SPS-XII asked       that the research findings be used to write a clear articulation of the       African voice on the new architecture for banking regulatory reform       (transition to Basel III) at the G20 Summit in Seoul, Korea [source 3].
Murinde joined a Brookings seminar on issues surrounding the 2010 Seoul       G20 summit.
That grew into a further conference in Washington and       eventually a major symposium in Seoul.
Murinde presented the African voice       at the September 2010 G20 Seoul International Symposium, where the       headline speaker was Paul Martin, former prime minister of Canada [source       4].
The report was included in the volume for the Summit which contains       contributions from three dozen top experts from all over the world [source       5].
The same report was adopted by New Rules for Global Finance Coalition, a       Washington-based international network of activists and researchers       concerned with reforms of the international financial architecture, and       was subsequently presented by Murinde and the Executive Director of New       Rules for Global Finance, Dr Jo Marie Griesgraber, to Governor Daniel K.       Tarullo, of the US Federal Reserve Board, who is driving US and global       reforms of banking regulation [source 6].
Financial Market Reform     There are two specific examples of how Murinde's work on financial market       reforms has been of interest to policy makers in Africa.
The first example       relates to invitations to share research findings with think tanks and       policy makers, in terms of relevance to policy problems and for shaping       their own work.
Specifically, Murinde presented a key note to the Annual       Meeting of African Stock Exchange Regulators, which was held in Accra,       Ghana, on September 14, 2009, on "Market microstructure reforms in Africa       and implications for corporate financing".
The work drew evidence from       Murinde's empirical work, especially R5 and R7 above.
The second example of impact is that, following the Accra meeting, the       Director General of the Securities and Exchange Commission of Nigeria       invited Murinde to draw up a programme of knowledge and training for SEC       staff and staff of the Nigeria Stock Exchange Securities for 2010-2013.
Consequently, the SEC undertook training programmes for Board members, as       reported in Annual Report of the SEC for 2011 (page 14) [source 7].
