     Widespread concern about the effects of excess alcohol consumption by       young people has been the focus of extensive public policy debate.
The       drinks industry has paid growing attention to these issues; corporate       social responsibility measures by both individual companies and industry       bodies show evidence of a more sophisticated appreciation of how marketing       can be used to address the problem.
The findings from Szmigin's research,       and her active engagement with stakeholders on these issues, have helped       shape these measures.
Central to this has been the researchers' argument that it is       unproductive to represent excessive alcohol consumption as a matter solely       of individual responsibility.
This has led to initiatives e.g.
the       Government's public health`responsibility deal' and the proposal for       minimum pricing that shifts responsibility to producers.
It has also       informed approaches to communicating with young people through its       identification of the overriding social aspect of alcohol consumption for       them.
The findings from the research were publicised in two press releases, one       in December 2007 and the second a year later (sources 1 and 2 below).
The       first of these was timed to coincide with the campaign by Diageo (the       major UK drinks producer to encourage `socially responsible drinking' 	  (www.thechoiceisyours.com),       and the second was focused on broader concerns about excess consumption in       the Christmas period.
The 2007 press release, for instance, highlighted       that some anti-drinking advertising campaigns may be misconceived because       they played on the entertaining `drinking stories' that young people use       to mark their social identity, as indicated by the project's research       findings, with Diageo's campaign specifically mentioned as failing to take       this aspect into account.
Both press releases generated extensive media interest andled, in 2008,       to an ongoing dialogue with members of Diageo's UK Social Responsibility       team to discuss implications for their marketing strategies.
Subsequently,       over the 2008 Christmas period, Szmigin appeared on BBC Television       Breakfast News, BBC News 24, and Radio Five Live talking about binge       drinking (source 3).
The findings have also informed political debate.
In 2011, Szmigin was       invited by `The New Statesman' to speak at a Liberal Democrat Fringe       meeting on `Can the UK ever be a nation of responsible drinkers' alongside       MPs, the Chair of the Portman Group and a representative from the Joseph       Rowntree Foundation.
The research findings were also quoted in written       evidence discussing the effectiveness of government guidelines and       marketing campaign's in influencing young people's behaviour to the House       of Commons Science and Technology Committee during its review of Alcohol       Guidelines in 2011 (EV W28 in source 4).
The 2009 Joseph Rowntree Foundation review of alcohol prevention measures       also drew on the research findings, noting the importance of recognising       that young people do not see themselves in the way that other people see       them (e.g.
as binge drinkers), reflecting the findings of the research       study.
As a result, the report recommended that `The task is to replace         the cultural norm of (and therefore the resulting peer support for)       bingeing and other forms of drinking dangerously, with positive parental       role models for sensible alcohol consumption' (source 5, p.6).
In July 2012 Szmigin was appointed to the Portman Group Independent       Complaints Panel, which is chaired currently by under the chairmanship of       Sir Martin Narey.
The Panel adjudicates on complaints made under the Code       of Practice on the Naming, Packaging and Promotion of Alcoholic drinks and       is also involved in developing regulation and policy for the drinks       industry.
The Portman Group is of considerable significance to the       industry as its Code of Practice applies to all pre-packaged alcohol sold       or marketed in the UK and is designed to ensure alcohol is marketed       responsibly in the UK.
Thus, she has become directly engaged with a       professional industry body that has the power to make regulation on       particular areas of drinks marketing, notably sponsorship, promotions with       retailers and packaging.
At the time of her appointment, the then chair,       Sir Richard Tilt noted that "Isabelle and [Professor Roy Light] will         bring a great depth of experience to the Independent Complaints Panel in         terms of their research and legal backgrounds.
Panel members play a key         role in upholding the strict standards that are set for alcohol         marketing in the UK and it is important that we have a diverse         membership to consider complaints about irresponsible alcohol marketing         and promotions" (source 6).
Further influence was achieved through Szmigin's participation in       November 2012 in aninvitation- only St. George's House consultation event,       Alcohol: Is the UK on the Right Track?This explored how well the UK       was progressing in minimising the adverse consequences of alcohol       consumption whilst also supporting the commercial and economic       contribution of the industry.
The report on the consultation,reflecting       the input of Szmigin's research, said that participants recognised the       importance of addressing the impact of consumption on young people, and       that tailored solutions were needed to change the behaviour of this (and       other) specific groups (source 7, pp 5-6).
Szmigin was one of only two       academics invited to attend this event; other attendees included the Chief       Executive of Portman Group, the Chief Executive of Wine and Spirit Trade       Association,Chief Executive Office of Marston's, Head of Corporate Affairs       at Wm.
Morrison Supermarkets, the Director of Public Affairs at the       Advertising Association, Director, Centre of Public Health, National       Institute for Health and Care Excellence, Director of Regulation and       Enforcement at Birmingham City Council, and the Chief Executive of the       British Beer and Pub Association.
Szmigin has subsequently participated in the ongoing public and political       debate about the value of minimum pricing of alcohol.
Since 2010 she has       been on Radio 4, Radio 5, Radio Wales, Radio West Midlands and Radio       Hereford and Worcester to discuss minimum pricing and excessive alcohol       consumption.
Following the government's decision not to go ahead with       minimum alcohol pricing, and reflecting the research's conclusions that an       onus on individual responsibility would not deal with the problem of       alcohol and young people,Professor Szmigin was invited to write a comment       piece for The Guardian, published on 13th March 2013       which generated 286 comments on the newspaper website(source 8).
The       research manager of Alcohol Research UK commented `It's exactly the         kind of balanced analysis that is completely missing most of the time'         (source 9).
