     The rapid growth of the internet from the 1990s provided both       opportunities and challenges for corporate reporting.
The research       findings and expertise of the Birmingham Business School have been highly       influential in assisting regulatory bodies, public policy makers and       individual businesses to address these.
The most important examples of       this since 2008 have been through enabling these organisations to       capitalise on the use of XBRL as an international standard allowing the       direct electronic analysis and exploitation of data provided to meet       regulatory requirements.
Supporting HMRC and Companies House in the introduction of mandatory         online filing of corporate tax computations and accounts       Senior staff at both HMRC (see source 1 below) and at Companies House       (source 2) have acknowledged the contribution of researchers from the       Birmingham Business School in the successful delivery of programmes to use       XBRL as the standard for mandatory on-line filing of company statutory       accounts and tax computations introduced in the UK in April 2011.
The 2006 Carter Review, which had originally recommended the target to       introduce online filing, acknowledged the pivotal role of making use of       XBRL in this project (rather than filing by PDF) and said that ".. HMRC         should not require online submission of company tax returns until XBRL         has been implemented and bedded down" (Review of HMRC Online         Services, HMRC, 2006, para 7.3).
Solving issues in the application       of XBRL was, therefore, crucial to achievement of this national target.
The reporting requirements introduced in 2011 apply to almost all UK       corporations and have enabled HMRC to increase the proportion of       Corporation Tax returns filed online from 42% in 2010/2011 to 96% in       2011/12 (HM Revenue Annual Report and Accounts 2011-12, p.13).
Overall, this measure is designed to bring efficiencies at HMRC through       reducing manual processing of data and allowing staff to focus on more       complex activities which contribute to raising tax revenues.
HMRC have       been able to confirm to the University that by July 2013 there had been       more than 4m online corporate tax filings.
The introduction of this using       XBRL had enabled HMRC to modernise their risk assessment process for "mass       market" corporate tax returns, moving from the "eyeballing" of individual       paper returns by staff to much more sophisticated computer-based analyses       which is helping them better identify issues requiring further       investigation (source 3).
The success of this approach was reflected in the decision to extend the       use of XBRL to the risk assessment of very large companies, and this       formed one of the four actions to reduce tax avoidance and evasion       introduced by the Chancellor in his Autumn Statement 2012 at a total       additional cost of &#163;77m (source 4).
Jon Rowden, XBRL assurance leader at "big-four" accountants PWC, recently       wrote that this implementation by HMRC "has surely achieved the         benchmark for regulatory initiatives: useful information is now         available for a clear purpose, namely the better inspection of taxes"       (source 5).
Companies House now also makes extensive use of XBRL for registering       accounts; although its use is not mandatory, more than 60% of returns are       now filed this way (source 6).
The role of Professor Lymer and his colleagues in this process was to       draw on their research and expertise in the application of XBRL to shape       the thinking of the programme managers at HMRC and Companies House leading       delivery of these initiatives.
This was particularly important in ensuring       that HMRC's proposals for using XBRL were appropriate and usable by       corporations and accountants.
The HMRC manager said the Birmingham staff       provided an authoritative perspective on XBRL and accountancy issues,       particularly the mechanics of accounts preparation (source 1).
There were a number of means through which this support was provided;       HMRC staff participated in XBRL conferences held in Birmingham in November       2009; workshops were delivered by Birmingham staff on current developments       in XBRL for accountants and tax software specialists in liaison with the       Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales (ICAEW) in January       2011.
Lymer has also contributed to this development by working with these       organisations since 2001 on the UK Steering Group for XBRL, where he is       the only academic member.
His particular contribution to this group has       been ensuring a formal bridge exists between academic research and       practitioner developments to facilitate links in both directions.
In addition, a report was produced for the ACCA by Professor Lymer in       2009 with colleagues from Dundee University which called for a change in       the way XBRL technologies were rolled out in the UK at a time when       mandated use of this technology for tax filings and corporate governance       filings was being planned in the UK (source 7).
The findings were used by       the teams undertaking work on the tax filing standards to support the       argument that awareness of XBRL was low at that stage and that they needed       to be pro-active in selling the benefits of it to companies (source 1).
Setting international standards for XBRL       Digital reporting data's greatest potential contribution is to achieve       global communication of business information to facilitate decision       making.
The Birmingham researchers' focus in the XBRL international standards       setting area has been on the need for openness and effective inclusion of       the needs of the retail investor in the design of digital reporting.Their       2010 report for the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and       Wales [R2 above] had shown the absence of the retail investor in       regulator-led XBRL adoptions.
The launch of this report in January 2011       was hosted by the ICAEW in London and attracted leaders in the field       across Europe, including representatives of the European Commission, KPMG,       Ernst &amp; Young, Deloitte, PWC, the UK Accounting Standards Board, HMRC,       Banco de Espa&#241;a, IFRS Foundation, SBR programme in the Netherlands,       software vendors, and IT consultants.
Locke primarily influenced the international approach on these issues       through the XBRL Advisory Council (XAC) of the International Financial       Reporting Standards (IFRS) Foundation.Locke was an inaugural member of the       XAC and subsequently re-appointed for a further term.
The role of the XAC       is to provide strategic advice to the IFRS XBRL Team regarding the       development and adoption of IFRS XBRL taxonomies.
This board has members       drawn from all key regulator and stakeholder groups internationally.
Locke's work with the XAC focused on the design of the IFRS XBRL taxonomy       and policy issues such as due process and governance.
She successfully       promoted the themes of openness and the interests of the consumers of the       data in her work there, and was one of the first members of the Council to       argue for a change in focus that was subsequently adopted.
Locke was also       an invited speaker at the XBRL conference in Madrid on open source       standards in May 2012.
Membership of the Council also provided Locke with       the opportunity to take the ICAEW report directly to this key audience.
The direction for regulation of digital reporting recommended in the       ICAEW report has now also emerged in EU policy.
In June 2013, the EU       agreed revisions to its 2004 Transparency Directive.
Included within these       was a new requirement that all company annual financial reports from       January 2020 be in a single electronic reporting format in order to       improve accessibility, analysis and comparability of reports.
The European       Securities and Markets Authority will be developing draft regulatory       standards for adoption by the Commission and has been tasked with       specifying the electronic reporting format for this "with due reference to       current and future technological options, such as eXtensible Business       Reporting Language (XBRL)" (source 8).
