     Enonchong's research had a direct effect on the decision of the High       Court of Singapore in the       case of Tam Tak Chuen v Khairul bin Abdul Rahman and Others [2009]       Singapore Law Reports       240 (source 1 below).
The court fully adopted all three main insights of       his research.
In Tam Tak Chuen, the court was faced with the question whether a       threat to do something that the       defendant had the right to do (i.e.
to institute proceedings for the       winding up of a company) could       be regarded as illegitimate so that it could constitute duress.
In       answering that question in the       affirmative, thereby developing the law of Singapore, the court was guided       by the relevant section       of the monograph.
In paragraph 21 of the judgment, Prakash J stated that there are two       elements to the wrong of       duress.
Then, relying on Enonchong's argument, she continued:     "In regard to the second element, that of illegitimate pressure, a threat       has been described       as illegitimate where the:     `terms secured as a result of the threat of lawful action are so       "manifestly       disadvantageous" to the complainant as to make it unconscionable for the       defendant to       retain the benefit of them."
(See p. 34 of Duress, Undue Influence and         Unconscionable         Dealing by Nelson Enonchong (London, Sweet &amp; Maxwell 2006) ("Enonchong"))'.
After recounting the facts of the case, the judge turned to the question       whether illegitimate       pressure was exercised by the defendant.
Again she turned to the book for       guidance, and stated at       paragraph 50:     "Enonchong classifies the circumstances which, according to the       authorities, indicate when       a threat of lawful action that is not unlawful is illegitimate.
These       categories are:     (a) where the threat is an abuse of legal process;     (b) where the demand is not made bona fide;     (c) where the demand is unreasonable; and     (d) where the threat is considered unconscionable in the light of all the       circumstances.
Then, adopting the four factors stated in the book, she applied them to       the facts of the case.
The first factor, whether the threat was an abuse of the legal process,       was applied in paragraphs       52 to 53.
The second factor, whether the demand was made bona fide, was       applied in paragraphs       54 to 57.
The third factor, whether the demand was unreasonable, was       applied in paragraph 58.
And the fourth factor, whether the demand was unconscionable, was applied       in paragraph 59.
As       the court concluded that all the factors were satisfied, it held that the       defendant's threat of lawful       action was illegitimate and therefore constituted duress, since the other       element of duress was       also present.
This was the first reported case in the Commonwealth to       decide that a threat of lawful       action, which was not unlawful, was illegitimate and constituted duress.
Thus, Enonchong's research had a direct impact on the court's decision.
The judge fully accepted       and adopted all three main insights of the research: (i) the distinction       between a threat of lawful       action that is unlawful and a threat of lawful action that is not       unlawful; (ii) that a threat of lawful       action that is not unlawful can constitute duress and (iii) that the four       factors proposed in the       research are the relevant ones to consider when deciding whether or not a       threat of lawful action       that is not unlawful is illegitimate and so can constitute duress.
This ruling was approved by different judges in two subsequent cases in       the same court.
First, in E         C Investment Holding Pte Ltd v Ridout Residence Pte Ltd [2011] 2 SLR       232, Loh J approved the       passage in Enonchong's book relied on in the Tam Tak case,       although he advocated caution when       approaching the fourth of the four circumstances identified by Enonchong       and adopted in the Tam         Tak case (source 2).
Secondly, in Tjong Very Sumito v Chan Sin         En [2012] 3 SLR 953 Chong J       cited Enonchong's book and the two previous decisions (Tam Tak and       EC Investment), in support       of the proposition that four factors are relevant to the question whether       a threat of lawful action is       illegitimate and adopted the four factors identified in Enonchong's book       (source 3).
This means that       in Singapore the law on lawful act duress is now largely settled.
Thus Enonchong's research has had a direct and significant effect on the       development of the law       of economic duress in the Commonwealth.
This area of the law is vitally       significant in both       domestic and international business transactions where parties seek to       exert pressure on each       other by threatening to do a variety of lawful acts.
Prior to these court       decisions there was much       uncertainty in the Commonwealth about the extent to which lawful act       duress was actionable.
Following these rulings, based exclusively on Enonchong's arguments, the       law on lawful act       duress in Singapore is now largely settled.
The beneficiaries of the impact are all those (including judges,       arbitrators, lawyers and their clients)       who rely on the law of Singapore, both in Singapore and jurisdictions       where the law of Singapore is       applicable (including international commercial arbitrations).
This area of       the law has particular       relevance to threats made in the course of commercial transactions,       whether domestic or       international.
While it is impossible to quantify the number of cases on       this issue, allegations of       economic duress are common in everyday commercial life and practising       lawyers advise on it       frequently.
