     Impact can be demonstrated in relation to ASC policy, management practice       and HR practice.
Adult Social Care Policy:     In February 2009, Atkinson and Lucas presented three research reports to       the Skills for Care (SfC) Research and Policy team.
These are all now       available for download directly from the Skills for Care website [A]       along with Key Messages for Employers, a leaflet informed directly by the       research [B].
The team used these reports (alongside other inputs)       to inform the `Recruitment and Retention Strategy for Adult Social Care       2011' [C].
The research's impact on the strategy is shown in an       SfC testimonial [D]:     `In the past there had been a tendency for adult social care policy to         be unduly influenced by pressure groups, anecdote and old wives' tales.
This [MMU-led] research helped to change attitudes and to provide a         sounder base for policy development.'
Head of Research and Policy,         Skills for Care     Clear links between the strategy and research reports are also apparent       to the reader.
For example, Section 3.1 of the strategy sets out a plan       for `selling' a career in care which is aligned to the research findings       and recommendations for a marketing campaign; and Section 3.3 promotes       more sophisticated recruitment and selection practices, again aligned to       the MMU team's findings on their rudimentary nature.
This national       recruitment and retention strategy was disseminated to all Local       Authorities' commissioners of ASC, over 300 in total, and most have used       it to inform their local workforce strategy [E].
Local Authorities       were advised how to disseminate the key messages to local care providers [F].
The incorporation of the research findings into ASC policy and the       cascading of this policy to ASC commissioners and care providers represent       a significant step towards influencing the work of 1.6 million care       workers and &#8212; ultimately &#8212; the quality of life of 1.8 million care       recipients.
Management practice in social care     As previously mentioned, MMU research findings were summarized into a       `Key Messages for Employers' leaflet which focused on the attraction,       recruitment and retention of care workers and the role of employment and       management practice within this [B].
This resulted in better       understanding of the need for good HR practice:     `Because of the highly fragmented nature of the adult social care       industry, it takes time for individual managers to be persuaded of the       need to change, but there is now a much better understanding of the       benefits of good HR practices in the sector' [D].
Head of Research       and Policy, Skills for Care.
In October 2009, the leaflet was disseminated to SfC's network of 48,000+       ASC care providers in two ways.
First it was made available on SfC's       website.
Second its content was briefed by the research team to Registered       Managers of care providing establishments at meetings of SfC's six       regional committees.
These established regional networks were used to       cascade information/leaflets across the whole SfC network and accessed       stakeholders across a range of sectors including the private and voluntary       sectors and small employers.
This created substantial impact.
Research       findings were widely disseminated and enhanced awareness and understanding       of appropriate practice in the recruitment, development and retention of       care workers.
Further, the findings were used to inform SfC's (2010) ASC       recruitment and retention toolkit [G] which has been adopted by a       number of care providing partnerships to change practice.
As above, this       impacts on significant numbers of workers and care recipients.
HR practice     In June 2011 and June 2013, Atkinson and Lucas presented award-winning       papers to the annual conference of the Chartered Institute of Personnel       and Development (CIPD, professional body for HR practitioners in the UK,       3.5 and 3.6).
They were presented to 200 conference delegates and are       available on CIPD's website which is accessed by 135,000 members across       120 countries.
In December the research findings were featured in CIPD's       magazine, People Management, which has a hard copy and email circulation       to more than 128,000 HR practitioners [H].
The findings were also       included in a People Management email newsletter which was circulated to       over 100,000 HR practitioners and have generated discussion on the Twitter       social network [I] and blogosphere, where HR expert Duncan Brown       highlighted Lucas and Atkinson's achievement in demonstrating       unequivocally that better managed and higher wage-paying care homes       deliver better care quality [J].
The research findings have thus had impact in informing and stimulating       practitioner debate, developing awareness and understanding and       potentially influencing HR practice across the organisations that 135,000       CIPD members operate within.
