     The impact occurring in the period 2008 - 2013, draws upon earlier       activities undertaken by Toke in late 2007.
Based upon the research listed       above, Toke was invited to produce a report for the NGO `The World Future       Council' on the possibilities for renewable energy feed-in tariffs in the       UK, called `Making Renewable FITTER' [see source 1 below].
The World       Future Council is an environmentally-oriented NGO funded mainly by German       based charitable benefactors interested in building support for feed-in       tariffs.
This is a system that is widely perceived as being effective in       promoting renewable energy in Germany and was hoped would have a similar       effect in the UK if implemented.
The main recommendation of Toke's report       for the World Future Council was the establishment of feed-in tariffs for       small renewable energy projects.
This report was submitted to the UK       Government's review of renewable energy funding in September 2007.
During       this period, Toke discussed the report with a range of NGOs, journalists,       government officials, regulatory officials, and also a junior Treasury       Minister.
Since 2008, Toke's research and in particular, the report on renewable       energy and wider activities supporting the work of NGOs, has contributed         to changes in government policy.
The report proved to be an       important factor in a process leading to the passage of a significant       piece of legislation, the Energy Act 2008, establishing a system of       feed-in tariffs for small renewable energy projects.
This Act which was in       line with the recommendations made in Toke's 2007 report [source 2].
It is       notable that the Act was adopted in the context of a successful lobbying       campaign focussed partly on persuading backbench MP's to put pressure on       the Government to introduce feed-in tariff legislation.
Toke's work       contributed to the initial spur for the campaign organised by NGOs       including Friends of the Earth, the World Future Council, Solar Century       and the Renewable Energy Association.
The campaign was led at a backbench       Parliamentary level by Alan Simpson MP.
Toke has been a leading member of       the campaign for a feed-in tariff approach since 2006 [source 3].
In this       way Toke's research can also be seen as influencing the work of NGOs,         and indirectly, the work of UK MPs.
The feed-in tariff system came into effect in 2010 and was immediately       successful.
Not only did it increase financial support for the providers       of renewable energy systems, but through incentivising the installation of       renewable energy sources, the system made a notable contribution to       environmental sustainability (a total installed capacity of 1.657MW has       been registered under Feed-in Tariffs to December 2012 [source 4, p1]).
Since 2010 Toke has continued to be active in supporting the feed-in       tariff agenda, particularly through his work with environmental NGOs.
Most       recently, Toke's research and advice hasinformed the development of         further work on energy issues and campaigning by Friends of the Earth       (2011-2013 in particular).
In December 2012 Friends of the Earth published       a report by Toke entitled `'A Proven Solution &#8212; How to Grow Renewables       with a Fixed Feed-in Tariff' [source 5].
In June 2012, he submitted       written evidence to the Select Committee on Energy and Climate Change       during its scrutiny of the Energy Bill [source 6], and through this, his       `green energy blog' (http://realfeed-intariffs.blogspot.co.uk/),       letters and other activities has made a significant contribution to the       argument in favour of giving incentives for renewable energy.
He has also       been in the forefront of campaigns to ensure that nuclear power does not       receive preferential treatment to renewable power through articles and       letters in local and international news outlets [source 7].
Toke has publically challenged the UK government's `Electricity       Market Reform'.
Through articles and letters to the Guardian, the       Sunday Times and other media on the subject of renewable energy       funding and the Government's Electricity Market reforms, Toke has used his       research findings of this research to demonstrate that the Government has       done too little to set up effective support mechanisms for renewable       energy.
However thanks to public pressure, the Energy Bill has been       amended to include a mechanism that could support a recognisable renewable       energy programme.
Toke's work has been instrumental in shaping opinion       that has led to reform.
Indeed, Toke has sought not only to effect change       in policy, but to change public awareness with regard to the       detrimental effects of existing government policy on the environment and       the renewable energy industry.
Toke's research is now beginning to influence policy beyond England         and Wales.
In 2011 he became a member of an expert group established       to advise the Green Group of MEPs in the European Parliament on the       subject of renewable energy policy.
His contribution was mostly in the       areas of financial support mechanisms for renewable energy and nuclear       power funding.
Other members were drawn from public policy think tanks,       green NGOs, renewable trade associations, expert consultancies and       academia.
The report, which will influence the direction of EU policy, was       published by the Heinrich Boll Foundation and lists Toke as one of the       contributing experts [source 8].
Toke was also invited to advise the       Scottish Government's Energy related civil servants in June 2012, when he       led a seminar on the EMR proposals and the impact on the Scottish       independence debate.
This input demonstrates that the financial viability       of renewable energy is a growing concern and that Toke's research       continues to be in demand by policy-making bodies.
Furthermore, his       research has also received significant press coverage after the       publication of the final report (including Herald Scotland and The         Guardian), and thus contributed to the public debate and       understanding.
Toke's research has also stimulated and facilitated debate among       industry professionals, NGOs and government.
In January 2013, Toke issued       a Birmingham Brief &#8212; an expert comment piece, which aims to provide       concise, relevant and timely expert comment for policy makers and the       media.
Toke also hosted an open debate the same month, involving       representatives from both the energy and policy sectors.
Key speakers       included Rachel Cary (Senior Policy Advisor, Green Alliance); Gaynor       Hartnell (Chief Executive of the Renewable Energy Association); Doug Parr       (Chief Scientist, Greenpeace UK); Dave Timms (Energy and Climate       Campaigner, Friends of the Earth); and Alan Whitehead MP (Chair of the       Parliamentary Renewable and Sustainable Energy Group).
The conference       explored the policies needed to underpin a feed-in tariff system for       funding renewable energy, and also the sort of policy environment that is       needed to ensure the maximum expansion of renewable energy [source 9].
The       event coincided with the passage through Parliament of the Energy Bill       implementing Electricity Market Reform (EMR) which concerned giving       priority to a low-carbon electricity strategy.
Following the conference in       January 2013, Tom Greatrex MP, the Shadow Energy Minister, personally       requested Toke's views.
Toke's reports have also been requested by       Alistair Darling MP (former Chancellor of the Exchequer and Secretary of       State for Scotland) and Lord Foulkes of Comnuck.
