     Marquette's public engagement activities are core to her research and       provide the contacts and access for impact upon practitioners and       organisations.
Such access has enabled Marquette to contribute to         policy debates and influence the development of policy in donor       agencies.
Marquette has also been the Director of the GSDRC (Governance       &amp; Social Development Resource Centre) at the University of Birmingham       since 2010.
The GSDRC, provides rapid research and knowledge management       services on governance, social development, conflict and humanitarian       issues to clients such as DFID, AusAID, the European Commission, the OECD       among others.
It is a unique centre that has direct impact on       policy-making [see source 1 below].
Shaping the approach to International Anti-Corruption Programming:       Marquette has been asked to advise donor agencies on corruption and       governance reform.
This includes evidence provided to the US Congress on       the World Bank's anti-corruption programme (June 2009); an invitation only       consultation on the World Bank's new Public Sector Strategy, held at DFID       in London (2011); and consultation on the World Bank's updated Governance       and Corruption Strategy (2012).
In addition, Marquette is often invited to       participate in closed workshops on donors/aid policy,       governance/corruption and state-building, including: Overseas Development       Institute (ODI) event on `Transparency and Accountability in Fragile       States', where Marquette was a discussant (April 2011); invited speaker at       an OLAF (the EU's Anti-Fraud Agency) sponsored event on `Protecting Aid       Funds in Unstable Governance Environments' in Lisbon (May 2010); guest       speaker on FCO/Chevening course on `Democracy, Rule of Law and Security'       (2009 and 2010).
The European Commission's Concept Note on Helping Partner Countries in       Fighting Corruption (2010-2011) includes direct reference to Marquette's       research on attitudes towards corruption [R3], included as a result of a       request from EuropeAid's then head of anti-corruption.
This Concept Note       has been shared widely with EC staff, including EuropeAid, OLAF, Justice       and beyond.
It has also been shared with EC partners, and has been       described as `a very useful guide, well-written and detailed' by a Senior       World Bank staff member [source 2].
As a result of this work, Marquette       has been asked on four separate occasions to develop and help deliver a       standard training package on corruption and anti-corruption for EuropeAid       and its partners (other EC bodies, development agencies and partner       governments).
Work in the Concept Note on measuring corruption has led to two further       areas of impact: Since 2011 Marquette has been a member of the       International Advisory Board for the Transparency International GATEway       project, which provides information and guidance on qualitative and       quantitative methodologies for measuring corruption.
She was also       commissioned to lead a team in producing an Issues Paper on corruption       indicators used by donors in budget support; this paper has been included       on the World Bank's intranet site (GAC Portal).
Due to her research on corruption and anti-corruption programming, in       July 2012 Marquette was invited by Dr Mark Robinson, DFID's Deputy       Director of Research, to discuss the strength of research evidence in this       area.
This led to Marquette being commissioned by a participant in the       workshop from the OECD, head also of the OECD's International       Anti-Corruption Task Team, to develop a high-level communications tool on       donor approaches to corruption/anti-corruption, aimed at political leaders       and heads of donor agencies.
As a result, Marquette's research is `feeding         directly into the development of policy at OECD and is helping         to shape [their] thinking in this area' [source 3].
Enabling the focus on agencies thinking and working `politically':       Research outputs R1 and R2 (below) called for aid agencies, and the World       Bank in particular, to frame corruption explicitly as a political issue.
Prior to 2008, Marquette's research had been cited in a UNODC paper &#8212; one       of the key inputs into debates around the creation of the UN Convention       Against Corruption (2002) and a Canadian International Development Agency       list of `recommended reading' (2004); and in 2009, a Norwegian Agency for       Development Cooperation review of anti-corruption literature [source 4].
Marquette's research led to an invitation by the Royal Netherlands       Embassy in Nairobi to be Team Leader on a Strategic Governance and       Anti-Corruption Analysis (SGACA) following the post-election violence in       Kenya (Sept-Nov 2008).
This role entailed chairing the stakeholder       workshops that considered evidence of post-election violence.
Findings       from the confidential report (in line with findings from Marquette's other       research) fed into the Kofi Annan Peace Process, both directly (in that       the final report was shared with the Team) and indirectly (in that members       of the workshops were Team members).
It advised that a) ethnicity should       not be the international community's main focus, but rather the focus       should be on inequality (often but not only articulated on ethnic lines);       b) the Kenyan government has a long history of initiating commissions of       enquiry in response to international pressure, but these commissions have       almost without exception not led to action, and so the peace process       needed to ensure that recourse to the International Criminal Court       remained an option for the perpetrators of violence.
Workshops linked to       the SGACA involved several donor agencies and governments, leading Kenyan       civil society activists, staff from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in the       Hague and the Netherlands Ambassador to Kenya.
The then first secretary at       the Embassy describes Marquette's research and approach as having provided         `the framework and content' for the policy and having `had distinct         impact on the work of [the] embassy in Kenya [source 5].
Marquette provided training on `political economy analysis (PEA)' to the       European Commission in 2010, and she was interviewed for the EC's       Community of Practice on PEA, made available on the Capacity4Dev platform       [source 6].
Marquette was also invited to present at the OECD-Development       Assistance Committee's Network on Governance (Govnet)'s annual meeting, in       April 2013, with follow-up presentations requested by UK's DFID, the       Norwegian aid agency (Norad) and the World Bank Institute.
