     The research described in section 2 was the basis for a set of arguments       to reshape penal policy in       directions that were less expansionist and were informed by a desire to       find constructive       alternatives to imprisonment, such as justice reinvestment.
Loader's       research had a direct and       significant impact by influencing the thinking and recommendations of the       Commission on English       Prisons Today, a two-year inquiry established in 2009 by the Howard League       for Penal Reform, the       UK's leading penal reform charity.
The research was used by the Howard       League to develop an       alternative vision of penal change, and a coherent and overarching account       of what it stood for, that       in turn informed its campaigning work.
It also influenced the thinking of       other NGOs and of leading       policy makers.
Loader was a member of the Commission.
In this capacity he was invited to       write two briefing       papers, based upon his research, to be considered as evidence.
The       relevant papers are: i)       `Principles of the Penal System' and ii) `Why Penal Moderation?'
[see         Section 5: C1].
Loader's       evidence was key to the Commission and to the Howard League more       generally.
The charity said       that, `Professor Loader's contribution to the Commission was central and       essential as he provided       expert advice and guidance throughout its proceedings which influenced the       questions considered       and recommendations.
The central focus of the Commission was that of penal       moderation which       was brought by Professor Loader': his research [R2] on this topic       proved absolutely `seminal'.
[C3]     Part III of the Commission's report [C2, especially pp.
31-36] is       organized around the idea of `penal       moderation' as developed in Loader's research.
[R2], [R3]       The Commission describes this idea as       the `intellectual foundation' (p. 31) of its recommendations and directly       endorses Loader's account       of its three key elements &#8212; restraint, parsimony and human dignity (pp.
32-34).
The Report contains       further positive references to Loader's research and extended quotations       from his papers [C2, C3].
By this route, Loader's research directly shaped a report which now       provides the framework guiding       the Howard League's campaigning work.
It was also influential in the       thinking of others, including       Make Justice Work, a group that includes former prisoner governors and       charity directors and that       lobbies for change in how Britain deals with minor offenders.
Its founder       said, `Research       conducted by Professor Ian Loader has helped to underpin much of the       deeper knowledge that is       necessary to run a campaign such as Make Justice Work, particularly work       he has undertaken       around community sentences and short term prison sentences.
'[C4]     Beyond such groups, the research had a further indirect impact upon penal       policy debates [C5].
Loader disseminated the key findings of the Commission Report among senior       managers in the       prison service.
He was invited to deliver one of the Annual Perrie       Lectures to an audience of 200       senior prison staff at the Prison Service Training College in July 2009.
The Lecture was       subsequently published in the Prison Service Journal &#8212; the main in-house       journal read by senior       prison staff [C6].
The Commission Report also became influential       on the criminal justice agenda of       the Conservative Party, then in opposition, partly through its       dissemination to MPs [C5] and partly       through a much-discussed blog entry by Loader, based on the Commission       Report, on the high       profile Conservative Party website, Conservative Home [C7].
By these and other routes, Loader's research went on to shape debate in       Parliament and the views       of various MPs working in the field of penal policy [C3, C5].
Its       influence may be seen in the Home       Office Select Committee's Inquiry into Justice Reinvestment, to which       Loader was invited to give       oral evidence on 25th November 2008.
He was invited based on       his research on the changing       governance/politicization of crime, and gave evidence drawing on that       research[R1, R2].
The       Committee's criticisms of the politicization of criminal justice policy       and on its views on how to       create a political consensus for alternative measures such as justice       reinvestment follow Loader's       arguments in many respects.
Seventeen approving references to Professor       Loader's evidence can       be found in the final report of the Justice Committee [C8], and on       nine occasions the Committee       quotes verbatim from Loader's evidence.
`Loader's research shaped the       views of the Committee       on how to build a political consensus for alternatives to imprisonment...       His publications have       considerable impact and are frequently cited by individuals and bodies       which are key players in the       development of public policy.
'[C5]     Loader's research thus shaped public debate about a central issue of       public policy in England and       Wales.
His findings and ideas influenced leading NGOs, opinion in       parliament and in a political       party, and by uptake of senior managers in the prison service, also major       stakeholders in the penal       system.
The ideas of penal moderation and of `justice reinvestment' in       local communities became       distinctive themes in the national argument about criminal justice.
As one       key player put it, `The       argument, posited so cogently by Professor Loader, that penal excess was       expensive in terms of       individual lives and public expenditure, gained traction with politicians,       particularly now that we are       in times of financial austerity.
It is an argument that will resonate for       many years to come.
'[C3]
