     The impact of our new migration research has reached policy makers,       practitioners and communities, shaping policy and practice around migrant       integration.
1) Equal project (sources 3 and 11)       The research findings were used to construct a refugee employability       pathway: a model that provided a holistic approach to returning skilled       refugees to employment in their area of expertise.
A report was       disseminated at the National Refugee Integration Forum (NRIF) in 2007 (30       members) which led to the first national integration programme in       the UK in 2008 (Refugee Employment and Integration Service with 43       offices).
Working with partner organisations, including FE Colleges,       Jobcentre Plus, the Trellis Project and the Learning and Skills Council       (LSC), the research team established five pilot employability pathways for       refugees in the West Midlands.
They focused upon general construction;       general maintenance; social research; business administration; and nursing       pre-adaptation.
The pathways brought together elements of good practice       from across the EU in a multi-dimensional, personalised, approach not       before attempted in the UK.
The project evaluation showed that as a result       of participation some 54 refugees gained permanent employment; in       addition, four refugees became self-employed and a further 15 went on to       higher-level training.
The pathway approach was adapted and adopted       by Birmingham City Council who set up a Working Neighbourhoods Funded       programme in 2009 (c120 beneficiaries).
Findings were disseminated to       local, national and EU policymakers with Jenny Phillimore and one of the       Community Researchers, (source 10), presenting the findings at the       European Parliament (2008) and in Germany (2009) to MEPs and civil       servants working in the field of integration.
2) Making a Difference (sources 4 and 10)       In 2008 eighteen migrant and refugee community group (MRCO) leaders       participated in a training programme accredited by the Open College       Network and run by researchers from the University of Birmingham.
Some 16       received qualifications in research skills.
Once trained they worked with       Birmingham New Communities Network (BNCN) to identify areas where evidence       was needed to secure changes in policy and practice (2008).
The areas of       focus were mental health, ESOL, truancy and access to skilled employment.
Some 20 Birmingham based policymakers committed in a policy seminar to       helping to provide evidence and disseminate the findings.
Care Services       Improvement Partnership and Birmingham and Solihull Mental Health Trust       funded a conference (2008) to disseminate the mental health findings to       over 200 delegates 80% of whom were regionally or locally based       professionals, 10% nationally based professional and policymakers and 10%       refugees or refugee support workers.
Following the conference funding was       provided for a regional refugee mental health network to bring       practitioners together to overcome problems identified in our research.
In       addition the NHS funded the Medical Foundation to establish a base in the       West Midlands to support GPs treating refugees with mental health       problems.
As a direct consequence of their involvement in the project BNCN         received further funding from JRF and the Digbeth Trust and today have         paid staff providing advice to MRCOs (source 10).
The Learning and       Skills Council reviewed their approach to commissioning and       monitoring ESOL and introduced a new ESOL programme for refugees       (c 300 beneficiaries 2009).
Six community researchers continue to work as       part of a team of multilingual community researchers who have undertaken       numerous subsequent funded projects.
3) Health and Wealthy Together       The data collated as a part of the University of Birmingham research was       used to develop the Birmingham City Council's (BCC) Social Inclusion       strategy and contributed to the adoption of "embracing superdiversity"         as one of BCC's five commitments to social inclusion (source 5).
The       team are currently working with Public Health and BCC to set up the       quarterly collation of Flag 4 data.
4) Migrant maternity (sources 2, 5 and 7)       The report from this study was disseminated at a policy seminar (2010)       attended by regional and national actors including the NHS and Home Office       (35 attendees).
Papers have appeared in Practicing Midwife and the Royal       College of Midwives Journal: these publications reach every midwife in         the UK and some overseas.
The team recommended that funding was       provided for civil society organisations to work in partnership with       maternity services.
As a result, Asirt (an organisation working with       destitute migrants) was given funding for a post in 2010 to support       pregnant migrants.
In addition the multi-agency West Midlands Strategic       Migration Partnership, who were members of the project Advisory Board,       were given a seat on the Maternity Action advisory group overseeing       training for midwives working with asylum seeking and refugee women, and       our findings helped shape the content of the course delivered to         midwives in Coventry and Birmingham (2011).
The findings support       ongoing work with the UK Border Agency (UKBA) on the revision of the       health asylum instruction.
The evidence was presented to Strategic Health       Authority maternity leads at a meeting in London 2011 and informed a         meeting in which the Department of Health requested that UKBA cease       dispersal of women in late stages of pregnancy.
The identification and       referral pathways for pregnant women who pass through hostel services in       Birmingham have been improved providing them with improved access       to maternity care (source 7).
The report and regional work on maternity       and migration have been recognised as example of best practice as part of       the Better Health for Better Integration EU project (source 2).
Members of       the research steering group delivered a presentation to a transnational       workshop organised by the South West Public Health Observatory (2011):       http://www.bhbi.eu/sites/default/files/BETTERHEALTH_broch.pdf.
In November 2012 the ESRC Festival of Social Sciences provided funds to       support 2 events with 80 midwives in conjunction with City Hospital.
The       findings and recommendations on "what midwives can do" were presented with       three voluntary organisations (ASIRT as above, Hope Projects, Bethal Doula       Project) who talked about their work.
Resulting from this action the team       were asked to send the report to the CEO of Birmingham Women's Hospital so       it could inform the ongoing review of maternity provision and to       present the findings at the House of Commons Inquiry into Asylum Support       for Families.
The findings are a key element of the report of this inquiry       (source 6).
Following the ESRC event, Professor Phillimore met with the       head of midwifery training at Birmingham City University and worked with       them to organise a conference on migrant families for midwives and health       visitors in Birmingham on 8th July 2013.
This was attended by       75 practitioners; the Migrant Maternity research formed the basis of the       keynote presentation.
