     PA promotion in ethnic minorities.
The impact of the findings of the systematic review by Babakus and       Thompson has been       immediate (paper published in December 2012, and used to inform community       activities from       January 2013 to present), and builds upon established links between       Thompson and community       groups promoting health and PA amongst ethnic minority women in Cardiff.
In particular, the       Bangladeshi Reference Group (BRG) is using the research to support       evidence-based strategies       and local engagement activities to remove barriers to PA participation       [1].
BRG is a community       group formed in 2003 that works to provide access to health and social       care assistance and       promotes PA for ethnic minority women.
This includes partnering with local       leisure centres to       provide culturally appropriate types of PA engagement, facilitating       transport to organised activities,       training women as lifeguards and creating the Playbus cr&#232;che facility that       enables women to       engage fully with community-based physical activities.
The BRG is wholly       dependent on       volunteers, donations and funds from local authority and charitable       organisations.
They have used       the results from the systematic review to inform a local survey (on-going       since January 2013)       examining barriers and enablers impacting women's abilities to engage in       both physical and social       activities.
The research has not only been crucial to informing the design       and delivery of the       survey, but is a critical piece of evidence making the case for the       existence of the BRG.
The       research has also enhanced their ability to raise funds to conduct,       analyse, and disseminate the       results of the survey to key stakeholders and decision makers including       Cardiff City Council, local       authority physical activity leads, activity-related service providers, and       religious leaders.
The BASS project resulted in the development of evidence-based guidance       for schools on       improving inclusion for this group of young people [2].
A City Launch of       the Guidance document       (Nov 2008; led by Tony Howell, Director CYPF) was attended by 45       representatives of the Muslim       Council of Britain, the National Subject Association for Physical       Education, head teachers,       teachers and city leisure staff.
The guidance was sent (Dec 2008) to all       schools in the West       Midlands region via the Birmingham City Council to signal a change to       professional standards to       promote the inclusion of Muslim Girls in PE.
Reflecting the sharing of       research with relevant       stakeholders, the National Subject Association for Physical Education held       a Seminar (May 2009)       where researchers from the University and Helen Miles from CYPF presented       on the `research-to-practice'       process exemplified in the BASS Project.
The Guidance document also formed       the basis       of a workshop with delegates from schools, higher education       representatives and Initial Teacher       Training providers.
This document is freely available from the website of       the National Dance       Teachers Association (http://www.ndta.org.uk/advice-information/Muslim-girls-and-sport/).
As of 31       July 2013, the document has had 1931 views total (1723 unique views).
PA promotion in at-risk/clinical populations.
In the Empower project, Duda sat on the Birmingham Exercise on Referral       Scheme Advisory       Board and regularly exchanged with and secured input from key stakeholders       from Birmingham       City Council and Birmingham PCTs.
A systematic training programme was       implemented (Sept       2007 &#8212; Jan 2008) with 6 Health and Fitness Advisors (HFAs) and       theory-informed information       physical activity promotion booklets were developed and delivered       throughout the programme.
Regular meetings were held with the HFAs to provide feedback/suggest       changes to the       intervention.
Of the 1683 people referred to the exercise on referral       programme during the       recruitment period, 347 (20.6%) were recruited to the study with 184 being       randomly assigned to       the intervention arm.
Results were disseminated via a report to funders       (April 2009 [3]) and a one       day meeting involving all Birmingham HFAs, Birmingham Exercise on Referral       Steering Board and       other key representatives from local PCTs (May 2009).
This report led to       specific and enduring       changes in practice in the content, behaviour change approach adopted and       assessments utilised       in the induction consultations led by the HFAs.
The report also impacted       policy, being described as       "highly influential in preventing disinvestment and decommissioning of the       EoP scheme" and with       evidence that it "helped to identify the need for free access to exercise       facilities, a wider range of       activities and on-going support, which in turn fed into the development of       the award winning       Birmingham Be Active scheme (free gym and exercise activities)."
[4,5]     The systematic review on exercise in RA patients was cited (April 2009)       by the NHS Evidence       Service [managed by the National Institute for Health and Clinical       Excellence (NICE)].
Their remit       includes `providing access to authoritative clinical and non-clinical       evidence and best practice' to       assist people in the NHS, public health and social care sectors in their       decisions by guiding them       towards `trusted high quality resources.'
The review has informed       recommendations on the       management of early RA provided by the Scottish Intercollegiate Guidelines       Network (part of NHS       Quality Improvement Scotland).
This latter impact is particularly       important given that patients with       RA have traditionally been advised by clinicians and health professionals       to reduce their levels of       physical activity.
The review also laid the bases for the European League       Against Rheumatism       (EULAR) recommendations for cardiovascular risk management in RA       arthritis, which stated that       `evaluating the effects of lifestyle modification on cardiovascular risk       was added to the future       research agenda'.
Such research work was indeed pursued in our controlled       trial of individualised       exercise training for individuals with RA, demonstrating, for the first       time, significant health and       welfare benefits not only in cardiovascular fitness, classical risk       factors (such as hypertension and       dyslipidaemia) and vascular function but also in overall well-being.
This       work has also had a more       formal impact on practice in at least some areas of the National Health       Service in the UK.
For       example, in Dudley, patients with rheumatoid arthritis are offered free       enrolment onto supervised       aerobic exercise provided by "Action Heart", traditionally a cardiac       rehabilitation centre.
This is part       of their overall care package funded by the local NHS.
Drawing on our       research, physical       activity/exercise is now firmly embedded as a component of the early       management of RA in       recommendations by EULAR, the British Society of Rheumatology and the       American College of       Rheumatology (ACR).
The National Rheumatoid Arthritis Society (NRAS) also       includes information       on the value of regular PA on their website.
[6]     The educational leaflet developed by John and colleagues has, since 2010,       been freely provided in       the routine rheumatology outpatient clinics of Dudley Group and other NHS       Trusts from June 2013       onwards.
The information contained within the leaflets is used by       rheumatologists as well as allied       health professionals.
Within the on-going PA/behaviour change trial with       RA patients, the       researchers conducted focus groups with key stakeholders to customise the       assessment tools and       gain further understanding of how RA patients view physical activity and       their reported barriers to       PA engagement.
This information, and findings from a baseline survey       completed by more than       300 RA patients on the National Rheumatoid Arthritis Society registry,       contributed to customisation       of the psychological intervention (June &#8212; August 2010).
Additionally, in       terms of impact on service       provision, 8 fitness instructors at Action Heart Dudley medical charity       were trained to deliver the       intervention and (to July 2013) 54 RA patients received the autonomy       supportive one-on-one PA       consultations.
[7] Findings will be disseminated via the NRAS website.
[6]
