     Impact has been realised via Programme Delivery of Empowering CoachingTM,       TeachingTM, and DanceTM workshops to an extensive       number and range of participants in the UK and abroad.
Within the PAPA       project specifically and in collaboration with the respective football       associations (including the PFA, FA-Norway, Hellenic FF, Real Federacion       Espanola, and UEFA), 46 tutors were trained to deliver the Empowering       Coaching&#8482; programme in England, France, Greece, Norway and Spain.
One       hundred and fifty workshops (2010-2012) have been delivered to 1367       grassroots football coaches across these 5 countries with over 13,000       participants [see source 1 below].
Further uptake (at the national level)       of the Empowering Coaching&#8482; programme is exemplified in a contract (July       2013) with the Football Association [2] to deliver workshops to Level 1       tutors, Tesco Skills Coaches, and Regional Development Managers and an       agreement with England Athletics (March 2013) to deliver the workshop to       15 youth development coaches.
An Empowering Teaching&#8482; workshop was also       delivered to 30 Welsh PE teachers in June 2012.
In dance, 5 Empowering       Dance&#8482; workshops have been delivered to 45 staff members from two major       vocational dance schools in the UK (the Royal Ballet School, Nov 2012;       Elmhurst School of Dance, Nov 2012 - Jan 2013), to 27 of the top Artistic       Directors and choreographers associated with professional dance companies       from around the world (DanceEast Rural Retreat, Jan 2013), and to 65       professional dancers from the English National Ballet.
All workshops       stimulated practitioner debate on leadership behaviours that are likely to       promote or compromise quality engagement in sport, PE and dance.
There is strong evidence of high levels of satisfaction with the service       delivered and, significantly, within the PAPA project 428 grassroots       coaches participating in the workshop indicated on a 5-point scale that       they felt they learned how to integrate the principles presented into       their practice (score = 4.34).
Impact has also been realised in term of       improved health and welfare outcomes.
For example, initial quantitative       findings across the 5 PAPA countries (controlling for baseline values,       age, and gender) have indicated that players whose coach participated in       the Empowering Coaching&#8482; workshop found the climate to be less marked by       maladaptive features and had lower intentions to dropout at the end of the       season than players whose coaches did not receive this training (R2).
Empowering climates also significantly and positively predicted enjoyment,       self-esteem and objective levels of physical activity in young footballers       (R2).
Focus groups (conducted 2010 - 2012) involving 86 English and       Spanish grassroots football coaches, who participated in the Empowering       Coaching&#8482; workshop, revealed that coaches changed what they did and said       when in interactions with their young players in order to be more       empowering [1].
In order to extend reach, details of the training programme have been       published in practitioner-centred publications.
Examples include       "Empowering Coaching: The future of dance education?"
in Dance UK News,       Issue 80, Spring 2011; "Empowering Coaching&#8482;: A critical contributor to       the future of coach education in hockey" in PUSH, 2012, 40, p 41 - 42;       "For the love of dance" in Arts Professional, Feb 2013, and publications       targeted at policy makers (EU Public Health Review, March 2012).
Social       Media has also been utilised to maximise reach regarding the significance       and potential application of the Empowering Coaching&#8482; workshops.
A website       (www.empoweringcoaching.co.uk)       has been developed with versions live in French, Greek, Norwegian and       Spanish.
In addition, Empowering Coaching&#8482; has a Facebook page and Twitter       feed, and all web-based outlets host videos specifically created to       further exploit the programme, and also highlight the results stemming       from the PAPA project.
The reach of the Empowering Coaching&#8482; programmes and related research are       contributing to strategic discussions about fundamental changes to       professional training.
Negotiations are in progress with The FA [2] and       England Athletics regarding the incorporation of the Empowering Coaching&#8482;       programme as a required element of training for all football and athletics       coaches working with young people.
A Memorandum of Understanding has been       signed with the University of Valencia [3] and contractual discussions are       underway with this and other PAPA Consortium partners, on future       exploitation of the training programme for international sport governing       bodies.
Serving as a potential dissemination outlet for future programme delivery       in this country, a Memorandum of Understanding was signed with SportsCoach       UK (April 2011)[4].
Presentations on the Empowering Coaching&#8482; programmes       and deliberations regarding future integration of this training into       coaching awards have been undertaken with a broad array of additional key       stakeholders.
This includes organisations from the UK such as Welsh       Hockey, English Hockey, Welsh Football, England Athletics, British       Gymnastics, England Cricket, Netball, Handball, Judo, Golf, British       Cycling, English Federation of Disability Sport, Battleback Disability       sports organization, COMPASS and Street Games).
Internationally, [5]       presentations have been made to Physical Education and National Governing       Bodies' coach education leads from Ireland, Mexico, Poland, Qatar (Aspire       Academy), Turkey, Taiwan (including the Deputy Minister of Health/Sport)       and Brazil (including potential academic and sport partners such as the       University of Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo State University, and the Sao Paulo       Football Club).
In evidence of even wider reach, workshops have also been       delivered to 40 child welfare/protection officers at a recent conference       of the Child Protection in Sport Unit of the National Society for the       Prevention of Cruelty to Children (NSPCC) and discussions are taking place       on how Empowering Coaching&#8482; can contribute to this organisation's mission       to end abuse of children in sport settings.
Two-year contracted work with Sport Wales (commenced May 2013; [6])       entails the development of a tailored adaptation of the existing       Empowering TeachingTM programme specifically for secondary       school PE teachers in Wales.
The workshop will be further revised based on       pilot work with 60 teachers, and 4 tutors will be trained to deliver       Empowering Teaching&#8482; to PE teachers as a form of CPD and in the planned       post-project roll out of Empowering Teaching&#8482; in Wales.
A collaborative       relationship with Dance UK [7] has been developed for further       dissemination of the workshop as CPD for dance instructors within their       Healthy Dancer Programme.
Two Dance UK staff members have already been       trained to deliver the Empowering Dance&#8482; workshop.
To provide a platform and infrastructure for continued development and       exploitation of the Empowering Coaching&#8482; programmes, a social enterprise       is being developed with the input of Alta Innovations Ltd, the       University's organisation for research/innovation [8].
