     Providing the Evidence Base for Policy Guidelines     a) Stair climbing interventions for Public Health       This pioneering research on environmental prompts for physical activity       contributed to the evidence base for policy guidelines on the use of       signage for stair climbing as a means of increasing lifestyle physical       activity at the population level.
For example in the UK, NICE Public       Health Guidance 13, 2008 recommends: `putting up signs at strategic         points to encourage them (employees) to use the stairs rather than lifts         if they can'.
Dr Eves' research contributed nine out of the twenty       three worldwide studies that formed the evidence base for this conclusion       [1].
In the UK, these guidelines were the first to identify the effects of       the environment on lifestyle physical activity.
In the USA, Dr Eves'       research contributed to both initial guidelines and the updated guidelines       in 2010 (Centres for Disease Control reviews, Kahn et al., 2002; Soler et       al., 2010: [2]).
Dr Eves' interactions with Robin Soler (head of CDC       Community Intervention Task Force in 2010) identified an error in the       CDC's updated summary of effectiveness, and changed Soler's understanding       of how prompts work and subsequent planning for implementation of policy       guidelines in community interventions [3].
Dr Eves' research also       contributed twenty three out of forty two effects to a systematic review       of effectiveness, twenty one of which were successful (Nocon et al., 2010;       [4]), a prominence in the field which contributed to the NICE (2008) and       CDC (2010) guidelines for PA engagement in the general population.
This       systematic review relied heavily on Dr Eves work for its conclusions (R3,       [4]).
b) Nudge Interventions for Public Health       To change stair climbing, Dr Eves' research uses point-of-choice prompts       which are messages displayed in the environment where a healthy choice can       be made.
These interventions, first used in 1980, are predecessors to the       recent interest in `nudge' approaches to health.
They predate the global       prominence afforded to Nudge by Thaler       and Sunstein's       book, `Nudge: Improving Decisions about Health, Wealth, and Happiness'       published in 2008 and the Behavioural Insights Team, known as the `Nudge       Unit' set-up by the Cabinet Office in July, 2010.
Dr Eves was recruited as       a consultant for the Behavioural Insight Team at the Cabinet Office       because they were proposing to use messages he developed as nudges (paper       R4 above; source [5]).
His research contributed approx 7.2% of the total       evidence base for a review on `nudge' and 45.5% of the evidence base for       physical activity nudges submitted to the Department of Health (UK) by the       Behaviour Change Unit at Cambridge (2012).
This provides further evidence       of the way in which the research has informed the evidence base for       decisions at government level.
It is premature at this stage to calculate       the hard end outcomes from this input into government decision making [6].
Influencing Physical Activity Strategies       Examples that predate the current REF period illustrate that Dr Eves was       one of the first researchers worldwide to investigate the promotion of       stair climbing and offer insights into the genesis of the impacts       reported.
Dr Eves' research provided the evidence for nine out of ten       successful stair interventions in the UK at the time of the NICE review       and is the primary source of evidence that applies this field to a UK       population.
In Catalunya (Spain), the Department of Health was developing       a lifestyle physical activity strategy and they sought advice from Dr Eves       who was working on a stair climbing intervention there with Dr Puig-Ribera       (2005).
This resulted in commissioned research, the outcomes of which       directly influenced the content and method of intervention for the       Catalunya Department of Health's PA campaigns that were launched in 2010       [7].
Dr Eves is currently advising these policy makers on a new approach       to worksite campaigns (2013-2015) to be made available throughout       Catalunya, Spain, in which stair climbing prompts are combined with       food-related prompts in canteens.
Changing practice at a regional level       Dr Eves designed and installed stair climbing interventions that changed       employers' practice in local authorities in Birmingham (2008, 2011),       Coventry (2011), Walsall (2012), Dudley (2012), Nottingham (2013) and       Worcester (2013), as well as Severn Trent (2008), the West Midlands police       (2009), Pilkingtons (2011) and the Birmingham Chamber of Commerce (2011).
A combined workforce of 6,650 was exposed to stair climbing campaigns over       this period, as well as a significant number of uncounted visitors to the       targeted buildings.
A published research paper on these workplace       interventions reported a 12.3% increase in stair climbing, demonstrating       that such campaigns can change employees' behaviour towards a       health-enhancing alternative.
This paper also prompted Unilever to request       use of Dr Eves' campaigns for their workforce nationally and       internationally.
In Nottingham, the public health department was alerted       to Dr Eves' research by academics in the national PA field.
In addition,       he was recruited by John Lloyd, the regional manager for Heart Research       UK, to offer expert comment on a planned stair climbing intervention for       use by National Car Parks Ltd (2010).
The modified campaign that was       rolled out was `very well received' by end users of the car parks in       Birmingham, Walsall, Stratford-upon-Avon and Manchester.
Use of this       campaign is currently being extended within the UK [8].
Influencing Society       More broadly, this research has been picked up by individuals who are not       directly involved in public health and the implementation of physical       activity strategies, thus leading to the potential for even wider impacts.
For example, Rob Koelewijn from KLM Health services requested a paper on       the effects of stair climbing as a means of `designing the working       environment to prevent health risks' (2008) for summary in the Dutch       Egonomics Journal (Tijdschrift voor Ergonomie); a US school requested       permission to use our stair climbing campaign (iv) in their school (2011);       Chris Hammer from a `green' architect's collective in the US used our       research (ii) to illustrate the potential for reduced carbon footprints       for lifts (2010); and a website, InformeDesign, that translates research       for use by architects and housing specialists amongst others, disseminated       a paper on potential effects of station design on stair usage.
Additionally, Dr Eves informs public debate about the benefits of stair       climbing.
He is on the British Psychological Society expert panel and is       regularly requested to comment on research in this area.
He provides       information for journalists preparing articles on stair climbing/physical       activity/weight loss (e.g., Self, 2008; Country Walking,       2008; Men's Health Magazine, 2009; Slimming World, 2012)       and has given radio interviews in the UK, Australia and the US on the       topic.
