     The research insights that support this impact case study have been       extensively disseminated to scientific audiences through traditional means       since 2004 (e.g., international conferences and peer-reviewed academic       publications).
This is the primary mechanism by which the research       informed the two major impacts as described below:     a) Impact on expert sport nutrition recommendations for athletes     Until the publication of the research insights described herein,       consensus agreement was that in order to optimise performance, endurance       athletes should consume carbohydrate during exercise at rates between       30-60 g per hour (i.e., 0.5 - 1.0 g/min).
Such a recommendation was       provided by multiple authoritative sources, including the American College       of Sport Medicine Position Stand on Nutrition and Athletic Performance       (2009) and the International Olympic Committee Consensus on Nutrition for       Sport (2004).
It was based on evidence that the utilisation of ingested       carbohydrates during exercise was limited to ~ 1 g/min, and therefore       consuming extra carbohydrate of a single transportable source would not       provide further metabolic advantages.
However, the accumulating number and       consistency of new research insights highlighted above contributed to a       fundamental change in sport nutrition guidelines recommended for athletes       performing in endurance sports and this has received endorsement at the       very highest level by being incorporated into the most recent (2010,       published in 2011) International Olympic Committee Consensus on Nutrition       for Sport.
[see corroborating sources 1-3] Specifically, International       Olympic Committee Consensus on Nutrition for Sport concludes (with       reference to endurance exercise): `As the duration of the event increases,       so does the amount of carbohydrate needed to optimise performance.
To       achieve the relatively high rates of intake (up to 90 g/h) needed to       optimise performance in events lasting more than about 3 hours, athletes       should practise consuming carbohydrate during training to develop an       individual strategy, and should make use of sports foods and drinks       containing carbohydrate combinations that will maximise absorption from       the gut and minimise gastrointestinal disturbances.'
b) Impact on the global sport nutrition food and beverage           manufacturing industry     Starting in 2007 and continuing to this day (currently 2012) the research       described in Section 2 has directly underpinned new product innovation in       the lucrative sport nutrition food and beverage manufacturing industry.
This research has impacted industry at all levels from national-level       small or medium enterprises (SMEs) through to the global fast moving       consumer goods (FMCG) industry.
For example, the UK-based companies Torq       [4] and For Goodness Shakes!
[5] both utilise the science of multiple       transportable carbohydrates in their product design and heavily use the       underpinning research in their marketing and materials.
In the case of       FMCG, in 2007 Nestl&#233; SA launched an entire range of products (the C2MAX       product range, which includes sports bars, gels and beverages deigned for       endurance athletes) which is marketed globally under their sports       nutrition brand PowerBar&#174;.
[6] The term C2MAX is derived directly from the       research undertaken at the University of Birmingham and refers to the       presence of two types of carbohydrate (i.e., C2, glucose and fructose) to       maximise (MAX) energy delivery to the body during exercise.
Therefore, the       research supporting this impact case study has been of direct benefit to       industry and the economy via its influence on innovation and new product       development within the food and beverage sector.
In addition, the       involvement of industry and in particular the marketing of new products       has facilitated the dissemination of the research to non-academic       audiences.
[6] Finally, the manufacture of products utilising the research       insights generated at the University of Birmingham enables both       recreational and serious athletes globally to optimise their endurance       performance through access to the very best research-driven nutrition       products.
