     Nolte's research has made a difference to the way in which UK and other       policy makers in various fields perceive the relationship between conflict       and religious, political and social difference in Nigeria.
On the basis of       her research, Nolte has been invited to discuss her findings with policy       makers in the UK, USA and Europe, making a difference to       development-related policy-making, the FCO and case-by-case decisions by       the Home Office.
Engagement with International Diplomatic and Policy Professionals       Questions of religious and political conflict in Nigeria are high on the       agenda of policy makers and overseas development agencies, but insightful       interpretations of what is going on at the level of everyday life are       rare.
The impact of Nolte's work is evidenced by the fact that she has       been invited on several occasions to share her findings at high-profile       events bringing together scholarly, diplomatic and policy-oriented       audiences at EU institutions in Brussels, the Ditchley Foundation, Oxford,       and the School of Advanced International Studies (SAIS), Washington, where       she presented her findings on "Religion, Politics and Governance in       Nigeria" (April 2010) to an audience of Washington-based policy-makers.
She discussed her insights on Nigerian politics and her understanding of       vigilante activities (2007, 2008, 2009) with policy-makers and diplomats       during a Conference on 1-3 October 2009 on "The Prospects for Nigeria" by       the Ditchley Foundation (see source 1 below).
Nolte was also invited to       Brussels to give a keynote lecture to the European Union Election       Observation Mission to Nigeria in March 2011.
Her "considerable expertise       and understanding of Nigeria's socio-political environment" was considered       by the organisers to "help the observers to both understand the context of       the elections and to ensure their safety during the mission (Source 2).
In       November 2012, Nolte was also invited to a briefing at the Foreign and       Commonwealth Office (FCO) to share her understanding of political styles       and alliances in Southwest Nigeria (2013) with the then High       Commissioner-elect, Dr Andrew Pocock.
Her presentation and briefing paper       assisted "[the FCO's] understanding of some of the dynamics within       opposition politics as well as some [of] the political challenges       President Jonathan is going to face" (Source 3).
Impact on Development-Related Policy-Making       Nolte's research has had a particular impact on development-related       policy-making.
A draft report on Nolte's work on the agency of women in       the OPC vigilante organization (published 2008) challenged views of women       as passive victims of civil disorder.
At the time, the director of the       Heinrich Boell Foundation Nigeria "immediately gave the submitted article       to [the organisation's] programme officer responsible for the conflict       management programme" in order to develop this aspect of the       organization's work.
He advised that it was "high time" that her research       be distributed among "international institutions" and "conflict management       practitioners."
(Source 4).
Nolte's follow-on work on "Religion, Politics       and Governance in Nigeria" (2010) contributed to research funded by a       government organisation (DfID) in 2005-2010 because it critically examined       the contributions of faith-based development organizations to development.
In response to interest from scholars, representatives of DfID and other       development practitioners, extracts from the Working Paper focusing on the       conditions most likely to support productive inter-religious activity were       later published as the Research Programme's Policy Brief No.
7 (Source 5).
In 2012, Nolte's understanding of how religious and political debates       affected wider dynamics such as the passing of Nigeria's Petroleum       Industries Bill also helped to "inform [...] policies under the FCO's       prosperity agenda" (Source 3).
Contributing to UK-based Business/ Professional Risk Analysis       Since 2011, Nolte has maintained regular contact with the West Africa Desk       of the London-based risk management firm Control Risks.
As a "valuable       contact" for the company, Nolte's "additional insights" into political       developments in Nigeria have helped the company to "improve the quality of       its analysis and opinion" (Source 2).
Supporting Refugee Decision-Making in the UK and Beyond       Based on her understanding of social, political and religious dynamics in       Nigeria, Nolte has provided regular expert advice on Nigerian cases to       charities and lawyers working to support asylum seekers and other migrants       in the UK.
She has provided formal reports to a range of international       organizations.
An individual report for the US-based Seton Hall Center for       Social Justice was considered by a US judge to "establish" a client's       claim (Source 6).
Information provided on a Nigerian organisation is cited       at length by the Immigration and Refugee Board of Canada as a basis for       its own decision-making (Source 7).
In the UK, Nolte has worked as a       Nigeria country adviser to Refugee and Migrant Justice (RMJ) between 2005       and 2010, and the Refugee Legal Centre (RLC) since 2008.
Nolte's reports       have assisted the Home Office in making appropriate case-by-case decisions       and have been praised by a judge (Source 8).
Public Engagement       The resonance of the research for the Nigerian knowledge-community was       demonstrated by the strong interest and response attracted by her book       (item 3 above) from the Nigerian public in the UK, Nigeria and elsewhere.
Attendance at the London launch on 6 October 2009, sponsored jointly by       the International African Institute and the Nigeria-based Obafemi Awolowo       Foundation, included academics, Nigerian expatriates and prominent       politicians such as Governor Gbenga Daniel (Ogun State, Nigeria), who       referred to Nolte's work as "an exceptional book" (Source 9).
The launch       of the Nigerian edition, on 28 July 2011 at the Nigerian Institute of       International Affairs (NIIA) in Lagos, attracted academics, members of the       business community, politicians and traditional rulers, including the most       senior traditional ruler of Yorubaland, HRH Oba Okunade Sijuwade II, the       Ooni of Ife.
In the Nigerian context, the impact of the book was further       illustrated by the fact that its "chief launcher," the entrepreneur Tutu       Braimo, paid over USD 6,000 for the first copy (Source 10).
The popular       interest in the book was also confirmed by several reviews in Nigerian       newspapers, with a reviewer in the Nigerian Compass arguing on 9 May 2012       that it was "outstanding" and well deserving of "the accolades it is       currently receiving among Nigerian intelligentsia" (Source 11).
