     Well into the 1990s and 2000s, scholarship on religion in the former       Soviet Union was still heavily       influenced by the legacy of Soviet `scientific atheism' and by more recent       nationalist trends.
Although universities began to offer courses in religion and to open       Religious Studies units, these       were often staffed by former lecturers of `scientific atheism,' or by       those who approached religious       phenomena through a biased nationalist perspective.
This situation stifled       the study of religion, just       at the time when religious dynamics in the region were in need of robust       and critical analysis.
Against this background, Pelkmans has contributed to the training of a       new generation of local       scholars, exposing them to cutting-edge research on religion (his own       included), introducing them       to innovative research methodologies, and mentoring them in a critical       approach to the social       sciences.
Starting in 2008, Pelkmans has worked closely with Social       Science Departments in three       Universities (in Georgia, Kyrgyzstan and Mongolia), has provided prolonged       academic and       professional guidance to eleven scholars from Kyrgyzstan, Uzbekistan,       Kazakhstan, Georgia, and       Armenia, and has given personal consultations and feedback on the research       projects and written       works of approximately fifty scholars from across the region.
He has       undertaken this work under       the aegis of the Open Society Foundations (OSF), which recruited him       because of his pioneering       research on post-Soviet religious change.
He was involved in three       specific programmes: the       Academic Fellowship Program (AFP), the Regional Seminar for Excellence in       Teaching (ReSET),       and the Central Asian and Caucasus Research and Teaching Initiative       (CARTI).
His activities and       their impact are described in more detail below.
Capacity-building with Institutions of Higher Education: Pelkmans       has worked with The American       University of Central Asia (AUCA) in Kyrgyzstan, The Tbilisi State       University in Georgia, and The       National University of Mongolia to help develop the teaching and research       profile of their Social       Science Departments, especially in the field of Anthropology.
For example,       while serving at AUCA       as an `International Scholar' between 2008 and 2013, Pelkmans assisted the       Anthropology       Department in making a radical shift in its curriculum away from its       traditional and narrow focus on       Kyrgyz folklore and towards a more critical engagement with wider and       contemporary societal       issues such as development, migration, globalization, and, importantly,       religious change [A,B].
According to Dr. Elmira Shishkaraeva, AFP Regional Manager for Central       Asia and Mongolia, "Dr.       Mathijs Pelkmans played a key role in designing, structuring and       descri[bing] the concept of `three       tracks'...1) History and Archeology, 2) Culture and Identity, and 3)       Development Studies", which       now form the structure for the department [A].
In addition, Pelkmans       helped design a new       undergraduate degree offering a wide range of courses across these three       tracks [D].
Training anthropologists: Between 2010 and 2013, Pelkmans served       as a `core faculty' member of       the Regional Seminar for Excellence in Teaching (ReSET), a three year       training programme       attended by 25 (mostly junior) lecturers from universities throughout the       former Soviet Union [E].
Participants were trained in the practice of ethnographic research, with a       thematic focus on       `Contemporary Anthropological Approaches to Religion and Secularism', for       which several of       Pelkmans's own publications [1, 2, 3, 7] were used as course material.
Pelkmans gave a total of 12       lectures, held private consultative sessions with participants on their       research and teaching       activities, and moderated a number of discussion groups.
In addition, he       delivered training       sessions on teaching skills, academic writing, and publishing.
Professor Ketevan Khutsishvili at Tbilisi State University in Georgia       observed that Pelkmans'       "lectures, seminars, and workshops were very well received because they       helped the scholars to       move ahead in their own research projects and their teaching" [F].
Some       programme participants       introduced new courses in their home universities on the Anthropology of       Religion and designed       and carried out their own research projects in this area.
Dr. Emil       Nasritdinov describes the impact       at AUCA: "Mathijs helped us to strengthen our teaching on a range of       topics in anthropology, such       as development, political anthropology, migration, and especially       religion.
Over the years he has       given my colleagues and me individual feedback on course syllabi and held       consultations to further       develop them.
In my own case, Mathijs helped me to put together the course       on development and       he provided helpful input in the course on religion.
Moreover, through       giving guest lectures (five       times in my courses), and two workshops with our faculty on teaching       practices, he gave us many       ideas for research-led teaching" [B].
Mentoring anthropologists: Pelkmans has also acted as an       International Scholar in the context of       the AFP programme [G].
The aim of this programme is to partner       International with Returning       Scholars, to enhance the latter's academic research and publication       profile and, more generally, to       increase their international exposure and reputation [H].
As       `International Scholar' for the OSF's       Central Asia Research and Training Initiative (CARTI) (2007-2009,       2011-2014), Pelkmans       provided research supervision of Ph.D. students and university lecturers       in Tashkent (Uzbekistan),       Tbilisi (Georgia), Yerevan (Armenia), and Astana (Kazakhstan).
Beyond this, Pelkmans has continued to mentor five anthropologists       working at American       University of Central Asia in Kyrgyzstan.
As a result, articles by these       scholars have been       published in such peer-reviewed journals as Ab Imperio [I] and Transnational         Social Review [J].
Pelkmans's mentoring role has been instrumental in bringing the articles       to publishable quality,       thereby enhancing the reputation and authority of the scholars involved       [B,H].
Professor Emil       Nasritdinov believes that "These types of collaboration are particularly       important in our department,       given that most of our faculty is relatively junior and developing their       skills as researchers and       writers...I believe that it is through his example, his encouragement and       his constructive criticism       for quite a few years, he is making an important contributing [sic] in       helping our department to raise       its research profile as a whole" [B].
Pelkmans was also appointed Facilitator of the Anthropology Disciplinary       Group of the AFP (2011-       2013), which involved playing a central role in linking anthropologists to       scholars elsewhere and       coordinating the content of three-day study meetings held twice a year.
In       this capacity he initiated       a collaboration between Returning Scholars in AUCA and the National       University of Mongolia by       facilitating exchanges between the two departments.
This led to a unique       collaborative writing       project on `Post-Communist Spirituality' to which each scholar is       submitting an article and which       will be submitted as a collection for a special issue of the journal Inner         Asia (co-edited by Sneath       and Pelkmans) later in 2013 [H].
According to Serhiy Zaitsev, OSF's       Regional Manager, "The role       of Dr. Pelkmans is indispensable in this process, as he regularly coaches       the scholars in rigourous       research methods, appropriate academic writing style, and effective       publication strategies.
All this       greatly contributes to local academic capacity building in general and,       more specifically, to the       seven Returning Scholars becoming reputable, internationally-known       researchers" [H].
Because of       this "productive long-term collaboration" [A], Pelkmans was asked to       support scholars writing for a       special issue on post-Soviet industrial towns in another collaboration       involving OSF, AUCA and the       Center for Independent Social Research of the Russian Federation.
Improving capacity-building programmes: In 2012 Pelkmans was asked       by the Open Society       Foundations to carry out a comprehensive evaluation of the Academic       Fellowship Program, which       had been active in 18 countries since 2004.
He was asked to outline a       strategy for how its       effectiveness could be enhanced within, and extended beyond, the regions       of the former Soviet       Union [K].
Co-authored with the former US Ambassador to Georgia and       Belarus, the evaluation       was informed by Pelkmans' own experience as an International Scholar and       included a       comprehensive set of programme benchmarks for guiding and assessing future       progress.
The       report was positively received by AFP's Academic Advisory Council, and its       recommendation for       geographic expansion are already being implemented through pilot projects       in Burma, Tunisia, and       Sierra Leone.
In addition, in 2011 Pelkmans served as `Consultant' at       OSF's `Fellows Orientation       and Research Design Workshop' of the Central Asia Research and Teaching       Initiative (CARTI),       held in Istanbul.
Overall impact: In terms of the overall impact of Pelkmans'       involvement in the former Soviet Union,       Dr. Emil Nasritdinov observed that "I think I speak also for my colleagues       when I state that the       ultimate value of Mathijs' engagement has been to intensify dialogue       between different research,       educational, and broadly scholarly traditions, and thereby to facilitate       our own efforts to develop a       discipline which is relatively new in Central Asia.
It is important that       his involvement was not       restricted to a few visits, but has been on-going for almost five years,       and will continue in the       foreseeable future.
It has been through sharing his expertise in teaching       and in research that       Mathijs has made his contribution" [B].
Clearly, these scholarly       activities do not produce       instantaneous effects that can be precisely measured; they are nonetheless       crucial to a future       generation of social scientists, who will themselves have impact on the       religious dynamics at play       in their region, e.g., through more nuanced and critically engaged       discussions of religious       phenomena in their classrooms or through rigorous empirical studies of       religious phenomena.
