     Nature and extent of the impact:       Given the persistence of widespread homophobia on most levels of Italian       society, and its overt       and covert endorsement from many quarters (Church, press, politicians,       everyday rumour-mills), it       is obviously very difficult to influence public attitudes, language and       practices.
For related reasons,       organised action for change in Italy has secured fewer changes to       legislation than elsewhere.
Yet       precisely these difficulties indicate the importance of any impact that       can be achieved through       research and related activities.
Two main avenues are open to       interventionist thinking in this area.
One involves working directly with members of the LGBTQ population in       specific locations.
The       other lies in targeting key opinion-formers and helping them better to       understand the nature of the       problems and the reasons for their persistence and, in consequence, to       develop new forms of       discourse and actions aimed at incremental change.
This case study claims       only that the research       and the social actions related to it have contributed demonstrably to what       is likely to be a very long       and slow process of re-shaping public consciousness.
It has done so in the       following ways:     a) It has supported LGBTQ community initiatives.
Ross's research (R3) has       contributed to       renewed activity in community initiatives such as the lesbian       cultural centre and housing       provision for older lesbians currently being developed by the Associazione       Desiderandae in Bari.
The 21 lesbian-identified participants in the research told her explicitly       that discussions with her       and her analysis of their experiences had inspired them to invest more       energy in the project and to       adopt a more critically-reflexive approach to the initiatives that they       are planning [see source 2       below].
One interviewee in Bari commented: `the material you are gathering       for this research will       become a useful tool for us in the future'.
Another said that `the       fact that you are here, asking us       to reflect on our project Lesbizio, has already encouraged us to       get things moving again'.
This       publication has also informed the Wikipedia article for `Imagined       Communities', thus enabling the       creation of a widely accessible online resource that pays attention       to LGBTQ rights and       cultures.
b) It has helped LGBTQ individuals to meet societal challenges and       thereby improved their well-being.
Ross's research has been widely disseminated, for example through free       public events,       using social media, and through her bilingual Italian/English blog.
The       published research has       informed the content of 6 free public talks and events in         Italian and English.
As a result, it has       impacted positively on the well-being of a variegated demographic in       several ways.
The talk that       she gave in Bologna in April 2013, on `lesbian' literature was felt to be       important both for lesbians       and women in Italy more broadly, since it galvanised groups and       individuals who feel       disenfranchised by national politics and the mainstream media [7].The blog       has had a positive       effect on some individuals' self esteem.
One follower commented: `It makes       me feel stronger         about my identity, knowing this research is happening and being       discussed'.
Ross's talks as part       of the Shout Festival of Queer Culture in Birmingham have contributed to       the success of this       initiative in improving the well-being, self-confidence, self-esteem,         health, feeling of security         and social integration of LGBTQ individuals in the Midland area.
Research on the impact of       the festival indicates that it has had a positive effect on those who       attended events, but also on       those who simply knew about them, as well as on their families, friends       and associates.
It has       enabled more transparent cultural discussion of issues that are often       treated as though they are       somehow shameful, and contributed to lowering levels of social isolation,       depression, and alcohol       use (see report Worth Every Penny, [8] below).
c) It has increased public awareness and understanding of human       rights infringements       experienced by LGBTQ individuals in Italy.
Individuals with whom Ross has       developed       relationships and shared her research since 2006 have confirmed that her       analysis has had a       positive effect on their understanding of LGBTQ cultures and       experiences in Italy, enabling them       to gain a new/different/more nuanced and theoretically-informed view.
The       following public talks       have been delivered: a discussion in Italian at the Circolo Mario Mieli, a       Rome-based LGBT       association, March 2011; a talk in Italian as part of a study day on       lesbian histories in Italy,       Florence February 2011 (webcast available online, [1]); a talk in English       as part of the Birmingham       Shout Festival, November 2011; a talk in Italian on lesbian cultural       visibility at the `Immaginaria'       cinema festival, as part of Lesbiche Fuori salone, Milan, November 2012; a       discussion in English of       a documentary on lesbian representation in the Italian media as part of       the Birmingham Shout       festival, March 2013; a talk on `lesbian' literature in Bologna, April       2013.
Ross also disseminates       her research in both English and Italian via her blog ([6]).
This       includes posts, film reviews,       reflections on her work and an opportunity for comment.
While audiences       for the talks have been       relatively small on the whole (25-150), making the research available       through the web has       increased its reach: the page featuring the webcast of the talk given in       February 2011 has had       57,874 visitors (September 2013); the blog has had 4,149 visits.
These       visitors are mostly based in       the UK or Italy, but some are based in other countries, including Japan       and Iran (statistics available       on request).Audiences and followers have commented on the lack of       available literature on this       topic and thanked Ross for opening up channels of debate: `I am finding       [the blog] a very       interesting and important project as it really does fill a big gap'       [6].
One heterosexual respondent       explained that reading the blog had helped him/her to rethink his/her         attitude towards lesbians in       relation to broader culture: `the blog is challenging my prejudice that       lesbianism = `inward-looking       culture' [6].
This remark shows how the research has deconstructed       ungrounded assumptions that       may be held by the broader population about the inward-looking character       of lesbian culture.
Responses to questionnaires for the Shout talk on `lesbian' literature       (November 2011 [4])       confirmed that audience members had learnt a great deal about lesbian       cultural representation in       Italy.
Respondents declared that they would broaden their reading         practices and seek out the         texts discussed that are available in English translation (novels       and dvds with subtitles).
They       explained that they had been inspired to reflect on how the Italian texts       relate to their own       experiences and readings from different cultures.
One attendee noted: `As       an Asian it has ignited       my interest in tracing Asian lesbian historical depictions'.
In       conversation with Ross, attendees       confirmed that they had not previously been aware of the disparity between       the legal rights and       standing of LGBTQ individuals in the UK and in Italy.
Similar comments       were made during the       discussion of the documentary that Ross chaired for Shout in March 2013.
Respondents to an       event questionnaire [5] stated that it had made them `much more aware       of the homophobia in       Italy'.
It inspired a thirst for more information: `it made me want to         research it [lesbian       representation in Italy] and find out more'.
It sparked a desire to think       in more detail about `visibility       issues and media shaping of the discourse [on lesbian identity]'.
These       events challenged       assumptions that the experiences of LGBTQ individuals are roughly       comparable across Europe       and stimulated audiences to do their own research on the subject.
d) It has generated publications and debates on the incorporation       of the term `queer' in Italian       discourses.
Ross's peer reviewed publications (2010), have led to a       discussion on the reception       and adoption of the Anglophone term `queer' in Italy.
Part of this debate       has been published as       Queer in Italia, ed Marco Pustianaz (Pisa: Edizioni ETS, 2011),       involving the participation of 21       activists and scholars.
This book is aimed at a general audience       and has been presented to the       public in Rome and other major Italian cities.
It is widely available in       bookshops and on the web.
References in the book Queer In Italia state that the project was       inspired by the special issue of       Italian Studies which Ross co-edited and by questions that she       raised (p.143).
A video of the       presentation of the book in Bologna, September 2011, is available on       YouTube and has been       viewed 236 times [3].
e) It has directly influenced the writing practice of a       contemporary Italian novelist and indirectly       her readership.
Ross's research on lesbian literature, disseminated via       talks based on her       publications (e.g.
2012a above) has impacted on a contemporary novelist,       inspiring her to rethink       her approach to lesbian cultural representation: `you have had a         positive influence on my         creative process' [7].
Specifically, this novelist is rethinking her       current project in light of Ross's       reflections on the political importance of positive visibility for lesbian       populations.
This direct       influence on cultural production will indirectly impact on the broader       readership of this novel.
