     In contrast to many arts and humanities research projects, in which       impact is undertaken after research conclusions have been reached,       Sullivan embedded cross-sector impact activity into the research process       of `Shakespeare's Global Communities'.
This meant that engagement and       interaction with stakeholders beyond traditional academic boundaries       became a crucial part of the project's data collection and analysis.
Facilitating public debate     Working closely with Dr Edmondson and the SBT, the world's leading       charity in promoting the works, life, and times of Shakespeare,       significantly expanded the wider reach of the project.
By embedding www.yearofshakespeare.com       within the SBT's existing BloggingShakespeare.com       digital platform, the project team was able to link the site to the over       1,500 readers already subscribed to the SBT's RSS blog feed and the over       5,000 followers of the SBT on Twitter and Facebook.
Sullivan, Prescott,       and Edmondson also worked with the SBT's digital partner, Misfit, Inc. 	  (misfit-inc.com), a company with       extensive experience in social media campaigns, to produce an interactive       and media-rich digital space that would appeal to users beyond academia.
The appeal of the site was reflected in the reception it received.
www.yearofshakespeare.com       launched on April 23rd 2012, Shakespeare's 448th       birthday, and by the close of the project on November 15th 2012       the homepage and the site's 131 reviews and blog posts had received more       than 37,615 hits from users in ninety-one different countries spread       across six continents, meaning that in total www.yearofshakespeare.com       averaged over 5,500 visits for each month of the World Shakespeare       Festival.
The site averaged 20 production reviews and blog posts per month       (one for each working day), written not only by the established research       network but also by readers from across the world who became involved in       the online discussion concerning Shakespeare, the Olympics, and global       culture (see source 1 below).
High-profile readers &#8212; including:       representatives from the Edinburgh International Festival; the actor and       author Ben Crystal; and The Guardian theatre reviewer Andrew       Dickson &#8212; featured the project in their Twitter feeds, commenting that it       was `full of gems &amp; well worth excavation'.
Professor Stanley Wells       drew further attention to the project in his article on the World       Shakespeare Festival for The Stage, a weekly theatre publication       with a circulation of approximately 34,000 copies per week (source 2).
Very significantly, the critical record created includes a wide range of       voices and opinions.
Alongside the reviews and blogs posted in the site       are over 270 reader comments; over 60 audio and video interviews with       Festival audience members, including ones given in British Sign Language;       and over 200 Twitter, Facebook, and blog reactions to productions linked       together through threads in Storify, which is a social media tool that       lets users create timelines or stories from diverse media content (source       1).
The plurality of this online discussion brought increased attention to       the multiple ways in which cultural value is constructed for different       user groups, illustrating the complex global dynamics at work in cultural       exchange and changing the way in which users understood Shakespeare's       value in their own culture.
In a conversation following a Swahili The       Merry Wives of Windsor at The Globe in London, an audience member       told our interviewer that s/he `didn't really know about Shakespeare       before' and that `it was nice to see a Swahili play in London' (source 3       below).
Likewise, in a response to a review of a Nigerian production of The       Winter's Tale, one reader described the pride she felt at seeing her       diasporic community represented at The Globe: `It was an amazing night.
As       an early thirties Yoruba girl, it was glorious to see so many of my       contemporaries in the audience and loving the interaction between so many       different generations.'
In response to a blog post about the Olympics       Opening Ceremony, several readers debated the cultural significance of the       speech from The Tempest that was used to open the show, noting in       particular its colonial themes: `The context of the play provides a       relevant symbolism, as topical today as any other time', one reader wrote.
`[I w]onder if the Olympic creative team meant it.'
Such exchanges       revealed the multifaceted reactions audiences were having to the World       Shakespeare Festival within the context of the global Olympic Games,       leading one reader, who later became a project blogger, to comment,       `What's most important [about the WSF] is that the questions around       Shakespeare are making an impact beyond Shakespeare.'
Preserving heritage and influencing practice     While other arts and culture websites attempted to cover as many of the       Festival's productions and events as possible &#8212; most notably The       Guardian and The Arts Desk &#8212; the geographic and temporal       scope of the Festival made this a considerable challenge (productions       occurred not just in London and Stratford-upon-Avon but also South Wales,       Newcastle, and Edinburgh).
In the end, www.yearofshakespeare.com       was the only site to document and debate all of the Festival's 74       productions and events, meaning that it has become the only complete       critical record available of Shakespeare's presence in the Olympic       celebrations.
The record remains open for contribution until 23 April       2014, at which time the SBT, which manages the official archives for the       RSC, will create a trusted digital repository of all the content and       archive it in perpetuity in their collections, which are freely accessible       to the public.
This means that this complete record of the Festival has       been created not only for the present moment, but also for the future.
Edmondson describes the project as a time capsule full of messages to       future generations, and the SBT's Collections Archivist has likewise       emphasised how the project `provides a new opportunity for theatre       audiences to have their voices preserved', since `historically, the       "public voice" has been supplied only via published reviews'.
Such an       ambition has also challenged the SBT, a major UK heritage centre, to work       with project members to create new ways of preserving culture digitally:       `The project has allowed the SBT to develop a methodology for preserving       such online content, and we have learnt lessons around rights clearance       and the need for a prompt workflow to capture data in the (often       ephemeral) online environment.
The archive is now better equipped to       capture and preserve output in this increasingly important area of digital       documentary heritage' (source 4).
In addition to helping shape new archival practices, the project has also       influenced thinking in the creative sector.
In its emphasis on the       cultivation of dialogue surrounding arts events (and in particular those       drawing on public funding), the project included arts administrators,       educators, actors, and directors in its conversations online.
The open       format of the collaborative blog allowed artists involved in the Festival       to `write back' to the reviewer if they wanted to add a different point of       view.
Jackson Doran, an actor from the American Q Brothers' hip-hop       production of Othello, participated in the online debate,       explaining how the `truncated' rehearsal period for the show led to some       of the artistic choices commented on in the project's review of it, as       well as thanking the reviewer for offering an `insightful' analysis and       `thinking about [the show] in a way I think it needs to be thought about'.
Likewise, Tim Crouch, director of the Julius Caesar-inspired I,       Cinna (The Poet), responded to the reviewer's discussion of the       educational elements embedded in the show, offering his own account of his       artistic and educational objectives.
He concluded by acknowledging the       importance of debate in these matters: `Thanks for giving me this chance       to write these things down!
', a statement that highlighted the relative       lack of dialogue usually available between theatre practitioners,       academics, and the wider public.
On a broader scale, key WSF and Cultural Olympiad producers have taken       note of the project.
Ruth Mackenzie, Director of the London 2012 Festival,       requested a copy of the final project report to help aid her own       reflection and self-evaluation, and copies were also given to Deborah Shaw       and Tom Bird, producers of the Festival at the RSC and Globe,       respectively.
This two-way exchange of professional work marks a shift in       the way academics working on Shakespeare in performance and theatre       practitioners creating Shakespeare in performance interact with and learn       from one another.
