     The impact of the research was on two key communities: (a) professional       archivists and NGO leaders with an interest in preserving the records of       NGOs so that access to their pasts can be used to shape discussions about       the present and future role of the voluntary sector; and (b).
NGOs, civil       servants and political commentators with an interest in the role of the       voluntary sector and the changing nature of democratic participation in       modern Britain.
(a) Preservation and conservation practices:       DANGO was deliberately set up with a view to promoting greater       accessibility to the histories of NGOs.
The online database created by the       project has 1,978 entries (amounting to approximately 750,000 words of       text), and is freely available at www.dango.bham.ac.uk.
The website had received over 80,000 visits (with 61,569 absolutely unique       visitors) between the launch in January 2008 and 31 July 2013,       demonstrating the demand for access to this information from the public       (particularly in the UK and USA).
In addition, this success led to several       NGOs (for example Relate, CAFOD, National Anti-Vivisection Society, and       Amnesty International (UK), Friends of the Earth and the Muslim Council of       Britain) reconsidering their own heritage policies (they contacted the       project team to receive advice on how to make a deposit).
The project team       acted as liaison point advising which archival repositories to approach,       and giving general advice on preservation and consulting with the National       Register of Archives (NRA).
Major depositions assisted by the project       include Save the Children to Birmingham's Cadbury Research Library which       consists of several hundred boxes of material which is still being       catalogued.
The project liaised with the NRA and allowed its data to be exported by       the NRA in order to update its own records.
The team advised professional       bodies on archiving policies for NGOs.
For instance, Crowson and Mckay       served on the Research Information Network and the Birmingham Voluntary       Services Council.
Hilton has assisted the Campaign for Voluntary Sector       Archives, and spoke at its launch in October 2012 at the House of Lords,       alongside other supporters such as Tristram Hunt, MP (see source 1 below       and http://www.voluntarysectorarchives.org.uk/),       and he is due to visit the Information Commission, along with the       Children's Society archivist, to advise on the importance of conserving       NGO records.
He has also helped raise general awareness of NGOs by       participating in the campaign to create an official United Nations `World       NGOs Day' and spoke at their Leadership Meeting in September 2012, hosted       by Lord Lyndon Harrison.
(b) Public and policy debate:       Impact was an integral element of the research from the start.
The       advisory committees of DANGO and the NGOs in Britain project consisted of       academics with direct links to the policy community (the historian Pat       Thane connected to the History and Policy Network and Pete Alcock of the       Third Sector Research Centre and links to the National Council of       Voluntary Organisations (NCVO)), a voluntary sector leader (Nicholas       Deakin, Chair of the Commission on the Future of the Voluntary Sector) and       a prominent former civil servant (Michael Bichard, Director of the       Institute for Government, 2008-2010).
These facilitated access to three       key impact communities:     (i) NGO sector: NGOs co-produced the research agenda       through specific events, eg: a conference at the British Academy in 2009       at which representatives of 25 NGOs (including the NCVO, the Institute for       Voluntary Action Research and the Charities Aid Foundation) were able to       influence the research; a witness seminar (`Voluntarism in the 1980s') at       the NCVO in 2009 which enabled reflections on the past by 8 sector leaders       (e.g., Stuart Etherington, CEO of NCVO) to point to lessons for the       future; and a similar event on `Environmentalism' at the IHR with       prominent attendees such as Charles Secrett (former Director, Friends of       the Earth) (source 3).
These connections made it easier to ensure that the results of the       research were fed back, stimulating further debate and dialogue.
For       instance, as a result Hilton was invited to speak at the Association of       Chief Executives of Voluntary Organisations on 8 September 2010 ahead of a       House of Lords discussion on the `Big Society' (Baroness Angela Smith       former Labour Minister for the Office of the Third Sector attended and the       CEO, Sir Stephen Bubb, subsequently blogged to the wider sector that       `history is our guide' &#8212; source 2) and to the senior policy staff of the       Big Lottery Fund (eg Roger Whinhall, Ambreen Shah) in September 2011 on       how it might fund NGOs in the future.
The research has influenced how NGOs       consider their approach to policy making: a policy officer at the RSPB       states, `it has helped shape my thinking as head of water policy and,       through discussions with colleagues, the work of the organisation more       widely' (source 4).
As testament to this, he subsequently requested Hilton       speak to the RSPB policy team on 21 November 2013 to advise on how NGOs       can navigate their relationships with both governments and their members.
In addition, the research has provided a model for future research such       that Save the Children and the Overseas Development Institute (ODI) have       become partners on a new project on the history of `non-state       humanitarianism' (source 5).
(ii) Government: With the election of the Coalition in 2010       Hilton and Crowson took advantage of the focus on the `Big Society' to       influence debates within government.
The links above resulted in an       invitation to advise the Cabinet Office Strategy Unit on the usefulness of       the concept and how it might be made to work (source 6).
They therefore       released the findings early in a briefing paper (Civic Participation         and Social Responsibility - source 7), which was sent to the       Strategy Unit ahead of the meeting.
The work contributed to an ongoing       scepticism among policy makers about the Big Society, and to alternative       state-voluntary sector connections.
To this end, Hilton joined another       AHRC project (led by Catherine Durose, University Birmingham) to advise       the Department of Communities and Local Government in 2013 in two areas       (`Redefining Service Delivery' and `Community Governance in the Context of       Decentralisation') about the policy implications of the `Connected       Communities' research programme (source 8).
At the local government level,       McKay has gone on to be a Birmingham councillor, where his work on       environmentalism facilitated his appointment as the Cabinet Member for a       Green, Safe and Smart City.
He writes `my work on the NGOs in Britain       project has fed directly into my thinking on local government's and the       Labour party's relationship with the voluntary sector... [the research] on       environmentalism now underpins my Cabinet work, driving the city's green       agenda forward'.
As a consequence of the impact in this area, Hilton was       awarded the University of Birmingham Founders' Award for Policy       Advancement in 2011.
(iii) Policy commentators: Opportunities for influencing       wider discussions were sought through social media, public discussion and       interviews for popular and professional media (e.g., for a cover feature       in the February 2012 edition of the leading sector publication, Charity         Times).
One highlight was a debate on the `Big Society' in Oxford in       2012, where Hilton shared a platform with two key politicians &#8212; Jesse       Norman (Conservative MP and author of The Big Society) and Lord       Maurice Glasman (architect of `Blue Labour') &#8212; and demonstrated the       ongoing vitality and resistance of the voluntary sector to bend to       top-down initiatives by such politicians.
Internationally, it has led to       opportunities for Continuing Professional Development for public       administrators abroad to learn about British civil society so that they       can better respond to its emergence in, particularly, China and Russia.
The first delegation was received in November 2012 consisting of 20 staff       from the Bureau of Civil Affairs of Guangzhou Municipality, Hilton       discussed with them why the public supports NGOs.
This has led to further       requests and is ongoing: for instance Hilton advised a dozen delegates of       the Russian Presidential Academy of National Economy and Public       Administration on 30 September 2013 on the same issue.
