     1) Professional development and consultancy has been a core       priority of the Centre for War       Studies since its inception, as evidenced not only through the research       outlined in section 2 above       and its long-standing focus on training current and former Armed Forces       staff through       postgraduate programmes (including the MA Air Power Studies, which in 2013       had enrolled 11       RAF officers), but also on-site battlefield studies for senior military       commanders.
As a result, CPD       is the chief mechanism through which the research conducted in the Centre       for War Studies has       achieved impact.
This has predominantly focused on two communities: a.)
military chaplains and       b.)
air force officers and professionals.
a.)
Military Chaplaincy CPD       On the basis of research in output R4 above (which is required reading for       newly commissioned       chaplains as they undertake their basic training' within the Army       Recruiting and Training Division &#8212; see       source 1 below), Snape has designed and delivered historical training       that has been       embedded in the Armed Forces Chaplaincy Centre (AFCC) course for new entry       army, air force       and navy chaplains from the UK and internationally.
Training takes the       form of a twice yearly, five-day       study tour of the Ypres Salient, and places emphasis on the importance of       historical context       (here the First World War) in the training and professional development of       Armed Forces       chaplains; for many it is the first time they have studied the period in       depth.
Ten trips took place in       the period 2008-2013, with Snape delivering the training to an average of       10 trainees each trip.
Snape's historical training has been subjected to rigorous evaluation       processes by the AFCC and       is described as `tremendously successful' by the Chief Instructor and       contributing `significantly to       the quality of life and training of student chaplains' (source 2).
Training continues, and further       study tours took place October 2013 and May 2014.
In addition, since 2008 Snape has designed and led three two-day training       courses for serving       army, Royal Navy and RAF chaplains, each attended by more than 80       participants as part of their       mandatory CPD (delivered June, September and December 2011).
These       training courses       addressed the interaction of war with British religious experience and       identity since 1700 in order to       help chaplains put their professional experiences into a broader       historical and cultural context.
Snape also went on to contribute the historical content of a five-day       training course for senior army       chaplains held in Malta, in December 2013.
According to the Army       Recruiting and Training       Division, Snape's `contribution and impact to date have been hugely       significant.'
(source 1).
In 2013 Snape also began assisting the Chaplain-General in the development         of a new form of         moral values training for the army, involving a March 2013       conference of thirty-five of the army's       most senior chaplains.
b.)
Air Force Officers and Professionals       Gray's work has fed directly into professional training via the MA Air       Power Studies mentioned       above.
In addition, in Autumn 2011, Gray delivered seminars for the French       Air Force at the       Centre for Aerospace Strategic Studies.
He presented to a multinational       audience of French,       American and other NATO senior officers (an invited audience of 50+ drawn       from senior ranks in       the US, UK and France and consisting of policy makers and air power       planners) in Paris in       December 2011.
The seminars came from the UK and French governments'       desire, expressed in       the 2010 Strategic Defence and Security Review, to seek much closer       defence relations, and the       paper provided a foundation for future thinking on the problematic issues       surrounding integration of       French air power into coalitions of choice and NATO.
The French Air Force       welcomed the       challenge to their thinking offered by Gray's input (source 3).
2) More broadly, Snape and Gray have contributed to professional       development by facilitating         military professionals' access to research via directing and       presenting to relevant professional       conferences.
This has the additional impact of stimulating policy         debate among the military       communities.
In conjunction with the Armed Forces Chaplaincy Centre, Snape organises       and directs an ongoing       series of international training conferences on religion and war that have       significant implications for       chaplaincy policy.
Established in 2009 by the Defence Academy of the       United Kingdom, four of       these `Amport House Conferences' have been held to date (June 2009, June       2011, June 2012,       July 2013) and have been attended by around one hundred academics and       Armed Forces       chaplains, including an increasing number of US chaplains.
These       conferences serve as three-day       forums in which scholars and chaplains deepen their understanding of         religion and war by       sharing, respectively, their academic research and their first-hand       experiences and insights       (source 1).
Since his appointment in 2008 Gray has presented research findings at       over a dozen (on average       three per year) Heads of Air Forces conferences (UK, Australia, Baltic       countries, NATO/European       Defence Agency, RAeS), all of which have two primary functions: to educate       their officer cadre on       key thinking on contemporary air power debates through expert speakers;       and to utilise that       thinking to influence the policy formulation process.
Audiences have       numbered between 85 and       350 participants, comprising: senior members of the Armed Forces of the       host nation; chiefs of air       forces from many other countries; the attach&#233; community as well as a large       tranche of staff       officers; press; and speaking academics.
The conferences are explicitly       conceived as forums in       which the latest research is used to inform training and policy.
This is       typified by a 2013       conference at the RAAF Air Power Development Centre in Canberra, to which       Gray was invited to       return to Australia (having presented on the Leadership Challenges facing       air forces in an age of       austerity in 2011) to speak in order to `highlight the important       meta-trends in the use of military       force' and thereby afford `fresh insight into the forces and factors that       have shaped air power       development to date and may shape it yet in the years ahead' (source 4).
3) In addition to promoting policy debate within the Armed Forces,       research has contributed to         national and international policy debate on a number of occasions.
Gray's research in output       R3 provided the requisite academic rigour for the expert evidence provided       by the Royal       Aeronautical Society (RAeS) to the House of Commons Select Committee on       Defence in       preparation for the Strategic Defence and Security Review (submitted       August 2010) (source 5).
The same applied to the specialist evidence to the same committee that the       RAeS submitted on       drones and their legality in August 2013.
According to the Head of       Research at the RAeS, `the       combination of Dr Gray's research, writing and briefings has had a       significant on policy formulation       in Government, the Armed Forces and in the Corporate world' (source 6).
Gray's research in output R2 had an important influence on the Select       Committee's deliberations       as the United Nations imposed a no-fly zone over Libya under UNSCR 1973 in       2011.
This was       achieved via both formal workshops held by individual members, and       informal contacts who had       sought Gray's professional opinion, and culminated in an invited article       by Gray published in The         House Magazine in March 2011 (source 7).
Demonstrating the ongoing nature of these relationships, Gray will be       serving on a one year Policy       Commission launched on 23 Sept. 2013 at the Labour Party Conference in       Brighton; it will       investigate the implications for policy makers of warfare becoming more       remote, in particular       through increasing use of drones.
