     The impact from the research detailed above is in the area of cultural         life; the creation of new       knowledge and interpretation about cultural capital in the form of the       SBT's buildings and       collections to enrich and expand the lives, imaginations and sensibilities       of individuals and groups       in the UK and internationally.
These individuals and groups include:     a) professionals in the museums and heritage sector     b) the 805,000 annual visitors to the SBT properties in       Stratford-upon-Avon including UK and       international tourists (SBT Annual Report for 2011).
c) the wider global public of individuals interested in Shakespeare's       work, life and times who       visit the SBT's online resources     Some of this impact crosses into the area of economic prosperity       because applying and       transferring the insights and knowledge gained from research on SBT's       collections has economic       benefit in supporting tourism.
&#8226; Interpreting cultural heritage for audiences external to the         academy     The explicit purpose of the partnership described in this case study is       to interpret cultural heritage       for audiences external to the academy (see source 1 below).
These       audiences can be defined       firstly as museum/heritage professionals and secondly as an international       public interested in       Shakespeare and his period of history.
The Shakespeare Birthplace Trust       [http://www.shakespeare.org.uk/home.html]       is a major independent charity with responsibility for       five significant Shakespeare heritage sites in Stratford-upon Avon and       holds the world's largest       Shakespeare-related museum and archives open to the public.
From 2007       Hamling has been       working in partnership with SBT to embed research within their operations.
Prior to this       partnership, the 700 early modern artefacts in the SBT museum collection       were little understood or       utilised in relation to the SBT's strategic development; the majority of       the collection was in storage       with incomplete or outdated object history files.
Members of the public       had very limited access to       the physical artefacts or information about the extent or detail of the       holdings.
Hamling and SBT       identified the need for a sustained project to research, document and       interpret their collections to       respond to recent developments in academic research as well as shifting       ideas about the       presentation of cultural heritage.
In October 2010 Hamling was awarded a       three-year AHRC       Collaborative Doctorate to formalise this process of knowledge exchange       and inform exciting new       interpretation for visitors to the SBT properties, along with new online       resources and publications.
Peter Hewitt was appointed as Doctoral Researcher working under the       supervision of Hamling and       Head of Collections and Interpretation at SBT.
During the period of the       award Hewitt examined and       documented over 100 objects in the SBT collection and produced a       comprehensive `creative       catalogue' of information and analysis used by SBT staff to inform its       rolling programme of physical       displays, educational events and public engagement projects.
Hamling and       Hewitt have delivered       public talks based on their research to raise awareness of the collection       (Hamling in August 2009,       evening lecture, audience approx 50; Hewitt in January 2011, a `Friends'       event with 18       participants).
Documented feedback in response to the Friends event       indicated 100% approval and       praised the opportunity to see and learn about the treasures held in the       collection (source 2).
Hewitt has contributed articles to the SBT Newsletter, circulated to 700       people worldwide including       America, Japan, China, Europe.
In addition Hamling, Hewitt and three other doctoral students working       under Hamling's       supervision have produced a new on-line resource interpreting objects in       the SBT collection,       `Shakespeare in 100 Objects' [www.findingshakespeare.co.uk]       to engage new audiences and       extend the reach of this interpretation beyond groups able to visit in       person.
The reach of this       dedicated series of blogs is indicated by the average pageviews of between       800 and 900 per       month.
Comments posted on the site indicate the transformative effect of       the blog to enrich       understanding, for example: "It's interesting that the material things       could represent a belief!
I've       never thought about it like that" as well as its role in extending       interest to inform interested       individuals worldwide: "I live in Ohio, USA and have never been to England       to see all this for       myself..." (source 3).
As the Access and Interpretation Co-ordinator at       SBT stated, "conversations       about the objects are being generated, for example a school from Liski in       Russia comment       frequently to compare the `100 Object' posts to their own material       culture" (source 4).
Comments in       response to Dr Hamling's post on 6/7/12 evidence its integration within       educational programmes:       "Studying project `Shakespeare's world in 100 objects' and watching these       objects you are able to       feel the spirit of Shakespeare works deeply and keenly" (posted by a pupil       from `Liski', Russia) and       "I look forward to learning about everyday life in this time period       through your blog.
I will be passing       this link onto the rhetoric school faculty at my classical school" (source       3).
The information       presented through the blogs has been used to inform display panels in the       SBT properties and an       educational programme of workshops in 2013 as well as strategic       development going forward.
&#8226; Influencing the methods and ideas of professionals in the museum         sector and       Helping museum and heritage professionals adapt to changing attitudes         and         expectations     This project has been successful in its aim to contribute to museums       practice and has significantly       changed the culture at SBT in approaching the resource of their       collections; it has created new       resources to enhance knowledge among staff in several departments       (Collections and       Interpretation; Learning; Education) enabling them to understand, reclaim       and exploit their       buildings and object collections alongside various strategies to invest in       digital technologies.
Evidence of this impact is indicated by testimonials from SBT staff; the       SBT Head of Collections       commented: "SBT as an organisation has benefited considerably from       Hamling's research input.
Her involvement in our operations has not only contributed new knowledge       to inform our ongoing       strategy and programme but has brought about a sea change in the use of       our collections...As a       result, these collections are now reaching and engaging a variety of       constituencies within the wider       public to enhance their experience, appreciation and understanding of       Shakespearean heritage"       (source 5).
The project with SBT forms part of Hamling's wider activities in       strengthening links between       academics in the humanities and museum professionals in order to inform       innovative new       directions for the interpretation and display of early modern buildings,       interiors and objects.
She is       CI for the AHRC research network: Ways of Seeing the English Domestic         Interior, 1500-1700: the         case of decorative textiles (2012-13) [http://www.kent.ac.uk/mems/domestic%20interior.html]       (detailed in section 2 above).
The collaborative project with SBT is a       test case within this wider       network in addressing the big issues facing heritage organisations in       moving away from the       traditional `social history display' in the presentation of historic       buildings and interiors.
The insights       gained through the project's re-interpretation of the SBT's collections       are disseminated through the       activities of this wider network, including workshops and the project       website, to inform and benefit       other individuals in the museums and heritage sector in approaching and       interpreting their own       collections of culturally significant objects.
&#8226; Developing stimuli to tourism and contributing to the quality of         the tourist         experience     The SBT is a core part of the tourist experience in Stratford-upon-Avon,       with 805,000 UK and       international visitors in 2011.
The quality of this tourist experience has       been improved through the       enhanced knowledge of SBT staff about their collections, which informs       presentation and       interpretation within the properties (source 2).
SBT's activities also       have a reach way beyond direct       contact with visitors; for example, the national and international media       coverage of the `Dig for       Shakespeare' archaeological project at New Place, which featured on BBC1       National Treasures       Live and C4's Time Team in 2012.
The project serves as stimulus to tourism       in providing       underpinning research to inform SBT's approach, by raising its profile as       an organisation and by       facilitating remote access to information about its collections through       the on-line series of blogs       `Shakespeare's world in 100 Objects' and the `Eye Shakespeare' iPhone App       (source 6).
Both       support remote and physical access to knowledge about collections to       enhance and extend the       nature of visitor experience.
&#8226; Contributing to innovation and entrepreneurial activity by         informing the development         of a new product     Hamling acted as research consultant for `Eye Shakespeare', an innovative       new iPhone application       launched in 2012.
The app makes artefacts held by the SBT available to       users in digital form and       includes in the second version an augmented reality 3D computer model of       Shakespeare's lost       house at New Place.
The form and appearance of the model is informed by       Hamling's expertise on       early modern domestic buildings, including research specifically on New       Place delivered as a       lecture at the Shakespeare Institute in October 2011.
&#8226; Providing expert advice and engaging with SBT as an independent         charity to         influence their activities     In addition to the funded collaborative partnership described here,       Hamling has provided ongoing       expert advice on the Shakespeare houses including consultation on plans       towards a re-display of       the Birthplace in 2011, as a member of the advisory board for the `Dig for       Shakespeare'       archaeological project at New Place and as an advisor for the concept and       scope of the New Place       re-presentation project, 2016.
The process of knowledge exchange       formalised through the AHRC       Collaborative Doctorate provided a foundation and impetus for associated       projects, such as a joint       research appointment between the Shakespeare Institute and SBT (David       Hopes, appointed 2011)       to develop digital access to the SBT collections.
In February 2012 SBT       launched a `creative       digitisation' project to select parts of the SBT collection and bring       these items to life using digital       images, video recordings, audio and augmented reality activities.
This       project is informed directly       by Hamling and Hewitt's knowledge of the object collections; they have       contributed advice in the       selection process to influence the nature of items made accessible in       digital form which will benefit       a range of audiences beyond the academy in the future.
