     Dr. Esmonde Cleary was approached by The National Trust in 2010 to       contribute to the       development of the Chedworth Roman villa through the undertaking of the       research detailed       above.
During the period of the research (October 2010 - June 2011),       Esmonde Cleary was fully       integrated into the structures put in place by The National Trust under       the `Chedworth Revealed'       project in order to design, outfit and interpret the site of Chedworth       Roman villa within the context       of the Heritage Lottery Fund cover-building.
In particular he was a member       of and expert adviser to       the: Interpretation Team; Archaeology, Archives and Conservation Board; as       well as to the       commercial contractors (Furneaux Stewart) for undertaking the work.
Initially, therefore, impact       was upon the methods and ideas of the professionals with whom he worked.
Insights from the       research project conducted by Esmonde Cleary at all times informed the       choices made about how       to present the site to the visiting public [see source 1 below].
These       included:            The basic concept of `The Golden Age of Roman Britain'       The idea that this should challenge popular stereotypes of the Roman         period       The concept of the multi-media presentation as a weekend `house party'       The characters to be involved in this presentation, their social         standing, their attitudes, their         dress, food etc.
How such characters could help explain why the villa was the way it         was (lay-out, use of         rooms, d&#233;cor, social rituals etc.).
Such considerations also informed the production of the new site       guidebook [source 2], the new       signage at the site, the creation of a series of artist's reconstructions       of the villa and or parts of the       villa, which in turn were used in the new displays and the guidebook in       order to give a common       `message' and visual language across the various forms of presentation to       visitors.
During the building and development process, impact was also upon The       National Trust itself.
The       project was run within the context of the organisation's mission to inform       the visitors to its       properties, such as Chedworth, with the results of up-to-date academic       research appropriately       presented.
This meant that the various outputs described above, and also       including the History       Press book (output R1 above), were created with one or more of The       National Trust's market       segments (defined by criteria such as age, purpose of visit etc.)
clearly       in view.
The overall aim of       the mission was to optimise the `visitor experience' and to maximise the       number of different       segments addressed.
The success of this in the new presentation and the       centrality of academic       research-derived advice has made Chedworth a model for other National       Trust properties as they       come to be upgraded.
Since the reopening of the Chedworth site in April 2012, Esmonde Cleary's       research has made a       significant contribution to the quality of the visitor experience at       Chedworth.
The new presentation       of the site is much more comprehensive, varied and up-to-date than the       previous presentation,       providing the visiting public with a much richer suite of information and       stimuli to draw upon.
Visitor       numbers increased from 32,401 in 2011-2012, to 78,961 in 2012-2013, after       the reopening [source       3].
This increase in visitor numbers has been matched by the biggest       increase in VE (the National       Trust's visitor satisfaction score) experienced for any National Trust       property, from 32% in 2011-2012,       to 64% in 2012-2013 (with the score at 66% for 2013-2014) [source 3].
In       addition, the       guidebook (authored by Esmonde Cleary and providing a contextualisation       and digest of the       research presented in greater detail in the History Press book) registered       onsite sales of 2065 in       the period from April 2012 - July 2013.
Renewed interest in the site       following the re-opening also       resulted in an increase in volunteers at the site over the same time       period from 5 to 46 (collectively       contributing a total of 5514 hours).
Feedback from volunteers revealed       that most were attracted to       working at Chedworth because of the re-interpretation and presentation       [source 3].
In summary, Esmonde Cleary's research into Chedworth Roman villa has had       an impact upon the       ideas and methods of those professionals working on the redesign and       development of the site, by       providing them with accurate and relevant historical input.
The wider       impact of this is upon       National Trust policy, and will be upon future developments within the       National Trust, where       academic research will now form a key element of design and presentation.
Visitor numbers,       guidebook sales and satisfaction ratings since the reopening of Chedworth       with the new content       and presentation, provide clear indication that tourism has also been       stimulated and the visitor       experience has improved as a result of Esmonde Cleary's involvement.
