     The impact of Brubaker's expertise on Byzantine icons and iconoclasm is       evident from the content       of trade publications directed at the museum-going public (4D below), the       translation of her 2012       book into Italian to serve as a set text in the medieval history       curriculum at five Italian universities       (details in E below), and her impact on museums and the practice of museum       professionals, in       particular the 2006 invitation to sit on the advisory board for the 2008       exhibition `Byzantium' at the       Royal Academy; the 2009 invitation from Harvard to organise a colloquium       on Iconoclasms; and,       most importantly in this context, from her invitation to a series of       consultative meetings at Tate       Britain in 2010 to discuss its exhibition on Iconoclasm, Art under         Attack (opened 30.09.13).
This, in       turn, led to Tate's inclusion as a participating institution (along with       the University of Notre Dame in       Indiana USA) in the AHRC Networking application, and to Brubaker's       inclusion in the full panoply       of educational events associated with the exhibition &#8212; both those aimed at       schoolchildren and       those aimed at the adult general public &#8212; sponsored by Tate (impact       occurring after July 2013).
A.
From academic publications to the Iconoclasms Network       Byzantium is key to any discussion of iconoclasm because the word       `iconoclasm' was coined to       describe the debates about the validity of religious portraiture that       defined eighth- and ninth-century       Byzantium.
Brubaker's expertise on Byzantine icons and iconoclasm       underpinned her role       as PI for the AHRC award that funded the Iconoclasms Network.
She led all       Network discussions,       and all 16 members of the Network read and discussed the short version of       Brubaker and Haldon       2011 (R4 above) or her chapter on `Icons and Iconomachy' in the Blackwells       Companion to         Byzantium; her expertise thus formed a core component of subsequent       discussion &#8212; the       `backbone' of the Network.
B.
Impact on exhibition       Following Brubaker's initial consultative meetings at Tate Britain, the       first meeting of the Network,       hosted by Tate Britain in September 2011, brainstormed and drew up a       wish-list of objects to be       included in the exhibition; the second meeting (hosted by Notre Dame in       America in September       2012) discussed the `hang' (how the pictures and objects were to be       arranged in the gallery       spaces) and all participants critiqued the near final drafts of each       other's chapters in the `popular'       book that accompanied the exhibition, Striking Images, which was       entirely written by Network       members and appeared in time for the third Network meeting, held at Tate       Britain in September       2013.
The book launch for Striking Images, introduced by the       Director of Tate Britain (Dr Penelope       Curtis), occurred at Tate Britain on the night the exhibition opened, with       full press coverage.
The       final chapter, written by the two curators of the exhibition and       specifically about the exhibition itself,       demonstrates the importance of the Network meetings to the exhibition:       `The [Iconoclasm]       Networks constituted the first strategy for a comparative, cross       disciplinary and cross sector study       of "iconoclasms" ....
The [Iconoclasm Network's] workshops conceptually       anchored the       development of the exhibition Art under Attack, and provided a       range of theoretical models that       shaped the curatorial approach to British iconoclasm' (see source 1       below).
As another member of       the Network wrote after viewing the exhibition: `the main thing that       struck me was how much the       show is a show-and-tell version of [the Network's] new approach to       iconoclasm.'
C. Impact on museum professional practice       The Iconoclasms Network has 16 members, 10 from the UK/EU and 6 from North       America; 9 are       established scholars; 3 are postgraduate researchers; 4 are museum       professionals from Tate       Modern, Tate Britain, Birmingham Museums Trust, and The Fruitmarket       Gallery in Edinburgh.
In       addition to direct impact on the exhibition Art under Attack at       Tate Britain, the Network had lasting       impact on museum practice.
As described by one of the museum       professionals: `My participation       in the [Iconoclasms] Network has made a significant contribution to my own       professional       development.
As a museum and conservation professional, the experience has       encouraged me to       consider the research agenda for my organisation, its aims and how it is       structured...
I am       presently working to establish a research group made up of staff from       across the museum to test       how we develop and deliver research and this is a direct result of my       participation in the       Iconoclasms Network'.
He later wrote: `My experience with the group has       changed the way I look       at the world.
While I may have been aware of this lens of iconoclasm on       the periphery of my vision       when I joined the group [the Network has] helped to open up my aperture to       this view of the world.
I have always been struck by the power afforded the curator or creator in       filling the public space of       the gallery.
It is an opportunity that is easily wasted and frittered away       with big statements and little       substance which is an obvious trap when dealing with this subject.
[Art         under Attack has] avoided       the bear trap and grasped the opportunity to create something that is       challenging, original and       engaging which by my count is three out of three' (source 2).
D. Impact on museum publications aimed at the general public       The British Museum `popular' book Icons 2007 (aimed at the general       public rather than specialists       &#8212; source 3) omits the hitherto blanket assertion that icons were windows       to the holy from the       beginning, and instead adopts the new interpretation developed in Brubaker       (Brubaker 1989; R1       and R2) that this was part of a historical process that peaked in the late       seventh century.
There       are no footnotes in this booklet, but the recommended reading (p. 138)       omits the hitherto classic       article espousing the `old' interpretation (E Kitzinger 1954: `The cult of       images in the age before       Iconoclasm', Dumbarton Oaks Papers 8 , 85-150) and instead lists       Brubaker and Haldon 2001       (R2).
E. Impact on the history curriculum in Italian HEIs       Brubaker 2012 (R4) &#8212; the short version of Brubaker and Haldon 2011 &#8212; was       translated into Italian       by Viella, a press specialising in history publications.
Cecilia       Palombelli, director of the press,       explained: `We are translating Professor Brubaker's Inventing         Byzantine Iconoclasm due to       requests for an introductory book about Byzantine iconoclasm by colleagues       at five universities to       use as a set text for their medieval history courses.... We expect that       other universities will also       pick this up, and our experience is that there is a wide public interest       in Italy for books of this kind.
Professor Brubaker is of course well known to all Byzantinists in Italy,       and they are anxious to have       her research available for their students' (source 4).
