     Influencing the next generation of Pentecostal practitioners, leaders         and lay-persons       An Introduction to Pentecostalism has sold over 6,000 copies       worldwide (the majority since 2008; a       second edition is due in 2014) and, owing to its impact in South America       and East Asia, it is       available in Spanish (since 2007) and Korean (in progress) translations.
This is the first       comprehensive textbook on Pentecostalism to be published from an       international perspective, and       it remains the leading text read by non-academic audiences, and prescribed       in seminaries and       universities worldwide.
In 2013, the senior pastor of the Yoido Full       Gospel Church, which has a       membership of over 1 million people, observed that `Anderson's prominent       book, An Introduction to         Pentecostalism, is indeed a must-read not only for scholars but also       for pastors and interested lay       leaders', and reported that `readers of Dr. Anderson's book have contacted       my church from all       around the world with various comments and questions', and that Anderson's       `creative insights in       An Introduction to Pentecostalism have helped Yoido Full Gospel       Church specify its strengths and       weaknesses' (see corroborating source 1).
These reactions attest       impressively to the       attractiveness to church leaders and members of Anderson's revision of the       origins of       Pentecostalism, and the desire of huge numbers of Pentecostal Christians       to hear more about       them.
On the basis of his published research, and particularly An         Introduction to Pentecostalism (2004),       Anderson has been invited to speak in 23 countries on five continents.
He       has lectured to church       congregations, often of considerable size, and also addressed       consultations for church leaders, lay       persons and seminary groups around the world.
In both his public lectures       and consultation       addresses he has advanced his multiple centre argument for the origins of       Pentecostalism, and the       global perspective of the phenomenon.
He continues to influence the       direction of thinking in       churches and seminaries through his involvement with the individuals,       churches and organisations       he has encountered.
Examples include the following:     a) Every year since 2008 Anderson has been invited to the Ecumenical       Institute at Bossey, an       international centre of the World Council of Churches in Geneva for       encounter, dialogue and       formation, to deliver annual guest lectures to Pentecostal and other       church practitioners from six       continents.
b) Anderson's post-colonial views about the origins of Pentecostalism       have readily found       recognition among influential church organisations in non-Western       countries.
In April 2008, he       spoke about his distinctive global Pentecostal theology and       multiple-origin history at five separate       regional Easter convention meetings in various parts of Ghana for the       Church of Pentecost, the       largest denomination in Ghana, with audiences totalling about 7,000.
In       November 2009, he was       guest speaker at an immense gathering of 35,000 Indian Pentecostals at the       Filadelfia Bible       College, Rajasthan (source 2).
He has had a similar influence on the       leaders of churches and       seminaries in the Philippines and in Ecuador (details are given in the       accounts below).
Influencing teaching and curriculum design in training institutions         and seminaries       The most focused impact of Anderson's work on non-academic audiences has       been through its       influence on teaching and curriculum design at theological training       institutions in Ghana, India, the       Philippines and Ecuador, and on attitudes of pastors connected with them.
This influence has been       exerted both through Anderson's publications and through his personal       visits as expert consultant.
Since 2008, students in these institutions who are training for ministry       (after five years these now       number in their thousands), mainly among Pentecostal church congregations,       have followed       courses which enshrine Anderson's principles: that Pentecostalism       originated in many different       places as local phenomena, rather than as an export from the USA; that it       bears specific       characteristics in different locations; and that it frequently       incorporates assimilated forms of pre-existing       religious beliefs and practices.
Pastors connected with the institutions       have also been       influenced in their understandings of the origins of Pentecostal movements       in their regions both by       Anderson's publications and by the lectures he has delivered there.
The       net result is increased       confidence that the forms of Pentecostalism practised in specific       locations have their own       authenticity, and that they should continue to develop along their own       lines rather than conform to       foreign models.
Anderson has had close connections with a number of theological colleges       in various parts of the       world.
Among them is Pentecost University College, Accra, Ghana, which was       founded by the       Chair of the Church of Pentecost and President of the Ghana Pentecostal       and Charismatic       Council, the largest denomination in Ghana.
Anderson visited the College       in April 2008 soon after       its foundation, and advised the newly-appointed staff on curriculum       design.
One of those who       benefited was the Chair himself, who reports that Anderson's research       influenced his design of a       new course.
Furthermore, `This course is taught to all Church of Pentecost       ministers in training.
The course has also been approved by the Ghana National Accreditation       Board and has become a       major course for the BA Theology degree held at the Pentecost University       College in Accra (source       3).
Another institution with which Anderson has had close ties is Filadelfia       Bible College, Rajasthan,       India, which educates mainly `tribal' Christians in church leadership.
Here, Anderson worked with       the staff on curriculum development in November 2009.
The College       Principal explains that he       `helped our colleagues to develop a "Pentecostal cognitive structure" in       their academic pursuit       without losing their "Pentecostal spirituality".
... As a result, a new       generation of leaders who are       prepared in the Filadelfia Bible College are trained from a global       Pentecostal perspective to       treasure our particular Indian heritage and history' (source 2).
Anderson has also worked with staff at Asia Pacific Theological Seminary,       Baguio City, Philippines,       `a cooperative ministry of the Assemblies of God national churches of       Asia, Pacific Oceania, and       the Assemblies of God World Missions-USA'.
The on-going impact of his       influence stemmed from       the Fourteenth William Menzies Lectures that he delivered in February       13-17, 2006, to an       audience of about 200 people including local pastors, teachers from other       theological institutions,       ministers from other parts of the Philippines and interested lay people.
A       recent faculty member       indicates that `during and after' these lectures, Anderson's input had       profound effects, in the form       of new confidence in local versions of Pentecostalism among pastors and       also new interest in local       Pentecostal history.
He continues: `Several of those who attended Prof.       Anderson's lectures and       became acquainted with his books [were challenged to] look at their       curriculum, particularly the       Pentecostal studies.'
Moreover, `The comments from Filipinos and Asians in       particular are       consistent.
They appreciate the information that they were getting from       the lectures that basically       decentralizes the North American Pentecostal experience as the paradigm       and the source of the       mighty movement of the Holy Spirit.
...
There is that sense of growing       confidence and clear       realization that the expressions and forms of their Christian faith are       not only due to the influence       of Western Christianity.'
Finally, he suggests that Anderson's influence       has extended into the wider       Pentecostal communities: `the books that he has written already reached       the Asian Pentecostal       congregations through the ministers of the gospel that read them' (source       4).
A fourth example of this profound influence is SEMISUD, Seminario       Sudamericano, Quito,       Ecuador, which trains church leaders.
In September 2011, Anderson gave a       series of lectures to       students, all practising Pentecostal ministers, from eight different Latin       American countries, and       also advised staff on the curriculum.
SEMISUD's President comments:       `During the said lectures       there were representatives of 18 countries of Latin America in the       classroom.
Most of them were       pastors that have shown great deal of success in their Christian       ministry'.
His overall assessment       was that `[i]t was an inspirational and educational moment for the life       and ministry of the       Pentecostal leaders who attended the lectures' (source 5).
These wide-ranging examples give clear evidence of Anderson's unrivalled       influence among       Pentecostal church leaders in many parts of the world, and the ready       response his ideas have met.
Influenced by his mould-breaking research into the origins of charismatic       manifestations in various       locations, local congregations and seminarians have achieved new       understanding and new       confidence.
The path from his historical and theological teachings to       fresh expressions of religious       faith is clear, and their impact is both wide and deep.
