     Felderhof has been a member of Birmingham's Standing Advisory Council on       Religious Education       (SACRE) since 1982.
In consideration of his distinctive contributions to       the debate about RE as       outlined above, in 2005 he was invited to draft the new Agreed         Syllabus for Religious Education         for Birmingham City Council, the largest education authority in the       country.
The work on this       involved producing a text on religious education in schools from early       years to secondary level (see       source 1 below), steering it through a scrutiny committee and sessions of       the Birmingham Agreed       Syllabus Conference, consulting regularly with teachers and educators       across the city, and briefing       the Birmingham Faith Leaders' Group.
Felderhof was instrumental in       ensuring that everyone       affected by the syllabus, including members of nine different faith groups       and different departments       of the City Council, accepted and associated themselves with it.
This intensive process resulted in the adoption of the syllabus       by Birmingham City Council in       June 2007 (source 2), and its implementation throughout the Birmingham       Education Authority       area.
By 2012 an impressive 385 primary and secondary schools were       teaching it, together with       a number of early years education providers.
In addition it was adopted         by Birmingham Diocese       for use in its church schools, and also by Nishkam primary, a Sikh         school in Handsworth, where it       is at the heart of the educational philosophy (source 3).
This means that       since the syllabus was       introduced it has reached literally thousands of young people in the       Birmingham area, meaning       that Felderhof's distinctive insights into the nature of RE, enshrined in       the Agreed Syllabus with the       24 dispositions prominently included, have wide and deep effects on many       young and developing       lives.
This is the only RE Syllabus constructed along these lines         currently available in the         UK.
Faith leaders in Birmingham readily endorsed the syllabus and gave       it their full support, as was       vividly demonstrated when the Anglican Bishop of Birmingham, David       Urquhart, wrote to       government ministers in 2009 to commend it in place of the government's       draft guidance on the       Non-Statutory National Framework for Religious Education, 2004 (source 4).
In response, Jill       Loosely, Deputy Director of the Curriculum Policy Division in the       Department for Education, visited       Birmingham in September 2011 to find out more, while Nick Gibb MP,       Minister of State for       Schools, planned to come on 2 October 2012 (a cabinet reshuffle prevented       this).
The City Council gave substantial backing to the Syllabus through       an on-going budget for its       implementation to SACRE.
First allocated from 2011, this budget funds a       website for teachers       which sets out the rationale and aims of the syllabus, and provides       schemes of work, lesson plans,       films of good classroom practice, and other resources (sources 5 and 6).
The Syllabus has generated widespread interest and debate outside       Birmingham, both in the UK       and abroad.
Birmingham SACRE has received enquiries about it from       Bristol, London, Coventry       and Manchester, while Felderhof has given invited talks on it at       conferences for religious       leaders, academics and educators in Israel (June 2010) and the USA (April       2011), to the       government of the Sudan (April 2011), at the Museum of World Religions in       Taiwan (November       2011), at the International Symposium on Religion, Spirituality and       Education for Human       Flourishing in Marrakesh (March 2012, co-convened by the Guerrand-Hermes       Foundation for       Peace and the United Nations Alliance of Civilizations), and a keynote       address to an audience of       researchers and educators at the Westhill Trust seminar on Spirituality       and RE in Leeds,       November 2011.
He was also invited to join Birmingham political and       spiritual leaders in their       representations on RE at the Department for Education.
In 2009 he       was part of a delegation to       consult a London-based Queen's Counsel on the legality of elements in the       government's draft       Guidance for RE (2009), in particular the status of the Non-Statutory       National Framework for RE       (2004).
As a result, the final Guidance issued by the government in 2010       was significantly changed       from its draft form, acknowledging the right of local authorities to       continue to issue their own       syllabus and to make the major religious traditions the basis of their       contents.
Evaluation of the impact of the Syllabus has begun.
In preparation       for a full-scale study, in 2012       a pilot study was made by Penny Jennings to compare pupils' responses with       many similar       questions asked in a survey done some years ago in Cornwall.
One       observation was: `Although       aware that comparisons cannot be made without the relevant statistical       analyses and unless       samples are comparable in size and composition, [we] noticed that the       responses to some sections       of the Birmingham pilot study differed greatly from those in the earlier       Cornwall survey.
For       example, Birmingham's Year 9 pupil responses to items examining attitudes       to "spiritual"       experiences appeared to be predominantly positive, whereas Cornwall's Year       9 and 10 pupil       responses in this section were predominantly negative.'
(source 7)     Praise for the Syllabus has been consistent.
As early as 2008,       Tony Howell, then Director of       Children's Services for Birmingham, commented: `It is probably one of         the most exciting         curriculum developments we have seen over the last few years'       (source 8), and in 2011       Professor Trevor Cooling, Director of the National Institute for Christian       Education Research at       Canterbury Christ Church University, wrote: `If RE went down this road it       would be the most         radical change since the shift stimulated by Ninian Smart's work'       (source 9).
Its influence on       faith cooperation in Birmingham is summed up in the 2011 report of       Councillor Les Lawrence,       Cabinet Member for Children, Young People and Families, to the City       Council: `The experience of       delivering the 2007 Birmingham Agreed Syllabus for Religious Education ...       has brought the         faiths together in a common purpose and has created mutual support       among the religious       communities' (7 February, 2012).
Most significant of all, teachers themselves have commented on       how their students approach RE       in a new way.
Bethan Ruth, Frankley School, says: `Historically it was       just about learning facts.
Now it's about what they get out of it and what the benefits are       and if any of those benefits could       be applied within their own lives.
So it's a lot more about learning from       religion as a result of       looking at how faith has an impact in a believer's life.
I very rarely get       them asking why they are       learning this.
It's more about "this is really interesting and I       want to learn more" and "this is my       view on it.
What motivates someone to come from that view on this?"'
(source 10).
In addition,       other educational practitioners have begun to see the potential of       the syllabus.
In September       2013, Ian Jones, the head of St Peter's Saltley Trust, Birmingham, raised       the possibility of applying       it for FE students, explaining: `If it's true that employers as often       value good character as specific       skills or knowledge, some of those fundamental dispositions (such as being       accountable and living       with integrity, being open, honest and truthful, being merciful and       forgiving) will surely be key to       that.
Indeed, recently I showed the 'Faith makes a Difference' site to a       new FE college chaplain       who was looking for ideas and resources, and he got quite excited about       how relevant the       dispositions could be within his context' (source 11).
These high commendations were endorsed in August 2011, when an issue         of the Journal of         Beliefs and Values was dedicated to Felderhof and his       innovative work (source 12), showing       that his original insights into the nature and function of RE, expressed       in the 24 dispositions, have       not only reached great numbers of school children in the West Midlands,       but have also influenced       thinking at high levels among educationalists and practitioners.
The       impact of his research is       clearly both pervasive and profound and it continues to spread.
