     The exhibition aimed both to enhance the cultural life of the cities       hosting the exhibition, and also introduce overseas audiences to the work       of this major British artist.
It made a significant contribution to public       understanding; for audiences in Ferrara the light cast on the relation to       Italy of a British artist was of particular relevance while in Budapest       the exhibition introduced the work of Turner for the first time.
The       exhibition thereby enriched the cultural offer of the institutions -       enabling them to appeal to a wider audience and, through the considerable       number of paying visitors to each venue, having a positive economic impact       on the institutions.
Beneficiaries included both general members of the gallery-going public       as well as specific groups, including school children, community groups,       the hard of hearing, the visually impaired and family groups.
Visitor       numbers indicated the relevance and popularity of the subject.
These were:       93,949 (Ferrara), 65,801 (Budapest), and 45,002 (Edinburgh) (sources 1-3).
Visits to the exhibition in Ferrara and Budapest were particularly high;       in Hungary this may have reflected the fact that this was the first Turner       exhibition to be held.
Audiences included those local to the cities       staging the exhibition, as well as those from a wide international range       of countries.
The exhibition was accompanied by a catalogue written       largely by Hamilton, the guest curator, with further essays by Nicola       Moorby (Tate Britain), Christopher Baker and Jacqueline Ridge (both       National Galleries of Scotland).
It was published in English, Italian and       Hungarian editions.
Sales figures indicate a wide readership was reached:       5,189 copies of the Italian edition were sold (the catalogue was, in fact,       sold out); 2,189 copies of the English-language edition were sold, while       893 were sold in Hungary (sources 1-3).
The latter figure is in proportion       to the smaller population of Hungary.
Additional events were organised to enhance the impact of the exhibition       with audiences.
In Budapest 92 guided tours were organised, attended by       1840 visitors, with 16 additional tours of the Museum+ programme (with       late evening opening) attended by 560 visitors.
There were 10 school class       visits involving 250 schoolchildren.
A visitors' book was kept, with       comments by Hungarian visitors as well as many other nationalities,       including the USA, Belgium, Russia, Czech Republic, Britain, Finland,       Italy, Brazil and Australia.
The overwhelming positive responses indicate       that the exhibition achieved its goal of promoting wider public       understanding of Turner (source 4).
In Ferrara, Ferrara Arte, together with the Conservatorio "Frescobaldi"       (Ferrara Academy of Music) and the Teatro Comunale (the City Theatre),       organized a series of concerts inspired by Turner intitled Il suono         dell'arte.
Metamorfosi musicali nel secolo di Turner between 17       January to 21 February 2009 with 643 people attending the concerts.
A       visitors' book was not kept, but 4,996 visitors were interviewed by       gallery staff, with a 96.01% positive rating.
In Edinburgh an educational programme was organized, with public       lectures, exhibition tours and workshops, both for general audiences and       also for specific groups such as adult learners, the deaf and hard of       hearing, the visually impaired, children, school groups.
These were       attended by 3150 participants.
Four concerts were also organized at the       National Gallery on themes linked to the exhibition.
A visitors' book       again confirmed the positive contribution of the exhibition towards       cultural enrichment and the promotion of public understanding (source 5).
The exhibition was widely covered in national and international press.
It       was reviewed positively in: The Telegraph (13 April 2009); The         Guardian (27 March 2009); and in Corriere della Sera; La         Repubblica; La Stampa; Il Giornale; La Gazzetta         del Mezzogiorno; Il Giorno; La Nazione; L'Osservatore         Romano; Il Giornale dell'Arte; The International Herald         Tribune; New York Times (31 December 2008); BBC News online       (25 March 2009).
The substantial visitor numbers, particularly in Italy       and Hungary indicate the success of the exhibition in generating public       interest in Turner Hamilton's research on Turner has also had an impact on       national and international media.
He was interviewed on the BBC Radio 4       "Today" programme of 15 November 2011 (source 6).
He also features as       advisor and participant in a documentary film, The Genius of Turner:         Painting the Industrial Revolution, broadcast on BBC 2 on 26 April       2013 (dir.
Claire Bevan).
He also advised on and took part in a film for       Japanese NHK TV, J M W Turner: Snow Storm &#8212; Steamboat off a Harbour's         Mouth (60mins) that was broadcast in Japan on NHK TV on 6 June 2012.
His work on Turner has also been a central source of information for the       Turner biopic film by Mike Leigh filmed in 2013.
As Leigh noted in       correspondence with Hamilton, "your book continues in its role as       something of a bible" (source 7).
