     The impact falls under three heads: (i) the media attention devoted to       Professor Bostrom's work; (ii) the popular `wiki site' inspired by it; and       (iii) the play World of Wires and the novels Bedlam and The         Simulator each inspired by it.
(i) Media Attention     Almost as soon as Professor Bostrom's original article appeared, it       attracted considerable media attention, and this attention has remained       extensive ever since.
Prior to 2008, he was interviewed on the core       argument by several radio stations, for several television programmes and       for several periodicals.
Since the beginning of 2008, the interviews have       continued.
He has been interviewed on his argument by Sky Channel 200         (Edge Media television news) in 2008, as part of a programme that       was entirely devoted to the argument; by Mladina, a Slovenian       magazine, in 2009; by Swedish radio in 2009; by Discovery Channel       (Canadian television documentary) in 2009; by Horizon in       2010; by Chilliwack Times, a Canadian magazine, in 2010; by IWC         Media, a BBC/Channel 4 science pilot programme, in 2011; and by New         Scientist Magazine in 2011.
One interview in particular, for the       series of podcasts Philosophy Bites in 2011, has an accompanying       on-line blog in which many members of the public have posted comments on       the argument and on its subsequent refinements[i].
There       is an outline of his argument on the US National Public Radio website[ii].
In 2010, a special issue of The Philosopher's Magazine, which       provides a venue for philosophy in an accessible and entertaining format       for as wide an audience as possible, included Professor Bostrom's idea in       its list of `ideas of the century'.
An on-line blog accompanying the       television series Nova, which describes itself as the most watched       documentary series on public television, is devoted to his argument[iii].
In 2013, the University of Georgia Science Library created a library       exhibit based on the argument[iv].
The media attention       has recently been heightened by the attempt by physicist Silas Beane (in       collaboration with others) to provide an empirical test for whether we are       living in a computer simulation[v]: the article in which       Professor Beane presents this test and in which he explicitly indicates       Professor Bostrom's inspiration for his work, is itself cited, in       connection with Professor Bostrom, on a number of websites, including       TechSpot and i09, as well as receiving further extensive discussion in the       media, including discussions in Time and on the BBC programme Today       [vi].
And the website devoted to Professor Bostrom's own       argument has continued to attract considerable attention.
It averages       around 1,200 unique visitors per day.
(ii) Public Engagement Through the `Wiki Site'     In 2006, a Dutch businessman named Ivo Jansch, founder of the mobile       technology company Egeniq, established a `wiki site' inspired by Professor       Bostrom's article and devoted to the idea of a computer simulation[vii].
This site has continued to expand since.
On it, Mr Jansch records his       inspiration in the following terms: `Ever since reading "The Simulation       Argument" by Nick Bostrom, I've been planning to create a wiki about the       subject, and to bring the information in a less academic, more accessible,       format.
The result is in front of you.'
The site, which has been accessed       nearly 200,000 times, has a link to the original article, summarises       various arguments for and against Professor Bostrom's position, answers       some frequently asked questions about the very idea of a computer       simulation, and has links to related articles, discussions, and artwork of       various kinds.
Those who visit the site are able to create an account and       contribute in various ways.
Many have added essays of their own.
Some have       advanced further arguments for and against Professor Bostrom's position.
There is even some poetry that has been inspired by the original idea.
(iii) The Play World of Wires, the Novel Bedlam, and         the Novel The Simulator     At the beginning of 2012, a play World of Wires, adapted from an       earlier screenplay by Rainer Werner Fassbinder and directed by Jay Scheib,       was premiered in The Kitchen in New York [viii].
The       advance publicity for this play made explicit mention of Professor       Bostrom's influence and highlighted the importance of the idea that the       simulation hypothesis is not just a sceptical hypothesis, but one to be       taken seriously as an account of our actual situation.
The play is       described as `a performance about the unveiling of a computer simulation       so powerful that it is capable of simulating the world and everything in       it,' and it is said to be inspired by the works of Professor Nick Bostrom,       who, `in his 2003 paper titled "Are You Living in a Computer       Simulation?"...
theorised that there is a high probability that we are       currently living in a computer simulation'.
Subsequent publicity has been       similar.
The play is described as `an all-bets-off homage to the startling       possibility that you too might actually really be ones and zeroes in       someone else's immaculately programmed world' and is then said to be       `inspired by the works of Oxford University professor Nick Bostrom,       including his compelling paper, "Are You Living in a Computer       Simulation?"'
In a contemporary arts and culture website called Culturebot, Jay Scheib       was interviewed about the play.
He was asked how the disciplines of       computer science and artificial intelligence had helped him generate       material for his play and about `the interface with professionals or       research in these fields'.
He responded as follows:     For this production, someone approached me after a performance of Untitled         Mars [i.e.
an earlier play in a trilogy of which World of Wires       is the third part] and said, `Oh my God, do you know the work of Nick       Bostrom?'
So I found this guy who is the Director of the Future of       Humanity Institute and Professor of Philosophy at Oxford University.
He       wrote a paper called `Are You Living in a Computer Simulation?'
[to which       there is a link].
In the white paper he speculates that there's a pretty       high probability that we are in fact living in a computer simulation.
It       turns out that the idea has a healthy following.
The article is brilliant       and synthesizes a number of interests that I've had over the years growing       up, reading about simulation and finding myself drawn into the world of       MIT and artificial intelligence, so it's been an interesting ride.
[ix]     Reviews of the play have also highlighted Professor Bostrom's influence.
In the New York Times review, the reviewer remarks that the play       `was... inspired by an essay in The Philosophical Quarterly (by       Nick Bostrom) titled "Are You Living in a Computer Simulation?"'
[x].
In the on-line version of the review this remark       includes a link to Professor Bostrom's website on his argument.
In 2013 ,Christopher Brookmyre published a novel entitled Bedlam,       whose main character Ross Baker is much exercised by Professor Bostrom's       argument because his mind has somehow been rerouted into a computer game.
The enthusiastic Guardian review of Bedlam, by Sam       Jordison, opens with a summary of Professor Bostrom's argument and       proceeds to expand on its critical relevance to the novel, quoting Ross       Baker's own account of the argument [xi].
Later in the       review, Mr Jordison says: `Ross's journey into knowledge takes in more       Bostrom-inspired philosophy about the nature of existence and ethical       considerations about our growing digital heritage.'
In July 2013, Nicholas       Hark published a novel entitled The Simulator, which takes place       at a time in the future when technology has advanced enough to allow for       realistic computer simulations.
The main conceit of the novel is that the       military has set up special intervention units that take part in both real       and simulated homeland security exercises, but with the twist that they       never know which.
In an e-mail to Professor Bostrom, just after the       publication of the novel, the author wrote, `[My novel] has been inspired       by your work.'
[1]
