     The Pool Game was written by Tomlin, funded by Arts Council       England, and supported in       development by mac Birmingham and Point Blank Theatre (Sheffield).
It was       produced by the       artistic collective, Geiger Counter, in collaboration with artistic       director Di Sherlock, sound designer       Andy Booth, and performers Vern Griffiths and Joseph Macnab.
Tomlin       contributed by writing the       work-in-progress script, discussing dramaturgical decisions in rehearsal       and post-rehearsal with       the director, and writing the final script for the 2012 performances.
What kind of impact?
Tomlin's performance text and dramaturgical partnership with the director       contributed decisively to       the creation of new forms of theatrical practice.
The Pool Game       generated new ways of thinking in       its successful fusion of a dramatic (narrative fictional world/character       based/linear) within a       postdramatic framework (direct address/ real-time eventness/episodic       montage).
Additionally, this       new model opened up the possibilities of combining the       `complete/pre-rehearsed' dramatic       narrative with the postdramatic emphasis on unknowability and present time       action, by establishing       the central conceit of a dramatic narrative which is ultimately driven by       a live game of pool with an       indeterminate conclusion (see source 1 below).
How was this achieved?
The audience took part in a game of killer pool at the beginning, with one       of the actors working as       host and compere, utilising the contemporary trend for participation in       postdramatic practice in       which the audience are fully acknowledged in the time and space of the       performance event (rather       than being spectators of a dramatic fiction), and are involved in the       action with actors (rather than       characters).
However, the piece succeeded in fusing this with a       predominantly dramatic and       character-based narrative model.
By positioning the audience throughout       both as audience       (postdramatic event) and jurors (within the dramatic fiction); the       performance was able to work       simultaneously on both dramatic and postdramatic levels; and the       performers were able to exist       simultaneously in both their dramatic and character-based roles within the       fiction and their roles as       performers speaking to a watching audience.
Both were effectively made       interchangeable by the       script, which fused audience/jurors as one, in order to induce reflection       on the passivity of both       (and so transmit from their `fictional' role to their `real' one) in       relation to acts of theatre and acts of       political resistance in the world beyond.
How did this impact on the professional artists?
This required the performers to create their own strategies for dealing       with the duality of the       audience as both `real' and `fictional'; and balancing the determinacy of       the dramatic text against       the indeterminacy of the pool game.
"Due to the fluid nature of the movement of the balls on the table, there       could be no       solid 'blocking' of the action, speeches, altercations and revelations       could happen in a       different place every performance, Stage Left or Right, in front or behind       the table, we       were where the game dictated we needed to be, this could very easily have       an impact       on the power and effectiveness of a moment.
To ensure the emotional       journey of the       piece still played, it was necessary for us to be able to create images       onstage at a       moment's notice, we couldn't dictate where would be, so we had to keep the       table       balanced, moving in relation to each other and the game, so that when the       confrontation occurred, we had the space to convey what was necessary."
(source 2)     It further required the director to invent strategies to create a       stage-world which enabled a coherent       fusion of real world and dramatic fiction.
"I am keen to use similar strategies in my own future work; they chime       with my own       significant experience as a performer in site-specific practice and have       extended, for       me, the possibilities of genuinely integrated and productive audience       interaction within       the framework of a fictional and linear dramatic narrative.
Working with       Liz on her use       of sound to underline the different `worlds' of the piece also furthered       my personal       exploration of the use of soundscape to create internal and external       landscapes."
(source 3)     In this way, as described in the summary section above, the impact of       this practice-based research       collaboration was not merely a one-way dissemination of theoretical       analysis to a receptive body of       artists, but a process undertaken in collaboration with those artists       which produced outcomes that       both fed back into my own research and also fed into the direct learning       experience of the director       and associate artists, who could subsequently take this methodology and       its insights into future       professional practice.
Additional impact was achieved through the       audience's experience of the       performance as a dissemination of the insights made possible through the       practice-based research       process.
How did this impact on the audience?
The intention was to encourage the audience to transfer their fictional       role as jurors &#8212; charged by       the piece with passive complicity with the `rules of the game' &#8212; to their       `real' role as audience       members who were assumed to hold political views which were highly       critical of the rules of the       capitalist game that is being played out at this moment in history, yet       who effectively did nothing       about it.
In a Brechtian sense the piece attempted to `make strange' to       the audience things that       they took for granted, in a way that would initiate changed ways of       thinking which, in turn, would       initiate action:     `spread a new light and made me think differently about how I engage with       politics'       (Barnsley, graduate, aged 18-25)     `it heightened my thought process' (Barnsley, choreographer, aged 25-35)     `it emphasised the political questions we should ask today.
Shouldn't       just accept what       we are given' (Leeds, nurse, aged 45-55)     `made me think about our casual acceptance of bank accounts and how we       don't       question why we have them' (Sheffield, project manager, aged 35-45)     `reminded me about stuff I ignore &#8212; ouch!'
(Sheffield, administrator,       aged 35-45)     `I still remember the graphic description of the petrol overflowing out       of the car; that       made me think differently about how easily I fill up my car with petrol       and how little I am       concerned about how that is affecting the wider world'.
(Birmingham,       teacher, 25-35)       (all source 4).
The success of this fusion of dramatic and postdramatic is clear from       audience feedback on the       piece, showing that this functioned in the way that it was intended, and       generated new ways of       thinking, both about creative practice and the social, political and       economic context in which we       live:     `The incorporation of the game of chance/skill into the larger discussion       was clever'       (Barnsley, Educator, aged 25-35)     `Really engaging.
Liked the device of two familiar settings but tilted       (pool and court)       (Barnsley, drama facilitator/stage manager, aged 25-35)     `Involving the audience from the off set the tone for the later       involvement'       (Huddersfield, theatre maker, aged 25-35)     `Even though I do not follow or like politics I loved the mixture of the       game of pool with       politics.
Left you think about a lot and that's what makes a show amazing,       the after       thought' (Huddersfield, student, aged 18-25)     `I really liked the pool game as a framing devise for the debate within       the piece; it leant       the work a coherence that suggested to me the interconnectivity of the       various       elements'.
(London, teacher, aged 25-35)     `I particularly enjoyed how the weight of the topics, philosophy, fiction       and the games       circumstances contrasted to the trivial comedy, as seen in the 1st actors       persona, the       off putting 'game showey' music and kitsch lighting up of the judge.
The       environment of       the senate house really added to this effect with its oppressive       atmosphere of       judgement'.
(London, actor 18-25) (all source 4)     Reach of the impact:       The Pool Game previewed at MAC, Birmingham on 2-3 March 2011,       before platform dates in       limited audience, site specific venues in June 2012: Buckley Lecture       Theatre, Huddersfield (7       June) &#8212; audience 50; Sheffield Cathedral (13-15 June) &#8212; audience 100;       Senate House, London       (18-19 June) &#8212; audience 200, HUB, Leeds (28-29 June) &#8212; audience 50,       Barnsley Civic Theatre (30       June) &#8212; audience 50; and it is now available to view via filmed       documentation.
This was a newly       formed company without an existing following, but the Pool Game website       (source 5) nevertheless       got 1,900 views in 2012, with 53 views on June 18th, the       busiest day.
(The independent annual       report with these figures can be found via source 6).
