     (a) Informing the practice of actors and directors in rehearsal, and         providing cultural         enrichment for audiences through print and other media connected with         productions.
Jackson's work in the theatre typically involves attendance at the       whole of the first week of       rehearsals, during which the groundwork on text and a rough outline of the       performance is       reached, and at subsequent rehearsals and run-throughs as appropriate into       the final period of       technical and dress rehearsals and previews, including additional       preparatory work on text with       individual actors.
Beginning in the 2008-9 season, Jackson acted as text       consultant on five       productions of Shakespeare plays directed by Michael Grandage at the       Donmar Warehouse in the       West end and on tour.
The Donmar productions in question were Othello,       Twelfth Night, and       Hamlet (2008-9); King Lear (2010-11); and Richard II       (2012-13).
Othello and Richard II each       played for three months at the Donmar Warehouse (which seats 250) and Twelfth         Night and       Hamlet played at Wyndham's Theatre (seats 956) in London.
Hamlet       also ran on Broadway from       12 September to 6 December 2009.
King Lear, after a run of three       months at the Donmar, had a       national tour in the UK before transferring to the Harvey Lichtenstein       Theater at Brooklyn Academy       of Music (seats 874) in June 2011.
All productions played to capacity or       near-capacity audiences in       London and on tour.
Lear was broadcast internationally in HD: its       total audience was calculated         by the company at 180,000 (see source 1 below).
Othello was       recorded for radio by the BBC and       distributed on CD in 2009.
In the 2013-14 season Jackson has worked in the       same capacity on       productions of A Midsummer Night's Dream and Henry V in       the Michael Grandage Company's       season at the Noel Coward Theatre.
Michael Grandage is clear about the impact of Jackon's research on his       work, he states that       through productions detailed above Jackson `has offered invaluable         textual support to myself         and the actors during rehearsals as well as performance.
... During       my time at the Donmar the       many Shakespeare productions that I worked on all involved Russell Jackson       and all of them were       a critical success that took the theatre's standing to a new level.
I       genuinely believe this would not         have been possible without his considerable input' (source 2).
Actor, Jude Law (with whom       Jackson worked on Hamlet) writes that `Working with Russell on       Shakespeare's texts has been an       invaluable part of my preparation before and during rehearsals' (source       3).
David Walliams       summarises Jackson's position in relation to cast and director as       providing `help in understanding       the bollocks that Shakespeare wrote' (source 4).
In May-July 2013 Jackson worked in the same capacity with Kenneth Branagh       and Rob Ashford on       Macbeth.
This production played for 18 performances in a 280-seat       venue in Manchester as part of       the Manchester International Festival, a sold-out event seen live by an       audience of approximately       5000).
Reviews included enthusiastic endorsement by the New York Times       critic Ben Brantley (8       July 2013) and acclaim from British reviewers (source 5).
The production       was also relayed locally       as a `big screen' event and nationally and internationally in the NT's HD       broadcast.
(Specific       audience figures are not available, but National Theatre Live broadcasts       play to 23 countries,       including 250 cinemas and performing arts venues in the UK alone).
An       essay by Jackson       appeared in the print programme and its online version.
The production       will be revived in New York       in June 2014 as part of the Lincoln Center Festival.
After the rehearsal       period, Kenneth Branagh       wrote: `Russell Jackson's work with myself, my co-director Rob Ashford and       fellow cast members       of Macbeth was a significant contribution to the success of the         production in Manchester,       particularly with regard to the clarity and effectiveness of the         interpretation and delivery of the         text' (source 6).
Ashford wrote: `Thank you for all your great work       on this production.
We certainly       couldn't have done it without you.
...
I look forward to learning more       from you on the next one       (source 7).
(b) Cultural enrichment for audiences     Jackson has contributed a 1000-1500-word essay to the programme of each       production.
These       programmes are sold at each performance, and the absence of free cast       sheets means that the       sales figures are high compared to those of some other companies'       productions.
The programme       for King Lear was distributed in print in London, on the national       tour and in New York, made       available on-line to accompany the HD broadcasts, and included in the       printed text accompanying       the production.
Jackson's programme essays were also included in the       published scripts of       Richard II, A Midsummer Night's Dream and Henry V,       and that for Othello was in the booklet       issued in the CD set.
In November 2010 Jackson contributed a programme essay for the National       Theatre production of       Hamlet, and in December 2012, he wrote another for the production       of Pinero's The Magistrate.
The Hamlet programme's total sales were 30,000, including those       for the Olivier and Lyttelton       transfer (within the NT complex), the tour and sales to cinemas for NT       Live.
It played six weeks on       tour (Salford, Nottingham, Woking, Milton Keynes, Plymouth, and       Luxembourg).
5,000       programmes were supplied to the UK dates.
For The Magistrate,       22,000 programmes have been       printed (as of January 2013) and a second run included a number that sent       out to cinemas for the       NT Live showing.
Jackson has also engaged widely with audiences for Shakespeare by giving       talks and `in       conversation' sessions with non-academic bodies in the UK and       internationally, including the       Shakespeare Guild (New York) and the English-speaking Union (Arts Club,       New York and Cosmos       Club, Washington DC), and a `talkback' session for Theatre for a New       Audience (New York) for       Peter Brook's adaptation of sonnets by Shakespeare.
In 2009 he gave the       annual Shakespeare's       Birthday lecture at the Folger Shakespeare Library.
His research-informed       contribution to an OU       programme on film versions of Othello has been made available to       wider audiences in education       and beyond on DVD.
In 2012 Jackson shared his research with a range of       audiences by giving a       pre-performance talk for a production of The Taming of the Shrew       at the Derby Theatre,       introducing three film screenings in the Shakespeare Birthplace Trust's       `Shakespeare on Screen'       festival, and taking part with Stanley Wells and Paul Edmondson in a       webinar sponsored by the       SBT and Cambridge University Press.
