     This is a West Midlands-based public engagement case study demonstrating       environmental and social impact through delivery of a six-year BIG       Lottery-funded project that drew specifically on the scientific findings       of the University of Birmingham research.
The findings from the Birmingham research were used by Sadler and twelve       collaborators from other UK higher education institutions to design an       innovative proposal: Open Air Laboratories (OPAL).
OPAL was a national       programme primarily delivered through regional projects and a series of       national surveys [source 1].
The OPAL proposal was backed by the BIG       Lottery following a rigorous assessment process; it was awarded &#163;12       million in 2007, with its initial success leading to a further &#163;6 million       award in 2010 to support the regional teams for an additional two years.
Sadler and his colleagues at the University of Birmingham led the       implementation of the West Midlands regional component (&#163;599,000; December       2008 to November 2013) and it is the impact of this activity, which is       described here.
Design of OPAL West Midlands     The OPALWM project was primarily concerned with urban ecology, focusing       much of its public engagement activity on children and adults in some of       the most economically-deprived areas of Birmingham and the Black Country.
The findings from the University of Birmingham research were specifically       mapped into the design of the OPALWM public engagement activities and       delivered through four themes.
The relationship between the research       findings and the OPALWM themes is shown below:                                Research finding           OPALWM theme                             Brownfield sites demonstrated extensive biodiversity           Getting &#8216;biodiversity science&#8217; out of the classroom into the city                             Brownfield biodiversity hotspots were valued by local residents           Adoption of local wildlife patches by residents                             Treelines were important linking networks           Promoting biodiversity in Birmingham parks (linear features)                             Gap in quantification of biodiversity and urban ecological             function/services           Training informed citizen scientists to record and monitor their             local environment                          Reach of OPALWM     OPALWM was intended to engage a diversity of West Midland communities       including black and minority ethnic groups as well as deprived communities       rarely associated with natural history and environmental initiatives.
A       particular feature of the work of OPALWM was engaging with "hard to reach       groups" in inner urban areas, which was precisely where the scientific       research had indicated there were unrealised environmental opportunities.
The resulting engagement was rigorously monitored and reported to the BIG       Lottery on a quarterly basis throughout the project.
The monitoring showed       that OPALWM met its aims and associated milestones.
[source 2]     An extensive range of agencies were engaged with this work to make sure       that it reached the targeted communities: these included 41 primary       schools, six secondary schools and one special school; ranger services;       local Wildlife Trusts and other third-sector organisations; voluntary       bodies, such as amateur national history groups and allotment societies;       businesses such as environmental educationalists; and local councils.
There was also a website (http://www.opalwestmidlands.org/)       that showed users how they could get involved with this activity and has       received more than 60,000 hits.
Media coverage through radio, television       and the press, is estimated to have reached 450,000 people.
[sources 2 and       3].
In total, OPALWM worked directly with 122 groups and organisations and       engaged with over 26,000 people through more than 370 public engagement       events and activities.
Events included work to support the science       associated with bird and bat research, with 62 bird and 25 bat training       and monitoring events and an OPALWM patch network was created using 151       events to help people record and appreciate biodiversity in local spaces       and places, especially linear parks.
Monitoring returns showed that 10.3%       of those engaged were from hard-to-reach groups, achieved through       co-operation with particular voluntary groups and through schools in       deprived areas and/or who worked specifically with those children.
[source       2]     Public response and significance     There is strong evidence set out below to show that OPALWM is leaving an       extensive legacy in terms of participant's changed attitudes to their       local spaces; improved environmental education in schools through new       curriculum materials, demonstrations and, in some cases, enhancement of       school grounds, and through new trained citizen scientists.
In general terms, responses to programme surveys, event evaluations and       website responses show that engagement has reached new groups and       suggested that this was prompting further involvement.
Half of the people       surveyed said that they had never been involved in this kind of activity       before and 43% said it had influenced the way they viewed the environment;       37% of people stated it would lead to changed behaviour and greater       involvement in environmental activities; 90% of the people completing       national surveys said they had learnt something new; and 83% stated they       had developed new skills [source 1].
The specific response to the West Midlands activities can be seen through       the work with schools; with volunteer recorders; and in its community       engagement, particularly with children.
There is both empirical and       testimonial evidence to support this; much of the latter was gathered as       part of an independent external evaluation of OPALWM which is currently in       progress [source 4].
Schools: Schools and individual teachers became enthusiastic       participants in the project.
Pollinator activities were particularly       successful in generating this response.
44 primary schools entered a       competition run by OPALWM to win a pollinator education pack, with 3 of       the 12 winning schools in locations which were amongst the most deprived       areas in the country.
To support this work, the project created a       factsheet on bee hotel construction and use which was downloaded 1100       times from the website.
The project also created the impetus for ongoing       activity, such as working with a local voluntary group to provide an       outdoor biodiversity space for a primary school in Bearwood in Birmingham       with a wildlife pond, a bee hotel and bee-friendly plants.
[source 5]       Typical of the testimonials gathered was a response from a school where       OPALWM ran lessons and practical activities: "Thank you so much for         your visit, talk and science kit on Thursday.
The children were really         enthused about Science at school and are looking forward to setting up         the bee hotels.
.... your visit has really enhanced our curriculum"       [source 6].
Volunteers and local wildlife groups: Many of the West Midlands       activities were based around engaging with citizens to observe, collect       and record species in their local spaces.
This produced an extensive       response, including encouraging over 4,500 people to submit data for the       seven surveys in the region [source 7].
OPALWM has also engaged 56       volunteers who have been trained to a high skill base (moths, bats,       birds).
Four of these now hold full BTO C ringing licences, allowing them       to work independently of their trainer; this is an important and long-term       contribution to the citizen science base in the Midlands.
The project has co-operated with voluntary bodies to ensure that its       impact connected to national initiatives.
For instance, OPALWM has worked       closely with the Garden Moth Scheme (GMS), a national grass-roots group       that record moths in gardens.
OPALWM purchased 26 moth light trap starter       kits, loaned them to first time moth recorders and supported five training       events with 20 people per event; and created three guides to help people       start moth recording (&gt;2,000 downloads).
The GMS national coordinator       welcomed this activity and said that: "... analyses of the dataset are         also illustrating the importance of citizen science showing that         managing your garden can help attract moth species, but also that         urbanisation has a significant impact on local moth diversity."
[source 6].
Activities with local wildlife trusts and other groups helped take       forward their work to align with the team's scientific findings.
For       instance, the Friends of a major Birmingham park said that OPALWM moved       their neighbourhood bat programme "..to a wider level of seeing and         recording the urban countryside patchwork.
We have brought 1000s of         people together with seasonal nature discoveries and resulting in a         strong sense of natural identity with their local patch".
[source       6].
Community engagement: Children have featured highly in OPALWM       community-based activities, and they have co-created films to document       their thoughts on the activities [source 8].
The project was successful in       targeting children from hard-to-reach communities, increasing both their       appreciation and enjoyment of the environment: A typical reflection on       this activity noted "The community's been very, very damaged by what's         going on, and it remains so, and I thought something like OPAL could         help heal it, something with the children in the natural world, it would         be some way of just lessening the tension...it was a different way of         engaging people and it was so much healthier."
[source 6].
Sustainability     The impact of the project will be sustained in a number of ways.
OPALWM       had a sustainability plan to ensure that all teaching and science outreach       materials remain on the national and regional websites for five further       years from November 2013.
The websites will be maintained to provide       additional feedback to the user communities through storage of existing       materials, new and forthcoming papers, lessons learned from the OPAL       experience and new teaching and activities materials for use by schools.
Trained volunteers will continue to be able to apply and develop their new       skills.
Wildlife groups and other local agencies will be able to continue       to apply and extend the expertise they have developed from engagement with       the project and its underpinning science.
The OPAL programme also has led       to the development of a European Citizen Science Association (formed March       2013), which seeks to engage 5 million people across Europe over the next       4 years in citizen science.
