     Prior to PEPT, much of the understanding and optimisation of industrial       processes was performed       via mathematical modelling without the crucial ability to experimentally       validate the models.
PEPT       is the only existing technique capable of imagining complex flow, mixing       and comminution       (grinding) processes within opaque industrial equipment.
Optimisation of       these leads to       minimisation of processing time, enhanced throughput and in the case of       mineral processing a       reduction of wear on expensive plant.
The revolutionary development of the       PEPT has permitted       both the validation and further refinement of process modelling and has       been widely used within       the industrial processing sector.
Companies such as AstraZeneca, Johnson       Matthey Catalysts and       Procter and Gamble have used the technique for optimization of processes       ranging from drug       manufacture to understanding washing machines and dishwashers &#8212; leading to       cost and efficiency       savings.
In the mineral sector, the technique has been used by Xstrata and       AngloAmerican       Platinum to reduce wear of key components in their extensive production       plant.
The following       paragraphs describe how the work of the PEPT Centre has led to impact       within a range of       industrial processes and sectors during the current REF census period.
Refinement of industrial polymer extrusion5.1:       PEPT has been used in an investigation of       polymer flow and mixing behaviour within industrial twin-screw processes       via an EU funded       project, called PEPTFlow5.1.
This project ran until December       2009 and had a significant impact on       the competitiveness of European SMEs throughout the polymer supply chain,       realising higher       added value and improved products and services.
The project brought       together 20 organisations       (research groups, equipment manufacturers and industrial users).
The measurements were used to determine the influence of key parameters       such as machine       design, process operation and polymer system.
The results were used to       establish knowledge       based machine design criteria and operation guidelines, and to develop       both new and existing       commercial simulation and modelling software &#8212; the results were applied to       eight different       commercial case studies.
Highlights of the impact generated include       improved masterbatch colour       reproducibility with reduced pigment addition based upon improved screw       configurations (Treffert       Group Polymer-Technologie), an enhancement in the predictive capability of       the "Ludovic" CFD       software package developed specifically for Twin Screw Extrusion (Sciences       Computers       Consultants and Fraunhofer-ICT) and the optimisation of carbon nanotube       utilisation in conductive       polymers, leading to a fourfold reduction in electrical resistance of the       product (Rosseter Holdings       Ltd).
(description adapted from supporting material on PEPTflow website5.1       and CD5.2).
Pharmaceutical manufacture studies5.3:       Continuous processing has recently emerged as an       area of interest for the pharmaceutical industry, where potential benefits       include faster and lower       cost of development, increased process robustness, improved product yields       and greater supply       chain flexibility.
Roller compaction and twin screw wet granulation are       two important technologies       which can be used to achieve continuous granulation.
The roller compaction process involves the compaction of fine       powders into ribbons or flakes that       are subsequently milled to produce granules.
The milling process is       critical for controlling the       properties of the granules, but an understanding of the governing design       and operating factors is       still in its infancy.
PEPT was employed to examine the kinematics of roll       compacted ribbons at       various milling speeds using both single tracer and two tracers       approaches.
The PEPT data       revealed that the mill speed plays an important role.
At low mill speeds,       the milling process is       dominated by cooperative motion of the ribbons and the blade, with size       reduction occurring       primarily by abrasion.
At high mill speeds, ribbons move randomly with       comminution by impact       breakage.
This research was funded by AstraZeneca (description adapted       from supporting       statement from AZ5.3.
"The rich information that PEPT has generated ....has led us to         improved granulator and process         design" Formulation Sciences Group, Global R&amp;D, AstraZeneca5.3.
Washing machine and dishwasher design5.4: The work done       on characterisation internal       processing in mechanical washing devices has influenced the design of the       cleaning formulations       and has led to products that minimise energy and water usage.
Procter       &amp; Gamble is one of the       largest R&amp;D employers' in the North East of England and over the last       10 years have developed a       strong relationship with Birmingham University &#8212; both with Chemical       Engineering and Physics.
Through the use of PEPT they have been able to quantify mechanical forces       within washing       machines, allowing them to understand mass transfer limitations in the       laundry washing process.
These insights are leading to an optimisation of P&amp;G detergent       formulations and to significant       improvements in energy efficiency and environmental performance.
The       potential is quite       significant; in Europe alone, about 270 billion washing operations are       performed annually, each       using about 20 L of water and 1 kWh of power.
In order to realise the full       potential of their       formulations in reducing the amount of water and energy required during       cleaning, careful       characterisation of the phenomena occurring during cleaning under real       conditions is critical; only       PEPT has been able to provide this to-date.
In the short term, the use of       PEPT has allowed P&amp;G to       improve the methods used to evaluate performance of formulations under       real conditions, resulting       in faster and cheaper testing at their technical centres.
(adapted from       supporting statement from       P&amp;G5.4).
"...use of PEPT has allowed us to improve methods to evaluate         performance of our formulations         under real conditions, resulting in faster and cheaper testing..." [text       removed for publication], R&amp;D Director, P&amp;G.5.4     Catalyst manufacture and development5.5.
Johnson       Matthey Catalysts have used PEPT to       understand fluid mixing in liquid continuous (solid-liquid, gas-liquid)       multiphase systems within       stirred vessels and static mixing devices.
As a measure of the importance       of PEPT to its business,       Johnson Matthey continue to support PEPT through five projects (three EngD       and two PhD).
"The impact to the company lies in the translation of the qualitative         and quantitative learning         available uniquely from PEPT into improved operation and models for         existing manufacture as well         as acceleration in development with decreased technical risk for new         processes".
[text removed for Publication], Scientific Consultant &amp; Chief Chemical       Engineer, Johnson Matthey.5.5     PEPT has been applied in three core areas.
The first is the use of PEPT       to investigate solid-liquid-gas       mixing in stirred vessels has enabled measurements to be made for the       first time at industrially       relevant conditions for hydrogenation and oxidation reactions using       heterogeneous catalysts made       by JM.
The step-change in understanding that this entailed has enabled       improvements in reactor       design and operation.
The second area is in use of PEPT to obtain mixing       patterns during fed       batch precipitation, used to manufacture catalysts and recover precious       metals &#8212; both core JM       products.
Simultaneous PEPT and Electrical Resistance Tomography       measurements have       enabled the relationship between mixing and precipitate properties to be       obtained; this data has       been used to improve existing processes.
The third area is in the       processing of dense non-Newtonian 	  slurries which are a vital component of emission control       catalyst manufacture; data       obtained using PEPT have enabled chemical and physical effects due to the       multiphase nature of       the materials being processed to be quantified, which has led to impact in       the improved design of       plant to produce catalyst washcoats and precipitates; via validated       mathematical process models       which can now be used with confidence.
Most recently, PEPT has been used       to validate a DEM       mathematical model of a Turbula&#174; mixer used for powder blending which is       now being applied in       commercial applications.
(adapted from supporting statement from Johnson       Matthey5.5)     Minerals Processing5.6,5.7.
IMERYS, the world's       largest industrial minerals producer has used the       PEPT facility at University of Birmingham for a number of years to develop       a better understanding       of flow patterns and media behaviour in vertically stirred mills.
These       mills are used to reduce and       control the size distribution of kaolin, calcium carbonate and fibres for       the paper, paint and polymer       industries.
The mills are a large energy cost for the company (up to       500kW/hr per tonne of product)       and mill performance optimisation can make a significant impact on plant       production costs.
The       work carried out with PEPT has enabled 5-10% energy savings in some       plants, with a 1% saving       being significant to operation5.6.
Novel understanding of the       impact of the media flow patterns and       key operational variables gained using PEPT have been adopted on site in       the calcium carbonate       and fibre businesses5.7.
PEPT studies have     "enabled a level of product optimisation that would have not have been         possible using industry-standard 		industry empirical approaches", [text removed for       publication], R&amp;D Manager, IMERYS.5.7     Research using PEPT has resulted in the patenting of new types of       grinding media by IMERYS for       calcium carbonate production and the implementation of heavy media milling       techniques in       IMERYS European site operations5.6.
Current research is on       development of production routes       using PEPT to model mill optimisation and batch/continuous feed systems       for a newly patented       micro-fibrillated cellulose product (FiberTechTM) for the paper       market using IMERYS designed       vertically stirred media mills5.7.
IMERYS have an ongoing       commitment to PEPT research, funding       three research students via a &#163;400k TSB grant (adapted from statements       from IMERYS).
PEPT in South Africa.
The PEPT technique developed at Birmingham       has now been established       at iThemba Labs in Cape Town5.8 (2009).
This facility was       established with key support by the       Birmingham Group and mirrors Birmingham's facility.
This has now led to       significant impact in the       mining and milling sector.
The commercial nature of many of these       developments mean that       companies will not release details of direct economic benefit, but the       annual revenue of companies       such of AngloAmerican Platinum exceeds &#163;1B and there has been significant       impact on their       operations from this research.
Impact has been generated by the South       African facility in the       following areas:     Comminution in platinum mining5.9: A project funded by       XSTRATA to use PEPT to study the wear       in stirred mills used for minerals comminution in platinum mining led to       mill designs with improved       lining materials in critical regions.
Performance of tumbling mills5.9: Initially funded by       the South African Minerals to Metals Research       Institute, SAMMRI, the PEPT study provided insights on the influence of       key design variables on       mill performance and the data was used to test a simulation model.
The       work has attracted follow-on-funding 	  from AngloAmerican Platinum which has enabled optimum speed,       and thus energy       savings to be made for various types of tumbling mills.
Optimisation of Ball Mill operation5.9: AngloAmerican       Platinum are using PEPT to study the       behaviour of charge and grinding media in laboratory-scale ball mills in       order to optimise operating       conditions and reduce energy consumption (typically comminution       corresponds to 65-80% of       energy used in the mine-milling process).
A simple model of mill operation       has been developed.
To enable results obtained at laboratory scale to be adapted to full scale       plant, AngloAmerican       Platinum has recently instrumented its full scale mills with sensors for       process characterisation.
