     "The contributions made by Birmingham have enabled us to develop superior       products with       perfume microcapsules, significantly improved our competitiveness and       secured our leading       position in the market of North America and Western Europe."
[text removed for publication] Research Fellow P&amp;G5.1.
Use of the micromanipulation technique has enabled characterisation of       fracture strength, and thus       performance, of a range of microcapsules which have been used in       commercial products.
However the thrust of this case study is the incorporation of perfume       microcapsules into a range of       fabric enhancer products sold by P&amp;G (see Smets letter of support5.1).
Prof Zhang's research has       enabled the design of capsules with the correct properties for the task;       both in terms of obtaining       reliable measurements of fracture data using micromanipulation but also in       training the supplier (a       contract manufacturer) on how to manufacture capsules with the right       properties and in       development of a QA method to ensure consistent quality (see letter of       support from Prof. David       York, FREng 5.2).
"The result of all this work was that the company (P&amp;G) was able         to incorporate consumer         noticeable perfume capsules into a range of the company's large billion         dollar bands across the         globe.
I have no doubt that this would not have been achieved without         the ground-breaking work         of Professor Zhang and his researchers."
[text removed for publication]former Research Fellow P&amp;G, now at       University of Leeds5.2     Perfume microcapsules have now entered most fabric enhancer products sold       by P&amp;G in North       America and Western Europe.
As explained above, data obtained at       Birmingham on the       mechanical strength of the microcapsules and other performance attributes       including mechanical       stability in detergent powders, storage stability in liquid detergents,       degree of deposition on fabric       surfaces and scent benefit at end-use have been used to optimise the       formulation and processing       conditions5.1, 5.2.
Since 2008, this has enabled P&amp;G to commercialise 15 new Laundry       products with functional       microcapsules in Western Europe (including Bold, Dash 2 in1, Dash with       Febreze Freshness and       Dash with Touch of Lenor) and the USA (Tide Sports, Tide with Febreze       Freshness and Tide with       a Touch of Downy).
The launch of these new products has secured P&amp;G's       dominant position in       these markets as No.
1 supplier of sensory products; Downy, Febreze, Lenor       and Tide are all       major Billion Dollar brands for P&amp;G5.1.
P&amp;G made the strategic decision to develop a large number of new       functional products with       microcapsules in 2003, this decision involved Professor Zhibing Zhang who       was invited to join a       consortium with nine experts in encapsulation and characterisation from       different countries as       consultants to the company.
It was at this stage that the potential of the       micromanipulation       technique was first highlighted within P&amp;G. Perfume was first       considered to be encapsulated,       which would be incorporated into sensory detergent products for fabric       care.
The microcapsules for       such applications should have desirable mechanical, structural and surface       properties.
In       particular, they should be strong enough to survive a number of processing       steps required to       manufacture final products, including mixing, pumping, and extrusion, but       should be weak enough       to be ruptured by mechanical forces generated by rubbing and friction on       fabric surfaces to release       perfume.
In addition, the microcapsules should be stable in detergents       during storage and in       laundry processes, and be able to deposit on fabric surfaces.
To meet       these criteria requires       appropriate formulation and processing of perfume microcapsules.
The       performances of sensory       detergent products with perfume microcapsules are normally determined by       consumer tests, which       are time-consuming and expensive.
Using the Birmingham micromanipulation technique, the mechanical strength       of microcapsules as       a function of their formulation and processing conditions can be       characterised, and appropriate       candidates selected for incorporation into products.
Not only has this       approach reduced the time       and cost of product development (and thus environmental impact), the novel       measurements       developed have enabled microcapsules to be used in products for the first       time (see David York       letter of support5.2)     Given the critical importance of the micromanipulation data in the       development of these products, it       is perhaps unsurprising that Professor Zhibing Zhang's group has had 12       research projects, fully       funded or co-funded by P&amp;G since 2001.
In addition, he served as a       consultant to P&amp;G and       Appleton Paper Inc. USA (now named as Encapsys) in 2006-2008, and took a       secondment for 3       months in P&amp;G in 2007, funded by the Royal Academy of Engineering.
ZZ       has provided advice on       improving various aspects of microcapsule formulation, processing and       characterisation (See letter       of support from Prof. David York, FREng5.2).
For       example, during the secondment, he did an       analysis of mechanical damage to perfume microcapsules when they were       mixed with dry       detergent granules.
Based on this analysis, P&amp;G developed a new       process of agglomeration of       microcapsules to protect them in 2008, which has significantly reduced       their damage.
Particularly since 2008, Prof Zhang has provided scientific services to       analyse the mechanical       strength of more than a hundred of perfume microcapsule samples using the       above mentioned       micromanipulation technique, which were prepared by the companies using       different formulation       and processing conditions.
Moreover, the impact generated from the above       research on P&amp;G's       development of new products with perfume microcapsules helped to establish       a strategic and long-term 	  partnership between P&amp;G and University of Birmingham in 2010, and       contributed significantly       as a case study within the School's successful application for a Queen's       Anniversary Prize in 2011.
A number of patents have been filed based upon the Birmingham fracture       strength data.5.3-5.6     The micromanipulation technique has also been used to characterise other       microparticles supplied       and exploited by other international companies during the REF period of       2008-2013.
Characterisation of the compression behaviour of chromatographic       microparticles produced by       Tosoh Bioscience has enabled the company to understand better how to pack       and operate       industrial scale chromatography columns (See letter of support from Dr E.       M&#252;ller5.7).
Other microcapsules characterised include perfume microcapsules from ICI,       UK (2008) and       National Starch, USA (2008-2010); perfume microcapsules from Firmenich SA       Corporate R&amp;D,       Switzerland (2008-2010), perfume microcapsules from Unilever, UK, the       Netherlands and China       (2001-), perfume microcapsules from Givaudan Schweiz AG, Switzerland and       UK (2007-)       microspheres from Micropore Technologies Ltd., UK (2011) and perfume       microcapsules from       International Flavors and Fragrances, USA (2012).
The data generated has       also helped these       companies develop commercial products containing these micro-particles.
