     (i) Dr Pickard's Module for Prison Staff Training     In 2011, Dr Pickard was invited by the Department of Health and the       Ministry of Justice to develop a training module based on her work on       responsibility without blame.
This was for the Knowledge and Understanding       Framework (KUF) for Working Effectively with Personality Disorder in the       Prison System, a joint NHS and National Offender Management Service (NOMS)       initiative which, in the words of Guy Cross, the Mental Health Act       Approvals Manager, is `to increase awareness of personality disorder and       improve capacity of staff to work effectively and create more       psychologically informed and rehabilitative environments within the prison       system' [1].
Dr Pickard's contract was with NOMS, and       her brief was to develop her work into training for prison staff [2].
After initially setting up some focus groups within prison and       high-security hospital settings, she presented a proposal to the       Department of Health and Ministry of Justice in 2012, and was invited to       develop a module for prison staff training.
In February 2013, she       delivered a pilot of the module.
Feedback from those who attended included       the following comments: `[The training] was relevant and insightful.'
`[It] gave practical help in how to address issues which staff will be       able to practise.'
`I will be more mindful of residents' background, why       they may... behave in a certain way, [and]... how I respond to specific       behaviours.'
In March 2013, Dr Pickard delivered something similar for       prison officers at HMP Gartree.
Feedback from those who attended included       the following comments: `[The training] expanded my understanding to a       higher level.'
`[It] has enhanced my understanding and I believe given me       an extra tool to help explain to prisoners when I have to challenge them.'
`[It] gave me insight into some of the offenders that I work with and how       I engage with them... [I] will look at how I interact with prisoners and       how I challenge them and react to them.'
`[It] will help when discussing       difficult prisoners to consider how not to blame them but get them to take       responsibility.'
Dr Pickard later worked on this material in preparation       for further training of those who would eventually be doing the training.
Guy Cross writes, `We expect the KUF Prison System training to be...       rolled out nationally over the coming years... One of the potential values       of Dr Pickard's training is its capacity to address directly the natural       tendency to blame offenders for criminal and/or problematic behaviour that       staff need to manage within the prison system, and the anti-rehabilitative       effect that blame has'[1].
(ii) Other Impacts on Public Policy     Dr Pickard's work on responsibility has attracted attention in other       ways.
In 2013, she was invited to become a member of the National Mental       Health Development and Policy Innovation Group Initiative.
This is a       collaborative venture by the Department of Health, the Institute for       Mental Health at the University of Nottingham, and the Centre for Mental       Health, to create policy in connection with mental health.
In 2013, Dr       Pickard also spoke at the International Association of Forensic       Psychotherapy Workshop on Treating Evil.
Later in the same year, she       spoke, at the invitation of the Governor, at the Grendon Annual Forum to       around eighty officers, prisoners, and policy makers.
The Governer       subsequently invited her to write an article on responsibility without       blame for the Prison Service Journal in light of how well her       presentation had been received.
Dr Pickard's work has also received attention by those concerned with       drug laws and clinicians.
Her paper `The Purpose of Chronic Addiction' is       cited as recommended reading by the Australian Drug Law Reform Foundation[i],       and her ideas are discussed in Mirror of Justice, a blog dedicated       to the development of Catholic legal theory[ii].
Hilary       Richards, a graduate student in the School of Social Work at Wayne State       University, having consulted `The Purpose of Chronic Addiction' while       finishing her clinical internship at a residential substance abuse       treatment facility, wrote to her saying, `[This] outstanding article...       has broadened my understanding and perspective on addiction, which I       believe will improve my clinical approach in the field of substance       abuse.
'[3]     In 2011, Dr Foddy was invited to participate in a seminar on `Ethics and       Behaviour Change' in the House of Lords.
His evidence was subsequently       cited in a report of the House of Lords Science and Technology Select       Committee, which stated, in the context of the citation, `Witnesses who       gave evidence to us agreed that the behaviours which lead to obesity are a       consequence of a number of interacting influences working at various       levels... and involving social and environmental factors'[iii].
In 2011, Dr Foddy also gave a talk at 'Develop Liverpool', a conference       for videogame developers, on videogame addiction[iv].
This talk was subsequently reported in the popular computer and video game       magazine Edge and on the website of Videogamer.com, where       there was an accompanying interview with Dr Foddy.
Later there were two       blog posts, in which participants discussed his findings and applied his       analysis to their own experiences of video game addiction.
The research has also attracted the attention of international       organisations concerned with addictions.
In a background document for the       third meeting of the Technical Development Group for the World Health       Organization `Guidelines of Psychosocially Assisted Pharmacotherapy of       Opioid Dependence', Adrian Carter cites Dr Foddy's and Professor       Savulescu's article `Addiction and Autonomy' and adverts to the misleading       picture of addicts as `internally coerced by an irresistible force' (p.       25)[v].
The Food Addiction Institute, an independent       non-profit organisation whose mission is to support the healing of all       food addicts, cites Dr Foddy's and Professor Savulescu's article       `Addiction is not an Affliction' in its `Bibliography on the Science and       Treatment of Food Addiction'[vi].
And an article in Psychiatric         Times, a news resource aimed at clinicians, cites their article `A       Liberal Account of Addiction' and discusses the idea that psychiatry is       sometimes vitiated by a suspect normative element [vii].
(iii) Blog Discussions and Other Exposure for the Research     The research has also given rise to several active on-line blogs and       discussion threads[viii].
These include the       `Conversation Blog', which to date has had 63 comments, 189 Facebook Likes       and 64 tweets.
Dr Simon Rippon, whilst a Fellow of the Uehiro Centre,       further promoted this research on `Practical Ethics', where he initiated a       debate on whether drug addiction is a lifestyle choice: this has so far       had nearly 1700 views, of which over 1400 were unique.
Further exposure       for the research, helping to draw it to people's attention and thereby       furthering its impact, has included the following: an on-line interview       with Professor Savulescu and Professor Walter Sinnott-Armstrong, a       Distinguished Fellow of the Uehiro Centre, by Nigel Warburton, on whether       addiction is a disease, in 2010[ix]; a keynote address       by Dr Pickard to the Oxfordshire Friends and Family of Personality       Disorder Conference on responsibility without blame, in 2010 (along with       many talks that she has given both on this topic and on addiction to       clinical groups and psychotherapy groups); an interview with Dr Pickard       for the BBC radio programme `The Moral Maze' on sex addiction and the       medicalization of misbehaviour, in 2011[x]; and an       article by Dr Foddy on designed addictions in Wired, in 2011[xi].
