     The research findings have directly challenged popular perceptions of       `The Romans'.
As part of the dissemination and impact process, the       researchers constructed biographies for selected individuals from the       project to make wider points.
The `Ivory Bangle Lady', for example, a       mixed-race female from York buried with rich exotic and local artefacts,       whose isotopes suggest that she came from somewhere slightly warmer than       the UK, illustrates African (second generation) migration as well as       female mobility and high status.
Three important areas of impact can be highlighted:     1 School curriculum     In 2012, the research team received AHRC Follow-on-Funding (&#163;62,000) for       a specific project to communicate their findings to school children,       working with the Runnymede Trust, the UK's leading independent       race-equality think-tank.
This resulted in the production of a website and       teaching resource (http://www.romansrevealed.com/,       launched on 25 April 2013), which draws on the research findings to       provide materials on the themes of migration, diversity and evidence.
It       shows how the concept of a diverse Britain is not new.
As the introductory       text explains, `Links can be made between the way we understand modern       multicultural Britain and the very diverse groups of people who lived in       Romano-British towns such as York and Winchester'.
The resource offers       young children the opportunity to engage with ideas about migration and       diversity, as well as teaching them about the use of archaeological       science in history.
It thereby makes cross-curricular links between Key       Stage 2 History, Geography and Science, while the activities and       discussion materials, in particular, will help develop and consolidate       English curricular skills'.
The website features stories arising from collaboration with the       established children's author Caroline Lawrence (author of The Roman         Mysteries, a major book and BBC TV series) and with a visual artist       (Aaron Watson).
Lawrence provided four short stories about specific       individuals, adding a creative twist to the scientific `clues' provided by       the University of Reading research team.
In addition to the `Ivory Bangle Lady', for example, there is a girl from       Winchester who has exotic grave goods but a local isotope signature,       suggesting she is the child of migrants; a young man local both in terms       of grave goods and isotopic signatures; and an older male from York who       appears unremarkable in terms of grave goods but originates from a colder,       continental part of Europe.
This project is of relevance to the National       Curriculum, in particular to Key Stage 2 (ages 7-11), as it enables       teachers, especially those working with children from diverse backgrounds,       to portray images of the Roman world that are not only more relevant but       directly reflect new academic research on the topic.
The website, which was trialled with approximately 200 children at       primary schools in London and Reading, received over 2,000 unique visitors       in its first few months, and is already changing how children and teachers       view `The Romans', with both user groups reporting an increased awareness       of diversity not just in terms of ethnicity, but also with regards to age       and gender (Corroborating Source 1, Ottosdir 2013).
The website's       reach is expected to increase significantly through promotion at teachers'       conferences and links through teaching-resource sites such as Primary       Resources, Thinking History, Minimus, TES, History on the Net, My Learning       and the London Grid for Learning.
Moreover, Professor A. Kempe from the       University of Reading's Institute of Education is organising an INSET day       for primary-school teachers from the local region in December 2013 to       explore how the use of the website can enhance history teaching, while the       research team is distributing promotional materials at participating       museums and selected schools.
2 Museum displays     The research directly contributed to the redesign of the `People of Roman       York' gallery at the Yorkshire Museum, as part of a complete refurbishment       in 2010.
The museum is visited by up to 94,000 people per year.
The new       gallery display features the skulls, facial reconstructions and       `life-stories' of six individuals studied by the research team,       highlighting the diversity of the Roman population.
The curator of the museum stated that: "Having recently worked with the       University of Reading investigating human remains found in York City in       order to gain an understanding about where and how people lived, the       museum wanted to reconstruct these people in a way which you and I today       would feel a genuine affinity with....The vision resulted in the creation       of a life-size interactive presentation where the characters were in fact       real people telling their story through time."
The `Ivory Bangle Lady', in particular, is now used for school workshops,       is featured in a video and is the subject of interactive tweets, as a       result of a recent (2012) collaboration by the project's Post-Doctoral       Research Assistant (S. Leach, now at the University of Exeter) with the       Yorkshire Museum ("I tweet dead people", funded by AHRC and REACT).
There       are also plans to develop a hologram.
On the basis of this research, Eckardt is also acting as an academic       advisor for the redesign of the Museum of London Roman Gallery (opening       2015), which will similarly emphasise migrant individuals and their       biographies.
3 Broader public awareness     The research findings have been disseminated through national and       international media, including, in the UK, The Sunday Times, the Daily         Mail and The Independent newspapers and BBC TV's The One         Show.
International coverage has been mainly on websites, sometimes       linked to magazines       (http://www.archaeologie-online.de/magazin/nachrichten/afrikanische-lady-im-roemischen-england-9879/;       http://www.spektrum.de/alias/roemisches-britannien/die-lady-von-eboracum-eine-reiche-afrikanerin/1024189       and http://www.epoc.de/artikel/1024189&amp;_z=798890).
Members of the general public, local amateur archaeologists as well as a       theatre producer have responded to this media coverage about the project,       and the `Ivory Bangle Lady' in particular (see Daily Mail blog,       5.3 below).
These responses indicate a fascination with `black' history       or, conversely, negative (and often racist) replies, but it is clearly       difficult to quantify this impact.
In addition, the research team has run an active programme of talks to       local archaeological societies including those in Yorkshire, Berkshire,       Hampshire, Henley and Surrey.
Informal feedback from these events,       typically attended by between 30 and 70 people, suggests that the audience       had their perceptions of Roman Britain challenged.
Impact summary     In terms of beneficiaries, this project is changing understanding       and improving awareness of diversity in the Roman period for visitors to       Yorkshire Museum (94,000 visitors p.a.)
and for children, teachers and       parents using the educational resource, as well as for the general public.
Despite only being launched in April 2013, the website has had more than       2,228 unique visitors to date, and is beginning to be used in classrooms       as part of the Key Stage 2 curriculum.
The Romans are a popular subject for children and adults across Britain       and the world, and the significance of the University of Reading's       research is that it profoundly changes the way they are viewed.
Rather       than a simplistic contrast between essentially homogenous local and       `Roman' populations, the research and its outreach programme use specific       case studies based on the latest scientific findings to highlight       diversity.
This project will alter public understanding of the period, and       of populations in Roman Britain in particular.
In terms of its reach, the impact of the research affects diverse       groups (of all ages and backgrounds) across the UK.
This may be of       particular relevance amongst an audience that either assumes the Romans       were all `white and like us' or those who have previously viewed the       Romans as irrelevant (African-Caribbean, and other immigrant groups).
