     Silchester is unique in the UK as a sustainable and extremely       long-running archaeological research project.
The project's impact beyond       academia arises not only from the dissemination of research findings, but       also directly from the programme of active inclusion which has led to the       participation of new constituents in archaeological research, as well as       visitors, from a broad range of backgrounds, ages and levels of       experience.
The initiative has therefore had impacts as diverse as       enhancing the public's understanding of Iron Age to Roman urban       archaeology and of archaeology as a discipline, to the inclusion of       disabled people in archaeological fieldwork.
In terms of this variety, as       well as the sheer number and range of participants and visitors (see       below), the project has achieved outstanding reach.
Impact directly through the excavation     The public response to the research activity and its findings is evident       in:            the numbers choosing to visit the annual six-week excavation         (approximately 30,000 over 36 excavation weeks in the REF period);       the number of repeat individual visits (c.40 per cent of the total);       the group visits by learned societies and other organisations         (approximately 12 per six- week period);       the inclusion of Silchester into tours by heritage tourism firm         Andante Travels (see Section 5), and       the number of repeat visits by (approximately five) learned societies         and other organisations each year.
Large numbers of visitors (30 per cent) come from beyond Berkshire and       Hampshire, many of them from overseas.
Outreach has always been an important part of the research and       training activity at Silchester, but increasingly so since the research       team attracted &#163;50,000 of support from the Heritage Lottery Fund for an       innovative Access and Education project (2004-06).
This project provided       the foundations for the outreach programme in the REF period, formalising       informational resources and services for visitors and incorporating       visitor feedback into their further development.
An important feature of       the outreach programme is the diversity of the reach, with visitors       ranging from primary-school children (c.600 children each year over the       REF period) to hard-to-reach teenagers (via the Aimhigher programme) and       members of the University of the Third Age.
These visitor services have enhanced understanding of the Calleva       site, its history and the archaeological activity for all age and interest       groups.
Responses to a visitor survey in 2012 (sample size 206) indicated       that visitors had learnt of the `sophistication of Iron Age life' and the       nature of the Iron Age to Roman transition (Brittain 2012; see also Guardian       article and blog responses below).
The project has also had an impact on schoolteachers and their pupils       in relation to the delivery of the Key Stage 2 curriculum by consistently       enhancing and supporting access to local Roman archaeology over 17 years.
The impact on local amateur societies is diverse.
For example,       members of the Basingstoke Archaeological and Historical Society have       visited the site, heard lectures from the project leaders, benefited from       student help with pottery analysis and received input into a video project       from Fulford.
Some have also been trained in archaeological techniques on       site (see Section 5).
The project's innovative approach to social inclusion has also influenced       beneficiaries through active participation of members of the public       in the field research itself (more than 1,100 non- Higher Education       Institute participants over the REF period).
These participants include       c.150 A- level students of whom around 30 per cent chose to study       Archaeology at university (Brittain 2012).
In many cases, these students       were unsure about archaeology as a career before coming to Silchester, and       their participation in the excavation informed their career choice: "it       has definitely confirmed my desire to study archaeology at university"; "I       thank you for allowing me to enter university with a clearer mind and       understanding of what is expected of me" (A-level students 2012, Brittain       2012 &#8212; see Section 5).
The specific training in Roman archaeology provided       by the Silchester project is recognised by the Society for the Promotion       of Roman Studies, which for many years has offered fieldwork bursaries to       sixth-form students.
The Society sees Silchester's contribution as       "invaluable to the Society and the future of the subject area in building       up links with and encouraging the interest of pupils who will go on to       study and work in archaeology" (See Testimonial, Section 5).
In addition to school pupils and university students, the project has encouraged         the participation of adult volunteers, including disabled and       retired individuals.
The inclusion of disabled participants at Silchester       was especially pioneering and in collaboration with departmental       colleagues had a considerable impact on professional practice through the       development of best- practice guidelines (Gilchrist &amp; Phillips 2007: Inclusive,         Accessible Archaeology, www.britarch.ac.uk/accessible;       Creighton &amp; Phillips 2011: Disability and the Archaeological         Profession).
Silchester acted as the pilot study and was integral to       the design of these projects.
Impact through dissemination of research findings     The unique, long-term nature of the Silchester excavation has resulted in       a dissemination programme of considerable reach, which can be       shown to have impacted on a wide range of beneficiaries.
This       dissemination is a key element of project design, with an increasing       public engagement strand in the last 10 years.
In contrast to commonly held perceptions of monumental, clean and       masonry-built `Roman' towns, the Silchester excavation has revealed a rich       picture of daily, dirty life and rituals in provincial Britain.
The       research has changed the public's understanding of the Iron Age and the       continuing impact of the indigenous population on life at Silchester and       on Roman Britain more widely (see Brittain 2012, Section 5).
Calleva       provides evidence for pre-conquest, proto-urban development, and a society       already adopting Roman foods and cuisine before the Roman conquest.
Excavation has evidenced the organised planning of the town in the Iron       Age, the radical change imposed in the Roman period and the continuity of       Iron Age ideologies into the Roman era.
The dissemination of results from the project extends well beyond       traditional academic publications, as part of a readjustment of views of       Roman Britain in the light of the latest evidence.
Its findings have been       integrated into non-academic syntheses representing Roman Britain,       including, most recently, Charlotte Higgins' Under Another Sky:         Journeys in Roman Britain (Cape, 2013).
A recent review of the book       (The Guardian, 24 July 2013) notes that: `British aristocrats were       influenced by Roman tastes long before the Romans arrived; yet when they       did arrive, traditional British culture and religion persisted stubbornly,       as is shown by the roundhouses that mess with the Roman grid-planning in a       town such as Silchester &#8212; round pegs in square holes'.
The new insights afforded by the Silchester Town Life Project mean that       it has also regularly informed and illustrated both radio (e.g.
The         Romans in Britain, BBC Radio 3, 2010; Dreaming the City,       BBC Radio 4, 2013) and TV programmes attracting audiences of over       two million (e.g.
Inside Out, BBC1, 2010; The Story of Ireland,       BBC2, 2011; A History of Ancient Britain, BBC2, 2011; Digging         for Britain, BBC2, 2011).
The appetite for new information and the       importance of revising public views of the Roman period in Britain has led       to reports in The Guardian (2010, 2012), The Times       (2008-12), BBC History Magazine (2013), Spiegel Online       (2009, 2011) and BBC South (2013).
The project website and blog (www.reading.ac.uk/silchester)       received over 30,000 unique visitors in 2012-13, 20 per cent of them from       outside UK, while the research team has more than 1,000 followers on       Twitter.
In addition, members of the research team pursue an active agenda of       dissemination of the research findings through talks and lectures       to local, regional and national groups and societies; Audience numbers       between 2008 and 2013 are estimated to be in excess of 3,000.
The findings also influence professional practice.
For example,       the County Archaeologist for Hampshire states that the research at       Silchester `influences the agendas I apply in my curatorial roles though       the planning system, site management and environmental education'.
(See       Section 5)     Interest in the activity and findings of the Silchester Town Life Project       is therefore pervasive across very many different constituencies.
Evidence       of that interest and the impact of the project lies not just in the       figures quoted above, but also in the significant financial support (more       than &#163;393,000 in total in 2008-13) that the initiative consistently       attracts from charities and individuals, such as the Calleva Foundation,       the Headley Trust, GML and the Horne Foundation.
Funding at this level       from private sources is unusual, and reflects the donors' interest not       just in the research but in the beneficial impact the Silchester       experience has on the personal and professional development of       participants.
The benefits are likewise wide-ranging beyond the academic world.
The       County Archaeologist notes the research project's `contribution to       [regional] quality of life (through recreation, education and       study) ... in helping people to enjoy their local heritage' (see Section       5).
The research activity creates opportunities for participation by the       general public, including young people considering study and career       options, and disabled volunteers previously excluded from involvement in       archaeological excavation.
It provides a platform on which to develop       professional practices which reach well beyond the Silchester Town Life       Project itself (such as disability guidelines).
English Heritage considers that there is `no project in recent years       which has produced such a rounded and comprehensive record of       Romano-British town life' and that it `has set exemplary standards in       post-excavation analysis, publication and public engagement' (See Section       5).
