     In a climate of budget cuts, sustainability policies and practices often       slip down organisational priority lists.
However, research at the UoEBS       has resulted in several public and private organisations in Cornwall       implementing low carbon procurement practices, some of which are being       used as exemplars elsewhere within the UK and also Europe.
Collaboration between the UoEBS and Cornwall Development Company (a       and 5) shaped the development of a free carbon literacy e-learning       resource for private and public sector employees (http://sd.defra.gov.uk/advice/public/nsppp/carbon-learning/).
Supported by the Department of Health, it was launched by the Defra-led       National Sustainable Public Procurement Programme in September 2011 and       has currently processed over 580 e-learners, including participants from       several UK county councils (e.g.
Blackburn) and from as far afield as       Australia, South Africa and India.
The UoEBS's research (iv, v, vi) shaped part of a new       national NHS carbon reduction strategy &#8212; Procuring for Carbon Reduction       (P4CR) &#8212; which seeks to reduce the organisation's carbon footprint, of       which 60% comes from procurement.
Academics used workshops to help senior       managers from the NHS-PPSA (1) (which manages &#163;700m of expenditure       for 17 NHS trusts) to embed low carbon criteria into its procurement       strategy.
Several PPSA cases studies were included in DEFRA's carbon       literacy e-learning resource, which was incorporated into the P4CR.
With       advice and discussion with the UoEBS, the PPSA developed a Benefits       Tracker Tool that compares cash savings, carbon savings and time savings       for public contracts.
Since April 2012, the tool has been used to       calculate financial and carbon savings in all PPSA procurement contracts.
Via a programme of ALSs, the UoEBS has helped prioritise sustainability       at Devon &amp; Cornwall Constabulary, despite the force losing over 1200       staff in 2011/12.
The Constabulary confirmed that the research project has       enabled them to implement changes far quicker than if working       independently.
For example: most stations in the region now employ a       sustainability champion to oversee low carbon processes; an award scheme       for best practice was launched at the Force Sustainability Day (March       2012) and highlighted other notable achievements, including the reduction       of heating across the Force's estate by two degrees, saving &#163;150,000       annually; introduction of solar heating panels at sites, and contracts for       scrap metal recycling; development of a sustainability checklist for each       station (set to be rolled out nationally): and car sharing to reduce their       fleet by 20%.
This was featured in the official UK police magazine       Billboard, raising awareness nationally.
The ALSs also facilitated change       in the Constabulary's catering procurement policy, resulting in a local,       organic food company winning a tender to supply catering services to the       regional headquarters.
The Constabulary's Estates Procurement Manager (2)       stated that the ALS have helped him to draw up a new green building policy       and embed low carbon criteria in procurement, as well as clarifying the       areas of his work where change is necessary.
As a consequence of these       actions, Devon and Cornwall Police recently received the "Most Sustainable       Public Sector Organisation in Emergency Services" award and credited CAC       as being a significant partner in this achievement.
Cornwall College Group (CCG) (3) drew on the ALSs to overhaul its       procurement system, combining the separate processes for each of its six       campuses into one more efficient policy.
The college's senior management       purchased a new e-procurement system in 2012, with the cost of the system       expected to be recouped several times over through long-term savings.
The       IT department of the College made significant savings through decreasing       the number of servers used (leading to a reduction in energy costs from       &#163;62K to &#163;4K), reducing the size of its computer fleet by 10% (with an       associated energy saving of &#163;13.5K) and through changing its equipment       replacement policy (making savings of &#163;9K per year).
A change in the       College's print management process resulted in:            a 60% reduction in the number of devices       an increase of duplex printing from 5% to 67%, saving &#163;40K and 4m         sheet of paper       a reduction of colour printing from 25% to 8%       waste reduction through deletion of non-collected print jobs, saving         &#163;70K and 2m sheets of paper       an estimated energy saving of &#163;20K per annum       a change in staff travel policy, to encourage inter-campus travel by         bus or train          As a result of the ALS, Eden Project (4) restructured its       procurement processes to better reflect the sustainable ethos of the       organisation &#8212; the Sustainable Buying Policy subsequently established       within this department is intended to be rolled out throughout Eden.
The UoEBS's research has improved the ability of Cornish SMEs to respond       to the low carbon agenda, particularly in securing contracts with public       purchasers.
The ALS methodology was adapted into one-day `Carbon       Leadership' roundtable programme in 2011 for senior managers from ten SMEs       in Cornwall.
The first West Cornwall Food Manufacture Low Carbon       Roundtable, jointly organised with CCG, continues to sit with regional       businesses to discuss current sustainability issues.
The business support       manager of Chaffins Foodservice has embedded sustainable processes into       the company's operations and described the workshops as the "...best two       hours of my working life".
UoEBS academics have actively disseminated research outcomes to       practitioners.
They organised seminars for the South West branch of the       Chartered Institute of Purchasing &amp; Supply (CIPS), the Institute of       Directors and the Carbon Matters conference for Cornish businesses in       2011.
In addition, the team also developed a shorter form of dissemination       called Roundtables in Carbon Leadership in order to reach SMEs which could       not afford the ALS time commitment.
Feedback from participants included       comments such as: "It's been very inspiring......I'm going away now         with something I can work on, and that's really good".
The team has       published articles in The European Financial Review (circulation of over       71,000) in January 2012 and Supply Management, the CIPS magazine       (circulation over 43,000), in February 2012.
Coverage of the roundtables       has been earmarked for publication by ESF-Works, an online platform that       showcases policy and practice lessons from the 2007-2013 ESF programmes in       the UK.
These all supplement a European dimension to the research impact.
The CAC project is unique in using ALS to meet low carbon economy       challenges via procurement practices, and in 2011 received an ESF       Sustainable Development Specialist Project Leader Award, and in 2012 a       Cornwall Works WISE Award for Innovation.
