     The AHRC project incorporated at its heart public engagement through the       country house.
This       has continued since the official completion of the project to generate       three key areas of impact:     1.
Heightened awareness of the country house as a site of consumption.
Attention is refocused away from the country house as a collection of       treasured artefacts and       towards greater awareness of it as a product of the flow of goods and       services.
Emphasis is also       placed on the ways in which mundane consumption practices defined the       country house as a site       for everyday life.
This has been achieved via articles in the BBC         History magazine (July 2011 - S1)       and local history journals (S2), the extensive readership of which       adds reach to these connections       with non-academic audiences.
More direct engagement with curators and       visitor managers was       created through a dedicated website (Consumption and the Country House,       October 2011 to date       - S3) and a major international conference organised by Stobart in       conjunction with English       Heritage (Consuming the Country House, April 2012 - S4).
The website provides a forum for a       broad range of people interested in the country house and the study of       consumption to exchange       ideas, information and opinions.
It has created an international network       with over 70 members from       eleven countries across four continents, including representatives from       many different historic       house organisations (e.g.
the National Trust, English Heritage and       Attingham Trust).
The       conference attracted 73 delegates, over half being drawn from historic       house organisations.
Feedback was extremely positive, many delegates commenting at the time on       its importance in       creating links between academics and curators.
Correspondence with       delegates since the       conference has highlighted the continuation of such dialogue and       connections, and their spread to       people unable to attend &#8212; an indication that its impact has been lasting (S4).
2.
Enhanced role for academic research and approaches in the         interpretation of two houses.
At Stoneleigh Abbey attention has focused on Mary Leigh, who owned the       property for thirty years       from 1774, but whose position in the history of the house has been largely       neglected.
An exhibition       mounted at Stoneleigh Abbey by Stobart (August 2012 to date) outlines her       changing consumption       practices and has placed her more fully into the narrative of the house (S5).
It has inspired the       house guides to create a new themed tour, `Her-story', which explores the       lives of various women       of the house (S5).
This has enhanced the significance of the       initial impact of the research.
In       addition, and linking sources used in the research directly to the       visiting public, Stobart has       produced annotated copies of bills and inventories for key rooms in the       house.
These highlight the       impact on the house of Mary and her brother Edward, and have been used by       the guides as a       basis for telling different stories about Stoneleigh Abbey (S5).
At Canons Ashby, detailed research on Sir John Turner Dryden has       highlighted his significance for       the development of the estate.
This has allowed him to be written into the       story of the house for the       first time (S6), most particularly through a programme of       story-telling (see below).
Research on       room inventories, undertaken as part of Stobart's AHRC-funded research       project, has provided a       wealth of detailed information on the provenance of goods in the house and       on continuities in       material culture from one generation to the next.
This forms the       foundation of a highly innovative       smartphone app., developed with Tom Murray of N-Vision at the University       of Northampton.
Launched in June 2013, and modified in response to initial feedback, this       forms an e-guidebook       allowing visitors to draw down additional information on key objects (S7).
As the Visitor Manager       notes (S6), the impact of the app lies in the way it changes how       and to whom the house is       presented: allowing interactive access to historical information without       recourse to room guides       and connecting particular younger visitors who are often hard to engage       with historical narratives.
3.
Enriched public understanding of land owners and their houses.
At Stoneleigh Abbey, new interpretative leaflets (July 2011) and the       exhibition on Mary Leigh       produced by Stobart (July 2012) built on interest generated by his article       in BBC History magazine.
Initial feedback from visitors and house guides welcomed the provision of       more detailed historical       information, but suggested the need for more information directed at       children.
As a result an `I-Spy'       leaflet was produced (March 2013).
In all, over 1400 leaflets have been       distributed.
Visitor       feedback, collected via informal interviews, has highlighted the       significance of the research in       shaping vistors' understanding of the country house (S8).
Together,       the exhibition and leaflets       have: [1] made visitors more aware of the lives of neglected figures from       the history of the house,       especially women; [2] prompted a real interest in how country house owners       acquired and used       goods, and [3] given an insight into and appreciation of the historical       research that lies behind the       stories told by guides.
At Canons Ashby, a professional storyteller (Fiona Collins) drew heavily       on research by Stobart       and Rothery in a programme of storytelling based on the life of Sir John       Turner Dryden and his       wife Lady Elizabeth (July and August 2012).
This proved highly successful       in engaging visitors,       especially children, by providing historical information in an accessible       form.
Over 170 visitors       joined the storytelling and commented on the way that it enhanced their       experience of the house       (S9).
In written comments, they highlighted how the storytelling:       [1] made history `come to life' -       communicating detailed research in a really effective manner ; [2] engaged       strongly with children       and got them interested in what they were seeing at the house, and [3]       linked historical figures and       narratives to artefacts in the house.
The downloadable smartphone app was       utilised by over 200       visitors in just 4 weeks (July 2013).
Its ability to extend and enrich the       visitor experience (especially       for children) is evident from visitor feedback, collected via informal       face-to-face interviews (S10)       and has fed into enhanced visitor satisfaction (S6).
Visitors       reported that it impacted significantly       on their behaviour by: [1] making their visit more of an exploration       (navigating virtually encouraged       active engagement with the house); [2] making them look more carefully at       objects and think about       their connection to people, and [3] encouraging repeat visits and visits       to other properties,       especially by younger people &#8212; as one commented: "Where else is there one       like this?"
(S10)
