     &#8226; Shaping the Care Bill     The Care Bill, currently passing through Parliament, is a significant       part of `the most comprehensive overhaul since 1948 [of the] care and       support system' (http://caringforourfuture.dh.gov.uk/).
Our research findings influenced policy debate and directly shaped key       elements of this legislation.
Our governance report argued that making SABs a legal requirement would       help to improve safeguarding governance.
DH accepted the recommendation,       announcing in May 2011 that establishing a SAB would become a legal       requirement for all local authorities in England.
The research evidence on       the value of such legislation was given as the grounds for this decision,       with our then-unpublished report cited [see Section 5, C1].
Our       recommendation also influenced the Law Commission's review of       adult-social-care law, which called for statutory boards [C2, C3].
Our       research also evaluated Board configurations, exploring different models       without specifying any single one for universal adoption.
DH has said that       this `played a major part in informing our thinking' on how prescriptive       the legislation should be about SAB membership and chairing arrangements,       leading them to allow a strong degree of flexibility to reflect local       circumstances [C4].
The overview of current Board practices was used by DH       in evaluating the feasibility of the SAB reform proposals, informing and       being directly cited in the impact assessments accompanying the Care Bill       [C5, C6].
Our self-neglect report led the Law Commission to recommend that       self-neglect should be expressly included within the new duty on local       authorities to investigate cases of abuse and neglect [C2].
The government       accepted the need to address self-neglect and will do so in the linked       Code of Practice, in direct response to the issues highlighted by the       research [C3].
&#8226; Stimulating changes to the governance arrangements of SABs     The research has also had wide impact on local governance arrangements.
The template developed in our governance report to benchmark best practice       in safeguarding governance was itself used by the DH in setting principles       against which SABs are required to assess their arrangements [C1].
The       template was used by chairs of 30 SABs to benchmark their arrangements in       two national events on 15 February 2011 and 22 February 2011, organised by       the Local Government Association and the Association of Directors of Adult       Social Services (ADASS) [C7].
Four SABs invited the researchers to work       directly with their whole board.
In Camden, for example, the research       served as the basis for a review of SAB arrangements and led to the       restructuring of sub-groups (January 2013), the adoption of independent       chairing arrangements (April 2013) and revision of the communications       strategy (July 2013) [C7, C8].
In Oxfordshire, the research-based workshop       on 8 June 2012 `helped the board to consider its structure', `helped       tremendously in establishing greater clarity about the role of the board'       and `directly influenced the business plan' and future priorities [C9].
The governance report informed the ADASS Adult Safeguarding Network in       preparing guidance for all Directors of local authorities in England and       was directly cited in that document [C10].
&#8226; Influencing procedures, practice and workforce development         strategies in self-neglect work     Some authorities participating in development workshops on self-neglect       [see Section 2] reported subsequently changing their systems or practices.
For example, an event for the Camden SAB on 21 June 2012 highlighted gaps       in services and inter-agency systems and facilitated the identification of       solutions.
Camden have since trialled and established a `high-risk panel'       to manage self-neglect cases which, with 35 referrals by July 2013, `has       been very successful in building networks and reducing risk' [C7, C8].
High-risk panels have also been established by Brighton and Hove, East       Sussex and West Sussex, accompanied by a tiered, multi-agency training       strategy on self-neglect, with content shaped by the research: `The       published research has been particularly informative in shaping the need       for successful learning intervention' [C7].
West Sussex drew on the       research in developing its own guidance to staff [C11].
Wirral NHS       Foundation Trust changed its approach to mental-capacity assessment as a       result of our findings [C7].
The national organisation Research in       Practice for Adults included in its current work-plan the development of a       practice tool based on our research, to support evidence-informed practice       by its local authority members [C7].
We have ensured, too, that the research implications are addressed at       individual practitioner level.
Every practice development event involves       action planning for personal and organisational change.
Social workers,       health professionals, team leaders and safeguarding leads in many       localities have set targets for their own personal practice development,       in locations as diverse as Brighton and Hove, Buckinghamshire, East       Sussex, Liverpool, Merton, Middlesbrough, Milton Keynes, Oxfordshire,       Reading, Sutton and York.
The research has been described by the DH, as a       result of the expert seminars they have run, as `exceptionally       well-received' [C4].
Finally, benefits for service-users are emerging; one example is from a       hospital-based safeguarding lead:     I just wanted to let you know that your presentation ... may already be       having an impact on people who are self-neglecting.
I had a call yesterday       about an elderly couple who are living in very unsafe surroundings and are       really struggling, but have declined all interventions.
I have asked       social services to review their decision about (mental) capacity and have       directed them to your research findings.
I am hopeful that they will now       at least engage in a conversation about how we help to minimise the risks       to this very vulnerable couple [C7].
