     Loughborough University's research into town centre consumer perceptions       and behaviour has       significantly informed evidence-based strategic decisions for revitalising       UK town centres by       changing the awareness, attitudes and approaches of industry bodies, local       town centre       partnerships and retailers.
The research formed a key component of the advice Hart gave to the       British Retail Consortium       (BRC), the lead trade organisation for UK retail, during the writing of       the 2009 report "21st Century       High Streets: A new vision for our town centres" [5.1].
This       widely circulated report proposed a       long-term strategy for policymakers, investors and the government to       address the issues faced by       UK High Streets and implement actions for rejuvenation.
The report cited       Hart et al (2007) as       contributing evidence to `A unique sense of place', the first of six key       elements of a successful High       Street.
The research thus played an important role in influencing the       ideas and policies in the       report, confirming the notion that the character or unique image each town       centre possesses "can       strongly influence shoppers' decisions about when, why and how often they       visit a High Street".
The BRC's Director of Business and Regulation has remarked that Hart and       Stachow's work "is       helping retailers and other stakeholders make informed decisions based on       empirical data",       adding: "The research has become even more relevant against the backdrop       of the current       challenges facing town centres and the government's strategies to       revitalise them."
[5.2]     The research was also cited in `Successful town centres &#8212; developing       effective strategies', a 2013       report commissioned by the Department for Business, Innovation and Skills       to encourage "a re-       think of the strategic positioning of town centres... as places that serve       their communities, visitors,       businesses and key stakeholders, with a quality of experience that       encourages them to keep       coming back and staying longer" [5.3].
The report, produced by the       Association of Town and City       Management (ACTM) and Gfirst, Gloucestershire's Local Enterprise       Partnership, described the       work as "an innovative research study on how customers and visitors       actually interact with their       town centres".
Following advisory input to the report, Hart was invited to       present a "thought piece"       at the ACTM's Summer School in July 2013, leading to a debate on the       actions needed to address       consumers' changing needs.
The debate involved town centre practitioners       and stakeholders from       an international audience of over 100 delegates from government       departments, local authorities,       Business Improvement Districts, retail property managers, retailing       consultants, retail industry       representative bodies and retailers.
In July 2013 ATCM also invited Hart       to join the Advisory Group       of its Thought Leadership and Research Programme, which includes academics       and key thinkers       from a variety of disciplines, to inform the strategic direction of       programmes and advise on specific       town centre research proposals.
The Chief Executive of ACTM has described       Hart and Stachow's       research as "of key interest to ACTM's membership", noting: "[It] has       addressed a previously       neglected area of town centre consumer behaviour from the customer's own       perspective, where       knowledge and understanding are vital if town centre management is to be       successful in       revitalising town centres."
[5.4]     In March 2012 the Loughborough Town Centre BID Partnership asked Hart to       advise on       Loughborough's application to become a Portas Pilot Town as part of the       government initiative, led       by retail guru Mary Portas, to revitalise the UK's town centres.
Hart and       Stachow's research was       used to support the BID Partnership before, during and after its       application, including designing       research to inform the team in transforming local consumers' perceptions.
Confirming the success       of the application in July 2012, Local Government Minister Grant Schapps       noted the uniqueness of       the Loughborough BID team's collaboration with academia.
The manager of       Loughborough BID       has remarked: "Working with Cathy Hart has given [us] direct access to       innovative town centre       research that we have been able to put into practice in a town centre       environment."
[5.5]     Insights from the research were also used to design a student case       project that investigated       customer experience in a Boots store, as a result of which Boots       implemented selected findings at       its Loughborough branch.
This led to in an improved customer experience,       as demonstrated by an       Empathica survey that showed feedback increased positively by at least 5%       following       implementation.
The collaborative project work with the local Boots store       management team       developed the relationship with Boots' support centre in Nottingham,       leading to its subsequent role       as a project partner in the co-funded ESRC research [G3.2].
In       March 2013 Hart was invited to       present the town centre consumer research at a Boots Regional Community       Event, where the       findings were used to advise store managers on how to respond to changing       consumer behaviour       at a local level.
Boots' Public Policy Manager has described Hart and       Stachow's work as having       "benefited Boots both at an operational level and from a broader High       Street perspective" [5.6].
