     Alamouti's production company Contra-Image is evidence of a beneficiary       whereby a new business has been created and is a viable entity that is       generating economic and cultural value.
The projects have all secured       international sales agents that have sold the films to various       international territories, helping the films gain more viewers and       audiences as well as generate more economic and cultural value.
His films       have had an impact on the awareness, attitudes and understanding of       sections of the public both in the UK and internationally.
His films have       been shown across the world by major festivals and broadcasters including       Krakow Film Festival, London International Doc Festival, Utah Film       Festival, BBC, Al Jazeera, SKY, Russia 24, and Yes.
Gilad and all that Jazz won best documentary at the 2012 Utah Film       Festival and was the most popular screening of the year at the prestigious       Frontline Club, London.
The screening attracted an audience consisting of       ex-holocaust survivors, Palestinian victims and Zionists, which resulted       in the most informative and open debates on the Palestinian question.
The       debate was continued to a global audience via a special program on the BBC       world service.
The film has been shown across the world, both on broadcast       television, satellite TV, film festivals and is also available for       download on Amazon video-on-demand.
Boys with Broken Ears was credited as one of Al Jazeera's most       popular documentaries and was shown on the biggest network in Israel,       which resulted in substantial press coverage.
The film had a massive       impact on Israeli audiences who have never seen Iran portrayed in such a       way.
After every festival screening the film is followed by a debate,       which enables audiences of all political persuasions to discuss their       views.
It has been selected to enter the best documentary completion at       the prestigious Fajr Film Festival.
Alamouti's work has also had a significant impact on film techniques       associated with creative practice and artistic expression.
The         Citizen's-project, which has won a handful of prizes at festivals       such as Cambridge, Dresden and more, was a pioneering documentary in its       use of web convergence and helped to foster a new way of making and       distributing documentary film.
The formal style of Gilad and All That         Jazz layered a seemingly "normal" narrative biopic about a musician,       with political analysis and discourse, which was an innovative way to       explore identity politics and music in the same film.
The impact and success of these films have helped Alamouti and his       company Contra-Image to secure regular commissions from international       broadcasters and funding bodies; as well as to prepare a new round of       projects that are more innovative and ground-breaking for 2013 through to       2015.
