     The significant cultural and pedagogical impact of increased       understanding of history derives from Oxford research involving the       decoding of ancient writing.
It is Bowman's research on the Vindolanda       tablets that has been most important in making the history of the Roman       frontier in Britain come alive in a new way for a modern audience.
This       has had a particularly strong local impact at Vindolanda itself (below).
Bowman and Tomlin's re-reading of the Frisian tablet had local impact in       the Netherlands, contributing to understanding of the slipperiness of       national narratives based on tenuous evidence; the tablet they re-edited       had had a public image in Friesland because it was thought to provide the       first mention of a Frisian cow[i].
The benefit of       increased public understanding has been achieved through a number of       modes, in particular: museums (and museum publications), school       syllabuses, the internet, and newspaper and television reports.
Improving the Historical Understanding of Museum Visitors     This impact is achieved partly through the display of the Vindolanda       tablets at the British Museum.
A selection of tablets is prominently       displayed in the centre of Gallery 49 (Roman Britain) and also in Gallery       70 (Roman Empire).
The tablets have been chosen to represent Vindolanda's       varied mixture of private letters and official documents and to include       the most important and famous examples.
The tablets are widely visited by       both UK and non-UK nationals.
The British Museum has in recent years been       the UK's most popular visitor attraction, with nearly 6 million visitors a       year[1] (though the museum does not keep figures for general       visitors to particular galleries).
The tablets are widely flagged on the       museum's website, where they are listed among the `Top Ten British       Treasures' chosen by museum curators (they were also voted the top       treasure by the British public following a TV programme devoted to the       treasures).
There is also a page on the tablets in the `Young Explorers'       section of the Museum website.
The Museum also promotes cultural       understanding of Vindolanda through publishing and selling online and in       its shop Bowman's book Life and Letters on the Roman Frontier:         Vindolanda and its People (1994; revised edition, 2003).
This book       has sold more than 1,000 copies since the start of 2008.
The key role of Bowman's Oxford team was highlighted in a speech by Ralph       Jackson, Curator of Romano-British Collections at the British Museum.
This       was at the Roman Society's celebration of Bowman's Vindolanda achievements       at its June 2011 AGM: `It is a tribute to the resourcefulness and sheer       stamina of both Team Birley and Team Bowman that a) we have so many       Tablets and b) their reconstructed texts and translations are available as       full editions with commentaries, both in paper-published form by the       British Museum Press and Britannia, and online at the Vindolanda Tablets       Online and British Museum websites: they are freely available world-wide       for public and scholar alike.
I think that is an incredible feat of       endurance and a terrific success story and no-one has been more       indefatigable, tenacious and single-minded than Alan Bowman.'
A particularly significant local impact has also been achieved by the       display of tablets at the Vindolanda Museum.
Nine tablets (three military       documents and six letters) have been on loan to the Museum since March       2011, when it re-opened following a multi-million pound re-development       after receiving funding from the Heritage Lottery Fund and ONE North East.
It was the opportunity to display a selection of tablets that led the       museum to receive this funding.
The tablets are on display in a newly       constructed exhibition space with an atmosphere controlled environment;       they are at the centre of the exhibition, surrounded by other original       Roman finds that have been excavated at Vindolanda.
Visitor numbers to the       museum have increased greatly, rising from 82189 in 2010 to 91849 in 2011.
The qualitative feedback the Museum has received from visitors in response       to the tablets has been overwhelmingly positive.
The fact that many       visitors stay locally overnight has greatly boosted the local economy.
Patricia Birley, the Director of the Vindolanda Trust, has acknowledged       the importance of the tablets as bringing `a unique angle to both our       collection and interpretation'[ii].
The re-reading of the Frisian tablet also had a local impact, as it was       marked by a public conference organised by the Tresoar and Fries Museum in       Leeuwarden in April 2009.
Influencing School Teaching     The pedagogical impact of the tablets is shown by the number of school       children who are taught about the tablets through visits to the British       Museum and the Vindolanda Museum.
9,834 school students and 1,490       adults/teachers accompanying students visited Gallery 49 in the British       Museum in the year from June 2011 to June 2012.
Following the loan of       tablets to the Vindolanda Museum, school visits increased by 15%.
The       pedagogical impact of Bowman's research is also seen in the use of the       Vindolanda tablets in school syllabuses: they are a recommended primary       source for AQA Classical Civilisation GCSE, Topic 4H: Archaeology of Roman       Britain, and Bowman's Life and Letters is the recommended       secondary source for this module.
[iii]     The tablets have had a broader pedagogical impact on Latin teaching in       primary schools thanks to the Minimus textbooks developed by       Barbara Bell[iv].
These popular textbooks introduce       school children to Latin through stories about a Vindolanda family and       through data known from the Vindolanda tablets.
They have been used in       about 2,500 primary schools in the UK and have received wide media       coverage[v].
Volume 1 was originally published in 1999       but has continued to sell well with total sales figures of c.127,000 to       date.
Foreign editions of this resource have also proved popular with a       translation into Slovenian published in 2012; these versions are       adaptations of the original, but still make use of Vindolanda material.
Further resources for teachers and activities for children, expanding on       the lives of the Vindolanda family are available on the Minimus       website.
The success of the textbooks led to the creation of `Minimus the       Musical', which was performed in 2010 at schools in Bristol and in July       2012 in schools in Monmouth and London (with a total audience of more than       1000 for two performances).
This pedagogical impact is also promoted by       the Vindolanda Museum, which has available a `Minimus Family Quiz', and by       a local guide who runs Minimus-themed Vindolanda tours[vi].
Promoting Historical Knowledge through the Internet     Images and texts of the tablets are made freely available through a       website       http://vindolanda.csad.ox.ac.uk/       (first developed in February 2003).
The digitization and on-line database       project was a collaboration between the Centre for the Study of Ancient       Documents [CSAD] and the Academic Computing Development Team at Oxford       University.
Bowman's DPhil student Henriette Roued-Cunliffe created an       extension to the site in 2010 (vto2.classics.ox.ac.uk), using       a web-services query system.
The Vindolanda Tablets Online website       generates many favourable messages from non-academic users, a collection       of which is kept at the CSAD: to give one example, Tom Oatman from San       Antonio, Texas, emailed on 9 July 2012 to say that `I came across the       Vindolanda Tablet site while reading a book entitled Eating and Drinking       in Roman Britain.
I was helping my daughter with a school project on "a       day in the life of a plebeian".
What a fantastic effort to bring these       most interesting artefacts to the online community.
I know that they've       been online for years, but I had never heard of the Vindolanda Tablets.
While helping my daughter with this project I have become enthralled by       the Roman Empire.
Anyway, just wanted to tell you how absolutely       marvellous your site is.
Thank you!
'[2] A 55-minute       audio podcast by Bowman is freely available at http://podcasts.ox.ac.uk/vindolanda-tablets-audio.
Bowman's research is also highlighted on the BBC History website, where       the article on Vindolanda ends by acknowledging that there is `no better       way to finish than with the comments by Alan K. Bowman, from whose       excellent Life and Letters on the Roman Frontier most of this has       been taken'.
[vii]     Dahl's work was featured on the BBC News website in October 2012 as part       of the Knowledge Economy series[viii].
In the first 24       hours, this article had c. 1.2 million readers and was shared 20,000       times; it was the single most read education story on the BBC website in       2012.
It also generated a very large number of emails from readers from a       wide range of backgrounds, including people from an Iranian background,       linguistics teachers, and the grandson of the Frenchman who found the       tablets[3].
The number of people expressing a desire to       get involved with the decipherment led Dahl to set up a website http://cdli.ox.ac.uk/wiki/proto-elamite.
This is part of the Cuneiform Digital Library Initiative, of which Dahl is       co-PI; the wiki educational pages are managed entirely by Oriental Studies       at Oxford.
Cultural Impact through Television and Newspapers     Bowman appeared in a BBC2 Timewatch programme `Hadrian's Wall' which was       shown three times on BBC2 in 2008 (26 February, 16 July, 13 August), and       on BBC4 on 25 May 2009.
There was an interview with Bowman on the tablets,       together with a demonstration of the RTI technology in use, in Neil       Oliver's History of Ancient Britain series (Series 2, programme 4,       Age of Romans, broadcast 26 May 2011).
The conference on the Frisian       tablet also generated local and national newspaper and television reports.
