     The Solent Screen Research Cluster has seen numerous specialisms evolve       since its inception.
One of the key areas has been original research and       publications focussing on largely neglected areas of sex and sexuality       studies in film representation and culture.
The research, publications and       subsequent impact for this case study have emerged from and been shaped by       the work of the Onscenity Research Network &#8212; an AHRC funded initiative       (originally based at Sheffield University) which engages specifically with       the cultural, political and contemporary aspects of sex and sexuality in       the UK and Internationally.
Forged from a symposium exploring the       possibilities of such a network (to which Kerr and Hines were specifically       invited) the Onscenity Research Network has grown into the dominant       forerunner which bridges academic studies with public and political       understanding of sexual cultures.
This has recently culminated in the       emergence of the first ever Porn Studies journal (to which Kerr was       invited to be a member of the Editorial Board and Hines and Peberdy       invited as regular peer reviewers) which has garnered numerous headlines       in the press and stimulated debate on the cultural value of sexual       representation, pornography and the pornification of culture in the media       and political arenas.
It is within this sphere that the sex and       sexualities research, outputs and impact noted in this case study &#8212;       particularly around the creative economy &#8212; can be found.
Kerr has been curating the Controversies, Short Film and BAFTA strands       for the annual Southampton Film Week, an event which engages broadly with       the public in various capacities including film education outside of       academia.
The Controversies strand saw a research-informed talk on early       representations of sex in film to the public (Sex on Screen: An         Illustrated Talk, Oct 13 2010) and the Short Film strand has had       numerous short films screened by local and international filmmakers on       matters of sex and sexuality (for example Exploring the Body: Short         Film Roundtable, Discussion and Screening, Oct 8 2009).
Also members       cited in this case study hosted a Short Film Special: Women and Film       (Oct 10 2011) with women filmmakers exploring the debate about gender,       filmmaking and film culture in the UK.
Mark de Valk has presented       screenings of his film work including the Foucault inspired short film The         Life of Herculine Barbin (2009) and feature length film The Body         As Montage: A Spectacle of Punishment (2010) which examines gender,       sexuality, state politics and culture.
The latter has also been selected       and screened at special events for the Lighthouse Cultural Centre in       Brighton (June 2010) and the Portobello Film Festival in London (September       2010).
Both films draw on his doctoral research as one of the first       successful recipients of a PhD by Practice in film.
Southampton Film Week       has attendees from across the country with a significant focus on the       south and south coast with a remit closely centred on public and community       engagement.
The events gain local coverage from the press and radio while       maintaining a strong presence on social networking sites throughout the       year.
Kerr has coordinated events on behalf of the University in       partnership with organisers City Eye since Film Week was established in       2008.
This has seen collaborations on events with BAFTA, experienced       writer/directors from industry (Jason Ford, Fay Rusling, Ken Russell,) as       well as new and emerging filmmakers who focus on matters of gender       politics in their creative practice (Alys Scott Hawkins, Nicola Mills,       John Maclean).
Public engagement on matters of sex and sexuality is at the       centre of the drive behind this case study's reach and significance       through Southampton Film Week &#8212; a space in which academic and critical       debate is held in a public forum alongside film education, festival       screenings, masterclasses and workshops on the film industry and culture.
