     Research findings have resulted in major impacts across the international       rail sector.
Impacts have been achieved in relation to passenger safety       through the introduction of industrial standards and "best practice"       guidelines as well as improvements to vehicle track interaction that       minimise rail degradation.
Commercial and environmental impacts have been       realised through changes to vehicle acceptance costing and procurement       processes and through policy development on freight charging standards.
Impacts on Passenger Safety and Track Maintenance As a direct       result of the research described above, MMU are recognised as leading       authorities in the field of modelling rail-wheel interactions and having       advanced computational models capable of accurately predicting rail and       wheel wear.
In September 2010, the UK Rail Safety and Standards Board       (RSSB) produced a research brief on Project T613 "Trials of wheel and         rail rolling contract fatigue control measures" undertaken by MMU       researchers using computational modelling of new trains.
The work was       designed to support a business case for the adoption of sustainable       operation limits (SOL's) by Network Rail.
In 2012 MMU were invited to lead       Project T963 which involved studies into the production of cost-effective,       track-based "sustainable operation limits" for rolling contact fatigue.
All of this work was monitored and tested over time and the successful       results are now underpinning Network Rail efforts to roll-out sustainable       operation limits across the UK rail sector [A].
This leads to       improved vehicle track interaction and therefore enhanced levels of       passenger safety.
Team members took part in the roll out of the new tool       in a series of workshops for industry during 2012 and 2013 organised by       RSSB and carried out by MMU and SERCO.
Training has subsequently been       delivered to over 200 industry colleagues who are now using the tools in       planning the day-to-day maintenance of the UK railway network.
Research has contributed to the production of several guidelines related       to rail safety.
For example, in response to the Office of the Rail       Regulator commissioning a study of optimising wheel and rail profile       designs to reduce the risk of derailments, Julian Stow produced "A Good       Practice Guide for Managing the Wheel-Rail Interface of Light Rail and       Tramway Systems', Feb 2008] [B].
This guide and the accompanying       "Determination of Tramway Wheel and Rail Profiles to Minimise Derailment"       [C] have been presented to the Light Railway Engineers Group which       includes all of the major UK light rail operators.
Both guides are       publically available on the Office of the Rail Regulator's Rail Safety       Research web pages http://www.rail-reg.gov.uk/server/show/nav.1184     Research has also supported improvements to the safety of new railway       vehicles leading to partnerships with manufacturers such as Siemens and       Hitachi.
In 2007, Hitachi called in MMU expertise to assist in ensuring       the safety and efficiency of their Olympic Javelin bullet trains       which were rolled out into operational use in 2009.
The successful       roll-out of the vehicles, designed to improve passenger experiences for       the London 2012 Games and which travel at 140mph, relied on MMU techniques       to predict wheel wear [D].
Researchers have delivered workshops for the Rail Accident Investigation       Branch (in 2008) and for the Light Rail Engineers group (annually from       2009-2011).
MMU established an bi-annual European Rolling-Stock Summer       School (with Politecnico di Milano and Sileasian Technical University) in       2010 attended by 40 delegates from industry.
Impacts on Rail Policy Development including Crossrail, Freight         Charging and Industry Standards During 2010 and 2011 MMU worked in       partnership with Mott MacDonald to support the Crossrail project partners       in a study to investigate the consequences of challenging gradients on the       proposed cross London rail link.
A wheel-rail force assessment and       mitigation study was carried out to consider the potential performance and       maintenance requirements of the current state of the art resilient track       systems.
As a direct result of this work, an effective wheel-rail       management policy has been instigated by the Crossrail management team       that will allow the high density of service required for the planned       Crossrail operation.
In 2011, Network Rail commissioned the MMU Team to review the methods       used to allocate charges to freight vehicles.
The report issued in 2011       proposes a new approach for allocating freight vehicles to suspension       bands.
Network Rail carried out a wide scale industry consultation on       these proposals before adopting them fully and implementing them in       Charging period 5 which begins in 2016 [E and F].
In 2011, MMU helped to establish the Rail Research Association (RRUK-A),       http://rruka.org.uk/ a network of over       20 universities and the rail industry who are working together to improve       the safety and efficiency of Britain's railways.
The network, funded by       the Rail Safety and Standards Board and Network Rail, and launched by       transport Minister Theresa Villiers, has led to the development of       significant new research that directly addresses the challenges of the       rail industry.
It provides a forum for targeted knowledge exchange between       universities and the industry, including the organisation of workshops and       wider networking opportunities and also maintains a `map' of expertise to       prevent duplication of research activities.
[G]     Researchers have also underpinned on-going contributions to industry       standards through membership on various committees and working groups       including Vehicle Track System Interface Committee Technical Advisory       Group, BSI Gauging Standards Committee, CEN European Working Group on       gauging.
Simon Iwnicki is the Editor in Chief of Part F of the Proceedings       of the Institution of Mechanical Engineers (the Journal of Rail and Rapid       Transit regarded as a key journal for disseminating results of rail       research to industry and MMU researchers edited and contributed to "The       Handbook of Railway Vehicle Dynamics" (2006) now regarded as the key text       for researchers in Higher Education and Industry.
Commercial and Economic Impacts in the Rail and Light-Rail (Tram)         Industry     Research findings led to the creation of a sophisticated `Virtual Test       Track' computational toolbox, developed between 2008 and 2010.
The       `Virtual Test Track' allows users to produce a short section of track data       for use in computer simulations that fully represents all the features       found in real track.
This work has been instrumental in the development of       a new version of the European standard EN14363 (confirmed in Sept 2011),       which will allow computer simulation in place of physical testing allowing       reductions in the costs of vehicle acceptance [H].
In 2008, MMU researchers were commissioned by the Victorian Government       Department of Transport to carry out a study of vehicle-track interface on       the Melbourne Tram system.
Researchers benchmarked vehicle-track interface       conditions and specified maximum wheel-rail forces for various types of       vehicle-track interaction.
This data was used to inform procurement       decisions for tram fleets, ensuring that new vehicles do not increase the       prevailing rate of track degradation experienced at the time of the study.
Research has also informed improvements to the Stockholm Metro (2008, [6])       where a method for optimising railway wheel profiles using genetic       algorithims to solve problems of high wheel wear was developed and       Copenhagen Metro [3], where MMU's input reduced the environmental       impact of noise problems caused by corrugation on the rail in curves.
The       INNOTRACK project has also developed significant impacts [I].
