     The manner in which the MMF strength training is undertaken is key and       the research from this group has shown that our work has interim impact.
Using this strength training approach, we believe this research has       interim impact for those with chronic low back pain and would argue has       high impact for those practitioners within the field of sport, exercise       and fitness working with those with CLBP across the world.
Chronic Low Back Pain and Strength Training       The approaches of the research team have also influenced their approach to       strength training for chronic low back pain (CLBP).
With CLBP currently       costing the world's economy billions of pounds through loss of workforce       in the form of absenteeism, this is most certainly an area that is       important to address.
The team have shown that the use of isolated lumbar       extension exercise has huge impact for the manner in which CLBP can be       treated in the future.
The results have not only shown statistically       significant changes but also minimally clinical important changes for pain       reduction which is the bench mark requirement for impact within the health       care setting.
This will have impact for the manner in which practitioners       deal with those with chronic low back pain in relation to how they either       rehabilitate or try to prevent low back pain with prehabilitation.
This is       of particular importance considering the method suggested by the research       team is to isolate the muscles of the low back whilst training where the       majority of the world's training and rehabilitation professionals prefer       to not isolate when exercising.
Furthermore, this evidence shows that       exercising the lumbar extensor musculature specifically once a week to       momentary muscular failure, through restricting concurrent pelvic       movement, even in a limited range of movement can alleviate the symptoms       of chronic low back pain (CLBP).
This research has potential for high       interim impact for helping to reduce the world's leading cause of       absenteeism.
Thus, this method of exercise training does indeed have high       interim impact, as it is novel and successful.
