     Llewellyn's research has had a major and continuing influence on how       financial regulatory bodies in the UK and elsewhere are structured and how       analysis is employed in the course of their decision-making processes.
Research into the application of economic analysis to financial       regulation guided the FSA throughout the impact period.
In 2011 the then       Head of the authority's Economics of Financial Regulation Division       acknowledged in a published paper that Llewellyn's insights served as "an       important catalyst for the FSA's groundbreaking work" and "introduced       almost all of the concepts that have in practice proved to be important in       underpinning the FSA's work in the economics of financial regulation" [5.1].
Llewellyn's FSA-commissioned Occasional Paper, The Economic Rationale         for Financial Regulation, remained a key reference on the       authority's website until April 2013, when the FSA was succeeded by the       Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), and is still referenced in documents on       the FCA's website, illustrating the research's enduring importance [5.2].
The former Head of the FSA's Economics of Financial Regulation Division,       who is now Chief Economist of the FCA, remarked in his 2011 published       paper that Llewellyn's Occasional Paper "may be seen as a catalyst for the       FSA developing its use of economics in regulatory policy to an extent that       has not happened in many &#8212; possibly any &#8212; other financial regulator around       the world" [5.1].
The continued relevance of the research, not       least in the wake of the global financial crisis, has also been noted in       publications such as 2011's The Financial Crisis and The Regulation of         Finance, a chapter of which revisited Llewellyn's "classic work" and       observed that "much of what Llewellyn wrote... remains true today" [5.3].
The Twin Peaks model advocated by Llewellyn was adopted when       financial regulation in the UK was restructured in April 2013.
Sir James       Sassoon, whom the Conservative Party commissioned to review the       institutional structure of financial regulation in 2008, quoted       Llewellyn's recommendation in his 2009 report, which served as the basis       for the overhaul [5.4].
Unveiling his findings in March 2009, Sir       James wrote in the Financial Times: "There are arguments for       adopting the `twin peaks' model... by replacing the FSA with two bodies       responsible for micro-prudential issues and conduct of business."
[5.5]       The restructuring saw the introduction of the FCA and the Prudential       Regulation Authority, part of the Bank of England, reflecting the system       both highlighted in Llewellyn's original research - that is, a Twin         Peaks model that allows the Central Bank prudential oversight &#8212; and       recommended in his published evidence to the review.
Similarly, the South African National Treasury and the South African       Reserve Bank drew on Llewellyn's research into the institutional structure       of regulatory agencies in deciding to move to a Twin Peaks model.
Llewellyn was part of a team of international advisers whose proposal to       adopt such a system was adopted by the South African Cabinet in July 2011.
Explaining the reasons for the decision in a 2011 public consultation       document, Minister of Finance Pravin Gordhan wrote: "We have committed       ourselves to a wide-ranging set of reforms.
One of the most important       strands of this work has been the effort to improve the institutional       structure to support financial regulation.
A shift to a `twin peaks'       system... [will] separate the oversight of market conduct regulation from       prudential regulation."
[5.6] The prevailing view within the South       African government had previously been that a unified model should be       adopted.
A former personal adviser to the Governor of the Bank of South       Africa has noted: "Professor Llewellyn advised against this approach for       reasons which have been outlined in his published papers.
His strong       preference was a Twin Peaks model, with the prudential peak being the       South African Reserve Bank.
[His] opinion proved to be very influential."
[5.7]     In May 2011 Llewellyn was one of five officially designated "Top-Ranking       Academics" in the European Union (EU) appointed to the Banking Stakeholder       Group (BSG) of the European Banking Authority (EBA).
He was the sole       academic from the UK.
The BSG is an advisory and monitoring board of the       EBA and helps to facilitate consultation with stakeholders.
It is composed       of 30 members, who are drawn from EU member states and represent credit       and investment institutions, consumers, SMEs and academia [5.8].
The group is consulted on actions concerning regulatory technical       standards and their implementation, offers opinions and advice and has the       power to submit requests to investigate alleged breaches or       non-application of EU law.
As the BSG's first Vice-Chair and its Chair       since April 2013, Llewellyn has been developing and guiding approaches to       ensuring a high and consistent standard of bank regulation across the EU.
In the process, drawing on his research, he has been instrumental in       enhancing the status of consumer protection within the EBA's remit.
Llewellyn was re-elected as Chair of the BSG in October 2013 [5.9].
