     In 2012, DeltaTre Media Ltd commissioned a system to be used in the       London 2012 Paralympics, designed by Dr Orwell, to track the positions and       speeds of the participants in the Paralympic Wheelchair Basketball and       Wheelchair Rugby tournaments.
This system exploited the research published       in [3,4,5]: the same camera model was used, similar tracking algorithms,       operating on partial observations, and described in [2], and the       algorithms as described in [4] were used as to reidentify the participants       after periods of occlusion.
This system was used as part of Channel 4's live coverage of 42       Paralympic matches, comprising two event types (Wheelchair Basketball and       Wheelchair Rugby), and deployed in two arenas (the O2 arena and the       Olympic Basketball Arena).
In each match, the system was used to generate       graphics that were made available to the television director, and to the       Channel 4 website.
The Channel 4 website area for these sports had       approximately 140 hours of live coverage, over 500,000* hits, and       comparable viewing figures for the televised matches.
DeltaTre Media Ltd       gained an economic benefit through the development of innovative broadcast       technology which was delivered to Channel 4 and shown to a worldwide       audience.
By providing statistics of speeds and impacts between players, this       system was a component of the overall Paralympic coverage provided by       Channel 4, which emphasised the strength and resilience of the       competitors, challenging conventional stereotypes about disabled people.
The quality and significance of this coverage was recognised through the       award of a BAFTA for this work, for Channel 4 and DeltaTre, in the       Television Craft (Digital Creativity) category.
Channel 4's coverage of the Paralympics had a significant social impact:       the public perception of disability and disabled people has changed as a       result of this event and specifically of the media's portrayal of the       athletes involved.
The collaboration between Kingston University and       DeltaTre made a distinct and material contribution to this impact, through       the provision of innovative technology that enabled the broadcaster to       present the sporting activities of disabled athletes in a new way.
