     The special issue evidenced concerns noted by the `Committee on World       Food Security' of the UN       `High Level Panel of Experts on Food Security and Nutrition' when       reporting on `Land tenure and       international investments in agriculture', acknowledging how conservation       policy generates strong       pressures to set aside land in ways that can be understood as a land grab       in the name of the       environment &#8212; `a new way of appropriation of nature' [see Section 5, C1].
It also helped to       stimulate and set agendas for a major gathering in 2013 of conservation       professionals on       `Conservation and Land Grabbing: Part of the Problem or Part of the       Solution?
', jointly organised       by the International Institute for Environment and Development, the       International Land Coalition,       the Zoological Society of London, and Maliasili Initiatives, and drew       together international       conservation organisations (UNEP, IUCN, Conservation International, Fauna       and Flora       International, Bird Life, World Resources Institute, RSPB, DfID) and the       national conservation       organisations of Ethiopia, Uganda and Kenya.
The symposium has resulted in       a variety of       initiatives, including the calling for deliberation and resolutions to       avoid and correct conservationled       land grabs at the forthcoming World Parks Congress (2014), specifically       addressing this newly       recognised problem that Fairhead and his colleagues had made so apparent       [C2].
The policy impetus is due, in part, to news coverage that the analysis       attracted internationally (e.g.
New York Times, al Jazeera, New Internationalist',       Canada Free Press, China Dialogue) and with       militant news outlets (Europe-Solidaire, Global Justice Ecology         Project [C3]).
Leading professional       and policy networks then discussed and disseminated it.
These networks       included the POLEX       network of the UN-Mandated Centre for International Forestry that networks       forestry and       conservation professionals globally, the PRESA network of the World       Agroforestry Centre (ICRAF),       mandated with `generating and sharing knowledge to build capacity on       Payments for Ecosystem       Services in Africa and beyond', and aid organisations such as       Welthungerhilfe [C4].
Lobby groups       such as `Carbon Trade Watch' and the Washington-based `Transnational       Institute' (www.tni.org),       incorporated the message (e.g.
in TNI's influential primer on `The global       land grab' [C5]).
In addition to policy critique and reformulation, Fairhead's research       into AfDE offers a sustainable       indigenous alternative to the potentially `green-grabbing' biochar       industry and policy.
Fairhead       disseminated technical ideas widely (e.g.
a feature in `New Scientist');       a presentation at the UK's       Department for Business, Innovation and Skills on debates and innovation       networks, which helped       develop their roadmap for `biogenic carbon sequestration' [C6].
But to       gain global reach, Fairhead       developed a collaborative research team that included as Co-I the       world-leading biochar soil       scientists at Cornell, and Johannes Lehman, the co-founder and chair of       the `International Biochar       Initiative' that supports `researchers, commercial entities,       policy-makers, farmers and gardeners,       development agents and others committed to sustainable biochar production       and use'.
This       generated an immediate policy and business audience, and integrated       Fairhead's AfDE research       within partnerships between Cornell and African agronomic research and       development (e.g.
the       CARE         and Cornell partnership).
Fairhead's AfDE research team, including Dawit Solomon of Cornell,       initiated a vibrant dialogue       concerning AfDE within `biochar' networks and collaborations crossing the       soil-science and       agricultural-policy communities in Africa and beyond (e.g.
the CGIAR       Climate Change and Food       Security programme; the BIODEV programme of the World Agroforestry Centre;       the EU BeBi       project; the International Institute of Tropical Agriculture (IITA),       International Centre for Tropical       Agriculture (CIAT), and research groups at the Swedish University of       Agricultural Sciences (SLU)       and Wageningen Agricultural University).
This was facilitated and       sustained in workshops and e-       networking (e.g.
the `Biochar Africa' inaugural conference, Kenya 2013,       disseminating to IITA,       ICRAF, CIAT, Re-char Kenya; the CARE/Cornell workshops linking them with       IITA and Sierra       Leone researchers in Freetown, 2013).
The research and dialogue has prompted some funders to switch their       initial focus on biochar, and       adopt AfDE instead as their model, and develop practices to       mimic/accelerate AfDE formation.
Thus the McKnight Foundation, which previously funded a `biochar' project       supported by Cornell       and Jimma University in Ethiopia, for example, has now transformed into an       `indigenous fertiliser'       programme and conducted field trials of mixes of locally sourced soil       additives that overtly mimic       AfDE and which outperform normal fertiliser.
Pilot trials conducted in       2012-13 are to be expanded       into major regional trials in Ethiopia, and provide a model for an       AfDE-inspired `indigenous fertiliser'       movement on the continent.
This is directly attributable to Fairhead's       ESRC research and the       energy of his collaborators, Solomon and Lehman [C7].
Agricultural trials of AfDE-inspired `indigenous fertiliser' are also       being developed in Sierra Leone       after Fairhead co-conducted preliminary research with an EU-funded `Food       Security and Economic       Development' project supported by Deutsche-Welthungerhilfe, and linked       with Njala University       College [C8].
This revealed the major importance of AfDE for agroforests       (oil palm, cocoa, coffee).
A       further project with Njala Agricultural University (Sierra Leone, January       2011-December 2011)       determined the prevalence, formation and use of these soils.
Now the       collaboration is seeking to       develop trials to mimic their formation in order to improve agricultural       production and sequester       carbon, whilst avoiding green grabs.
