     Originally, the primary motive for encouraging organic agriculture for       the OFDC, and for Sanders       working with it, was to reduce the degree of importation of chemicals into       the Chinese countryside.
Conventional, chemical-based agriculture has many environmental downsides       and dangers to       farmers and consumers in China.
Globally it leads to the emission of       greenhouse gases, as does       the manufacture and transportation of the chemical fertilisers, pesticides       and herbicides involved.
Thus any reduction in conventional, chemical-based agriculture, in terms       of reducing China's       currently huge global footprint can only be a good thing.
And the       expansion of ecological and       organic agriculture, encouraged by Sanders' research and associated       activities has helped to do       this.
In particular, Sanders' research has had positive institutional       impacts at three different levels:     At the level of government.
China has established the       Organic Food Development Centre (now       OFDC-MEP) in Nanjing in 1994, and alongside the China Green Food       Development Centre in       Beijing (which Sanders has also visited frequently), has developed       standards for green and organic       food, the latter corresponding to strict international standards.
Latterly       the Chinese Government       has established the Ministry of Environmental Protection in 2009 (to whom       the OFDC ultimately       reports, via NIES), and has encouraged through state, county and local       Environmental Protection       Bureaux, the development of organic and green food throughout every       province in China (bar       Tibet) and has achieved international recognition of a Chinese domestic       organic certifier (OFDC-MEP)       through that organisation's full membership of IFOAM since 2005.
As a       result of his       research in the field, Sanders was accorded the honour of becoming one of       only two International       Research Fellows of the OFDC in 2007 and he has regularly attended and       spoken to the OFDC's       annual conferences (in 1999, 2003, 2007, 2011 and 2013).
Delegates to the       annual OFDC       conferences include representatives of all the main stakeholders involved       in organic agriculture in       China to include government officials, members of Environmental Protection       bureaux, research       institutes, organic food processors, as well as organic farmers.
Thus he       has had an opportunity to       reach and encourage a very large number of stakeholders in the sector over       the years.
Sanders       has also given lectures based on his research to the staff of the OFDC in       Nanjing on many       occasions.
As the Director of OFDC-MEP testifies, "On behalf of OFDC, I       sincerely appreciate the       long-term support and contributions from Prof. Richard Sanders (which he       has) made to the       Chinese organic movement, especially to our center" (our italics,       testimonial 1).
At the level of the farm.
Throughout the last decade of the       twentieth century and the first decade       of the 21st, Sanders visited countless sites of organic       agriculture throughout the Chinese       countryside, which confirmed his general thesis that organic agriculture       was not possible with       individualised farming.
As a result of this and further published work,       discussions with officials and       presentations at conferences, he helped to effect a partial reappraisal of       government policy with       regard to the promotion of collectives and consequent changes in land       tenure arrangements, to       include re-adoption of collectives, earlier abandoned.
As the current       Deputy-Director of NIES       testifies "Professor Sanders wrote some influential articles.
In       particular he argued that it was       difficult for individual farmers to convert to organic agriculture and       that some form of cooperative       enterprise was necessary (see Testimonial 2, below)".
Successful       cooperatives were indeed       established at that time: see Testimonial 3 from a farmer and leader of       Shifo village, Anhui       Province "Professor Sanders visited us in 2000 and 2003... he talked to us       about the importance of       organic culture...in 2005 we established China's first organic tea       cooperative."
Also see the       testimonial from the Director of OFDC-MEP "Prof Richard Sanders has       written many articles on       organic agriculture in China, some of which have been translated into       Chinese and these have       been influential in developing organic agriculture here, particularly his       works on property right(s)"       (testimonial 1).
Apart from the impact of organic agriculture in reducing the carbon       footprint of agriculture and       ameliorating soil erosion and other environmental dangers, the development       of organic agriculture       in China has also had an impact on poverty reduction in the Chinese       countryside, an impact that       Sanders has helped to effect.
As the Director of OFDC-MEP suggests, "from       1996 to 2003, during       the implementation of the Sino-German organic agricultural development       project in (the) poverty-stricken       area of Anhui Province, Professor Sanders came to China almost every year       and visited       Shifo and Yufan villages located in remote areas of the province and       giving guidance and       encouraging local farmers to make conversion from conventional farming       into organic farming.
(Testimonial 1).
In that area, organic agriculture has also led to       poverty-relieving eco-tourism.
As       the Deputy Director of the Yuexi County Environmental Protection Bureau       testifies, "I first met       Professor Sanders in 2000 and had a long discussion with him on how we       should develop our local       economy.
Professor Sanders suggested we develop eco-tourism on the basis       of organic       agriculture which was very interesting to us.
And indeed we have been       promoting ecological       tourism in our county over the last few years.
In particular we have       developed a solid organic tea       industry in association with our ecological tourism development"       (testimonial 4).The leader of Shifo       Village adds, "with Professor Sanders' encouragement and support, (our)       Yuexi village has been       developing its ecological tourism which has brought us enormous benefits       (see testimonial 3).
At the level of the organic food supply chain.
Many       significant food processors have begun to       source their raw materials exclusively from organic farms, to include one       of China's most important       and historically significant state companies &#8212; Kweichow Moutai Liquor Co       Ltd- which now produces       all its white spirit through the distillation of organic sorghum and       wheat.
The OFDC, with whom       Sanders was closely working, helped to persuade Kweichow Moutai to source       its raw materials       exclusively from organic farmers and this has led to one of the most       significant single expansions       of organic agriculture in China since 1994.
Sanders first met the Director       of Supply at Kweichow       Moutai at the 2007 OFDC annual conference at which he spoke after being       honoured as a Visiting       Research Fellow of OFDC.
Subsequently, he was invited by Moutai three       times to speak to their       senior leaders, as well as to their employees and to the organic sorghum       farmers providing their       raw materials, the last time in summer 2011.
The Director of Supply       testifies, "Working with       OFDC, Professor Sanders has encouraged, supported and reinforced our       decision to produce       organic liquor and this has meant a big increase in organic farming in our       region" (Testimonial 5).
Sanders influenced other Chinese food processors to include the Jiangsu       Ruikang Organic Food       Co. Ltd., Nanjing China.
In summary, Sanders has contributed to the development of organic       agriculture in China through       his articles, his researches and his spoken words in conferences and       workshops to organic       farmers, organic processors and other Chinese organic stakeholders
