     The translation and presentation of the Sumerian text corpus as a       searchable database available to anyone with a computer and internet       connection has allowed not just scholars to be able to access and       understand the Sumerian language and literature but opened up the subject       to a wider public audience.
Both the act of translating and the studying       of prose pieces has been used by schoolchildren, storytellers, hobby       specialists and in undergraduate teaching.
Promoting greater understanding of Sumerian literature through story         telling     Amongst the many pieces of translated Sumerian literature available on       the ETCSL are several legendary examples such as the poems of Enheduanna       (the world's first named poet) and the Epic of Gilgamesh (often considered       the oldest written story on Earth).
These are popularly used in       storytelling activities to give a greater understanding of the times from       which they originate.
Dr Jeremy Black was the founding patron of The       Enheduanna Society, whose aim is "popularising the literature of ancient       Iraq through the art of oral storytelling".
The society includes a group       of `Zipang modern Mesopotamian storytellers' who bring to life key       Sumerian texts to a wide variety and number of audiences[i].
Since 2008 their many activities have ranged from a multi-lingual cultural       event organised by the Iraqi Association in Hammersmith in July 2009       (where the audience included representatives from the Iraqi Association in       Canada and the event was filmed by two Iraqi TV channels) to a sold-out       evening at the Oxford Story Museum with Michael Rosen November 2012; the       audiences to their events are multi-cultural and multi-generational, with       one workshop in September 2008 including "post-graduate students       interested in storytelling as a psychotherapeutic tool, a science       journalist writing for a Gulf newspaper, and Hungarians intrigued by       similarities between their language and Sumerian"[ii].
As part of the 2009-2012 Discover Mesopotamia Through Storytelling       project, funded by a grant from the Heritage Lottery Fund, `Zipang Big Day       Out' events were held which incorporated guided tours of the British       Museum (finding clues to various stories through key artefacts), and       follow-on poetry workshops integrating Mesopotamian history and literature       and local and classical folk music.
Print-outs of ETCSL translations were       used as handouts at Zipang storytelling performances during this project[1].In       August 2011 Badia Obaid, an Arabic-speaking Zipang storyteller, gave an       oral storytelling performance in Arabic of the Huwawa story in a Moroccan       forest as a special guest at a storytelling festival in Morocco.
The main       source for her performance was the ETCSL translation of this story[1].
The Society was also closely involved with providing storytelling sessions       during the British Museum's Babylon Exhibition in 2008-2009[ii].
Thus the ETCSL has been instrumental both in conveying knowledge of early       literature to diverse audiences and to help preserve the oral tradition       and culture of storytelling which was prevalent when these texts were       first transcribed.
Providing a resource for further publications for a general audience     The world of Sumerian literature has been made available to authors of       popular books, both through early Mesopotamian stories, but also as a way       of discovering and exploring the earliest known examples of various       topics.
Fran Hazleton from the Enheduanna Society has herself written       various works on epic stories such as Three Kings of Warka       published in 2012[iii]: one of the stories retold is the       Epic of Gilgamesh which was originally written in Akkadian, however, Fran       Hazelton has incorporated Sumerian elements of this story found in ETCSL       translations; the remaining two stories are originally Sumerian and       translation was assisted by the ETCSL[1].
Lennart Warring and Taina Kantola consulted the current Project Director       prior to the publication of their 2011 Swedish book Inanna -         skymningens drottning (Inanna - Queen of twilight)[iv].
In a different vein, Valerie Frankel's 2010 book From Girl to Goddess:         The Heroine's Journey Through Myth and Legend "explores the       universal heroine's journey as she quests through world myth" and directly       cites the translation of Inana's Descent to the Nether World       available on the ETCSL website[v].
Similarly Amnon       Altman's 2012 book Tracing the Earliest Recorded Concepts of         International Law: The Ancient Near East (2500-330 BCE) does not       re-tell a specific story but refers to various translations such as Lamentation         over the destruction of Ur or Gilgames and Akka to       investigate a wider theme of Law in early civilisations[vi].
Providing an educational resource     The Enheduanna Society have also created several teachers packs for use       in primary schools which contain numerous activities with specific lesson       plans on cuneiform writing which contain links back to the ETCSL signlists[vii].
The current ETCSL Project Director frequently receives requests to use       translation material published via ETCSL in a variety of course materials.
Recent granted requests are for use of The Exaltation of Inana, The         Debate Summer and Winter and The Sumerian King List as part       of a Cengage course reader[viii] [currently following up       with publisher what use of course readers is for]; including A hymn to         Ninkasi (Ninkasi A) as part of the free course History 126: World       Civilizations with the Washington State Open Course Library Project and       incorporating A song of Inana[ix] and Dumuzid         and Enkimdu in a course pack written by Professor David Miano of the       University of California, launched in early July 2013 to purchase from the       universityreaders.com website[2].
Almost all taught programmes in Sumerian language and literature at       undergraduate level in Europe and the United States rely on the ETCSL as a       basis for their teaching.
The importance of this resource has been       attested to by numerous departments.
Professor Eva Cancik-Kirschbaum from       the Freie Universit&#228;t Berlin feels that it is an important tool for       students on their BA course, to establish an understanding of the current       research on Sumerian Literature; allowing students to quickly and easily       search for specific phrases and, as it is website based, use it to       continue their studies when not on University premises[3].
Dr T.J.H.Krispijn from Leiden University describes the increasing       relevance of the ETCSL for his students: "Since the amount of Dutch and       foreign students in Leiden without knowledge of French and German is       increasing, ETCLS (sic) has become an indispensable tool for reading       Sumerian literary texts.
Our course Sumerian III: reading Old Babylonian       Literary texts, sceduled for the third year BA Ancient Cultures of the       Mediterranian World- track Assyriology in Leiden, would be almost       impossible without ETCLS"[4].
Dr Dina Katz from the       Netherlands Institute for the Near East says "I think that there is not       doubt that ETCSL revolutionized the study of ancient Babylonia...the       search functions result in a full overview of the use of words and       expressions in the literature, and a move of the curser over the text       which shows lemma and translation of the individual word makes an advanced       search in the dictionary easier"[5].
Bertrand Lafont,       Research Director at CNRS History and Archaeology of the Orient Cuneiform       in Paris adds "The field studies of Sumerian literature remains extremely       specialized...complex and difficult to access.
ETCSL offers the only easy       and immediate access to the full text of Sumerian literary sources and       that we can understand through the transliteration and translation of       texts.
It is clear that ETCSL is primarily a tool for teaching purposes,       plus a real search tool (although it is still useful also in this area).
In my own teaching, I often prepare a seminar recovering...the entire       composite transliterations of a particular work."
