     Gun crime is on the increase across the world.
Conventional technology to       visualise fingerprints on spent shell casings produced poor results       because of vaporisation of the sweat deposits during the firing process.
Fingerprint recovery rates were traditionally low (&lt;10%).
The UoA's new       technology solves this problem, revealing previously undetectable       fingerprints on metal objects.
These technologies have economic and societal impact of substantive reach       and significance:            improved fingerprint recovery rates which have helped police forensic         departments worldwide solve recent homicide investigations and re-open         previously closed "cold" cases.
development of new forensic products by commercial partners, now being         sold to forensic practitioners worldwide, stimulating the economy.
new policies and processes for forensic practitioners, which are now         standard operational procedure for police forces across the UK.
1.
Helping to tackle gun crime and further homicide investigations     The corrosion enhancement technology has been used in many       homicide investigations including Kingsland, GA; Killeen, TX; North       Richland Hills, TX; Tinley Park, IL; Marin County, CA [1,2].
It has been       used to examine evidence in more than 100 criminal cases in the US, UK and       Europe, including re-examination of evidence in a number of "cold" cases.
In 2012, evidence from the corrosion enhancement technique was heard [Bond]       and accepted by the Superior Court of the State of California, setting a       precedent in the US legal system [1,2].
2.
Development of new forensic products     a) Consolite Forensics       The localised corrosion enhancement technology has been patented       [3] and commercialised with UK industrial partner Consolite       Forensics [4] through consultancy (Bond and Hillman;       2011-2013).
The research helped the company develop the CERA LT, a new       optical system to recover fingerprints from gun cartridges, offering a       quick and simple to use product with a fully integrated high resolution       camera.
The product is now commercially available for &#163;50,000 per unit.
The company launched the product in the summer of 2013, making its first       sale to the Granite Falls Police Department, Michigan USA.
The product is       currently being trialled in other crime labs worldwide.
b) Foster and Freeman       Following patent filing [5], a similar commercialisation       partnership has been adopted to transfer the electrochromic polymer       film technology, with one of the world's foremost forensic science       equipment suppliers, Foster and Freeman [6].
A prototype instrument       developed via this partnership was undergoing testing as of July 2013.
The       immediate target is to improve fingerprint detection on stainless steel, a       common material for knives; knife crime is a major area of concern in the       UK where guns are less readily available.
3.
New processes, procedures and training for forensic practitioners       Historically, gun crime has been less prevalent in the UK than the US, but       a range of terrorist, drugs and organized crime threats make this a key       target for UK policing.
Widespread uptake of the electrochromic         polymer fingerprint enhancement technology in the UK will benefit       from interactions with the Home Office (formerly HOSDB, now CAST).
As a       result, both the corrosion and the electrochromic technologies have now       been incorporated as standard operational practice for police forces       across the UK through inclusion in the Home Office Fingerprint Manual       [7,8].
The research has given forensic practitioners new options for the       investigation of crime.
The substantive impact of the localized         corrosion technology has been underpinned by Bond providing       consultancy training on the technology for practitioner organisations       (2009-2013) at: Home Office Biometrics Group; European Network of Forensic       Science Institutes; National Forensic Academy (Knoxville, TN); Southern       Californian Association of Fingerprint Examiners, Californian Department       of Justice; Santa Clara County Crime Laboratory, California; American       Association of Crime Scene Reconstruction; No.
1 Forensic Institute,       Beijing, China, with approximately 150 practitioners trained at each of       the seven events, reaching more than 1,000 in total.
Additional technology transfer activity and widening impact       Collaboration with the US Naval Criminal Investigative Service (NCIS)       (2012-13) by Bond involved pseudo-operational trials of pipe bomb       fragments being sent to the University for fingerprint analysis and the       identification of fingerprints using these techniques.
This represents a       natural expansion of the localised corrosion technology from shell       casings to other metals that have been subject to environmental extremes,       such as bomb fragments.
Dissemination has included Regional Development Agency Awards (Innovation       Fellowship and Follow-on Fund), practitioner-based conferences       (Iinternational Fingerprint Research Group: Sweden (2011) and Israel       (2013); Home Office meetings (2010-13)), extensive media coverage [9,10]       (including America's Most Wanted and CrimeWatch) and briefings to Police       Forces (invited events at the University 2011, 2012 and 2013, involving       the Forensic Science Special Interest Group of the Technology Strategy       Board).
Fingerprint corrosion on metal was recognised by Time Magazine as one of       the 50 best inventions of 2008 [9] and by BBC Focus Magazine (2009) as one       of the inventions most likely to change the world in 2009 and its       description by a detective from the North Richland Hills Police Department       as "The new DNA" [1].
The interdisciplinary nature of this field has been recognized via the       establishment (2012) of the Alec Jeffreys Forensic Science Institute       (AJFSI), led by Chemistry.
This Institute has been created to fulfil the       need to bring together academics across diverse disciplines to tackle       current and emerging problems in forensic science.
