     The UoN research has produced impact in five key areas:            the development of a social enterprise research paradigm;       whole-institution strategic transformation at UoN;       design and development of employability enhancement programmes (EEPs);       organisational growth and change at external partner SEs;       evidenced-based policy formulation in the UK, Europe and China.
The research achieved these impacts through a proactive `diffusion'       model, whereby the research       articles are actively disseminated and promoted across academic and       non-academic networks,       leading to the development of theory and the incorporation of this theory       into everyday working       practices and policy formulation.
1 - Developing the SE Research Paradigm:     The theoretical research into SE developed at UoN has contributed to the       development of an       academic research paradigm around defining SE and the `added value' that       SE delivers.
The       research by Curtis (2008) that explored social entrepreneurship directly       contributed to the       development of the UnLtd/HEFCE `Social Entrepreneurship Toolkit' that is       available for social       entrepreneurs to access in order to assist them in developing their social       enterprise (UCL, 2013:       4).
Additionally, the research on social impact measurement led to the       creation of a new       methodology for assessing social impact at work-integration social       enterprises that was centred       upon the novel use of a general self-efficacy (GSE) scale (Denny et         al., 2011; Hazenberg et al.,       2013).
This work has contributed to the teaching and dissemination of       social impact measurement       through the publication of the Routledge Book, which is being sold       internationally as a student       textbook and is currently being translated into Chinese.
Since publication       on 15th July 2013, 120       books have already been sold and seven university courses have indicated       it will be a core book.
The publishers think this is indicative of high future sales and once the       Chinese translation is       available, sales are likely to be significantly greater.
2 - Institutional Transformation:     The University's `Raising the Bar' strategic plan, informed by prior       research discussed above, has       led to a major shift in how UoN approaches education, training and       entrepreneurship support.
Currently UoN is No.1 HEI in the UK for SE, an `Ashoka U Changemaker       Campus' (AshokaU,       2013), the `Midlands Most Enterprising University' and is ranked 47th       in the `Guardian University       League Table'.
UoN has invested in 30 new SEs started by students and       staff, it is the first HEI in       the UK to `spin-out' its infrastructure services into an external SE and       it has established       Inspire2Enterprise CIC Ltd (I2E) in partnership with Exemplas.
The       University owns 51% of I2E,       which provides support, advice and in depth consultancy to over 4,000 SEs       across the UK's social       enterprise sector.
I2E employs 18 people, involves 230 students, and       currently has 5,280 clients,       making it the biggest single social enterprise support organisation in the       UK.
Overall, this activity       represents a &#163;1.970m investment in social enterprise by UoN, which has       resulted in &#163;850k income       generated since November 2011.
3 - Social Impact &amp; Employment Enhancement Programmes (EEP):     The research on social impact measurement and the funding and design of       employability       enhancement programmes has been presented to local policy-makers and used       to inform the       future policy of the ERDF and Northamptonshire Enterprise Partnership       (NEP).
The ERDF       confirms that the research contributed to their evaluation strategy in the       East Midlands and       provided useful insights into the efficacy of this strategy (see ERDF       letter).
The NEP also confirms       that the research contributed to their evaluation strategy and provided       useful insights into the       efficacy of this strategy.
The research enabled NEP to apply the learning       as part of their future       delivery strategy for supporting unemployed young people into employment       (see NEP letter).
This       engagement has shaped the on-going delivery of a number of specific policy       initiatives and has       also evidenced their efficacy in relation to social impact including: the       `3e' EEP (see 3e letter);       `Corby Enterprise Ecologies' (see ERDF letter); and the `Future Jobs Fund'       (see NEP letter).
The       research also contributed to the delivery of a European conference that       was held in Kettering in       March 2013, which brought together over 250 policy-makers, academics and       practitioners       interested in social innovation from 14 European countries.
The conference       resulted in a number of       key insights in the field of social enterprise being disseminated to key       policy makers in the       European Commission and other stakeholders in EN member states (see CJS,       2013; E3M letter).
4 - Organisational Growth and Change at Partner SEs:     In addition, the research conducted at EEPs that have partnered with the       University has directly led       to those organisations scaling-up and therefore increasing their potential       social impact.
An       example of this is Goodwill Solutions (GS) a CIC, which has quadrupled its       turnover since the UoN       bought 20% of the company three years ago.
Research carried out at GS       proactively critiqued their       social impact evaluation strategy.
This critique resulted in our providing       useful insights into the       efficacy of their evaluation strategy, which supported the company in       restructuring it (see GS       letter).
Additionally, the research conducted at GS CIC, supported its       recently won funding from       UnLtd's `Big Venture Challenge' to enable it to further develop its       business plan and increase its       turnover (see UnLtd, 2013 and GS letter).
5 - Research Dissemination &amp; Policy Formulation:     The research activities discussed above have contributed to UoN being       commissioned to       undertake evaluations, input into policy formulation and to disseminate       its research and institutional       learning at academic, practitioner and policy seminars, workshops and       conferences.
The research       has also led to academic links and knowledge transfer partnerships between       the UoN and the       University of Hunan, China.
This has led to Professor Wang Zhong currently       engaging in a 12-month       research secondment at the University of Northampton.
Dr Fred Seddon sat on the Department of Business Innovation and Skills       policy-roundtable that       explored social impact measurement.
Professor Simon Denny has been part of       the Companies       House working group, put together by BIS, to look at the appropriateness       of the Community       Interest Company (CIC) structure in terms of taking on external       investment.
His work on this group       in 2012-13 led to him being invited to be part of the HM Treasury working       group (2013) on tax relief       for individuals wishing to invest in social venture funds and social       enterprises.
Professor Simon       Denny has become an ambassador for the British Council promoting the UK's       social enterprise       experience and expertise overseas.
This position has led to the University       concluding a       Memorandum of Understanding with Srinakharinwirot University in Thailand,       who are aiming to       become the number one HEI for social enterprise in Thailand.
The University's expertise in social enterprise led to it being asked to       conduct the evaluation of       UnLtd's `Higher Education Support Programme' alongside the University of       Plymouth.
The HESP       has led to the funding of over 600 nascent social entrepreneurs and the       evaluation has directly       contributed to HEFCE re-commissioning the programme for the 2013/2014       academic year (Bell et         al., Aug 2013).
