     The manner in which the MMF strength training is undertaken is key and       the research from this group has shown that our work has high impact.
Using this strength training approach, we believe this research has       interim impact for those practitioners within the field of sport, exercise       and fitness working with recreation and elite performers across the world.
High Performance Sport and Strength Training     This line of strength research has allowed the team to work with high       profile clients during high profile events such as GB Wheelchair rugby       (GBWR) and GB ladies wheelchair basketball at the Paralympics in the       summer of 2012.
During the preparation of the GBWR squad the group's       published MMF research (references above) was adopted nationally to all       the club teams, thus to all wheelchair rugby players in the country.
This       impact for the sport was nationally recognised and is clearly supported by       the reference sent by the head coach of the squad for the 2012 Paralympics       clearly stating the success of the interventions created the fittest team       for the last 3 Paralympics, which he places firmly as a result of the work       undertaken by Dr Bruce-Low.
The team's involvement in GBWR resulted in       extensive media coverage with regards to the training undertaken.
For       example, Dr Bruce-Low was filmed by Channel 4 undertaking multiple filming       sessions (Paralympic breakfast show; Best of British).
In addition, his       work now spans to premiership football where he is a sport science       consultant to Southampton football club.
James Fisher was able to apply       his research in conjunction with the GB Wheelchair ladies basketball in       their preparation for the 2012 Paralympics.
His 2011 publication clearly       challenges the current approaches to strength training, suggesting that       training to MMF instead of non-fatigued states, has had impact for many       strength coach practitioners around the world in ensuring their training       methods are evidenced based and successful.
This is clearly evidenced by       the emails sent to James Fisher in response to his publications but also       from the emails from the assistant coach detailing James' role in the       preparation of the Women's Wheelchair Basketball squad for the London 2012       Paralympics.
