     Building on its base of theoretically-informed historical research, the       impact of RNM comprises       three elements: contributing to broad public debates on the far right;       influencing policy debates and       policy formation, and shaping best practice among practitioners engaged in       anti-racist agendas.
Contributing to the public debate     Making its knowledge base known has been central to the activities of       RNM.
An essential part of       this is a programme of conferences each attracting audiences of 60-100       delegates [source 1]:            Speaking with Forked Tongues (June 2009);       Fascist Radicalism and the New Media (Sep 2010);       Think Global Hate Local (April 2011);       Populist Racism in Britain and Europe (Sep 2011);       Special Relationship of Hate: 50 Years of the Anglo-American Far-Right         (Sep 2012);       The British Far-Right in Transition (June 2013).
Bringing together academic and largely non-academic voices (including       police forces, probation       services, journalists, and local and Westminster-based civil servants),       these events have helped to       shape the public debate on the Far Right.
They have also fed into       opportunities for further public       engagement in terms of talks at public events on extremism organised by:       Hounslow Council,       Leicester Police, Portsmouth Council, West Sussex County Council, Avon and       Somerset Police,       and the St Phillip's Centre.
Indeed, in a survey undertaken those who had       attended conferences or       other RNM events, over 80% said that they would work with the group in the       future, and over 90%       stated that they would recommend the activities of the group to their       colleagues [source 2].
As one       conference delegate from the St Phillips Centre noted: "I initially worked       for the Police when the       EDL were being labelled a `far right social movement'.
It was through       interaction with the RNM       Group that changed my opinion and my approach and meant that I tackled the       issue in a more       direct fashion which yielded more positive results and progress for me".
[source         3].
Jackson also gave eight keynote lectures to events organised by Show       Racism the Red Card,       themselves funded by the Department for Communities and Local Government       and the National       Union of Teachers.
These invitations are a measure of a growing reputation       for authoritative       expertise on the contemporary British far right and have truly significant       impact which is reshaping       public debate and attitudes [source 4].
Connections with non-academic audiences are given greater reach by       Jackson's contributions to       magazines such as The Big Issue (8-14 Oct 2012; circulation       c.585,000) and by maintaining a       close working relationship with the leading magazine on far-right       politics, Searchlight (estimated       readership c.30,000).
This includes a regular, independent column written       by Jackson and a       booklet series called Mapping Extremism, which makes academic       analysis accessible to a new       audience [source 5].
In 2012, RNM launched a new publication,       hosting the views and opinions of       a wide range of practitioners and commentators, called Far Right Forum.
This made available       through third party organisation websites, including Concilio CIC       (http://conciliocic.org/component/search/?searchword=paul%20Jackson&amp;searchphrase=all&amp;Itemid=104)       and Searchlight (http://searchlightmagazine.com/).
The extended reach that this       gives RNM impact is further enhanced by the group's own website (www.radicalism-new-media.org)       which includes PDF files of reports, podcasts of conferences, and details       of our       consultancy opportunities.
Influencing policy debates     In addition to the broad impact of this public engagement, RNM has       produced two public reports,       Gable and Jackson, Lone Wolves: Myth or Reality?
(2011), and       Jackson et al., The EDL: Britain's         `New Far Right' Social Movement (2011).
Both are open access on the       RNM website and have       been independently hosted by numerous organisations, including Faith       Matters and Engage       [source 6], and distributed by third party groups, such as       Searchlight, among practitioners in the       criminal justice system.
These reports have been cited in both policy       debates and formal policy       documents.
For example, in the re-launched Prevent Strategy of       2011 [source 7], Lone Wolves:         Myth or Reality?
is discussed on page 15.
Meanwhile, The EDL:         Britain's `New Far Right' Social         Movement is cited in the Commons Home Affairs Select Committee       report Roots of Violent         Radicalisation (2012) [source 8].
Moreover, in 2011 Feldman gave       formal evidence to this Select       Committee's hearings; he stressed in particular the ways larger, more       populist groupings such as       the EDL can host more extremist far-right activists.
Shaping best practice     Perhaps the most significant impact of RNM research and expertise is in       terms of shaping best       practice.
This occurs ad hoc through professionals' attendance at RNM       events, although this has       important cumulative effects which have considerable significance.
As a       Community Education       Worker from Show Racism the Red Card stresses: `Paul's work specifically       on the EDL has helped       me to help other people to stop viewing the EDL through a narrow       stereotypical lens, it has helped       me to understand better the push and pull factors of being involved in       extreme movements and in       turn this has helped me shape my facilitation work and discussions in       teacher training.'
[source 9].
More formally, and building on its growing reputation, in 2012 RNM       developed a training package,       Far Right Aware, initially as a bespoke CPD course for Portsmouth       City Council.
The Council had       first approached Jackson to deliver a talk at a conference (2010), and       then (2011) to develop for       them a `train the trainer' course, for a fee of &#163;4500.
Delivery of the       package since August 2012 has       fundamentally altered the activities of the council's Hate Crimes unit,       especially in the ways it trains       members within the wider council to be aware of far-right issues in the       workplace - something       which the Council had previously been unable to achieve [source 10].
Other organisations, including Walsall Council and Essex Police, have       expressed interest in the       CPD course.
More importantly in terms of its reach, the OSCT has asked RNM       to develop the       package in a form that they could formally licence for rollout on a       national scale.
This project is still       on-going, but a tangible indication of the value that the OSCT places on       RNM activities and       expertise is that it sent ten of its far-right mentors to `The Far Right       in Transition' conference       (2013).
These events are seen by the OSCT as part of its formal       development of such mentors.
This reflects a wider recognition of the important role of RNM activities       in shaping best practice:       75% of respondents to our survey of users stated that RNM helped improve       results for their       organisation [source 2].
