     Research by this group has led to a number of initiatives and the       international adoption of methods that have enhanced the performance of       emergency, police and penal services.
The new discipline of Investigative       Psychology (IP) is now widely influential with over 20 countries (e.g.
South Africa, India, Israel, USA) either teaching or containing dedicated       IP operational units.
Alison's work expanded focus from the study of criminal behaviour to       police decision making.
Since 1998 he has worked alongside Prof Jonathan       Crego (Metropolitan Police) to develop an immersive simulated learning       environment, HYDRA [3].
The research arm at the UoL's Centre for Critical       and Major Incidents has been uniquely responsible for directing this       technology.
In total, over 105,000 officers have been trained in one of 72       HYDRA suites throughout Europe and North America since 2008.
Related technology, 10,000 Volts (10kV), allows teams to debrief and       record what they perceive as significant.
Over 400 post-major-incident       debriefs have been conducted (the London bombings, response to the 2004       tsunami).
10kV has informed reviews on rape investigation planning,       construction of counter-terrorism command centres, planning 2012 Olympics       security; the methodologies formed part of Eileen Munro's recommendations       following the murder of Victoria Climbi&#233; [12].
ACPO's Terrorism and       Applied Matters Committee concluded that the use of Hydra is good practice       and that Hydra and 10kV are the way forward for capacity building [17].
It is difficult to calculate the commercial saving that HYDRA/10kV have       had on the UK economy.
However, MI5 calculate that between 11/09/01 and       30/09/12, 312 individuals were successfully convicted under the Terrorism       Act.
Given the catastrophic impact that failure to prevent the 7/7       bombings had (&#163;800m loss), HYDRA is considered a key training function in       anticipating such threats.
Stott has been central to the development of crowd management policy       through the Home Office's working group on football-related violence [14].
This work fed into similar groups in the EU and is present in the 2010       Handbook on International Police Cooperation and Measures to Prevent and       Control Violence and Disturbances in Connection with Football Matches with       an International Dimension [15].
The HMIC report on the G20 protests draws       many key messages from Stott's research [16].
The 2010 ACPO Manual of       Guidance also incorporates a series of recommendations based upon his work       [17].
More recently, specific evidence-based risk-management tools have been       developed in terrorism and child protection.
Cole and Alison received       funding from the Office for Security and Counter Terrorism and the       National Police Improvement Agency to develop a structured decision making       tool for identifying individuals vulnerable to recruitment into violent       extremism.
The resulting 2009 IVP guidance [18] is now widely used in       screening for counter radicalisation initiatives.
Since 2009, Alison has       worked with Kent Police to develop the Kent Internet Risk Assessment Tool       (KIRAT), now the UK's national risk management tool for assessing indecent       image offences, defined by Child Exploitation and Online Protection Centre       (CEOP) as "the most rigorously tested and widely employed risk assessment       tool for IIOC cases" and rolled out nationally in March 2012.
DCI Matthew       Long (whose PhD on KIRAT was supervised by Alison) now advises the       Children's Minister and the Prime Minister's office with respect to       managing indecent imagery.
The success of KIRAT led the European       Commission to the recent approval of the Fighting International Internet       Paedophilia Project (FIIP), to evaluate the applicability and validity of       KIRAT, providing a funding package of &#163;1.1m with UoL and police forces       from five countries.
Preliminary data indicate that KIRAT has suppressed       20% of IIOC offenders from committing contact offences in Kent: 338       children have been safeguarded from contact abuse since KIRAT was applied       across Kent Police in 2009/2012.
In rehabilitation, Ministry of Justice research showed that the Think         First programme was the most widely used, with the highest       throughput of any programme, associated with a reduction of 26.4% in       re-offending amongst completers [19].
The UK is perceived internationally       as having led the process of implementing evidence-based practice in       criminal justice and this leadership stems from the leading research at       UoL.
McGuire's materials have been translated into Spanish, Swedish,       Turkish, Cantonese, and delivered in correctional services in four       Australian states.
McGuire gave evidence to the House of Commons Justice       Committee for its Justice Reinvestment report (2009) [20] and as a       CSAAP member was recently (2013) asked to review ministerial policy       guidance on Evidence Based Commissioning.
He has been an invited       speaker at a total of 132 events in the UK and 19 other countries, has       provided consultation to justice departments in 12 countries; and was 2012       recipient of the Research Award of the International Corrections and       Prisons Association.
