     Enriching appreciation and preserving the heritage of British Asian         theatre.
The British Asian Theatre Project led to a series of       changes in the performing arts landscape of Britain with respect to the       recognition of British-Asian theatre and its future directions.
The       combination of archival and oral history research with practitioner       engagement and creative activities in the Project `allowed three         generations of artists to begin a discourse facilitated by Dr Graham         Ley' (5.1), presenting them with critical histories of their work,       and engaging them in dialogue with academic researchers.
The project       offered a major review of early work for a younger generation of British       Asian artists, promoting debate about future directions.practitioner.
The       Project Conference brought together academics and cultural workers,       attracting artists from leading British Asian companies and producing       organisations in the UK.
These activities brought Anuradha Kapur, (director) and Girish Karnad       (playwright) from India, established dialogue between Teesri Duniya       Theatre, a South Asian company in Canada and British Asian practitioners,       and led to an Arts Council commissioned funded public performance by       Kuljit Bhamra and Shamshad Khan, Exeter Phoenix.
Bhamra is now working on       a ground-breaking tour of The Southall Story exhibition and performances       to India and Thailand, taking diasporic British-Asian creative practice       back to its source culture.
Informing theatrical development.
In `direct response to the British Asian Theatre project', the 'Beyond       British Asian Theatre' was established by practitioners at Freedom       Studios, in conjunction with the Sustained Theatre networks, supported by       the Arts Council (5.1).
This project included three seminars (London,       Birmingham and Leeds, 2010), with a brief to assess strengths and       historical failings of British Asian theatre and to consider future       directions.
Ley was invited to bring `invaluable' historical         context and `insights' from the research into these discussions       (5.1).
He compiled a report on each seminar and a final summary, available       online (Beyond         British Asian Theatre http://ebookbrowse.com/beyond-british-asian-theatre-1-arcola-final-rtf-d110909430).
These were carried forward as contributions to the diversity debate, in       discussions held by the Arts Council (2011).
According to the Arts Council: `The concluding position statement that         Graham produced will play a key role in strengthening the British Asian         sector in the coming period' (5.2).
Ley was also invited to a symposium on theatre and migration, attended by       German theatre administrators and practitioners in Cologne, 2010.
He was       asked to discuss the relationship between managed arts funding and       diaspora theatre in Britain, providing the symposium with a wider context       for discussing the German situation.
This was considered `truly         insightful to the practitioners present' providing `inspiring resources         for practitioners here' (5.3).
His presentation was included in a       subsequent publication: Wolfgang Schneider (ed), Theater und         Migration: Herausforderungen f&#252;r Kulturpolitik und Theaterpraxis,       (transcript Verlag, Bielefeld, 2011).
Deepening public understanding of British Asian heritage in Southall.
The British Asian project led to Daboo becoming a partner of The Southall       Story organisation, supporting the promotion and sustainability of British       Asian culture.
This partnership led to significant public engagement,       which has proved `invaluably nurturing, healing and transformational         for the community' (5.5) The project has included:     Public exhibition of Ammy Phull's photographs (Exeter 2009) curated by       Daboo as part of Black History Month and One World Week, including a         specially-commissioned public performance by Bhamra and Maan.
Southall Story Exhibition at the Southbank Centre, London (2010).
Daboo       was consultant and wrote the section on theatre.
The opening event       attracted an audience of 1500 (Southbank Centre figures).
The exhibition       was re-mounted at the Dominion Centre in Southall (2011).
The opening       event (introduced and hosted by Daboo) included talks and performances by       local practitioners represented (5.5).
Daboo and the project's three consultants (Bhamra, Maan and Phull) ran a       six month oral history project (2011) in Featherstone High School,       Southall, first with the whole school, then with students from year 9, who       created a website of school findings.
This work has now been embedded into       the curriculum for GCSE History.
In 2012, there were two further       workshops.
These activities gave students skills in research, oral       history, art and design, and IT, while enhancing their sense of identity       and cultural heritage.
This has resulted in the Southall Story becoming an       established part of the History curriculum in the school, with Bhamra,       Phull and Daboo being invited back to give workshops and set up projects       annually.
A teacher comments that `the students greatly benefitted from         the fresh ideas and knowledge of external professionals from a creative         field' (5.6).
A workshop was held at the Royal Geographical Society, July 2012, with       invited students from Punjabi and Somali backgrounds.
This workshop       concerned tracing patterns of migration in their families and has led to       further projects relating to immigration that has given greater       understanding and relationship to family origins, as well as bringing       communities together.
This was further strengthened by an arts event led       by Daboo in association with the Southall Community Alliance which created       new links between the Punjabi and Tamil communities, which has been built       since on by the SCA since to help bridge difficult issues between the       communities.
The impact of Daboo's work here is that this approach using       arts events will be used by the SCA in future conduct of such community       negotiations.
Daboo and the project's research assistant, Sukhwant Dhaliwal presented a       special radio broadcast on Desi Radio in Southall, July 2012, with phone       contributions from the community.
This led to members of the community       both phoning in and coming in person to the radio station to express how       much they appreciated the history of their town being told in this way.
In consultation with Daboo and her team, the important and previously       unpublished archive of the National Association of Asian Youth, from       archives held by Ravi Jain, is being digitized by the SCA.
When complete,       this will make accessible significant material about a little-known       history, enhancing the study of British Asian culture, performance, and       activism.
The archive will be mirrored by EDA in Exeter.
Daboo has produced a film about the Southall Black Sisters (SBS)       organisation, which is directed by project consultant, and award winning       film-maker, Shakila Maan, who has also been a case worker for SBS.
The       documentary film showcases the work of the SBS, and will be distributed to       community groups, educational organisations, and at conferences and       events.
This will further the Maan's own career, as well as giving long       term impact to the SBS through the film, which they have wanted to make       for some time.
The film-maker says: `This video will act as an archive         of the work that SBS does, forming an important part of the         documentation of this organisation's prolific output of challenging and         ground-breaking work.'
Further long-term impact will be generated through touring the       Southall Story exhibition to the India International Centre in Delhi in       November 2013.
Daboo will be attending, along with the three artistic       consultants, and running a Festival of British Asian Culture including a       film festival, concert, and workshops.
This will give international reach       to the project, as well as benefitting the work of the three consultants,       and the other British Asian artists whose work will be shown as part of       the Festival.
Following this, Daboo and the three consultants will travel       to Bangkok as guests of Chulalongkorn University, to undertake an oral       history project with the diasporic Indian communities in Bangkok, as well       as to show The Southall Story.
The digital archive from the Southall project will be placed in the       Dominion Arts and Education Centre in Southall for public access in       January 2014, with a copy lodged with Exeter Digital Archive.
This will       benefit the communities through having this history available to them, as       well as giving economic impact to the town by having additional visitors       coming to the access the archive.
Daboo is also consultant on a Heritage Lottery project that is conducting       an oral history of first generation Zoroastrians in Britain, which led to       an exhibition that toured around the UK, the first such project to       document this history, thus giving long term visibility about this history       for the first time.
