     The PEArL framework that developed as a result of Loughborough University       research into       Problem Structuring Methodologies has been successfully used to change       organisational practice       and policy in a range of settings, delivering a variety of benefits to       stakeholders.
The British Association for Chemical Specialities (BACS) has used PEArL       throughout the impact       period to improve understanding of the label claims of specialist       chemicals, especially biocidal       products.
The organisation, which represents companies operating in the       speciality chemicals       sector of the chemicals supply chain, first became aware of PEArL through       the then Chair of its       Biocides and Biosciences Group, who studied under Champion while obtaining       his MBA at       Loughborough.
BACS, which engages with the government and also helps       inform policy and       regulation at European level, initially used PEArL to prepare for major       changes to working       practices in the way biocidal products are regulated as a result of the       Biocidal Products Directive.
It       employed the framework again to prepare its members &#8212; which include       multinational companies       and SMEs &#8212; for the latest Biocidal Products Regulation 528/2012, details       of which were released in       2012.
The former Chair of the Biocides and Biosciences Group has remarked       that PEArL helped       BACS "reconceptualise the processes required to label biocidal products in       order to be compliant       with BPD legislation" [5.1].
The ease with which people with no technical experience or training can       use PEArL has been       demonstrated through continued work with residents of homeless shelters.
In 2008 the Exaireo       Trust was formed as a charitable organisation to support homeless people       in Charnwood,       Leicestershire, and now runs nine shelters across the county.
PEArL is       used by key workers at the       Trust to support their work and has contributed to residents being more       successful in keeping their       accommodation and making positive connections and relationships to support       their new lifestyle.
Resident-created PEArL diagrams, which offer insights into residents'       views of their situation, have       proved particularly useful.
An Exaireo worker has observed: "PEArL helps       you understand things       from a more realistic perspective.
It stops you thinking you can solve       things quickly... [It] helps give       the residents a voice to express some of their problems.
It's very simple       but focuses on helping       them change relationships, which is the hardest thing to help them see."
[5.2]     PEArL's industry applications have been evidenced by major car       manufacturer Jaguar Land Rover       (JLR), which began using the framework in May 2010 after Champion met with       senior managers to       discuss problems in the implementation of automotive functional safety       standard ISO 26262.
This       sets out best practice for designing and developing automotive electronic       and electrical safety-related       systems and impacts on every functional area of an original equipment       manufacturer.
Having been introduced to the research outputs, JLR managers initiated a       project to identify the       roles and responsibilities for new governance and communication structures       to introduce a       coherent approach to functional safety in the company.
Senior managers at first believed separate governance for Functional       Safety was unnecessary.
Information collected and analysed using the PEArL framework changed their       minds and       convinced them to supply the resources needed to implement new functional       safety governance       structures, which have now been in operation since March 2011 and continue       to oversee and       manage ISO 26262 implementation activities across the whole company.
A JLR       Functional Safety       Technical Specialist has described PEArL's role in tackling issues raised       by ISO 26262 as       "invaluable" [5.3].
Building on the success of this initiative, JLR commissioned a project to       apply PEArL to identify key       gaps in product design activities.
This set out evidence-based changes to       roles and       responsibilities.
As a result, new governance structures, cross-functional       relationships and training       events have been implemented to give better oversight of product creation.
PEArL has been of       particular value in identifying where expertise and authority for certain       aspects of design were       situated within the company.
These new relationships have proved their       value in acknowledged       better co-ordination across engineering and back-office teams.
According       to JLR's Technical       Specialist (Systems and Software Engineering PMTi), Champion has       "identified and driven the       implementation of new governance structures... and commenced the education       and training to       support business transformation towards systems engineering" [5.4].
In February 2011, in recognition of PEArL's value to the company, JLR       invited Champion to join its       Steering Groups for functional safety [5.5] and systems       engineering [5.4].
PEArL-informed       decisions now affect every member of the Product Creation teams, as well       as staff from the       Manufacturing, Service, HR, Finance, Purchasing, Marketing and Senior       Management teams.
The       output from this work has been included in new training and educational       experiences that are being       rolled out across JLR's Electronic, Electrical and Software divisions [5.4].
