     A wide range of readers have access to the ODNB in print copies or       online.
The impact this makes possible has been amplified since 2005 by a       programme of public engagement.
This has provided topical historical       content to general readers in several forms: a `Life of the Day';       a biography podcast (180 episodes); monthly features of biographies by       theme; permanent bespoke pages for individual public libraries (promoting       local/family history), for museums and galleries, and to mark national       events, such as the Poetry Archive's `Poetry by Heart' schools competition       (2013).
Public engagement is facilitated by updates associated with national         events: in 2012, additional sporting figures included first-time       biographies of pioneering British Olympians.
The editors' decisions to       commission or themselves write increasing numbers of biographies of       individuals from groups whose contribution to national life has been       previously under-represented - Scots, women, Olympic competitors and       others - have made important contributions to cultural diversity.
The ODNB has made a contribution to a wide spectrum of public       constituencies, as the following examples demonstrate.
Different groups in       the UK and beyond have been enabled to understand the national and         local past and the sources of cultural heritage; to reflect       upon them and investigate their family's or community's role in them; and,       equipped by well-informed study of them, to shape public policy       and public debate.
Government and Parliament: In January 2010, a motion was passed in       the Scottish Parliament, stating : `That the parliament notes with       pleasure the inclusion of four notable Scots in the 2010 edition of the       Oxford DNB'.
[i] The ODNB is also well-respected in       Westminster: Emily Unell, Public Engagement Projects Manager, House of       Commons attests that `Having access to such a high- quality, scholarly       resource as the ODNB is a real asset for the UK Parliament's annual       `Parliament Week'.
We are often asked for further information from schools       and members of the public and it is fantastic to be able to send people to       a reliable, readable and engaging source of information on       parliamentarians and political reformers.
'[1]     UK public libraries: The ODNB is a fundamental resource for       research which is widely accessed through public libraries.
Paul Hatch,       Lancashire Libraries, explains that: `[the ODNB is] One of our most       popular subscription resources&#8212;the comprehensive search facilities       providing easy access to valuable material for local, family and national       history topics.
It is included in our "Learning Place", a curriculum       compatible package for school children and students, and is also showcased       in our promotion of online information resources to groups such as the       U3A.
'[2] Jane Baker, Librarian, Telford and Wrekin       public libraries, notes that `At the library we use the ODNB to increase       awareness of national and local history for general public, students, and       local and family historians.
ODNB is like a "trusty friend"; as public       librarians we are happy to promote it to all users as a reliable,       authoritative, and wide-ranging resource.
'[3]     Local and family historians: Two of the ODNB's main user groups       are local and family historians.
Malcolm Dick, Director of the Centre for       West Midlands History, states that the ODNB is `A particularly important       resource for informing individuals, local historians and independent       scholars outside academia of up-to-date biographical research.
'[4]       Similarly, Alan Crosby, contributor to Who Do You Think You Are?
Magazine, explains that `It is rare that a project with the high academic       standing of the Oxford DNB can also be of such value to those many       independent scholars and personal researchers who are based outside the       academy.
'[5]     UK schools: In 2008, Whitgift School in Croydon's annual       essay-writing competition focused on using the ODNB to write about the       life of a person born one hundred years ago.
The winning essays were       published on ODNB Online, encouraging others to follow suit.
A similar use       of the ODNB was made on a national level in 2013, with 80 biographies of       poets extracted from the ODNB and made part of the `Poetry by Heart'       website and associated learning resources and newsletters.
250 English       schools took part in the `Poetry by Heart' project.
Individual users of the ODNB: Editors correspond with c.1000       readers annually.
Comments include: `I am simply amazed at the range and       number of your updates.
I am currently researching the Australian National       Biography in the context of all the national dictionaries but none comes       anywhere near your industry and depth' (27/5/10).
The ODNB also receives       feedback in response to the podcasts published on iTunes: `These podcasts       are a stylish and elegant means of disseminating knowledge.
The DNB online       is an imaginative and impressive use of technology to provide the fruits       of scholarship to a wide audience.'
In 2013 the ODNB podcast had 24       reviews on iTunes, collective rating 4.5 /5.
[ii] In       2012, 650,000 episodes of the podcasts were downloaded, a 100% increase       since 2009.
Finally, in May 2013, 12,000 people subscribed to the daily       e-mail service or followed the ODNB's Twitter feed.
Worldwide readership: The ODNB online is accessible in 146 of 149       English library authorities; all Northern Ireland public libraries; 70% of       Scottish library authorities, and 80% of Welsh authorities.
In 2012, the       ODNB had 78 UK university and HE institutional subscribers, 50 UK school       subscribers, and 559 international institutional subscribers.
There were       1.3 million visits to ODNB online in 2012, with visits defined as       individual subscriber access and searches of the resource.
6.3 million       pages (i.e., individual biographies) were viewed.
UK public libraries'       access was 20% of this usage.
Usage shows a 14% increase in 2010-12.
60%       of visits are from the UK; usage in the US, Canada, and Australia       accounted for 23% of the total in 2012.
Contributions to public education/debate: Since 2008 there have       been 48 national and local radio interviews with ODNB editors about the       Dictionary (including 8 appearances on Radio 4's Today and In         Our Time and 5 appearances on television including BBC's Who Do         You Think You Are?
); 32 national newspaper and magazine articles;       107 regional newspaper articles about ODNB content, e.g.
`Great       gardeners', Royal Horticultural Society Magazine (July 2008);       Jeremy Paxman, `To have and to hold: why I love the Dictionary of National       Biography', Guardian, 2/5/09; also `You can't go wrong with the       DNB', Times, 1/1/12; and articles in Daily Mail and Sun       (3-4/1/13) on `who should the nation remember?'
Standing as a national institution: In October 2009 the ODNB       featured in the Daily Telegraph's `defining cultural moments of       the noughties'.
In November of that year, it was ranked as one of the Times's       100 `best books' published between 2000 and 2010.
By April 2013, the ODNB       was among 100 websites judged `essential reading for future generations'       by the British Library and others.
The citation notes ODNB's reach `beyond       [its] subscriber community ... An experiment worth following beyond 2013.
'[iii]     Overall, the ODNB serves the needs of a very wide range of users, and, as       a fundamental national reference work, has had a huge impact by inspiring       interest in the nation's history.
