     As the only simulation model capable of analysing the affordability       consequences of housing policies at the regional level, the Reading       Housing Affordability Model has had a major impact.
Since 2005, it has       been heavily used for in-house policy analysis by economists within the       DCLG and by related organisations; has had a major effect on policy       decisions concerning housing supply; and has acted as a template for       subsequent modeling work carried out by others (including the Scottish       Government).
Most recently, in 2013, the model has been used to inform       policy decisions concerning the Government's Right to Buy programme.
The reach of the project has been outstanding.
Housing affordability and       associated issues of planning are now seen as highly significant for the       performance of the economy and the research has therefore contributed to       public policy change and debate.
The proposals to raise construction       targets, arising from the model, have been of considerable importance to       the house-building industry, and, consequentially, for the environment.
Furthermore, its findings on the prospects for owner-occupation, notably       that government aspirations were unlikely to be met, has major       consequences regarding the distribution of wealth between owners and       renters and between younger and older households.
Influencing policy       The model has had most impact within the DCLG, where since 2005 it has       been used to provide policy advice to Ministers and senior officials.
It       also became the main policy tool for the National Housing and Planning       Advice Unit (NHPAU), established in 2007, but abolished in 2010.
In       addition, its results have been discussed by House of Commons Select       Committees and the Scottish Government.
The model's influence is evidenced in the following statements from the       DCLG's Deputy Director of Analytical Services:     i) "The Framework Agreement with Reading has provided a very strong         basis for our working together over the last few years.
You have led an         exceptionally strong team to produce top-class research that has been         strongly influential in the policy process; and the relationship between         you, your team and DCLG goes from strength to strength...".
ii) "Our work with you, since the advent of the `credit crunch', has         moved us a long way in the right direction and has allowed us to provide         a strong contribution to cross-Whitehall discussions on the relationship         between financial markets, the housing market and wider economy."
The DCLG has provided corroborative evidence of the importance of the       model for policy decisions (see reference (v) below).
To quote:     (a)."
Model runs and associated analysis informed discussions with DCLG       and HMT Ministers and led to the Government's decision to set an ambition       to reach 200,000 annual net (housing) additions.
It is fair to say that       Ministers would not have been able to make decisions, or publicly       defensible decisions, in response to the Barker Review recommendations,       without the affordability model."
(b) "The NHPAU (National Housing and Planning Advice Unit) used the       affordability model extensively to make the case for additional housing       supply and to translate national housing requirements into regional       housing targets.
The evidence provided by NHPAU, on the basis of the       Reading model, directly influenced decisions in the regional planning       process."
(c).
"In parallel, the model continued to be used by DCLG analysts to       advise Ministers on a range of issues.
Ministers would routinely ask for       advice on the affordability and other implications associated with       under-supply, in order to make the case for policy action.
By quantifying       the affordability and other impacts, the model provided a robust basis for       DCLG Ministers to make the case for housing growth, within Government and       with the public."
(d).
"In the aftermath of the credit crunch, the model provided the basis       for DCLG analysts to explain to Ministers the impact of mortgage       constraints.
There was strong interest from Ministers in the outlook for       the housing market, so the model was used to run a number of scenarios       related to economic variables, such as the expected path for mortgage       lending and interest rates.
The Crash prompted regulatory change and the       Department was able, for example, to explain the potential impacts of       mortgage market reforms and to engage and influence discussions with the       FSA and Bank of England."
(e).
"Under the previous Government, the model was used routinely to       advise Ministers and to develop policies.
Ministers were familiar with the       model and took a strong interest in its development; their willingness to       extend contracts with Reading provides some indication of the value they       placed on it."
(f).
"The change of Government has led to a change in emphasis ... but       the model and associated analysis and research continues to be highly       valued by DCLG... More recently, the model has provided invaluable       evidence for the development of the Department's flagship Right-to-Buy       policy."
