     Based on this research, a prototype industrial FSP nanoparticle       production line has been       produced, which achieves continuous and reliable production at a rate of 2 - 5 kg/hour, 	  depending on the materials.
This is an order of magnitude higher than was previously       achievable.
The size of       particles can be controlled at a scale of 15 nm, which is similar to the       scale obtained in the small       FSP laboratory reactors that are currently in use.
Thus, nanoparticles can       be produced on an       industrial scale with similar quality to that achieved in the laboratory.
This nanoparticle production line is now in commercial use by TECNAN, a       Spanish SME       established in 2007 that manufactures and sells nanomaterials on the       international market.
The company manufactures and sells a wide range of nanomaterials produced       with this production       line, including a range of simple nano-oxides with small particle diameter       and high purity, and a       smaller number of complex nano-oxides, and a wide variety of mixed or       complex custom-made       nanoparticles to meet clients' specifications.
The technology also allows TECNAN to produce a wide range of specialized       complex       nanoparticles with the same ease and effectiveness as simple       nanoparticles.
Thus TECNAN offers       products such as mixed nano-oxides of various elements, nano-oxides doped       with different metals       and even complex "core-shell" structures, custom-made on demand to meet       clients' specifications.
These products have been used in a range of applications, including       catalysts for chemical       processes, photoactive materials for the manufacture of solar cells,       ceramic materials as hardening       agents for enamel used in orthopaedic implants, dental prosthesis, and       cosmetic and       pharmaceutical products.
As well as enabling this product range to be offered, the production line       also improves industrial       competitiveness.
The particle size can be controlled at less than 15 nm,       at a cost much lower than       commercial products produced with previous methods (a cost reduction of       over 30%).
