     Developed as a result of Loughborough University's research, the Toyota       Retail System has been used on an increasingly widespread basis throughout       the impact period.
It is now available through the company's Global       Knowledge Centre and has been described as "fundamental" to Toyota's       status as the largest automotive manufacturer in the world.
The results of the project were first collated and developed into a guide       to good practice on a dedicated TRS website coordinated by Toyota Motor       Europe.
They were then incorporated into the corporate publication Toyota         in Europe, in which TRS was used to support Toyota's "customer       first" initiative.
Writing in Toyota in Europe, Toyota Motor       Europe's President and CEO noted that the company's success "requires that       our people be the best trained and motivated in the industry and our       facilities, equipment and processes second to none".
Acknowledging TRS as       TPS's retail equivalent, the publication said: "TRS aims to achieve       efficiency in retailing while at the same time delivering the best       purchase and ownership experience for our customers."
TRS was immediately       installed as a cornerstone of Toyota's retailer training, with Toyota         in Europe describing the system as "an effort to apply key lessons       learned from TPS to the retail environment" [5.1].
The Director of       Marketing and Communications at Toyota's Global Knowledge Centre (GKC) has       confirmed TRS's "significant impact" on Toyota's training material [5.7].
In 2009 and 2010 Toyota's National Marketing and Sales Companies       implemented TRS as a benchmark of good practice in the development of       their dealer networks across Europe.
This process influenced every area of       the retail experience, including showroom layout, display analysis,       merchandising, customer process interaction and areas such as standards       for activities (e.g.
test-drives).
The Director of Marketing and       Communications at the GKC has acknowledged the research's role in       developing "benchmark standards... across all Toyota dealerships", adding:       "TRS allows us to have a resilient retail customer experience, which has       allowed us to grow to become the largest motor company in the world."
[5.7]     Concomitantly, Loughborough University's research team further refined       the system through a series of innovative experiments carried out at Le       Rendez-Vous Toyota, a dealership on the Champs-&#201;lys&#233;es in Paris.
Le       Rendez-Vous is the equivalent of a brand laboratory in which current and       concept cars are displayed but not for sale.
Tests were conducted to       assess the existing methodology and to evaluate the effectiveness of new       retail ideas, including how to apply Toyota's values across different       national cultures and the success of visitor interaction with displays       explaining concepts such as hybrid technology in cars [5.2].
Le       Rendez-Vous's manager has described Loughborough University's work as       "invaluable", observing: "The team helps challenge what we do, and as a       result we develop better ways of going forward."
[5.8]     The work at Le Rendez-Vous led in turn to the transformation of Toyota's       stands at the Paris, Frankfurt and Geneva Motor Shows [5.3, 5.4, 5.5].
Using TRS principles to rethink display concepts, improvements were made       both to displays and to presentations.
The Loughborough University       research team's evaluations included assessments of the major press       conference held at each show, monitoring of crowd numbers during specific       activities and analyses of competitor performance.
At the Geneva Motor       Show in March 2013 the Toyota stand, incorporating improvements informed       by TRS, beat its main rival, VW, in visitor numbers per exhibit for the       first time since the project began [5.6].
The Director of       Marketing and Communications at the GKC has noted: "Motor shows are very       expensive for the manufacturer, and following a clearly researched process       to improve their effectiveness is vital...
The principles and       understanding generated in Geneva, Frankfurt and Paris are being fed back       into the Knowledge Centre and can then be applied more widely within the       organisation."
[5.7]     As well as being embraced across Toyota's European operations, TRS is now       available through the GKC.
Based in Los Angeles, the GKC serves as a forum       for learning and sharing best practice from various countries and regions       and aims to help distributors around the world develop personnel and       improve sales and marketing methods while respecting local values and       cultures.
This means the best practices central to TRS are now available       to Toyota staff and affiliates in more than 150 countries.
The Director of       Marketing and Communications at the GKC has remarked: "The TRS project...       has shaped what we do as a company at the retailer/customer interface       globally.
It is a fundamental key to us being the largest automotive       company in the world."
[5.7]
