     Following the presentations and contacts that Bano had made with users       such as the MoJ at the       outreach events outlined in section 2, above, the MoJ identified a policy       need relating to Shariah       Courts in the UK, and in 2009 commissioned Bano to conduct a specific       research project which       could be used to strengthen the evidence base on which future policy might       be made       (Corroborating Source 4).
This commission was made on the basis of       Bano's expertise in this       area, with the intention of building upon her previous work (Output 4       in particular), notably in terms       of her findings around the construction of issues of identity, and the use       of participant interview       methodologies to explore Shariah practices (Corroborating Source 5).
The project was to involve       conducting empirical research into the nature and scope of Shariah       Councils in England, with a       particular focus on identifying as accurately as possible the number and       location of Shariah       Councils in England, their administrative structure, funding and       membership, and the range of       family-related work they carry out.
There was such a paucity of research       in this hugely topical area       that Bano's work broke new ground.
Even locating relevant Shariah Councils       was difficult, but,       through her efforts, 30 were identified, and surveyed via a       semi-structured questionnaire.
The results of this research were published by the Ministry of Justice in       report form       (Corroborating Source 6), with her findings that Shariah Courts did       not seek formal recognition as       alternative mechanisms of dispute resolution, and did not aim to replace       the established civil law in       matters of family law (most Shariah Courts are embedded within Muslim       communities, forming part       of mosques or community centres, and have evolved according to the needs       of those       communities), making a substantial contribution to the field.
These       original and unique findings       were focused on the needs of the MoJ, and provided a means of       operationalizing Bano's wider       research themes into the policy language and agenda of government.
As the       only research       commissioned by the MoJ on this topic, this report has been central in       informing governmental       discussions about the extension of dispute-resolution mechanisms like       Shariah Courts in a family       law context.
The MoJ has, despite a change of Government during the       lifespan of the project that       meant a shifting of agendas and policy priorities, retained it as an       internal document for       subsequent policymaking practice, having consulted on its production and       used it to inform their       programme of engagement with Shariah councils (Corroborating Source 7).
As such, the research dissemination and outreach undertaken via this       project has contributed to       the internal workings and knowledge base of a Government Department in       relation to a complex       and often controversial issue.
Indeed, subsequent to the completion of the       report, Bano was invited       by the MoJ to join a new initiative, the Family Justice Virtual Group &#8212; a       body which aims to provide       a forum for the development of research-led family justice policy (Corroborating         Source 8).
Via       this mechanism, Bano's research findings, and the insights raised in the       MoJ report, have been       disseminated, and have contributed to ongoing debates in the field of       family justice and human       rights.
For instance; in January 2012, Bano was invited by the Home Office       to attend and       participate in a roundtable discussion with the Home Secretary (the Rt Hon       Theresa May), the       Government Minister for Faith and Communities (the Rt Hon Baroness Warsi)       and a Ministry of       Justice Minister (Jonathan Djanogly MP), to discuss issues affecting the       Muslim community       (Corroborating Source 9).
At the meeting, the findings of Bano's       ongoing research relating to       Shariah law, including religious marriage, were discussed, and the       MoJ-commissioned report       (Corroborating Source 6) was presented and considered.
This       engagement demonstrates that       Bano's work has contributed to Government policymaking processes at the       highest level.
Additionally, her research has influenced wider social debates about the       accommodation of       Shariah law into English law.
This is evidenced by the fact that in 2008       she was asked by the       editors of Ecclesiastical Law Journal to respond to a speech by       the Archbishop of Canterbury (Dr       Rowan Williams), in which he had claimed that there was a need to bridge a       distinct gap between       the practices of English law and religious (Muslim) minorities.
Bano was       invited to deliver (and then       publish) a response piece in which she cautioned against the recognition       of religious norms and       principles into English law (Corroborating Source 10).
This       engagement became a high-profile       dialogue and fed into the wider social understanding of these issues.
When       the British Academy       sought to bring together a forum in 2011 on the issue of parallel legal       systems for the development       of ideas between researchers, policymakers, politicians and other       interested parties, Bano was       invited to disseminate her research with representatives of Government,       The Law Society, the       Equality and Human Rights Commission and other user groups (Corroborating         Source 1).
