     Granting World Heritage Site Status to the Australian Convict Sites     In 2010, eleven Australian Convict Sites were granted World       Heritage Site status by the United       Nations Educational, Scientific, and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) [E].
Previously, UNESCO       had no inscriptions for convictism, the global phenomenon of imperial       expansion through forced       labour, c. 1400-1960s.
The inscription of the Australian Convict Sites       means they are now grouped       with iconic Australian World Heritage Sites like the Great Barrier Reef       (inscribed in 1981) and       Sydney Opera House (2007), as well as other places of un-free labour and       confinement linked to       slavery and the slave trade in Africa, the Caribbean, and Latin America,       including the only other       prison-related World Heritage site at Robben Island, South Africa.
UNESCO considers the Australian Convict Sites collectively as the       best surviving examples       anywhere in the world of large-scale convict transportation, of modern       penal regimes, and of       European colonial expansion through the exploitation of convict labour       [C].
At the time of the       nomination, and despite the key role convict transportation played in the       founding of Australia as       well as other locations across the world from the 17th to 20th centuries,       this historical phenomenon       had remained unrecognised by UNESCO.
It was in this context that the reference group drew on Anderson's       publications, citing 10 books,       articles and chapters (including those listed in section 3) and her two       specially commissioned       reports [A, B] in the nomination.
On reading her research and the key       reports she prepared in 2006       and 2007 for the UNESCO-bid nomination group, the Australian Government       invited Anderson to       join the 10-person Convict Reference Group in October 2007.
She was the       only member of that       group based outside Australia.
She read, edited and commented on the final       draft of the       nomination papers, which were submitted in February 2008 during a period       of employment at       Warwick (1.10.2007 - 31.7.2011).
Anderson returned to employment at the       University of Leicester       on 1.08.2011.
In sum, the Australian government was able to claim the uniqueness of the       nominated convict sites       because of Anderson's expert knowledge and analysis not only of       Australian penal colonies, but       their relationship to comparable sites in Latin America, Africa, South and       Southeast Asia, the Bay       of Bengal and the Pacific.
Anderson's contribution allowed the 252-page nomination document       to assert confidently that,       "The Australian Convict Sites are unparalleled in the world today as an       outstanding example of the       forced migration of convicts .
.
.
The analysis is based on extensive       studies of convict sites and       non-convict sites around the world undertaken by international experts in       2006 and 2007".
After the       nomination was published in 2008, the Australian Government's Department       of the Environment,       Water, Heritage and the Arts wrote to Anderson to thank her for her       "on-going support and       assistance".
The letter noted: "The wide ranging advice and information       you provided were       invaluable to the completion of our nomination.
We very much appreciated       being able to draw on       your extensive knowledge and expertise in this field" [D].
Development of Tourism at the Australian Convict Sites     The World Heritage site status for the 11 convict sites has had two major       effects.
Firstly, it has       boosted Australia's foreign tourist industry, which was in total worth       A$102 billion (&#163;60 billion) in       2012/13, and directly employs more than half a million people.
Before       World Heritage Status was       granted, visitor numbers at many of the convict sites was comparatively       small.
Hyde Park       Barracks, in Sydney, for example, averaged between 250 and 400 visitors       per weekend.
The       Nomination document admitted: "There are no current major visitor       pressures at any of the sites".
In 2010, the year of UNESCO inscription, Hyde Park Barracks received       185,526 visitors, an       average of more than 3,500 a week.
The amount of conservation money spent on many of the sites has risen       significantly.
For example,       The Port Arthur historic site management authority in Tasmania reports a       conservation expenditure       of A$3.7 million in 2010/11, the year after inscription, compared with       A$2.4 million in 2004/5,       before the World Heritage bid began &#8212; an increase of around 46% in six       years.
This has led to the       significant development of the interpretation galleries of the various       sites.
This includes the new       A$374,000 yard and conservation works at the Cascades Female Factory in       Tasmania, which was       launched on 14 August 2013, attended by Anderson [F].
Related to the larger acknowledgement of Australian convict history as       part of global convict       history has been a move towards the celebration of the convict origins of       the nation's colonial past.
In 2010, after inscription, Australian government minister David O'Byrne       said: "Obtaining World       Heritage recognition of the importance of our convict past at an       international level is a significant       milestone ...
Many Australians now seek to connect with their convict       ancestors".
In January 2010,       shortly after the 11 Australian convict sites were inscribed, Australian       prime minister Kevin Rudd       told an Australia Day function that he had two convict ancestors himself.
The Sydney Morning         Herald reported that "Mr Rudd appeared proud of his convict       ancestry", attesting to changing public       attitudes towards this element of Australia's colonial heritage.
