     Story's expertise on early Northumbrian history and archaeology,       and on early Christianity in the British Isles, underwrites a longstanding       partnership with the team at English Heritage (EH) responsible for visitor       interpretation and presentation of the medieval priory at Lindisfarne that       was built on the site of one of the earliest and most important       Anglo-Saxon monasteries in direct response to the popularity and power of       the cult of St. Cuthbert (d. 689) who had been its local bishop in the       late seventh century.
This partnership has created several new resources       which have enabled EH to improve the quality (academic content and site       interpretation) and design of its tourist information for Lindisfarne       Priory both in print and online, thereby extending the social and       geographical range of potential consumers of England's national heritage.
A research-led collaboration between Story and EH, begun in 2004, has       focused on the content, design, interpretation, and delivery of visitor       information at Lindisfarne Priory.
The reach and significance of this       `knowledge exchange partnership for tourism' is on-going and diverse: it       has enabled EH to (a) update and improve visitor information at       the Lindisfarne, with a new and academically-rigorous `keepsake'       guidebook, available in print at the site and through the EH website; (b)       manage the transition of this resource from traditional print       format to digital media; (c) develop new digital resources       that respond simultaneously to Government changes to the National       Curriculum for History and to EH's strategic plans to diversify audiences       and boost demand for England's heritage from domestic and international       visitors by making high quality tourist information available online, and       linking cutting-edge academic research to visitor experiences.
Evidence       for these impacts can be shown as follows:     (a) Visitor education: Lindisfarne Priory ranks 7th in the       list of most-visited properties in English Heritage's north territory,       with more than 40,000 people visiting the property each year (43,598 in       mid 2012-mid 2013).
Story wrote and co-designed a new "Red Guide" for the       site in 2005.
This initiative coincided with and helped to inform a major       refit of the museum at the Priory which contains important collections of       Anglo-Saxon sculpture from the site as well as other early medieval       artefacts.
Working with EH designers, editors, architectural historians,       and illustrators she produced the text for this new, heavily illustrated,       interpretative book on the history and visible remains at the Priory, and       had a central role in advising the detail and design of the reconstruction       drawings that are a key tool in explaining the history of the site to       visitors [A].
Since it was first published in 2005, more than 48,000       copies of the Red Guide to Lindisfarne Priory have been sold (32,500 since       2008, more than 5,000 in 2012), representing sales to 1 in 10 visitors,       generating income to EH of about &#163;200,000 [B].
(b) Digital transition: In the REF assessment period this       `knowledge exchange partnership for tourism' has continued; Story has       written and co-produced the Lindisfarne elements for Portico, the       EH online visitor research portal which went live in June 2013 (849 hits       in June/July 2013, with `dwell-time' concentrating particularly on the       historical pages) [B, C].
The text of this online information derives from       and develops the `Red Guide' authored by Story in 2005.
The `Portico'       entry provides global access to this tourist and research resource, which       was previously accessible only at the site; it helps EH to fulfil its       strategic commitment to diversify its audiences and extend its reach both       socially and geographically [B].
(c) New digital resources for education and research: Story       is also an expert academic advisor, editor, and author of early medieval       elements of EH's new online resource, `Story of England', which links       through to the Portico entries for EH-managed historic sites       nationwide.
Her input has been into the design, research and development       stages of the project (Jan-July 2013), and the site will go live in late       2013.
The long-term impact of this resource will be measureable in coming       years; Story's research has had an impact within the REF period on the       design, content and delivery of the `Dark Age' components of the EH       web-resource.
This ambitious initiative is designed explicitly to attract       new `web-literate' audiences `to increase familiarity with the broad       chronology of English history and to locate the stories of [EH-managed]       sites within a broad continuum' [B].
It responds directly to government       changes to the school history curriculum with its increased emphasis on       national narratives, and simultaneously seeks to serve EH's statutory       objectives, by diversifying `consumers' of England's heritage, creating a       global audience, and maximising the tourist potential of academic research       and partnerships with UK universities.
The reach and significance of this KE partnership continues to evolve       with the development of new research-led initiatives that directly inform       EH policy and practice on marketing, education and curation.
During       2012-13 a team from Leicester, working under Story's direction as part of       her Leverhulme Trust Major Research Programme Award on The Impact of         Diaspora on the Making of Britain: Evidence, memories, inventions       (2011-16) has worked with the English Heritage Lindisfarne team to       research visitor-motivation for visiting the Priory, as a case study for       investigating modern perceptions of the Anglo-Saxon past.
One aspect of       this project was a programme of primary research into the impact and use       of EH Guidebooks, with a report commissioned by EH into visitor usage of       interpretative media at the site [D].
As Dr Ashbee, Head Historic       Properties Curator at EH says, `this research provides the first       systematic investigation into a number of key questions concerning our       guidebooks ... (and) is of great value to English Heritage in informing       the ways that we market our guidebooks, potentially the structure, content       and design of the books themselves, and in the development of new strands       such as guides specifically aimed at children/family audiences, or more       substantial illustrated history books.
Data concerned with visitors'       perceptions of print versus digital media are particularly useful in       present discussions within English Heritage and other organisations' [B].
Dr Ashbee concludes that `Story's work enables us to provide information       supported by research of the highest quality to the largest and most       diverse audience possible' [B].
Sweet's research on eighteenth-century cultural history underpins       a research-led Knowledge Exchange Partnership for Tourism between the       University of Leicester, Lamport Hall Preservation Trust and the Buccleuch       Living Heritage Trust, which has succeeded in raising research aspirations       in the partner organisations, improving visitor information resources, and       developing an effective educational partnership.
Our KE-partnership with the Lamport Hall Preservation Trust began in       2004.
It is a registered charity that exists to promote `aesthetic and       historic education' through focused educational events, study days and       courses, including study days led by Sweet (who also advises on content       and potential speakers), and by providing accurate and academically       rigorous information to the general public visiting Lamport Hall in       Northamptonshire; about 2000 people visit the Hall in the summer months,       many more during the year for corporate and educational events [E, F].
The       partnership has focused on facilitating high quality research into the       historical records and material remains of the estate and in translating       that academic research into improved visitor information and resources.
Research generated by the partnership has improved and extended the       information available to guides showing visitors around the house; the new       research findings on agricultural innovations and historic estate       management `is particularly important as it opens up an entirely different       aspect of the Hall's history for visitors' [F].
The results of this       partnership have already informed and shaped the Trust's strategic policy       on visitor displays; the Trust has decided, for example, to create a new       permanent exhibition on farming on the Lamport estate in the nineteenth       century, and new display panels are being prepared to reflect the research       on the seventeenth- and eighteenth-century history of the Ishams [F, G].
Sweet has been central to the success of this KE partnership; her       research has enabled the Lamport Hall Preservation Trust to realize its       charitable objectives and to extend the reach and significance of its       work.
The research conducted by Sweet and her team of postgraduate       researchers has had a significant impact on the day-to-day work of the       Trust within the REF period; Mr Drye, CEO of the Trust, says that `the       [KE] partnership has delivered original, high quality research and       education for the enhancement of the public's understanding'.
This KE partnership has been extended to include the Buccleuch Living       Heritage Trust, based at Boughton House Northamptonshire, under the       auspices of the East Midlands Research Initiative (established       2011) of which Sweet is the director.
The aim of East Midlands         Research Initiative is enhance the Trusts' knowledge of their own       archival resources and history and to inform the educational experience       for visitors to the house.
The partnership with East Midlands Research         Initiative is indicative of a strategic decision by Buccleuch Living       Heritage Trust, informed by the successful collaboration between the       University and neighbouring Lamport Hall Preservation Trust, to invest       more resources in historical research to develop tourism and is also a       crucial element in their longer-term plan to create a publically       accessible Archives Centre [H].
It has enabled them to raise their       research and outreach aspirations; an early success for this new strategy       is demonstrated by the award to the East Midlands Research Initiative       of three AHRC Collaborative Doctoral Awards in June 2013.
