     Newdick's research was used in the development of an Ethical Framework       for use by NHS organisations and Primary Care Trusts (PCTs) to assist       decision-making about the allocation of finite resources.
His work moved       both practice and policy-level debate around NHS resource allocations in       these organisations away from a dialogue focused on individual rights       (micro-level decisions on a case-by-case basis) and towards one more       rooted in collective interests (macro-level considerations referencing       communitarian ethics).
Newdick became an invited member of the Berkshire NHS Priorities       Committee in 1999 on the basis of his research expertise in this field.
In       this role, he developed an Ethical Framework for resource allocation that       was guided by the needs of that organisation and informed by the       principles developed in his research outputs.
This document emphasises a       number of fundamental principles, and is written with a lay readership in       mind so as to guide NHS resource allocators ("commissioners") and patients       through the decision-making process.
It reflected the approach developed       in Newdick's work in that it explicitly recognised the role of collective       considerations, like the cost of treatment and needs of the community, as       relevant elements in resource-allocation decisions.
The Framework was       adopted for use in the Berkshire PCT, one of the first health authorities       to respond to the need for consistency in this area, in 2005, and was       subsequently adopted for use across the nine PCTs of the South Central NHS       Region (East Berkshire, West Berkshire, Buckinghamshire, Hampshire, Isle       of Wight, Milton Keynes, Oxfordshire, Portsmouth and Southampton) in 2007       (Corroborating Source 1).
This process was iterative and collaborative,       involving the sharing of expertise across an NHS region, and was       underpinned in part via Newdick's role as an Honorary Consultant and       Special Advisor on Law to the NHS South Central Priorities Committee.
The primary impact of Newdick's work (post-2007) took the form of a       change of policy and practice by a series of public bodies (the PCTs who       have implemented Ethical Frameworks as a result of his findings).
The significance       of this impact derives from the research's widespread and pervasive use       within these organisations to guide all subsequent resource-allocation       decisions.
Newdick's exemplar developed for Berkshire/South Central Region       PCTs provides a pertinent demonstration of this, and there are many       examples from elsewhere in the country of PCTs - such as East Lancashire       in 2008 (Corroborating Source 2) and Wolverhampton City in 2009       (Corroborating Source 3) &#8212; which have explicitly based their practices and       policies on the initial model..     Newdick was also invited to contribute guidance materials based on his       research for the National Prescribing Centre (NPC), the central Government       body that informs resource decisions across the NHS (Corroborating Source       4), and the NHS Confederation published a report by Newdick recommending       this approach to other PCTs (Corroborating Source 5).
These publications       disseminated a more robust and defensible way of balancing individual and       collective interests within NHS decision-making to a wider audience of       PCTs and NHS user bodies, illustrating the considerable reach of       this impact.
As a result, decisions across the NHS are likely to be i)       different than they might otherwise be; ii) fairer in the way that they       account for collective and individual interests; and iii) less susceptible       to judicial challenge.
Newdick's research (Output Two) was cited by the       Advocate-General of the European Court of Justice in a case concerning       inter-State resource allocation (Corroborating Source 6), and the South       Central Ethical Framework was endorsed in a 2011 UK Court of Appeal       decision involving the rights of transgender patients to cosmetic surgery.
A decision made under the auspices of the Ethical Framework was challenged       in judicial review, and was held to be lawful (Corroborating Source 7).
The impact of Newdick's work can also be understood in terms of a       redefinition of wider practice within the NHS and elsewhere.
Newdick was       called to give evidence as an expert witness to the second inquiry into       the Mid Staffordshire NHS Foundation Trust on the organisation and       structure of NHS decision-making processes (Corroborating Source 8), which       referenced his insights on institutional decision-making in its final       report (Corresponding Source 9, paragraph.
20.92), while in 2010 he was       invited to give expert evidence to NHS Scotland to assist in the       production of their report on priority-setting policy, Making         Difficult Decisions in NHS Boards in Scotland (Corroborating Source       10).
This impact has even extended overseas: in December 2012, Newdick led       a two-day conference with Brazilian judges in the Federal University of       Fluminense, Rio de Janeiro, considering the extent to which his Ethical       Framework could resolve comparable judicial challenges in Brazil.
In April       2013, legislative changes replaced PCTs with CCGs (clinical commissioning       groups); in May 2013, Newdick joined an NHS priorities committee to assist       local CCG commissioners to respond to the legal duties imposed upon them       and this role is likely to develop.
