     The academic safety science community and many organisations now accept       that the inclusion of an assessment of safety climate within a process of       continuous improvement can be a precursor to culture change and the wider       development of safety management systems.
LSCAT has enabled this process       by changing attitudes to and raising awareness of the value of safety       climate assessment.
Since its development LSCAT has been available free of charge in the       public domain.
This has facilitated its continued use both with and       without the direct involvement of the research team, as has been       illustrated by examples of its successful application throughout the       impact period.
LSCAT's use since 2009 by the Royal College of Nursing (RCN) has resulted       in greater awareness of employee safety within the NHS.
The tool was       brought to the wider attention of the healthcare community through a study       carried out by the Project Manager and Programme Manager for Evaluating       and Improving at the RCN's Learning and Development Institute.
They set       out to consider whether the idea of safety climate was a measurable       concept that could be used to support a more positive culture for safety       in a healthcare environment.
LSCAT was tested in a large acute services       teaching trust that at the time provided services to more than 600,000       people living in eastern England.
The study sought responses from       employees from all staff groups - including nursing, medicine, management,       clerical, scientific, technical and ancillary staff and allied health       professionals &#8212; to the questionnaire element of the original toolkit.
The results showed LSCAT was easy to apply and well understood by       respondents.
The Learning and Development Institute's Project Manager and       Programme Manager, who had to make only minor modifications to the tool       for their purposes, noted: "[It] is a valuable, user-friendly instrument       for measuring safety climate in an NHS healthcare setting and can be used       effectively in a range of care settings."
Explaining the benefits further,       they concluded: "Regular measurement of staff perceptions of safety       climate provide organisations with a way to review periodically the state       of safety at a particular point in time.
The most fundamental way of doing       this is to use the revised safety climate questionnaire."
The study demonstrated how the tool could help organisations target their       safety initiatives in a range of specific areas requiring improvement.
As       a result, the questionnaire was made available as a web-based application       as part of a range of tools on the RCN's Quality Improvement Hub [5.1,         5.2].
Designed to be a fully integrated element of systems to       facilitate the benchmarking of best practice in safety, it has       subsequently been used by a number of hospitals in both the acute and       mental health sectors.
[5.3]     LSCAT's use in industry has led not only to greater awareness but to       enhanced management practice and policies.
For example, in 2008 a division       of DHL Supply Chain, Tradeteam, used a slightly revised version of the       original questionnaire to benchmark safety climate with regard to various       locations and functions within the organisation and to relate the       resulting perception measures to other safety performance metrics.
The       exercise, carried out in collaboration with the research team, highlighted       disparities consistent with other data gathered on accidents and       incidents, including a finding that depots with poor safety records also       reported poorer attitudes across the range of safety climate measures.
Other key insights to emerge included a link between incident frequency       and perceptions and the importance of management and supervisor commitment       in helping to mitigate incidents.
Tradeteam subsequently drew on the findings to implement a variety of       safety-related improvements.
Its National Health and Safety Development       Manager has remarked: "The results of the work helped inform the       organisation on where and to whom specific improvement initiatives should       be targeted."
[5.4] The resulting interventions were later rolled       out over the company's entire supply chain business and informed the       development of its organisational safety system.
The success of the Tradeteam assessment encouraged DHL Supply Chain to       apply the tool across all of its supply chain operations in 2010.
Once       again carried out with the direct input of the research team, this       exercise gathered more than 17,000 responses, representing nearly 40% of       DHL Supply Chain's employees in all business units (including automotive,       consumer retail, fashion, food retail, healthcare, industrial, Ireland,       non-food retail and Tradeteam).
This provided further detailed analysis of       a range of operations and facilitated the assessment of the initiatives       initially applied in the Tradeteam division.
