     Madgin's research on the value of the urban environment has informed the       policy and practice of the Edinburgh World Heritage Trust as part of its       stated aim of managing this complex site in a holistic fashion, balancing       the interests of the city's residents, business, visitors and the historic       environment.
In 2011, the Edinburgh World Heritage Trust decided to set up       a `focused research project based on understanding how the site is valued       in economic terms, and whether from this an overall value could be       ascribed to the site' [A].
Because of the reputation of her pre-existing       research, Madgin was commissioned by the Edinburgh World Heritage Trust in       July 2011 to advise on the methodology for collecting the economic values       of this World Heritage site.
Accordingly, she co-designed and carried out       a rigorous survey that resulted in the collection (August 2011-September       2012) and analysis (September 2012-July 2013) of 970 responses from       residents, businesses and visitors to the World Heritage site in       Edinburgh.
As the Director of the Edinburgh World Heritage Trust, pointed       out, `These econometric and statistical skills are not easily available to       our organisation, let alone as an in-kind contribution to the project'       [A].
Furthermore, Madgin's research into value has led to a series of       baselines being established which have been used to support the `voice of       the site' in the current `financial climate' [A].
Consequently, Madgin is       a co-author of the Edinburgh World Heritage Trust report, which aims to       `give value to the [world heritage] site' and to put an exemplar for       `calculating this value out to scrutiny, adaptation and use by others'.
Madgin's research has also been a key driver in shaping heritage-based       urban regeneration policies in Leicester.
Because of her research into       Leicester's urban history [1, 5], Madgin was invited to join the City       Mayor's Heritage Partnership in 2011, an advisory body that supports and       guides the long-term future of heritage development in the city.
Sir Peter       Soulsby, the elected Mayor of Leicester, notes that, Madgin was `a key       member of the partnership, bringing an important perspective on the wider       value of heritage and the importance of community engagement and       participation' [B].
She advised Leicester City Council on the strategic       aims of heritage policy in Leicester and helped shape its Heritage Action       Plan (2011-16) [H].
Furthermore, Madgin's research expertise contributed       `directly to the development and delivery of the plan, specifically in       policy development, promotion and participation of the historical       environment and in the delivery of key major projects' (idem).
For       instance, Madgin secured AHRC funding [G1] in 2012 to deliver the       `Promotion and Participation' element of the Action Plan.
She organized a       series of events between May-December 2012 designed to promote Leicester's       urban heritage and encourage participation in urban conservation.
These       events were attended by 160 participants from more than 70 different       community groups, many of whom had not previously engaged with the city's       heritage.
Madgin built on contacts with local community groups at these events to       contribute to another initiative launched by Leicester City Council in       2012: The Story of Leicester.
This project seeks to raise       awareness of Leicester's history as part of a broader attempt to       re-connect Leicester citizens to the city`s past.
Madgin worked directly       with eleven community groups to obtain HLF funding [G7; C, F; see also D]       and ensured that these locally-generated research projects became part of       the online presence in The Story of Leicester.
Madgin applied       successfully for further AHRC funds in July 2012 with the Museums       Department of Leicester City Council to work with the creative and       cultural industries in telling the story of Leicester's industrial       heritage [G3; F].
Notably, Madgin's knowledge of archives pertaining to       Leicester's industrial past [G3, G6; 1, 5] underpinned the       re-interpretation of the former hosiery factory, Makers' Yard, as       part of a strategy to economically regenerate the city's Cultural Quarter.
Her work thus contributed to an architectural award by the Leicester Civic       Society in February 2013 for the sensitive re-use of the building [G].
This strand of Madgin's research will continue to make an important       contribution to the recovery of Leicester's heritage in the future.
Indeed, she has recently been awarded a major research grant by the AHRC       [G6] for a project that seeks to use digital technologies to elicit place       memories and attachments in Leicester's former industrial districts.
Equally, Madgin's research into the economic and emotional values of the       past also informed Leicester City Council's successful &#163;1.1milion grant in       April 2013 from the HLF for its Townscape Heritage Initiative       project `Living and Working in the Old Town'.
This is an ambitious       six-year programme (2013-19) of building improvements, training and       business and community engagement in the Old Town area of the city,       bringing a total investment in the area of around &#163;2 million.
Notably,       Madgin adapted the survey methodology that she designed for Edinburgh       World Heritage Trust to meet the policy needs of the city Council [F].
Using an AHRC grant [G5], Madgin designed the structure of the       questionnaire that is now an integral component of the city's heritage       policy.
As Mayor Soulsby acknowledged, Madgin's role `in developing the       methodology for the monitoring and evaluation of the programme was crucial       to the success of the bid' [B].
Finally, both Edinburgh World Heritage       Trust and Leicester City Council have used Madgin's research expertise to       give them "an evidence base to inform policy and practice" [F] which has       resulted in a change to both organisational culture and delivery of       heritage policy in two cities.
