     The impacts achieved have centred in three areas: improving the quality       of debate surrounding the       Alternative Vote referendum in May 2011; shaping policy and improving       debate in relation to a       number of other items on the UK democratic reform agenda; and influencing       reform processes       elsewhere, most notably in Jersey.
Across these areas, Renwick's research       has promoted       discussion and decision-making based upon rigorous engagement with       evidence.
This section       outlines the nature and extent of the impact in each area in turn.
Improving the quality of debate around the Alternative Vote referendum       During the Alternative Vote referendum campaign of 2011, Renwick's       research was the key source       for impartial, expert verdicts on the claims being made by both sides.
As       those claims were often       either false or greatly exaggerated, the debate required a trusted and       authoritative voice to whom       journalists and voters could turn for guidance.
This is a truly important       impact: without well       informed public debate, we do not have genuine democracy; this is       especially so during a       referendum campaign.
Dissemination of Renwick's research through A Citizen's Guide to         Electoral Reform and the PSA's       Alternative Vote briefing paper led to his being used frequently by       the BBC as an impartial expert:       he appeared multiple times during the campaign on BBC Radios 4 and 5 Live       and the BBC News       channel and he wrote an article for the BBC News website.
The research was       also used by many       other journalists: for example, Channel 4's FactCheck blog strand       used it four times and it was       cited in The Times, Guardian, Independent, and Sunday         Express.
The Minister of State at the       Ministry for Justice, Lord McNally, referred to it in the House of Lords       on 3 May 2011.
Perhaps the       clearest indication of the degree to which Renwick's research was seen as       impartially authoritative       is that both referendum campaign organizations cited it in their own       campaign materials to lend       credence to their claims.
The impact extended beyond a narrow elite to       reach a much broader       educated public: the PSA briefing paper was downloaded over 22,000 times       in the course of the       five-week referendum campaign.
In all of these forums, Renwick's research was used to hold the campaign       organizations to account       for their misrepresentations and to explain what was genuinely at stake in       the referendum.
Participants in the debates have attested to the value of Renwick's work.
Sam Coates of The         Times, for example, wrote to the Chief Executive of the Political       Studies Association on 2 May       2011:     Just to say &#8212; in case you hadn't spotted it &#8212; just how excellent and       useful your PSA / AV       briefing has been.
I've used it for the third time in a month this       morning, to provide       academic rigour to some of the nonsense AV debates.
Stuart Wilks-Heeg, Executive Director of Democratic Audit, wrote on       Democratic Audit's blog on 4       July 2011 (http://www.democraticaudit.com/?p=288):     One of the few prominent voices during the referendum to offer a       balanced, evidence-based       assessment of the pros and cons of adopting the Alternative Vote was that       of Dr       Alan Renwick, a Lecturer in Politics at the University of Reading.
Dr       Renwick's excellent       book, A Citizen's Guide to Electoral Reform, published by Biteback       in early 2011 was highly       effective in translating extensive academic knowledge about electoral       systems, including       his own comparative study of electoral reform published by Cambridge       University Press in       2010, into an accessible and `user friendly' text for the general reader.
Professor Vicky Randall, who was PSA Chair in 2011, has written:     British politics scholars regularly develop mutually useful links and       dialogues with politicians       and the news media.
The Political Studies Association has done much to       cultivate such       links and to demonstrate the immediate relevance of its expertise for       making sense of       British politics, perhaps the most impressive recent example being its       widely cited briefing       paper on the Alternative Vote (Renwick, 2011).
("Studying British       Politics: The Best of       Intentions Not Always Realised", British Politics 7, no.
1 (April       2012), 17-29.)
Shaping policy and improving debate around UK democratic reform       Beyond the referendum, Renwick's work has shaped debates surrounding other       mooted reforms       too, notably Lords reform and the recall of MPs.
He has contributed to       both the quality of public       debates and the processes of policy-making in Westminster and Whitehall.
He has been asked to       appear four times before parliamentary select committees investigating       Lords reform (31 October       and 19 December 2011), the recall of MPs (19 January 2012), and the       possibility of a constitutional       convention (24 May 2012).
He has been commissioned to prepare papers &#8212; in       two cases in       conjunction with Professor Iain McLean of the University of Oxford &#8212; by       the Cabinet Office and       Parliament's Joint Select Committee on the Draft House of Lords Reform       Bill.
He met Cabinet       Office officials to discuss Lords reform on 6 July 2012.
Debates over Lords reform have often been poorly grounded, proceeding       with little understanding       of the relevant comparative evidence.
Renwick's work has successfully       brought such material to       the fore.
His written and oral evidence to the Lords Reform Committee was       cited more than twenty       times in the Committee's final report of 26 March 2012 and shaped the       Committee's final       recommendations on the electoral system appropriate for an elected second       chamber.
The       government's response to this proposal followed Renwick and McLean's       advice to the Cabinet       Office.
Similarly, the evidence given by Renwick to the Political and       Constitutional Reform Committee's       inquiry into the government's proposals for recall of MPs was repeatedly       cited in the Committee's       final report of 21 June 2012.
The key message of that evidence was that       recall would sit uneasily       with the parliamentary form of democracy: recall of a senior minister by       constituents in one part of       the country for policies enacted for the whole country would be       undemocratic.
This conclusion was       reflected in the Committee's recommendations.
Influencing reform processes beyond the UK       Renwick's impact also extends outside the UK.
His dissemination activities       include a seminar that       he gave to the Foreign Office and DfID in April 2012 regarding electoral       system choice in new       democracies, focusing particularly on lessons for institutional design in       the wake of the `Arab       Spring'.
In 2012-13, he served as the main expert consultant for the       Jersey Electoral Commission,       which was appointed to review the island's electoral system in 2012.
His       recommendations had a       major impact on the electoral system that the Commission proposed.
They       also shaped the form       of the referendum that it advocated to decide the fate of those proposals:       in April 2013, on       Renwick's recommendation, Jersey became only the second jurisdiction in       the world to employ a       multi-option referendum with preferential voting.
The referendum was a       success: fears that many       ballot papers would be spoilt through confusion were not realized.
Reform       discussions are       ongoing and Renwick gave a public talk about electoral reform options and       spoke to members of       Jersey's parliament on 10 and 11 September 2013.
In each of these three contexts, Renwick has achieved one of the core       goals that Political Science       departments should aspire to: he has strengthened the quality of our       democracy.
This important       work continues.
Major referendums are approaching on Scottish independence       and &#8212; possibly &#8212;       the UK's membership of the European Union.
Renwick has begun detailed       research into the       factors that promote or inhibit high-quality debate during referendum       campaigns and the coming       referendums will create further opportunities both to disseminate these       findings and to extend the       research further.
Renwick has thus developed an ongoing, dynamic exchange       between research       and impact which promises further to strengthen our democratic society in       the future.
