     Impact overview       Outputs of the first project &#8212; training materials for teachers &#8212; are       helping to change teaching       practice in many thousands of classrooms across Africa.
The findings of       the second project       have been used to support policy decisions in a national reading campaign       in South Africa;       are being used by civil society groups in the preparation of litigation       for improved basic       education, also in South Africa; and are serving as a focal point for       materials development in       a further six African countries.
Impact of first research project       The beneficiaries of the first research collaboration have been teachers       and teacher       educators in the school system in South Africa and beyond and, through       them, very large       numbers of children across the continent.
The TELL (Training for Early Literacy Learning) materials (http://praesa.textmatters.com)       were designed for use in both short workshops and longer courses.
They are       the only       training materials available for early literacy learning in multilingual       settings and can be       downloaded free of charge, both very important considerations in an       African context.
Since       2009, they have been used as part of the Pan-African MA on Multilingual       Education at the       University of Cape Town, which attracts approximately 15 teacher trainers       a year from all       over the continent; these trainers, in turn, cascade their learning as       part of initial teacher       education and continuing professional development courses on return to       their workplaces.
The materials have also been used in the training of 3,000 teachers       working for the Western       Cape Education Department in preparation for the implementation of their       new mother-tongue-based bilingual education policy; and, from 2012, as part of the       training programme       of Nal'ibali, a national reading-for-enjoyment initiative that aims to       make people in South       Africa &#8212; both children and adults &#8212; passionate about telling and reading       stories (nalibali.org).
Training for Nal'ibali will reach many thousands of volunteers every year.
Impact of second research project       The research carried out in the second research project affects not only       teachers and       teacher trainers, but also a wide range of groups associated with the book       industry, including       publishers of children's books, booksellers and distributors, translators       and writers.
Evidence       of the importance of the project for the industry includes the willingness       of the Publishers'       Association of South Africa (PASA) to circulate the findings to all 300 of       its members in late       2010.
The South African Book Development Council, the representative body       of the South       African book sector, offered a platform for dissemination at the inaugural       event of the First       National Book Week at Museum Africa, Johannesburg, in September 2010,       allowing the       research team to reach an audience of approximately 100 educational policy       makers,       language activists, book promotion organisations and trade journalists.
The PUKU Children's         literature in South Africa blog also featured the project in 2010,       while Bookmark, the       magazine of the South African Booksellers Association, included a two-page       spread on the       findings in 2011.
The recommendations contained in the final report have provided support       for initiatives such       as the hugely influential Nal'ibali campaign (see above).
Acknowledging       the importance of       the research, the Director of Nali'bali stated: "Your project lends       academic credibility to our       efforts; the analysis of existing materials draws attention to the gaping       holes that need to be       filled and offers support for the successful case we have made to our       funders that Nali'bali       resources should be made available in the widest-possible range of African       languages."
The findings have also proved useful to the Public Participation in       Education Network       (PPEN), which is committed to high-quality public education for all in       South Africa.
PPEN,       together with some branches of the Progressive Principals' Association of       the Western       Cape, is preparing a case concerning the right to basic education which       will go first to the       High Court with the aim of proceeding to the Constitutional Court.
Highlighting the       usefulness of the project, the Director of the Institute for       Accountability in Southern Africa,       which is funding the case, said: "Your research is of central importance       to our case, because       it represents the only independent evaluation of the African language       materials for children       fundamental to the implementation of effective basic education in South       Africa.
As such, it       adds an important dimension to the arguments we are making for educational       reform."
Evidence of the impact of the project can also be found beyond South       Africa in Ethiopia,       Egypt, Ghana, Rwanda, Tanzania and Kenya.
For instance, Bible Literacy       Kenya, an NGO       that works in partnership with local people to develop writing systems for       culturally relevant       literacy programmes, has been actively engaging with issues highlighted in       the project       throughout the period since its completion.
Barbara Graham, Senior       Literacy Consultant for       the project commented: "The participatory nature of this research project       and its cross-national dimension has served as a catalyst for discussion among language       activists in many       different African countries.
It has allowed us to pool experiences and to       identify practical       ways forward, including cost-effective ways of materials production which       take advantage of       modern technologies."
Graham also includes discussion of these issues in a       module on       literacy offered by the Summer Institute of Linguistics attended by       literacy specialists working       all over the world.
A letter from the Dean of Kwame Nkrumah University of Science and       Technology states;       "The projects have gained the support of Ghanaian Publishers who are into       local language       publishing as well, and who over the years have had difficulty in       promoting and selling their       books.
It has helped to popularize the books and last year the Ministry of       Education assured       to purchase a million copies of bilingual/L1 books for use in basic       schools."
