     Hew Strachan has brought his knowledge of warfare and strategy to bear on       many aspects of       current strategic thinking, and has influenced policy both through       publications examining       contemporary strategic dilemmas, and through direct policy input.
Contemporary Strategic Dilemmas       The importance of Strachan's contribution to strategic thinking and the       contemporary debates       about political-military priorities is widely acknowledged.
General Jim       Mattis, the former US Joint       Forces Commander and now US Centcom Commander), is reported as saying that       he regards       himself as Strachan's student in matters of strategic thinking, while the       same issue of Foreign         Policy which reported the comment by Mattis, recognized Strachan as       one of the "global thinkers"       of 2012.
[i] Media commentators such as Max Hastings and       Tom Ricks draw public attention to       Strachan's insights into contemporary strategic dilemmas.
[ii]       He is cited in other works that have       had a decisive impact on military thinking and resource allocation in the       last five years.
[iii] Hew       Strachan has been an invited speaker at the US National War College and at       the US Naval War       College each year for the last three years.
In the UK, Sir Jock Stirrup,       the Chief of the Defence       Staff, invited Strachan and three others to help him shape his thoughts on       strategy and draft two       speeches which he delivered in December 2009.
As a result of those       speeches, a Strategic       Advisory Panel was set up by the CDS, on which Strachan now serves, as       well as regularly       speaking on strategy to the annual conferences of the Single Service       Chiefs and also to the Royal       College of Defence Studies and the Higher Command and Staff Course.
Direct Policy Input       Outside of the armed forces, Strachan has given evidence to the House of       Commons Defence       Committee on strategy and to the House of Commons Public Administration       Committee.
[iv] In 2005,       Strachan was asked to serve on the defence and international relations       committee set up by the       Conservative Party to consider possible policies if it were to win the       2010 election, and out of which       the recommendation to form a National Security Council emerged.
As a       result of this earlier       involvement, in 2009 Strachan briefed the shadow Defence Secretary, Liam       Fox, in the run-up to       the 2010 election, and was involved as a member of the `red team' which       tested the assumptions       of the Green Paper on Defence produced by the Labour government in advance       of the election.
After the election, Strachan was part of a group called in to discuss       Defence Reform in preparation       for the Levene Committee Report on the reform of the Ministry of Defence.
The 2010 Strategic and       Security Defence Review was based on a paper produced by the Defence       Concepts and Doctrine       Centre on `The Future Character of Conflict' the previous year.
The       authors of that report       discussed their thinking in all-day workshop convened by Strachan in       Oxford, and he was the       academic on the senior group to monitor a series of seminars which tested       its assumptions against       four possible future defence scenarios.
When General Sir David Richards       took over as Chief of the       General Staff in September 2009, he decided to hold a first-ever Army       Board away day and asked       Strachan to contribute the context-setting paper and to arrange for it to       be held in Oxford.
The First       Sea Lord, Sir Mark Stanhope, asked Strachan to join a group to monitor the       Royal Navy's       approach to the defence review.
Strachan's other related commitments       include membership of the       Defence Academy Advisory Board and, since the beginning of 2011, serving       as a specialist advisor       to the Joint (Lords and Commons) Committee on the National Security       Strategy.
Strachan's       services to defence policy and to the Ministry of Defence were explicitly       recognized in the citation       for his Knighthood in January 2012.
[v]     The Armed Forces Covenant       As a result of his writing and lecturing on civil-military relations,       Strachan was invited to play a role       as the only truly independent member (the other outside members were drawn       from the service       charities and the service family federations) to serve on the External       Reference Group that would       contribute to the drafting of the Labour Government's Service Personnel       Command Paper.
When       the Coalition government was formed, legislation on the so-called       `Military Covenant' (now the       `Armed Forces Covenant') was one of the heads of agreement between the       Conservatives and the       Liberal Democrats.
As a result, in July 2010 Strachan was asked to chair a       Task Force, under the       auspices of the Cabinet Office, to report to the Prime Minister on       low-cost ways of implementing       this covenant.
The Task Force submitted its report in September, and it       was published by the       government in December 2010.
Following publication the government       published its response to the       report, and this was debated in Parliament and examined by the House of       Commons Defence       Committee.
[vi] The External Reference Group,       subsequently renamed the Covenant Reference       Group, continues to make proposals and develop its initial brief.
The role       of Strachan in chairing       the Task Force was explicitly recognized by the Prime Minister in December       2010.
[1] One of the       principal recommendations of the Task Force, a Community Covenant, has       been backed by the       government with grants of &#163;30 million, and Strachan has been involved in       the launch of the       scheme, including locally in Oxfordshire.
CCW Programme       By establishing this forum wherein military practitioners, theorists and       historians exchange and       discuss ideas about the character of warfare, Strachan has provided a       platform from which high-       level debate about defence priorities and the shape of armed forces has       had a direct input, through       military practitioners, administrators and politicians, on military       policy.
The CCW Programme has       run two series of seminars, in addition to a number of conferences and       workshops.
One seminar       has brought practitioners to Oxford to speak about their recent command       and operational       experience: it has focused on Iraq, Afghanistan and - more recently -       Libya.
The programme has       also used Visiting Fellowships to bring practitioners, as well as       academics, to Oxford.
All three of       the British armed services have participated, as have members of the armed       forces of Australia,       Canada, China, France, Norway, Turkey and the United States.
[vii]       The current Chief of the       General Staff, Sir Peter Wall, said that coming to Oxford was when he was       able to think through       what he was doing and to take stock.
In sum, Strachan's research has had a major impact on current strategic       thinking.
He has       influenced policy both through publications, examining contemporary       strategic dilemmas, and       through direct involvement in the formation of policy.
