     Overall, the research has contributed to changes in curriculum         guidelines for MFL in England.
While other authors (e.g.
Grenfell       and Harris) have published on language-learner strategies, Graham's work       is novel in its focus on listening strategies and on the link between       strategy use and motivation within the context of MFL learning at English       secondary schools.
This is reflected in how the author of the first       version of the KS3 Framework for MFL cites Graham (2002) as a study       underpinning the thinking behind the Framework as regards learners'       strategies and motivation1.
Although published in 2005, this       initial Framework was the forerunner to the later one (2009).
The most powerful and extensive impact of the research has been achieved       through the two impact-focused projects described in Section 2, one funded       by the Esm&#233;e Fairbairn Foundation, the other supported by ESRC Follow-On       funding secured by Graham.
In the Esm&#233;e Fairbairn project, Graham and Santos wrote continuous       professional development (CPD) materials and held workshops for teachers       and teacher educators showing how the listening research (Graham et al.,       2008; Graham &amp; Macaro, 2008) can be translated into classroom       practice.
Emails, teacher interviews, classroom observations and CPD       reflective journals from teachers involved in the project show how the       initial research has had an impact on teachers' understanding of         effective listening pedagogy, and how they develop the listening skills         of their learners.
One teacher commented on the `seismic shift' in       her teaching approach that the CPD had brought about.
A Higher Education       Academy-funded seminar for Initial Teacher Education (ITE) and Higher       Education (HE) tutors, to disseminate the Esm&#233;e Fairbairn work further,       has contributed to changes in how these tutors teach listening pedagogy to       trainee teachers, and how HE language tutors teach listening to language       students, covering at least 12 Higher Education Institutions (including       Bristol, East London, Manchester, Chichester, Liverpool John Moores, and       others) and future language teachers throughout the UK.
Feedback emails       confirm this impact.
The listening work was also disseminated to more than       50 ITE tutors and MFL teachers at Language World, March 2013, the major UK       conference for language practitioners.
In the ESRC-funded project, the Professional Development Consortium (PDC)       group, working with teachers from local schools, created videos and other       materials to show how the researchers' findings, formulated into a number       of `Principles' of language teaching (including those concerning       listening, self-efficacy and motivation, from Graham's work), can be used       in practice in the classroom.
These are housed on a blog (see http://pdcinmfl.com/)       that has received circa 14,000 hits internationally and were disseminated       at seven workshops around the country attended by approximately 240       teachers from 144 schools in 33 English counties, and 34 teacher-trainers       from 28 universities2.
The Education Endowment Foundation has a       link to the blog as part of its promotion of evidence-based practice3.
Graham and Macaro delivered a shortened version of the workshop at the       Harris Federation Training Day (October 2012), a professional development       event run for 13 schools around London, which are attended by       approximately 16,000 students.
In the questionnaire administered after       each workshop, 219 teachers and 17 teacher-training providers agreed to       implement the Principles in their teaching/training.
Six months later, 11       ITE tutors and over 100 teachers reported (via questionnaires, interviews,       reports or emails) using the Principles in their teaching or training       (with 64 referring explicitly to being influenced by those relating to       listening and 47 by those concerning feedback and       self-efficacy/motivation).
Reports from ITE tutors show the degree of       impact on the training of teachers across England (e.g.
at the University       of Nottingham, where the Principles have been incorporated into a model of       language learning used on the course; and at HEIs such as Sussex, Newman       and Portsmouth, where the listening research has changed tutors'       approaches to how they teach listening pedagogy).
The ITE MFL course       leader at Portsmouth University comments `I have been greatly influenced       by (...) Suzanne Graham's work on listening strategies.
The research (...)       has made me review the way in which I present strategies for enabling       young students to access reading and listening to my trainee teachers and       forms part of my training programme'.
Graham has also disseminated       information about the PDC materials to teachers in Scotland and in the US       (via a colleague, Professor Jason Rothman).
Local school clusters, whereby       workshop participants promote use of the Principles with other schools,       have been established in a range of locations across the country,       including Walsall, Nottingham, Derby, Cheltenham, Newcastle and       Portsmouth, reaching a wide range of schools (e.g.
12 in Portsmouth).
Local Authority advisors have run CPD events based on Graham's research.
The work of the PDC has been presented to the Teaching Agency and the       Department for Education (DfE) and Graham has joined the MFL Expert Panel,       a body which meets at the DfE to consider changes to the MFL National       Curriculum (NC).
The PDC blog will be part of the materials issued by this       group for teachers to support the new NC.
Graham held a conference call       with the DfE (4 March 2013) advising them of the PDC work, with the       Department agreeing to make it known to their ITE review group, and       describing in an email the model of professional development the PDC       enshrines as `empowering the profession'.
They showed particular interest       in the underpinning listening research.
The PDC has devised a system         of assessment for language learning to replace the current national       curriculum attainment targets in MFL, which has been forwarded to the DfE       as part of the national curriculum review consultation     In addition, there is evidence that Graham's work is cited in       practitioner guidelines in other countries (e.g.in a Europe-wide guide for       teachers4, reaching thousands of teachers internationally), and       impacting on teaching practice (e.g.
in Academic Language courses in Japan       and the US5).
The work on metacognition and self-efficacy, as       well as listening, is cited as evidence for the need for curriculum       changes in the US and has informed debate about ML curriculum design there6.
Graham's publications on listening and motivation have been widely       downloaded from the University of Reading's research repository, by       readers from over 58 countries.
They appear on ITE MFL reading lists (e.g.
London Metropolitan, Cardiff and Chichester), reaching hundreds of trainee       language teachers, and inform practice-based investigations (e.g.
Yan,       2012, based on Graham, 2007) into how to improve language learning in       international contexts such as China and the US.
Graham's research has       also fed into In-School Training Services she delivered to Guernsey       schools (3-4 sessions a year in 2006-2011), as MFL Advisor there, and into       a lecture tour at the Harbin Institute of Technology, China, for language       teachers and lecturers (2011), where the research has underpinned changes       to teaching on their Speaking and writing as a Scientist course.
A       leader of that programme comments in an email that they now pay more       attention to developing students' listening strategies and `to the link       between strategy use and learning outcomes in our course'.
