     Impact is demonstrated in three inter-related areas; impact on direct       beneficiaries of rehabilitation services, the development of culturally       appropriate training materials,       and training for health and education workers both "in-country" and in the       UK.
Direct impact:     The initial 3-year action research bustee project (2000-2002), evaluated       by Sen &amp; Goldbart [5],       was implemented in fb01ve urban slums in Kolkata, offering individualised       home-based intervention       for parents and their child with disabilities, through three mother and       child welfare NGOs.
IICP       trained and mentored community development practitioners who were already       working in the       bustees, to deliver rehabilitation guidance in addition to their usual       role in mother and child welfare.
Community development work was also undertaken to increase awareness and       acceptance of       people with disabilities.
"Path breaking work was done through this         tripartite link that reached         IICP's services to the doorsteps of persons with disability and their         families living in Kolkata's         slums.....The work with the 3 partners in 14 urban slums, 22 persons         with disability and families         and thirty-eight field workers has now spread to 7 NGO partners, 69         slums and helped 772 children         and adults and their families and more than 552 people including field         workers have participated in         training and awareness programmes."
[A]     The impact is expanding outside Kolkata, with one corporate organisation       providing services in two       rural villages and three partner organisations in districts outside KMC       involved in training trainers       for their own districts.
Six organisations (three in other Indian states       and three in the districts of       West Bengal) are being supported to become zonal training agencies for       persons with disability in       rural areas.
[A,D]     Through her research in the UK and East Africa, Marshall became involved       in planning East       Africa's first SLT qualifying programme, at Makerere University, Uganda.
As SLT is not yet an       established profession, and support for new graduates would be minimal,       she devised a mentoring       scheme to provide professional support and guidance from SLTs with       experience of working in       under-served countries.
This project, funded by the Nuffield Foundation       has, since September       2011, provided and evaluated direct in-service training for graduates of       this new programme and       SLTs working in Kenya, support for the university staff in delivering and       developing the SLT       degree, provided remote and face-to-face one-to-one mentoring for each       member of staff and       graduate and support for the strategic development of services for people       with communication       disabilities in Uganda.
"This mentoring programme has benefited me and         my institution beyond         expectation, and I have gained more confidence following this training.
e.g the training on         communication and people with severe profound learning difficulties has         increased and enabled         me to have appropriate assessment and intervention approach to this         client group based on         intensive interaction, promoting intentional communication and engaging         with object and event         The clinical audit training/forms have been useful in ensuring         systematic data collection, which are         helpful in evaluating service, source of research data, preparation of         annual unit report and control         of caseload including reducing chances of bias in the waiting list."
[B]     Two cohorts of students (n=19) have graduated from the programme and are       now working in       Uganda, Kenya, Tanzania, Nigeria and Rwanda, adding significantly to the       very small numbers of       SLTs in these countries.
Four graduates are currently teaching on the       programme and form a core       of indigenous lecturing staff.
These four also provide the first       indigenous languages SLT service at       Mulago University hospital in Kampala.
Sixteen mentors support the graduates from the Makerere programme, as       well as other SLTs from       Uganda and Kenya, who have joined the project.
Participants are developing       clinical audit tools       that are currently generating data to demonstrate the need for further       service developments and       have designed case history and assessment materials.
Lecturing staff have       been supported to       revise and gain approval for a new undergraduate curriculum for SLT at       Makerere University.
Graduates have also been supported to present at national and       international conferences and to       write papers for publication.
"David's skills as a clinician have         benefited from this project in a         number of ways, specifically in being able to access support that is         culturally appropriate to         settings in which he works, rather than having to travel abroad to         receive this support."
[C]       People with communication disabilities and their family members have been       empowered by       involvement in the mentoring project's advisory group and feature on the       project website:       http://www.rihsc.mmu.ac.uk/projects/project_profile3.php?projectid=444.
See also [E].
Marshall is currently also involved in research based at University of       Sydney, mapping services for       people with communication impairments across Sub-Saharan Africa and is       providing advice to Moi       University, Kenya regarding establishment of a further SLT qualifying       programme.
Culturally appropriate training materials and resources: In 1998       DfID funding enabled       Goldbart, with Warrick (Canada) to develop a manual and video-based       training course for use with       families with a child with severe communication impairment related to       intellectual and/or physical       impairment.
This course, informed by Goldbart and Mukherjee [e.g.
1,2]       was intended for use in       both literate and non-literate communities.
The resulting course Learning       About the World has       been distributed by IICP since 1999.
Informed by [3 and 4], graduates from the Ugandan SLT programme       are developing culturally       appropriate assessment, intervention and service evaluation materials.
The       Dean of Makerere       University's School of Medicine says "The benefits are widespread and         include: development of         appropriate interview and assessment resources, data collection about         SLT work through clinical         audit, development of the BSLT programme curriculum, encouragement and         advice on how to         engage in research."
[F]     Through work with Communication Therapy International Marshall has       developed training       materials (e.g.
reading lists, pre-departure briefing) and short courses       (e.g.
for VSO volunteers) for       SLT planning to work in underserved countries.
A manual was produced to       accompany the       course in Kenya 1995 (see below) which has since been made available to       people working in a       number of underserved countries, including Kenya and Tanzania,as well as       being utilised by       participants in the Ugandan mentoring project: Marshall J.
&amp; Warner J.
(Eds) (1996) An       introduction to Communication Disorders in Children.
A book for workers in       less developed       countries.
(Unpublished).
Training and development: Goldbart has run many training workshops       for students and staff at       IICP and service providers from the Kolkata area and beyond.
In 2011, with       Janice Murray (also       MMU), she ran courses for students, practitioners, policy makers, speech       and language       pathologists from organisations in West Bengal, Delhi, Mumbai, Mysore and       Chennai as part of the       3rd All India AAC conference.
"workshops on working with persons with         PMLD and evidence         based practices were conducted for participants comprising students,         practitioners, policy makers,         speech and language pathologists mainly from Kolkata.
Both Professors         presented papers to         around 100 practitioners, technology developers, parents and adults with         disability from many parts         of India representing institutes of technology, universities, NGOs,         specialist centres for disability,         speech therapy training colleges and employers of persons with         disability."
[A]     Marshall supported SLTs in East Africa in 2009, running training on       setting up a professional       association and planning for sustainable services.
"Experiences gained         from being part of the         project, i.e Capacity building for Makerere University Speech Language         Therapy staff, begins to         inform me and hopefully other colleagues teaching on the [programme], on         how best as recipients         of projects, we can create paths, programmes and projects, through         partnerships, which paths ,         projects and programmes are contextually relevant, all aimed at         developing sustainable services         for people with communication disabilities in Uganda."
[G]     Graduates from the Makerere SLT programme have contributed significantly       (as president,       treasurer and secretary) to the development of the Association of Speech       and Language       Therapists in East Africa (ASLTEA) in 2012, and in organising and       presenting at the Biennial East       African Conference on Communication Disability, which in 2012 had       representation from 16       countries.
Report available at:       http://www.academia.edu/1906539/4th_East_African_Conference_on_Communication_Disability_         2012_Summary_Report     Marshall and colleagues ran training at the Kenyan Institute of Special       Education, Nairobi, on       supporting children with communication disability (1995) funded by DfID.
Marshall also supports       UK based SLTs wishing to work in underserved countries through founding       and being a committee       member of Communication Therapy International and contributing to training       e.g.
NW NHS AHP       training: Marshall J.
(2012) Volunteering in AHP (Speech and Language       Therapy).
Invited       presentation at North West International Health Care in AHP.
Manchester,       UK.
March.
