     Influencing the teaching of reading     Following on from dissemination activity such as conference presentations       and early publications on findings from the Young Early (Precocious)       Readers project, in 1997 Stainthorp was asked to become a member of an       advisory group on the development of the word-reading aspect of the       National Literacy Strategy (NLS).
All schools were sent the NLS by the DfE       to provide them with guidelines about how to teach word reading.
Though       the NLS was not statutory, it influenced the teaching of reading and, in       particular, schools began to teach early word reading using phonics       instruction, which requires children to learn to map the phonemes ( the       smallest units of sounds in a language) onto letters (a skill identified       as being one achieved very early by the precocious readers).
Subsequently,       the Government set up the Rose Review to advise on the effective teaching       of early word reading.
As a consequence of Stainthorp's involvement with       the NLS and because of her research work in this area she was commissioned       (with Stuart) to write the appendix to the review.
Published in 2006, the       review recommended that the `simple view of reading' (which focuses on the       importance of word recognition and language comprehension as the basis for       the development of fluent and effective reading) should be the recommended       framework to inform teachers about the need to teach word reading based on       systematic phonics (the instruction of phonics in a step-by-step way),       with additional explicit teaching of high-frequency exception words.
Development of a national assessment of phonics knowledge     In 2010, the Coalition Government decided that there should be a national       assessment of phonics knowledge for all children in Year 1.
Stainthorp was       one of a small team of experts asked to advise on the development of this       national assessment based on regular and pseudoword reading.
Her work on       the skills of precocious readers suggests that those children who are       going to be successful readers are able to read these types of stimuli       with a high degree of success.
The assessment programme is designed to       provide teachers with evidence about the extent to which their pupils have       learned to read words independently and, by implication, the extent to       which the teachers have been successful in teaching phonics.
Stainthorp       was commissioned to provide the video-based training for this programme to       all teachers via the national website       (http://education.gov.uk/schools/teachingandlearning/assessment/keystage1/a00200415/phonics).
Development of school reading programmes     Following the presentation of data from the Young Early (Precocious)       Readers project at national conferences, Stainthorp was asked to act as an       advisor to Oxford University Press (OUP) on the development of reading       programmes for schools.
Despite already having a successful school reading       programme which was based on learning to read via a whole-word approach,       OUP wanted to develop a phonics programme for KS1 which would align with       national policy.
Stainthorp provided evidence-based advice on the quality       of this new phonics programme throughout the REF period.
Phonics are now       included as part of the Oxford Reading Tree materials for schools     Influencing the training of teachers     Stainthorp (together with Stuart) was asked to give a presentation on       issues relating to word reading at the Universities' Council for the       Education of Teachers (UCET) conference in 2009.
She presented evidence       about how successful readers read words and how student teachers need to       have explicit training in developing their own phonemic awareness if they       are to teach phonics programmes effectively.
This had a significant       influence on the training of teachers in many schools and Stainthorp was       subsequently asked to provide a keynote address to staff and newly       qualified teachers at the University of Southampton in order to raise       knowledge and awareness of the importance of teaching phonics.
She has       also provided similar input to Literacy Co-ordinators in schools that are       in partnership with the University of Reading, as well as providing       training sessions for Wokingham Local Authority (LA) (2007), Buckingham LA       (2007), Birmingham LA (2009); individual schools such as The Coombes       (2008), All Saints Junior School (2012), Highdown (2012) and John Madejski       Academy (2012), and all primary schools in Guernsey (2013).
Diagnostic Test of Word Reading Processes (DTWRP).
As previously described, the collaborative project on word reading       undertaken by FRiLL led to the publication in 2012 of the Diagnostic Test       of Word Reading Processes (DTWRP).
Stainthorp and Stuart have subsequently       been commissioned by GL Assessment to provide in-service training on the       DTWRP for teachers in Wales, Birmingham and London and have given a       presentation at the Times Educational Supplement conferences for       teachers in Manchester and London.
Feedback related to the DTWRP has been very positive.
Comments have       included:     "Thank you so much for taking the time to send all the attachments,         which are very helpful.
I will recommend you to my SENCO and other         teachers about CPD training."
Influencing the teaching of reading in Malaysia and Vietnam     In 2009, Stainthorp was commissioned by the British Council in Kuala       Lumpur to advise the Ministry of Education (MoE) in Malaysia about using       phonics as the first approach to teaching word reading in English.
This       was followed by a further advisory visit in 2010 to support the writing of       support materials in this area.
The success of this work led to Stainthorp       being commissioned by the British Council in Hanoi to advise Vietnam's       Ministry of Education and Training about the development of their English       primary curriculum and the teaching of reading.
Prior to this consultancy,       Malaysia and Vietnam had not taught word reading in English by a       systematic phonics-first approach.
The MoE in Malaysia accepted the       research-based advice provided by Stainthorp and the teaching of reading       in English in this country is now based on phonics teaching.
A member of       the MoE team has subsequently recognised that there is a problem with the       level of knowledge of teachers in Malaysia and is in the process of       applying to undertake a PhD with Stainthorp in this area.
Enhancing public understanding     Beyond impact on teaching in schools, Stainthorp's work has had influence       in the public sphere.
Blue-Zoo, a London-based multi BAFTA award-winning       animation studio, has used aspects of her findings about the early phonic       skills of precocious readers to develop Alphablocks, a       BAFTA-nominated CBeebies programme designed to teach children letter-sound       correspondences and blending via an evidence-based series of child-centred       and exciting programmes.
The final programmes have been completed and       aired, and there are now plans to develop accompanying parent videos and       materials.
Public understanding of precocious reading and phonics skills has also       been enhanced through Stainthorp's contributions to radio broadcasts,       Teachers TV and local and national BBC news programmes.
