     The GMC-funded PRACtICe study has provided the best evidence to date on       the prevalence, nature and causes of prescribing errors in general       practices, while the PINCER trial has produced one of the only successful       interventions to reduce prescribing errors in primary care.
Before the       PRACtICe study, the existing estimate of prevalence and type of       prescribing errors in General Practice was: Shah et al.
A survey of       prescription errors in general practice.
Pharm J 2001; 267: 860-2.
This       study is both out of date (it pre-dates the wide-spread adoption of       electronic prescribing in general practice) and did not use the gold       standard methodology used in the PRACtICe study.
As a result,       recommendations arising from the PRACtICe study are supported by the GMC       and have been taken up by organisations including the RCGP and TPP, a       major supplier of GP computer systems.
The PRACtICe study report was launched at a major press conference at the       Wellcome Trust on 1st May 2012.
The findings of the study       received substantial media coverage a, including two       front-page headlines (The Daily Telegraph and The Daily Express)       and articles in all the major national newspapers, radio coverage on       several hundred radio stations and web coverage on several hundred       websites.
Dr Howard was interviewed by Heart Thames Valley Radio,       and has ongoing contact with BBC Radio Berkshire who continue to be       interested in the progress made in developing safeguards.
Prof. Avery was       interviewed on the BBC Radio 4 Today Programme and BBC Radio 2 Jeremy Vine       show, and Prof. Rubin (President of the GMC) appeared on the BBC One       Breakfast TV programme.
This coverage, and in particular the interviews,       raised public awareness and debate around the problems of prescribing       errors in general practice and helped to enhance public understanding of       the issue.
An article in the Daily Mail also explained what       patients can do to help reduce their chances of experiencing a prescribing       error.
Dr Howard delivered an invited lecture in July 2013 to 150       non-medical prescribers on lessons to be learned from both PRACtICe and       PINCER, further increasing dissemination of the results to a wider body of       healthcare professionals.
The PRACtICe study report has clearly influenced the GMC b,       which has discussed the outcomes of the research with organisations that       have a remit for quality assurance (including other professional and       systems regulators), patient safety and the provision of medical education       and training.
This has included the RCGP and General Pharmaceutical       Council.
The study team have influenced the RCGP by working closely with       them and presenting the PRACtICe study findings and recommendations at a       RCGP Curriculum Group meeting in June 2012.
As a result, the following       changes are taking place:     (1) Additional learning outcomes are being added to the RCGP curriculum cwith 	respect to therapeutics and safe prescribing skills; these were       ratified by the GMC and were implemented in August 2013;     (2) eLearning packages have been developed and are expected to be       launched in December 2013.
They will be supported by a series of articles       in INNOvait d, the journal of GP registrars;     (3) The assessment of therapeutics and safe prescribing skills is being       strengthened in the Membership of the Royal College of General       Practitioners examination.
Indicators of hazardous prescribing developed for the PINCER trial have       been available to general practices across England through Primary Care       Information Services since February 2013.
So far, the PINCER trial       indicators have been downloaded by 800 general practices.
The trial has       significantly influenced policy development at the Department of Health e.     The PRACtICE report suggested various ways in which prescribing safety       features of GP computer systems could be improved.
A number of changes       have been introduced into the very widely used SystmOne GP       computer system (TPP) as a direct consequence of the PRACtICE findings f.     The main beneficiaries of the impact of both studies are GPs, both       individually and via their representative bodies (RCGP and GMC), practice       pharmacists (who have access to the PINCER trial indicators to help       facilitate their medicines safety roles) and ultimately patients.
The       changes to the RCGP training programmes and examinations, in particular,       will help reduce the likelihood of medication errors reaching patients in       the primary care setting.
The main evidence to date of the extent of the       impact described is from media coverage, changes being made to the RCGP       curriculum, nation-wide release of the PINCER query library g       and changes that have been made to the SystmOne GP computer       system.
These impacts have occurred in 2012-13.
