     In Zambia, Dr Cheeseman designed a democracy and accountability program       for DfID that       included a number of innovative policies to foster a more accountable and       responsive government.
This impact came about as a result of Dr Cheeseman's publications on       Zambia, political parties       and the challenges of cultivating effective accountability and legislative       scrutiny in new       democracies, and his experience of briefing the UK High Commissioner to       Zambia and his Deputy       in 2011-12.
Relatively few scholars have worked on the political economy       of Zambia under the       Kaunda, Chiluba and now Sata administrations, and so Dr Cheeseman was       uniquely well suited to       the project.
As a result, in May 2012, he was asked to draft a       multi-million pound Business Case to       guide DfID's democracy promotion activities in Zambia for the next five       years.
As DfID Governance       Advisor Sam Waldock explains, `Nic's work on DFID Zambia Business Cases       helped us to analyse       the viability of proposed interventions and suggest a few new       interventions.
'[1]     Following an assessment of a number of options identified by DfID Zambia,       Dr Cheeseman       conducted a period of fieldwork in July 2012.
Based on this experience and       his prior research, he       recommended that DfID launch a Scorecard for MPs, through which Zambian       voters will be able to       access a summary of the activities of their MPs in key areas.
A second new       proposal was to       provide training for the staff who operate MPs Constituency Offices for       the first time, enabling them       to better educate and serve their constituencies.
A third strategy       proposed by Dr Cheeseman was       to provide think tanks for political parties to enable them to develop       more rounded and considered       manifestoes.
This significantly expanded DfID's general framework for       democracy promotion       activities, which has very rarely engaged directly with political parties       to date.
Taken together,       these policies represent an important evolution in the way that the UK       government conducts       democracy promotion activities in Zambia &#8212; a change that will provide       greater information to       citizens, strengthen ties of vertical accountability, and hence support       the evolution of a more       effective democracy in the long-run.
Similar work on the political economy of the new Patriotic Front (PF)       government that Dr       Cheeseman conducted in June 2012 as a consultant for the World Bank also       had a significant       impact, leading the Bank to adopt a more pragmatic approach in response to       the contradictions at       the heart of the PF's policy platform.
According to Governance Officer       Kate Bridges, Dr       Cheeseman's work was `absolutely critical' to the development of the       Bank's Country Partnership       Strategy, and his `report has consistently been referred to ...
The candid       diagnosis of the barriers       to effective donor intervention (particularly in key Bank sectors such as       agriculture, roads and       mining) has had a direct effect on the work plan that country staff       ultimately agreed upon and the       sectors we decided to prioritise.
Nic's emphasis on the policy incoherence       and idiosyncratic       leadership ... led us to develop a CPS that has enshrined flexibility as a       core principle ...
In short,       Nic's work has helped contribute to us having one of the most politically       responsive and aware       CPS strategies to date.
'[2]     In Kenya, Dr Cheeseman's research both shaped the UK government's       approach to the 2013       general elections and strengthened the ties between academic research and       the policy process       more generally.
This impact evolved out of a deep engagement with the UK       Foreign and       Commonwealth Office (FCO) over a number of years[3].
In 2009,       he delivered a workshop to the       Cabinet Office of the UK government on the prospects for unrest, and has       briefed every High       Commissioner to Kenya since 2008.
These sessions led the FCO to ask Dr       Cheeseman to       organise and deliver a `Diplomatic Excellence Day' attended by the entire       Africa Directorate of the       FCO in Oxford in November 2011.
Consistent policy engagement facilitated       the integration of       academic and policy communities, leading to further requests for academic       input on policy issues.
Based on this experience, Dr Cheeseman and two colleagues (Gabrielle Lynch       of Warwick       University and Justin Willis of Durham University) argued that, given the       potential for election       violence, donors required more systematic and longer-term academic       engagement ahead of the       2013 elections.
The Africa Conflict Prevention Pool (ACPP) Programme of       the UK government &#8212;       which draws together DfID, the FCO and the Ministry of Defence (MoD) &#8212;       agreed and provided       almost &#163;70,000 to fund the project.
The resulting `Early Warning and       Long-term Monitoring' project       brought together 10 British and Kenyan experts to conduct regular       fieldwork and draft and submit       monthly reports.
Dr Cheeseman helped manage the project, drafted reports,       edited the work of       others, wrote executive summaries, and regularly presented the project's       findings to policy makers       in London and Nairobi.
To the best of our knowledge, this was the first       time that an academic team       of this size has been systematically integrated into the UK's election       management strategy.
The project was deemed such a success that, in May 2013, the Foreign and       Commonwealth Office       asked Dr Cheeseman and his colleagues to apply for ESRC Knowledge Exchange       funding as Co-PIs       in order to extend the relationship and consider the policy lessons that       can be learnt from the       elections.
Writing in support of that application, Political Officer       Tamsin Clayton noted that the       project had `met all of its aims and objectives' and that `reports and       discussions have informed       ACPP planning and policy advice regarding potential hotspots and the       credibility of forthcoming       elections by a) confirming existing knowledge, b) providing additional       detail and c) offering fresh       analysis.
Two of the most significant contributions of this project have       been the geographic       coverage provided, which is difficult for London and Nairobi-based ACPP       staff to garner, and the       insightful analysis of potential conflict areas and the effectiveness of       potential interventions, such       recommendations on areas to focus on going in to the election including       placement of international       election observers - and discussions regarding responses to different       election and post-election       scenarios.
'[4]     More specifically, the advice of the academic team was important in       helping the UK government       identify likely locations of conflict.
Dr Cheeseman argued that due to       different patterns of coalition       politics, inter-communal violence would not erupt on the same cleavage as       2007/8.
It was therefore       essential that the DfID, FCO, and MoD pay greater attention to Luo       communities living on tea       farms and along the borders with Kikuyu and Kalenjin communities.
The       Early Warning project also       highlighted the danger posed by poor levels of voter education and the       mixed messages given by       the Electoral Commission, leading DfID to put greater pressure on the       Commission to use the       national media to explain the electoral process.
In this way, the team       played a small role in       promoting a credible and peaceful process.
The reports were considered to       be extremely valuable       to important policy decisions and so were shared with the donor and NGOs       community, most       notably with the US State Department and the National Democratic Institute       (NDI), from their       inception in December 2012 through to the end of the project in June 2013.
Writing to thank Dr       Cheeseman for his input during the election, Jonnie Carson, the Assistant       Secretary of State for       African Affairs (who reports directly to the US Secretary of State, Hilary       Clinton) wrote, `Many       thanks for including me on your running commentary of the Kenyan elections       ...
I appreciate the       insights, the perspective and the data that you provided ... given your       rich knowledge of Kenya,       your views were important in helping us to shape our own'.
Project       findings were also shared with       the Dutch government through a presentation in the Hague.
Dr Cheeseman also shaped the findings of the Independent Review       Commission[i] (IREC &#8212; popularly       known as the Kriegler Commission), the official investigation into the       2007 elections       established by the Kenyan government in 2008.
In part, the Commission       assessment on the extent       of electoral manipulation was guided by Dr Cheeseman's article in the Journal         of Eastern African         Studies &#8212; which was frequently cited in the final document &#8212; where       he argued that in many       constituencies the discrepancy between the vote for the ruling party in       the presidential and       parliamentary elections resulted from the presence of strong independent       candidates in       parliamentary contests.
These candidates often drew support away the from       ruling party's       candidates, and it was often this, and not ballot box stuffing, that       explained why the ruling party did       better in the presidential election.
The Commission also cited Dr       Cheeseman's work in support of       the conclusion that one of the main problems in the election was the lack       of independence of the       Electoral Commission.
This was significant because the Kriegler       Commission's laid down the       blueprints for the design of a more autonomous electoral management body       ahead of the 2013       election.
According to Jorgen Elklitt, the Secretary of the Commission,       `During this work it was very       useful for me &#8212; but also for the IREC Chair, Judge Johann Kriegler &#8212; to       have access to the special       issue of the Journal of Eastern African Studies of which Dr       Cheeseman was a guest editor.
The       content of this issue of the journal contributed substantially to our       understanding of the entire       situation ... and helped us to formulate some of the many complicated       questions we had to look       into.
'[5]     Research findings were also disseminated to a mass audience through       appearances on BBC       News 24, the World At One (Radio 4), the Today Program (Radio 4), RFI       Radio (French World       Service), Material World (BBC Radio 4), and The One Show (BBC 1 &#8212;       approximately 5 million       people watched the program).
Most notably, Dr Cheeseman's column in the       Daily Nation &#8212; the       highest selling newspaper in East and Central Africa with a daily       circulation of 205,000 &#8212; has       helped to bring important debates and research findings to ordinary       Kenyans, many of whom       correspond with him regularly.
