     The direct clinical impact this trial had on Bell's Palsy management in       UK General Practice was       measured by analysing trends in prescribing behaviour (with significance       confirmed by interrupted       times series regression analysis) between 2001 and 2012 [1].
This analysis       used 14,460 Bell's       Palsy cases identified from the Clinical Practice Research Datalink       database (5.25 million active       UK electronic medical records), and clearly demonstrated that the trial       was associated with a       significant increase in treatment with prednisolone and reduction in       combination treatment with       antivirals, the maximum relative increases and decreases being 70% and 41%       respectively.
These       significant changes in clinical behaviour began very soon after       publication of the clinical trial in       October 2007 and were in line with trial recommendations.
The use of more       effective early therapy       was associated with a reduction in referrals to hospital by 36% (from 9.2%       to 5.9% of incident       cases).
The wider impact of the study is on management of Bell's Palsy with       clinical guideline       recommendations to avoid unnecessary medication, and the establishment of       a strong clinical       research network able to undertake methodologically rigorous work in       Primary Care in Scotland.
As soon as the results of the main study were published in the New         England Journal of Medicine       there was considerable press interest internationally involving print,       radio and television (BBC).
This paper has been cited by many other groups studying Bell's Palsy and       related conditions with       commentaries in major journals such as the Lancet.
To date (16.10.13), the       paper has been cited       270 times.
As a result of the findings, the Cochrane Collaboration recognized the       need to update the previous       reviews of antivirals and steroids in Bell's Palsy.
Our group was given       responsibility for keeping the       former up to date [2] and collaborates with colleagues in Chile on the       latter [3].
This is being       updated again in 2013 and an individual patient meta-analysis is being       prepared studying the       experience of the most severely affected patients.
This will involve a       reanalysis of patients in this       study and severely affected cases in Scandinavia and South Korea, and may       lead to further trials       of candidate interventions for severe disease.
We have also been       commissioned by the Cochrane       Neuromuscular Review Group at King's College London to prepare an overview       of all interventions       in Bell's Palsy.
The Royal College of General Practitioners, Academy of       Medical Royal Colleges       and Sense About Science used this study in Evidence Based Medicine         Matters as one of 15 case       studies of the "game changers in evidence based medicine", highlighting it       as an example of an       evidence-based approach to general practice [4].
We disseminated the results of our study to patients and clinicians in       Scotland who had been       directly involved and sent briefing notes to policy makers in the UK.
We       also presented the       findings at a number of primary care and specialist conferences and were       invited to present the       results in prestigious lectures in the UK and overseas.
Professional       recognition of the quality and       impact of the research included awards from the RCGP (UK) Medical       Association       (http://thebmjawards.bmj.com/previous-winners/2009/research-paper-of-the-year)       for the best       research published in the year of award [4].
The findings have been incorporated into NHS and international guidelines       (e.g.
in India, Spain,       Ireland) [5-8] providing advice to clinicians and patients in a range of       formats (BMJ Point of Care       series, BMJ Best Practice Series, BMJ Clinical Evidence, RCP Map of       Medicine Project) and the       study has been selected by the National Institute for Health Research as       an exemplar project.
This clinical trial has contributed to the reputation of the NHS-funded       Scottish Primary Care       Research Network and Tayside Academic Health Science Collaboration.
These       facilitate       collaboration between front-line clinicians and academics, which is often       difficult; in fact half of all       clinical trials fail to recruit adequate numbers of study subjects [9].
In summary, we led a complex and collaborative randomised controlled       trial that enrolled acute       cases of Bell's Palsy through a nationwide research network, providing and       disseminating clear       results, both to clinicians and the general public [10].
This project had       a beneficial impact on the       evidence base for primary care internationally.
It has led directly to       cost effective changes in       prescribing practice which produce clear patient benefit.
