     What's Going On?
(WGO) was the basis of an ongoing 10-year       investment of &#163;97.5m from the Scottish Government for the Youth Music       Initiative (YMI), managed initially by the Scottish Arts Council and       latterly by Creative Scotland.
It was highly influential in shaping and       informing successive Scottish governments' policies towards to youth music       and remains a foundation for policy, planning and funding of youth music       across Scotland.
Since 2005-6, &#163;10m has been disbursed each year by the YMI, &#163;8m by means       of the formula designed by the research team of WGO to Scottish local       authorities, and a further &#163;2m through individual awards made by Creative       Scotland.
A key recommendation of WGO was that there should be advocacy for `youth       music opportunities, as an entitlement, for all young people in Scotland'       and that `ways of targeting support to Primary schools' should be sought.
The YMI took this up, with the principal target that every child in       Scotland would receive a year's free music tuition by the end of Primary 6       (the so-called `P6 target').
According to Creative Scotland's data, this       has been achieved.
&#163;8m per annum is now spent to sustain this target         year on year.
WGO recommended the foundation of funding schemes `to support strategic       priorities within the informal sectors'.
&#163;2m per annum is disbursed to         a wide range of organisations and individuals for these `informal'       activities, which take place outwith the context of formal education.
WGO       argued for the establishment of `different levels of funding schemes       including easy-to-access awards schemes for smaller projects and       longer-term schemes for sustaining successful existing projects'.
This       approach was taken up in the YMI: as of May 2013, there had been 379       successful awards to the Access to Music Making / Small &amp; Large Grant       funds, totalling &#163;5.93m and leveraging &#163;3.76m in partnership funding (of       which &#163;2.37m has been in cash contributions).
WGO recommended `work with strategic partners ... to raise awareness of       participatory music', and the YMI has worked with, and disbursed       significant sums to, a number of partners to achieve this.
These include       The Scottish Brass Band Association, the Scottish Premier League Trust's       Music Box and the Scottish Music Centre.
Singing emerged as a particularly       weak aspect of Scottish youth music in WGO, and the YMI has worked closely       with the National Youth Choir of Scotland since its inception, broadening       its remit and significantly increasing its reach across Scotland.
WGO highlighted that early years music was a major gap in provision in       2002.
The YMI's response to this finding in funding the Scottish Book       Trust's Bookbug Rhymetimes initiative provides a good illustration of the       reach and significance of the impact of the YMI, which has supported these       music and language sessions for the very young (usually held in local       libraries) since 2007; since 2008 over 900 Bookbug Session Leaders have       been trained across all 32 Scottish local authorities, resulting in more       than a million attendances at Bookbug sessions.
WGO highlighted the lack of funding opportunities for young rock and pop       musicians in 2002.
The YMI responded to this by developing schemes to       support burgeoning stars: In 2012-13 it funded opportunities for 73 young       bands to record their first demo in a professional environment, taking the       total number of young bands to benefit from this programme to 396.
The number of young people on whom the YMI has had an impact is very       large: Creative Scotland report that there were over 1.7 million recorded       attendances at YMI funded programmes between the 2003-4 and 2010-11 (when       detailed monitoring of this kind ceased).
The effect on the employment       context for music leaders has been similarly significant, with (for       example) 194.94 FTE staff (586 individuals) employed by local authorities       through YMI funding in 2007-8.
