     Impact on directors and writers     Steen's research project Earthing the Electric was specifically       conceived to transform the working practices       of the participating directors, but there is evidence of the impact of her       work over a longer time-frame, dating       back at least to 2000.
In the assessment period, however, John Tiffany and       Lorne Campbell have specifically       commented on the impact that Steen's work has had on them as directors.
Tiffany focuses on the       communicative power of a fully embodied voice:     I came to work at the National Theatre of Scotland and the second show I       did was Black Watch, which       Ros and I worked on, and because I met those boys very, very soon after       they had come back from       Iraq and we interviewed a lot of them, I felt it a real duty to get their       voice right because this was their       story.
It is during the time of the National Theatre of Scotland that I have       been privileged to work with Ros       [...] and have started to do all the voice work that Ros has been doing       from Roy Hart through to       Nadine George.
Ros started to get us directors to work with that technique       and that opened a whole       new thing which has been amazing &#8212; the voice, the communication, the       vibration and resonance.
(JT,       keynote at Shifting Landscapes conference, RCS, June 2012).
Tiffany's deep engagement with Steen's work infuses all his work since Black         Watch, including The Missing,         Let the Right One In, The Bacchae and Macbeth, and is       demonstrated by his inviting her to give a workshop       for fellows of the Radcliffe Institute for Advanced Study at Harvard       University during his fellowship there.
Lorne Campbell, in contrast, has focussed on the way Steen's research       foregrounds the uniqueness of each       voice in the production, taking this into his own professional       development.
Following his work with Steen,       Campbell received a bursary from the Scottish Arts Council to further       explore `how, within the structures and       practice of British Theatre, a director can develop a non-intellectual       language for directing actors and       creating performance .
.
.
based around precepts of variation rather than       rehearsed repetition'.
Moving beyond Earthing the Electric, Steen's collaborators have       included Nicholas Bone (Magnetic North),       who has commented on the heightened integration of text and actor that       Steen's approach facilitates, noting       its transformative impact on him:     I was intrigued by the way [Steen's approach] seemed to connect the       actors to the text so well and I       asked Ros to work on a production of a Linda McLean play called Word         for Word with my own       company, Magnetic North.
Again, I was conscious of the connection the work       seemed to build       between the actor and the text.
I was also astonished by the extraordinary       sounds the actors       produced: several times I literally felt the resonances of an actor       standing next to me as they worked       up and down the octaves with Ros ... once you have uncovered the       possibilities of the voice it is       impossible to step back from that knowledge.
(ed.
Steen, R. Growing         Voices (Glasgow: Royal       Conservatoire of Scotland, 2013), 40.)
Likewise, playwright Linda McLean has reflected on the impact of Steen's       approach to her own development       and, in particular, the development of the first production of her play Sex         and God.
The voice work that we did before rehearsals was so much more than a       vocal warm-up.
It's quite       hard to describe what happens in the room ...
Some power and energy that       hides in the crevices of       the body is liberated and the air in the room literally trammels with it.
When they speak the lines of       dialogue they are enlivened, and not by some actorly technique but by a       focus and breath you       equate with a fine instrument.
(ibid., 53.)
Nicola McCartney &#8212; playwright, director, dramaturg and Lecturer in       Writing for Performance at the University       of Edinburgh explains how participation in Steen's research has changed       her practice:     Ros's unique approach ... has had a profound impact on my own writing ...
It has deepened my       understanding of the necessity of dialogue having a physical impulse in       the body of the writer, an       energy; of the written script being almost like a type of musical notation       which the actor then plays       through the instrument of their own energy, voice and body ...
I have come       to view the creative       process of the playwright and the actor as the same but in reverse: the       dramatist finds the words to       express the impulse; the actors work back from the words to find the       impulse which originally was       born in the body of the playwright.
(ibid., 42.)
The impact of Steen's research on the writer A. L. Kennedy is       specifically reflected in the latter's essay `Proof       of Life' in her collection On Writing (A.L.
Kennedy, On         Writing (London: Jonathan Cape, 2013), 311-338).
Impact on audiences     Black Watch is the single most important production of the       National Theatre of Scotland, playing to over       200,000 people worldwide and garnering multiple awards and commendations;       it has been in continuous       production throughout the assessment period (AP).
The reviews that have       accompanied other work, such as       John Tiffany's Macbeth (with Alan Cumming) and Nicholas Bone's       production of Sex and God by Linda       MacLean (both of which have been substantially shaped in development by       Steen's approach), give a strong       indication of the mediated impact of Steen's research on audiences through       work that has been first       mounted in since 2008.
In reviews of these pieces, the voice work and its       impact is a prominent theme:     Macbeth     As he shifts between the major (and some minor) characters of the play,       Cumming is as compelling       in crazed dialogue as in soliloquy ...
It is a performance of       extraordinary vocal dexterity and physical       energy ... Deserving of its standing ovation on opening night, this       Macbeth is, surely, guaranteed       success when it transfers to New York next month.
(Mark Brown, The       Telegraph       http://www.telegraph.co.uk/culture/theatre/theatre-reviews/9334599/Macbeth-National-Theatre-Scotland-Tramway-Glasgow-review.html)     You can savor Cumming's bravura physical and vocal performance, the way       his burr strokes the       language to release its incantatory power.
http://www.timeout.com/newyork/theater/macbeth-17     Cumming has a masterful command of the language, making it clear and       comfortable on the ear as       he subtly shifts register from character to character ... What elevates       Cumming's performance (or       should we say performances?)
above an actorly display of virtuosity is       that it is also sad and moving.
http://www.theguardian.com/culture/2012/jun/17/macbeth-glasgow-tramway-alan-cumming1?guni=Article:in%20body%20link     Sex and God     Imagine a string quartet, but with actors instead of musicians.
In place       of a score, a set of       overlapping monologues.
As they riff on similar themes, they could be from       a family of musical       instruments, each with her own timbre and pitch, but each part of the       ensemble.
http://www.theguardian.com/stage/2012/oct/16/sex-and-god-theatre-review     Impact on Scottish theatre and identity     Steen's research has contributed strongly to a specifically Scottish       theatrical community, while having an       impact that far extends beyond this context.
Her influence in Scotland owes its reach to the development, beginning in       1995 and extending right up to the       present, of an integrated community of practice imbued with Steen's       particular approach to vocal practice.
Actors familiar with the technique (often trained at the Royal       Conservatoire) work with directors who have       physically experienced its creative power for themselves through Steen's       professional practice and research       projects; together, they make work with writers who have also felt the       deep connection between the self and       the voice that Steen's approach forges.
Lorne Campbell, Artistic Director       of Northern Stage and participant in       Earthing the Electric, writes:     Ros's impact on the Scottish Theatre community is immense.
For three       generations of Scottish       performers and two generations of Directors who now have a lingua franca       having encountered       Ros's work, they bring this common thread with them to rehearsal.
(Correspondence with Anna       Birch, 22 November 2013.)
Notions of uniqueness, of identity, and of finding an authentic voice,       are key themes of Scottish theatre and       writing, but Steen's work reaches far beyond the Scottish context.
Partnerships with the Athanor Akademie       (Germany), Malm&#246; Theatre Academy (Sweden), the University of Lule&#229;       (Sweden), the National Academy of       Dramatic Arts (Croatia) and others ensure the international reach of this       research.
