     A major focus of Professor Mumby's research is the key role of       herbivorous parrotfish in maintaining reef resilience, and it is this work       that has had the greatest impact on the conservation and practical       management of Caribbean coral reefs.
Specifically, this research has       resulted in new legislation to ban the fishing of parrotfishes in two       countries (Belize and Bonaire) and has played a significant role in the       introduction of new catch and size limits in US Caribbean fisheries.
In 2005, Professor Mumby was invited to give a presentation at the       Fisheries Department in Belize where some of the first results       highlighting the importance of grazers to reef health and reef resilience       were presented.
The Chair of the Belize Fishing Cooperative attended the       meeting and requested the same presentation be given to fishermen and       women.
Over 170 fishers attended the meeting and upon hearing the results       queried why parrotfish were not protected, given that they have such an       important role in reef health.
The fishers voted almost unanimously to       make a recommendation to the Fisheries Department that parrotfish be       protected in Belizean waters.
This recommendation, combined with the       research into the importance of parrotfish for reef health and the       Wildlife Conservation Society (WCS) programme of fisheries catch data       (section 5; source 1), led to the Government of Belize enacting       legislation to ban fishing of parrotfishes in 2009 (section 5; source 2).
Over a number of years, Professor Mumby has conducted research on the       reefs of Bonaire, Netherlands Antilles, and during his visits to the       island gave numerous outreach presentations to the Bonaire Marine Park       staff and public, with his collaborator, Prof Robert Steneck.
In addition,       Professor Mumby contributed to a number of annual reports for the Bonaire       Marine Park on the state of the reefs (section 5; source 3).
During these       presentations and reports, parrotfishes and their importance in enhancing       reef health and resilience were frequently discussed.
Mumby's publications       that detailed how a reduction in fishing mortality of grazers could       benefit reef health were a key part of the initial proposal recommending a       ban on fishing parrotfishes in Bonaire, which was presented to the       Environment Department (section 5; source 4).
These activities fed       directly into a change in policy that resulted in the Government of       Bonaire enacting legislation to ban the fishing of parrotfishes in 2010       (section 5; source 5).
In October 2011, the National Ocean and Atmospheric Administration       (NOAA), the National Marine Fisheries Service (NMFS), the Southeast       Regional Office (SERO) and the Sustainable Fisheries Division (F/SER2) of       the US Government released a Biological Opinion on the continued       authorization of the Reef Fish Fishery within the US Caribbean, Puerto       Rico and the US Virgin Islands (section 5; source 6).
In assessing the       status of the reefs and the impact of the Reef Fish Fishery on reef health       in the US Caribbean, the Biological Opinion drew heavily on research       conducted by Professor Mumby and colleagues.
Ten publications were cited       which detailed the links between macroalgae and reef health, fishing       mortality and parrotfish abundance, and fishing mortality, levels of       grazing and reef resilience.
While the authors of the Biological Opinion       acknowledged the importance of grazers in enhancing reef health and       resilience, the decision was taken to introduce Annual Catch Limits (ACL)       for herbivorous species (including parrotfishes) within the US Caribbean,       rather than introducing an overall ban.
In January 2012, the environmental law firm, Earthjustice, on behalf of       the Center for Biological Diversity, challenged NOAA, NMFS, SERO, F/SER2       for failure to comply with the Endangered Species Act in managing the US       Caribbean Reef Fish Fishery.
Earthjustice filed for a judicial review of       the 2011 Biological Opinion, which authorised the continuation of the Reef       Fish Fishery in Puerto Rico and the US Virgin Islands (albeit with catch       limits for herbivorous species).
The lawsuit stated that the Biological       Opinion did not go far enough and should have recommended a ban on fishing       herbivorous fishes, in particular parrotfishes, in the US Caribbean in       order to protect critical habitat for Acropora palmata and Acropora         cervicornis (two coral species listed on the endangered species       act).
In their review of the Biological Opinion, Earthjustice drew heavily       on Professor Mumby's research, highlighting the importance of parrotfishes       in enhancing the recovery and resilience of coral reefs (section 5; source       7).
On 30th Sept 2013 the Federal District Court in San Juan,       Puerto Rico ruled in favour of Earthjustice (section 5; source 8).
Currently, the Caribbean Fishery Management Council is proposing to       implement size limits for parrotfish caught within US Caribbean Fisheries       (section 5; source 9).
The Council drew heavily on Professor Mumby's work       in assessing the need for size limits within the fishery and it was the       main scientific study cited in a presentation to policy makers (section 5;       source 10).
