     The department's collective and collaborative research in Greek       performance culture and its continuity into the modern era feeds directly       into its design and delivery of a wide-ranging programme of community       activities.
These are intended to engage the public with       socio-political issues arising from our research, enrich the cultural         life of London, and enhance tourist and visitor experience of the       Capital.
They are exemplified by the longstanding annual production of a       Greek play at the UCL Bloomsbury Theatre and one-off events such as those       surrounding the London Olympics in 2012.
We have energetically seized the       opportunities presented by new technologies to extend the reach of       the impacts on public awareness of and engagement with such issues.
Digitising and sharing the outcomes of these events has allowed the       department to extend the range of its impacts to include the development       and provision of reusable information and learning resources for       independent study and for use in secondary schools and in courses at HEIs       in the UK and beyond and to enhance the accessibility of its research to a       wider public audience.
The Greek Play     The UCL Greek play has run for over 25 years.
It functions as an       important medium for increasing public understanding of research on Greek       poetry and performance and its applications to contemporary performance.
Since 2008 we have staged: Aeschylus' Agamemnon 2008;       Aristophanes' Frogs 2009; Aeschylus' Libation Bearers and       Eumenides 2010; Aristophanes' Lysistrata 2011; Euripides' Hippolytus       2012; Euripides' Trojan Women February 2013 (see [2] in section       5).
Although the play is produced by students, staff researching Greek       drama oversee its choice of play and translation and advise on       interpretation and stagecraft, ensuring that current research is embedded       into the performance and in programme notes contributed by them.
The       innovative and engaging results of their contributions can be seen, for       instance, in the (2013) location of Trojan Women (overseen by Rosa       And&#250;jar) in a modern war zone, whose setting paralleled the fluid relation       between Euripides' production, heroic myth and events of the Peloponnesian       War (see Carey [c]), and in the acclaimed Oresteia productions.
Emmanuela Bakola used her groundbreaking UCL research in Greek literature       and the environment [b] to underpin a production combining themes       uncovered by her work (the house, the earth, the economics of peace and       war, material waste).
These were reflected in the play's publicity poster       (the perverted circle of nature and the chthonic associations of the       snake, a recurrent image in the trilogy), acting (contact with the soil in       Agamemnon and Libation Bearers), costume (the Erinyes as       vampires), props and space [2].
The end result was a holistic sense of a       play rooted in its political, religious, theatrical-spatial and literary       milieu.
All of this was underpinned and supplemented by research-based       programme notes.
The plays are accompanied by talks for general audiences by       (especially UCL) academics, and workshops with theatre practitioners, with       generous funding initially from the Hellenic Society and the Classical       Association, and now supported by an earmarked award from the Leventis       Foundation.
The talks and workshops explore issues of performance and the       relevance and meaning of ancient drama in the modern world.
The reach       is demonstrated by the large audiences that the performances themselves       (1935 for Trojan Women 2013, 1879 for Hippolytus 2012) and       the accompanying lectures and workshops attract (308 at 2013 lectures, 60       at workshops &#8212; see [2] below).
Participants in these events include       members of the public and school groups (students of English, modern       languages, theatre studies or drama as well as Greek or Classical       Civilisation) from many parts of the UK.
The significance of this       impact is demonstrated by the positive critical reviews [1] which the       productions have received (`the UCL Classical Drama Society's production       [of Hyppolytus was] explosive' - Matthew Parris, Times       16/02/12, `superior to quite a few more lauded professional productions' -       Tony Keen on our 2008 Agamemnon).
Extensive audience feedback       attests to the ways in which research-led performance and outreach both       (re)shapes perception and enriches education.
Sample comments from the       public have included:     `showed that however much times have changed over the last couple of       thousand years, the suffering and cruelty of war continues';     `made sense of the conventions of Greek tragedy';     `excellent lecture; accessible and thought provoking; good experience for       my daughter of being in a "uni lecture"`;     `provided such a detailed insight into the major themes and characters,       and the impact this would have had on the society the play was first       performed to';     (and from teachers specifically):     `challenged them [visiting students] to revisit the play and their       existing interpretations';     `very pleased that the lecture did not just deal with the text, but       extended the students' knowledge by looking at the role of women and       mourning'.
([2] below)     The play website [2] supplements these educational benefits by providing       research-driven interviews, images and clips, a blog, programme notes,       essays on the plays, suggestions for further reading and study questions.
Through these media, we extend the impact of the event beyond those       watching the performance itself via an educational resource available to       everyone, allowing wider audiences (inter)nationally to engage with Greek       plays as living theatre.
This reach is extended further by related       (digitised) events such as Miriam Leonard's inaugural (Tragedy and         Modernity [3]), broadcast in Australia.
London Olympics 2012     A rare opportunity to improve public understanding of Greek poetry and       performance arose thanks to the London Olympics 2012.
On the basis of our       longstanding research on athletics and celebration (current: Ag&#243;cs, Carey,       past: Instone, Hornblower, Maehler) we took the lead in creating a       consortium of London cultural and educational bodies (also including the       British Museum, Institute of Classical Studies, Sir John Soane's Museum,       Egypt Exploration Society, British Academy, Petrie Museum, Hellenic and       Roman societies, Open University, Kings College London) to create a major       programme of activities and exhibitions around the London Olympics 2012 on       the theme of sport and competition in the ancient world and in its modern       receptions and renewals.
As well as co-ordinating events in the capital,       we used the Roman Society website [4] as a portal for research-based       Olympic themed activities throughout Britain to showcase Classics research       nationally.
The reach of this impact is demonstrated by the many       and varied audiences around the country who benefited from engagement       (either through live events or resultant video uploads), from the research       outputs generated, and from the new partnerships formed.
The programme, which ran from May to September 2012, featured three       conferences, public lectures, panel discussions (with audiences of       100-350), exhibitions, guided tours and hands-on activities in museums.
It       offered a fuller understanding of the different ways in which competition       (especially but not exclusively athletic) was perceived, enacted and       memorialised in the ancient world and in the modern era, providing a foil       against which to assess contemporary competitions and help them understand       the relevance of the ancient traditions in all areas of culture.
As with the Greek plays, the reach and significance of the impacts of       live events were increased through the creation of digital learning and       information resources.
Thus this impact was further enhanced by the Unit's       Ancient Olympics website [6], which is now a permanent research-based       educational resource offering summaries of key issues, related ancient       texts and artefacts, recordings of talks, essays and images on the issues       discussed, as well as suggestions for further reading and study questions.
The reach of this resource is indicated by the fact that it has       been viewed some 1200 times during the impact assessment period; its significance       as an educational resource is suggested by user comments such as `I plan       to use it with my GCSE group', and `a superb resource' [6].
It is now       being further developed in collaboration with schoolteachers and pupils.
The educational and public information impacts of the events were enhanced       and extended still further by the publication of a full set of the public       lectures on the website of the Society for the Promotion of Hellenic       Studies, where they were viewed c. 2200 times during the impact assessment       period [5].
Chris Carey also gave invited public lectures on the sociology and       ethnicity of athletics and the nature of ancient competition to audiences       of 50-300 at associated events in Exeter, Nottingham, Dublin and London       and at a follow-up seminar on law and sport in October 2013 for a legal       and public audience at the Institute of Directors in London, organised by       the Middle Temple.
He was invited to provide a voiceover for an internet       film (which included Olympic athletes) by the Guardian newspaper       ([9]; blog comment: `very professional; impressive...').
He was also       invited to produce a blog post for Cambridge Press, which had 6,225 unique       visits (11,050 total visits) by late October 2013, making it the 3rd       most popular blog post on the Cambridge Journals blog, of 260 posts across       all disciplines; the only posts with more visits were promotional posts       [7].
Carey also took part in a public discussion on sport at UCL with       celebrated neuroscientist Semir Zeki for an audience of 150.
A video of       that discussion is now available online [8] and had received 900 views by       October 2013.
