     Aviation is a strategically important sector that makes a vital       contribution to the EU`s overall economy and employment, supporting 5.1       million jobs and contributing &#8364;365 billion to European GDP.
Despite the       recent economic crisis, global air transport over the long term is       expected to grow by around 5% annually, doubling by 2030.
As traffic       increases so do concerns about capacity and safety.
Airport and air       traffic network capacity is increasingly a constraining factor in European       air transportation, resulting in delays costing airlines &#8364;1.3-1.9 billion       per year (European Commission, SESAR, The Future of Flying, 2010,       www.sesarju.eu).
Without a new       integrated system, current systems will not be able to cope.
This will       result in a potential 3.7 million flights per year not being accommodated,       causing a yearly loss of approximately &#8364;50 billion euros.
Isolated       improvements in national practices and systems cannot resolve this       problem, due to segregated systems, lack of standardisation and       restrictive regulations [3].
However, previous attempts to reach an       agreement to improve air traffic management systems in Europe had failed       due to the complexity of reconciling the conflicting objectives of the       many international stakeholders.
The research in section 2 was       instrumental in resolving this issue.
The significance of the impact of research was recognised in the many       nominations received for its benefits to the client organisation from the       Institute for Operations Research and Management Science (INFORMS) and       through its publication in the journal Interfaces as an exemplary       case of research with substantial impact outside academia [4].
In       particular, the research was a finalist for the Daniel H. Wagner Prize         for Excellence in Operations Research Practice, the Decision         Analysis Society Practice Award, and the INFORMS Case         Competition Award.
Eurocontrol's Head of Airport Research and       Director of the Single European Sky programme, writes that "the research       [...] had a major impact on one of our major European projects, SESAR       (Single European Sky Air Traffic Management Research)" [2].
Impact on the development of the Single European Sky initiative     The integrated decision-making framework developed by Professor De Reyck       and described in section 2 was instrumental in reaching an agreement on       which changes and improvements will be made in Europe's air traffic       management systems, and which new technologies will be chosen for       implementation.
The selected set of improvements now forms the Master Plan       of the Single European Sky (SES) initiative for harmonising air traffic       [1].
This represents the successful development of a collaboration to cope       with the forecasted increase in air traffic while maintaining safety,       protecting the environment, and improving predictability and efficiency,       ultimately leading to the successful completion of the European       Commission's Single European Sky initiative.
When fully realised, the SES       will handle more than 20 million flights per year, with the highest level       of safety in the world and cost reductions of &#8364;6 billion per year.
Additionally, there will be fuel savings, lower CO2 emissions,       fewer delays and additional capacity, generating an estimated additional       GDP of &#8364;419 billion for the European economy, and 320,000 jobs [3].
The       framework developed through our research has created the necessary       conditions for this to occur.
The integrated framework accommodates the requirements of a consortium of       stakeholders from 30 public and private organisations, as well as 20       associated partners, including representatives from airspace users,       airports, air navigation service providers, the supply industry, safety       regulators, military, pilots and controllers associations and research       centres.
Its application has led to a shared understanding of the problem,       achieved a joint commitment to action, and was used to reach several key       decisions towards the ultimate implementation of the Single European Sky.
As a result, implementation of these decisions, as part of a decades-long       programme, was well underway from 2008 onwards.
Some of the key impacts of       the underpinning research, including the milestones achieved between       2008-2013, are described below.
Influence on Eurocontrol     The research carried out by Professor De Reyck was commissioned by       Eurocontrol, the European air traffic organisation, who were asked to       provide technical support, draft regulations and assist in its       implementation through the SES Air Traffic Management Research (SESAR)       programme.
Using De Reyck's framework, for the first time in the history       of European air traffic management, all aviation players came together in       defining, committing to and implementing a pan-European programme.
The       framework is now integrated into the SESAR programme, and used as standard       methodology for evaluating new technologies and operational improvements.
As the Head of Airport Research at Eurocontrol and Director of the SES       programme confirmed, "the developed framework [...] is now integrated into       Eurocontrol's standard methodology", and that "the framework has [...]       evolved to fit with the changing nature of the programme" [2].
Professor       De Reyck's decision-making framework has had a significant impact on       Eurocontrol, and thus on European aviation, by allowing the former to       resume its visionary role as facilitators in European aviation decision       making.
Impact on technology     The first agreement reached using the framework concerned Eurocontrol's       CL-03-02 operational improvement cluster, which described proposed changes       to arrival and departure support for airports with precision area       navigation, designed to improve the safety, capacity, and the efficiency       of terminal area airspace operations.
Reaching an agreement around these       proposals was challenging because of the sheer number of stakeholders       involved, including the airports, airlines, aircraft manufacturers,       equipment manufacturers, air navigation service providers, and communities       around airports.
Thanks to the use of the framework, agreements were       successfully reached on five new technologies and procedures: Precision       Area Navigation (P-RNAV), Arrival and Departure Management (AMAN/DMAN),       Wake Vortex detection (WV), Time-Based Separation (TBS) and Basic       Continuous Descent Approaches (B-CDA).
These cases are described in detail       in [a] and [b] in section 3.
P-RNAV offers the ability to define routes for the on-board flight       information management system that best meet the needs of the airport, the       air traffic controller and the pilot.
This results in shorter, more-direct       routes and improved route adherence and predictability.
When environmental       issues play a major role, the route can be designed to bypass densely       populated areas.
Although all stakeholders believed that there were clear       environmental and safety benefits from implementing P-RNAV, the larger       airports feared a negative impact on capacity because they anticipated a       reduction in the number of holding aircrafts and thus a possible reduction       of runway utilisation.
The framework helped to reach an agreement on the       implementation of this new technology.
Similar consensus issues existed       around the implementation of AMAN/DMAN, which assists the air traffic       controller by recommending the optimal arrival and departure sequence,       thereby increasing capacity and predictability, but reducing the airlines'       control over departure and arrival times.
Similarly, WV and TBS, designed       to avoid dangerous interactions between airplanes taking off, had       advantages and disadvantages for each stakeholder involved.
Finally, a       continuous descent approach was designed to reduce nuisance to local       communities and environmental impact (by lowering fuel consumption when       landing), but caused concerns for airports, who felt that B-CDA might have       a negative impact on capacity.
Impact on increased air traffic efficiency     By 2012, these technologies and operational changes had been implemented       at most major European airports [1], and Europe-wide traffic       synchronisation exercises were held to validate their impact.
It was found       that the traffic synchronisation agreed on through Professor De Reyck's       decision-making framework led to the following impacts ([5], p. 15):     - Air traffic control efficiency improved, with a 50% reduction in radio       telecommunications, a 75% reduction in the need for vectoring;     - Air space capacity increased by 20%;     - Runway throughput improved by 4%;     - Fuel burn was reduced by 2%.
In addition to these Europe-wide improvements, there were also some       dramatic local improvements.
For instance, the application of AMAN at       Heathrow has led to a reduction of aircraft stack holding time (aircraft       circling an airport before its turn to land) by 78-87% ([6] p. 14).
