     New insights into the aetiology and management of children's asthma have       arisen from the       development of an understanding of differences in patient responses to       medicines arising from       genotype variation.
This has led to opportunities for more `personalised'       treatment.
The impact       resulting from this research occurred as a consequence of a targeted       dissemination plan that has       infiltrated the media and been picked up by health organisations, health       professionals and the       wider public.
Impact on media: Following University of Brighton press       releases in 2009 and 2013 the different       areas of asthma-related genotype research have received immediate and       widespread public       attention both within the UK and worldwide with over 160 reports covered       in local, national and       international newspapers, radio and television shows including BBC Radio       4, www.bbc.co.uk,       ITV/Channel 4, The Times, The Daily Telegraph, The         Guardian, The Daily Mail, The Daily         Express, and other leading newspapers in the UK, US, Canada,       Australia and India.
The Science       Media Centre, an organisation with a mission to help scientists       proactively set the agenda by       bringing new science or evidence to journalists, presented the first phase       of research at a press       conference in London on 5th October 2009.
The mediation of this research       through this       organisation, which positions itself between scientists and journalists,       has informed the direction       of the debate.
The media debate now centres on the possibility of       personalised healthcare and       questions on the cost effectiveness of the current strategy of uniform       prescribing where all       patients follow a stepwise escalation of treatment over the course of       their disease.
As a result of       this attention the Department of Health contacted the university       expressing interest in the       findings.
Subsequently, research outcomes were disseminated to the public       and health care       professionals through a Reuters worldwide press release that emphasised       the international       relevance of the findings as, although the research focused on children of       Northern European       origin, the `at-risk' gene change is more common in South Asia and Africa,       where beta2-agonists       are widely used in children with asthma (source 5.1).
Following this widespread exposure of the various research outcomes there       has been a       perceptible change in attitude within the leading UK media.
This is       evidenced by the change       between the 2009 reports that concentrated on describing the findings and       the 2013 reports that       recognise and acknowledge the implications of this for the future.
Sarah       Boseley's report in The         Guardian carried the title `Asthma inhaler may not work for some       children, study shows' (6th       October 2009), whilst in contrast, the 2013 report in The Guardian,       written by the same journalist,       was entitled `Genetic tests could pave the way for personalised asthma       drugs' (8 January 2013).
This article also highlights the practical application through an expert       testimonial that states that       these results are `a wonderful example of stratified or personalised       medicine working its way into       practice' (5.2).
Similarly, in 2009, the BBC reported the findings under       the heading `Asthma       inhaler failing children'.
However, in 2013, the BBC published an analysis       of the later research by       leading science journalist Tom Feilden under the heading `Is this the       shape of medicine to       come?'.
In this analysis Feilden states that the study `does help paint a       picture of what this Brave       New World of personalised medicine may actually look like' (5.3).
The       debate has changed from a       descriptive account of the findings and the failure of regular medicines       to a realisation of the       implications due to the progression in this area of research.
Although the       future of personalised       medicine is yet to be determined our research has provided the first real       evidence and first       tangible step towards such management, the possibility of which has been       recognised throughout       the media.
Further evidence is provided the inclusion of our research in a       televised programme       describing the ten most important scientific breakthroughs of the past 50       years, written and       presented by Lord Robert Winston as broadcast in 2010.
Our research into       genotype-directed       personalised asthma care was highlighted as the first real evidence of the       tangible effects of the       human genome project being referred to by Lord Winston as a key example of       how decoding the       human genome can lead to widespread practical benefit in a common       childhood disease (5.4).
The outcomes of the subsequent randomised controlled trial that showed       benefit through asthma       treatment personalised by genotype were presented at a further press       conference in January       2013 at the Science Media Centre and MUKHOPADHYAY was interviewed on the       Radio 4 Today       programme while print editions of all major newspapers such as The         Guardian and The Daily Mail       carried the story in detail.
The impact of the results was also picked up       and presented on prime       time television in a special edition of `Bang Goes the Theory', a       programme that considers the       science behind the headlines and tackles the issues that affect lives.
This programme highlighted       the personal story of one patient involved in the trial and documented the       resulting benefit to him       as a patient that no longer has the fear of severe attacks as the symptoms       are under much better       control.
This programme recognised this trial as a remarkable impact on       the children involved.
Change in awareness and guidance from the NHS and BUPA: The       widespread dissemination       and debate in the media has led directly to a change in the awareness       amongst professionals,       patients and the public and has resulted in two key messages from the NHS,       BUPA UK and       BUPA International presented through reactive guidance on their websites       (5.8, 5.10):            All parents should visit a doctor if they feel their child's asthma         symptoms are not being         controlled or are being made worse by asthma medicines       There are other medicines available if salbutamol or salmeterol do not         work well in children         with asthma          Specifically related to the 2009 publication, NHS Direct provided       substantial guidance to health       professionals and the public in the UK noting that this study is of value       given the high prevalence       of asthma and the universal use of bronchodilators in the management of       asthma (5.6).
A key       point in this guidance is that if a young person has been prescribed a       long-acting daily       bronchodilator such as salmeterol and their asthma is worsening, they       should consult their doctor       as this medication may need to be removed.
Other community information       websites (e.g.
pharmacy websites in England, Northern Ireland) present similar guidance       to the public (5.9).
This       awareness has reached consultants in Scotland, Southeast England and India       and has started to       influence the day-to-day management of patients with asthma when       considering the prescription       of medicines (5.5, 5.6, 5.7).
Impact on parents of children with asthma: The reports in the       media led to considerable       discussion on the Internet regarding the findings (5.11), with       contributions on special interest       sites, e.g.
on parent/lay-person websites and Asthma Magazine (the       magazine published by the       charity Asthma UK for the public).
In 2011 a Sussex-based charity (Haydn's       Wish) was founded       by a mother who lost her 9-year old child to acute allergic asthma.
The       charity utilised the       underpinning research into filaggrin mutations, linking allergy and asthma       attacks in children, to       increase public awareness regarding the need for an integrated management       of these conditions       providing a resource for patients, by patients and healthcare       professionals working in partnership       (5.12).
An example is a collaborative project with industry (Thermofisher       plc) led to widespread       dissemination of this message to primary care (over 15,000 emails to GPs       and primary care       nurses across the UK, 2013).
The key messages from the research have been       disseminated       through this charity and used within educational materials to promote       awareness.
In the two       years that this charity has been operating the founder of the charity has       noted a perceptible       change in awareness amongst school groups and parents (5.12).
This       research has therefore       informed a debate not just about the role of asthma treatment, but       personalised care across the       range of human health conditions that has begun to be realised through an       incremental change in       practice and a marked change in public awareness.
