     The World Health Organisation predicts that more than 30 million people       will be diagnosed with the T1D disease by 2030, classifying it as a global       epidemic.
University of Brighton researchers provide the expertise to       target treatment and improve lives in the diabetes community through:     Establishing the world's first government-funded islet transplant         service: The University of DRG's work on the isolation and       functional characterisation of pancreatic beta and surrogate       insulin-producing cells provided the basic research underpinning the       establishment of the UK Islet Transplant Consortium.
The Consortium,       chaired by Professor James Shaw (Newcastle), prepared a successful bid to       the National Commissioning Group for NHS funding and NICE approval of an       integrated UK NHS Islet Transplant Programme.
The Programme, launched       nationally in 2008, is the world's first government-funded islet       transplant service dedicated to patients with type 1 diabetes.
This       programme saw the establishment of six transplant centres that provide a       cost-effective national programme for islet transplantation.
These centres       were commissioned to deliver a cure for recurrent life-threatening       hypoglycaemia (sources 5.1, 5.2, 5.3).
About one third of people with type 1 diabetes will experience a severe       hypoglycaemic event each year, requiring intervention and treatment from       others.
For people who experience multiple severe events, an islet       transplant is life-changing therapy.
Islet transplantation involves       separating out insulin-producing islet tissue from a donor pancreas and       transplanting the islets by simple injection into the liver of the       patient.
These islets develop their own blood supply and produce insulin       as required.
Islet transplants have been successfully performed on 65       patients between April 2008 and March 2013, with a reduction in severe       hypoglycaemic events (&gt;95%) and improved glycaemic control (5.2, 5.4).
The frequency of severe hypos was, on average, reduced from 23 per person       per year to less than 1 per person per year and overall insulin       requirement was halved in these patients.
This simple procedure makes the       most unmanageable form of this condition manageable.
These low-impact       transplants are performed under local anaesthetic, taking less than 30       minutes, with patients returning home on the same day free from the burden       of insulin injections, finger-prick blood glucose testing and the fear of       night-time hypoglycaemic episodes.
Patient, family and carer education is       an essential aspect of the service delivery to ensure long-term and       sustained improvement.
MACFARLANE and BONE continue to provide advice to       the Consortium as members of the Scientific Advisory Board.
Promoting a wider understanding of the lifestyle issues associated         with living with diabetes: BONE's earlier work with the British       Diabetic Association (subsequently Diabetes UK) as a member of the UK       Advisory Council and Professional Advisory Council Executive, helped the       Organisation move from a predominantly clinician-led professional       association to the largest organisation in the UK working for people with       diabetes.
This has helped break down barriers between clinicians and       patients through the empowerment of a range of stakeholders.
Currently       Diabetes UK has a nationwide network of &gt;300 voluntary groups with       300,000 supporters and 6,000 healthcare professional members.
BONE'S       involvement in this transition was as a member of the Executive Group       (Hon.
Secretary), which developed the current Diabetes UK Governance       Structure.
The Expert Group (Science and Research) he chaired was the       first to directly engage patients and lay members in priority setting,       which has changed the nature of care in the diabetes community.
This is a       practice subsequently adopted by the other Expert Groups that feed into       the UK Advisory Council.
This increased leadership role for the lay       membership of Diabetes UK required a significant culture change from both       healthcare professionals and lay persons alike.
The major impacts have       been a wider understanding of the lifestyle issues associated with living       with diabetes from the healthcare professionals and a heightened sense of       engagement of patients and their carers with the work of Diabetes UK.
In       recognition of this, BONE won an Excellence Award for Outstanding Services       to the Advisory Council of Diabetes UK in 2008.
Raising awareness with key policy makers: Brighton DRG works       closely, in an advisory capacity, with the major national (Diabetes UK)       and international (Juvenile Diabetes Research Foundation &#8212; JDRF) diabetes       charities and professional bodies (International Diabetes Federation &#8212;       IDF) (5.5).
This work has raised awareness of what living with diabetes       involves and the impact it has on the UK.
The University of Brighton DRG,       along with Brighton MP Caroline Lucas, led the JDRF call for the       government to provide additional investment in type 1 diabetes research at       the first-ever `Type 1 Parliament' lobbying event at the Houses of       Parliament &#8212; 25 April, 2012.
Delegates included 60 patients with T1D and       over 70 MPs, and the audience was made up of 300 people from key groups       including healthcare professionals, corporate supporters and journalists.
This lobbying event led to the launch, in June 2013, of the `Type 1       Diabetes Research Agenda Roadmap for the UK' with the Brighton DRG       selected to lead the beta cell research priority area (5.6).
This roadmap       highlights gaps in resources, has helped to dovetail internationally       relevant research priorities, evidenced issues in career structures, grant       types and funding stability across the community, thus providing relevant       information to government, and enabling them to leverage more funding into       T1D research.
Increasing public engagement and promoting understanding of diabetes:       The University of Brighton DRG recently made a short film with the       organiser of the Sussex Diabetes Gateway, a peer support group for young       people with diabetes (5.7).
This powerful film describes the impact that       involvement with members of the DRG is having in helping youngsters       improve their quality of life and their diabetes control.
The SD Gateway       is one of many local diabetes voluntary groups that have enthusiastically       attended the `Open Lab' sessions run by the DRG at the University of       Brighton, promoting public and patient awareness of diabetes research.
Other local community groups that visit the University of Brighton DRG and       which the DRG visit regularly to give presentations include the Redhill       Obesity Community Engagement Group, the Brighton Voluntary group and       diabetes patient support groups from Burgess Hill and Hayling Island.
MACFARLANE and BONE are regular invited speakers at JDRF public awareness       events throughout the UK, which provide research updates and opportunities       for families affected by diabetes to talk with researchers and understand       how research teams like the University of Brighton DRG are working       together to achieve JDRF's mission to cure, treat and prevent type 1       diabetes.
Recent events that have led directly to increased donations to       JDRF include &#8212; `The artificial pancreas' &#8212; Newcastle, November 2011;       `Discovery Day' &#8212; Brighton, November 2011; JDRF Patrons' Club `Paths to       the perfect pancreas' &#8212; London, October 2012.
