     Impact of the standardised data collection projects: Individual       practitioners engaged in the original piloting of the SDC tool have       continued to use it in their practices as evidenced by statements from       private practitioners.
Since its development, the tool has been adapted       and used by MOORE, BRYANT and Olivier for eight UK-wide snapshot surveys.
The impact on the individual practitioner participants was explored in a       series of qualitative interviews that showed that the use of the tool       enhanced reflective practice, identified continuing professional       development needs, improved goal setting with patients and was useful for       business planning.
The recent Chair of Physio First has indicated that the       work has changed the organisation's perception of how they can use data to       best effect and they are currently using the data to inform tendering       processes with the NHS and to use with insurance companies (sources 5.1,       5.2).
The incorporation of the tool into practice enabled a number of       snapshot surveys to be undertaken in key identified areas, and the       electronic data can be analysed centrally.
In 2013-14, data will be       collected using a newly developed web-based tool allowing practitioners to       view their own data in relation to national data to benchmark their own       practice against others.
The success of the work since 1996 led to a       request for a commissioned, peer-reviewed Masterclass article that       summarises work to date (MOORE, BRYANT, Olivier (2013) Development and use       of standardised data collection tools to support and inform       musculoskeletal practice.
Manual Therapy Journal, 17(6),       pp.489-496).
The development of a specific osteopathic SDC tool and subsequent data       collection has provided much-needed information on the daily profile of       osteopathic practice in the UK for the GOsC, the British Osteopathic       Association and up to 4,000 individual practitioners (5.3).
The 65 topic       areas included in the tool are of relevance to day-to-day practice and       include patient profiles, symptom profiles, therapeutic history, outcomes       of previous treatments, management of the case outcomes and cost of       treatment.
Impacts stated by individual practitioners indicate that it       increases their reflective practice, provides information for insurers and       for tender preparations.
Osteopathic education institutions have used the       data to inform student/patients interactions and to assess clinical       outcomes and activities.
For osteopathic regulator GOsC, the development       has been invaluable as it has drawn on the data to produce information for       members of the public and patients as well as for NHS commissioning       agencies, parliamentarians and policymakers.
The GOsC also utilise this       information when in contact with representatives of the media and for       discussions with private healthcare providers, for example, BUPA, Health       and Wellbeing UK.
It has also used this information to inform other       healthcare regulators and the Council for Health Care Regulatory       Excellence.
The Council also uses the data to provide osteopathic students       and those planning to become osteopathic students with information about       the characteristics of osteopathic practice in the UK.
The final report of       the study has been used by a consultancy company (KPMG) to inform       cost-benefit analysis of the GOsC's re-validation scheme.
Impact of the patients' expectations of osteopathic care study:       The GOsC has utilised the findings of the `Expectations Study' to refocus       public and patient information on the GOsC's website and in information       given to patients and the public via emails and telephone calls.
An       information leaflet, aimed at members of the public and/or patients, was       also published by the GOsC in 2012 based on the findings of the study.
These findings have extensively informed development of the GOsC's       corporate strategy (2013-2016) and the revised GOsC's osteopathic practice       standards which were published in 2011 and took effect from September       2012.
In combination, the findings have informed GOsC's new revalidation       scheme for osteopaths.
The full OPEn study report recommendations are       being promoted to osteopaths and osteopathic education institutions as       valuable continuing professional development opportunities.
In addition, data has been welcomed by healthcare providers such as BUPA       and Health and Wellbeing UK and the OPEn study was commended by GOsC to       other regulators and the Council for Health Care Regulatory Excellence.
As       an outcome of this, the chiropractic profession has now carried out a       similar study exploring patient expectations of chiropractic care.
The       GOsC is now encouraging osteopaths to seek regular feedback from their       patients and information from the project is also being disseminated to       osteopathic education institutions to inform curricula design for       pre-registration students (5.5 and 5.6).
Impact of the research priorities studies: Research priorities       have been adopted by IFOMPT and are published on its website to guide the       focus for Masters studies across the world.
A range of IFOMPT member       organisations utilise the priorities, some awarding funding to       postgraduate students to build the musculoskeletal evidence base at a       rapid pace.
For example, in South Africa, three universities utilise the       priority lists; currently 55 Masters students and one PhD student are       undertaking their dissertations utilising 24 of the research priority       areas (5.7).
The CSP research priorities have been incorporated into the Society's       strategic plan (2013-17).
The CSP's Charitable Trust is using the research       priority list to inform allocations of research funding.
The priorities       have been shared with a range of grant-awarding bodies (eg Arthritis       Research Council, the Stroke Association and the MS Society) leading to       refocusing of research funding opportunities in line with the research       priorities, dissemination strategies and educational programmes.
The       research has led to a more strategic distribution of funding by the CSP's       Charitable Trust (&#163;350k per year) and has been incorporated into ARC       orthopaedic panel briefings.
The CSP has prioritised two research topics,       which have been selected for a special award funding in 2012-13.
All       physiotherapy research foundation applications are requested to map their       application to the research priorities list.
The Charitable Trust has also       agreed funding for a Masters dissertation award that investigated one of       the priority areas.
The Stroke Association highlights CSP research       priorities to all applicants of junior and senior Stroke Association       research fellowship awards and the MS Society now welcomes applications       for funded awards that cite the CSP research priorities.
Arthritis       Research UK clinical studies group on osteoarthritis modified its       priorities to include studies on behaviour change/self-management, which       were part of the musculoskeletal priorities (5.8, 5.9).
All physiotherapy Masters programmes throughout the UK were encouraged to       promote the research priorities to their students by the CSP.
Ten course       leaders have signed up to this and the Charitable Trust now has funds       available to support dissemination of research by Masters students who       have explored one of the research priorities.
The research priorities web       pages have been visited 3,483 times during the period of January 2012 to       end of August 2013 (5.8, 5.9).
