     The underpinning research was designed from the outset to have impact; it       was commissioned by government departments and agencies as a means of       generating a co-designed and co- owned evidence base from which to make       policy decisions.
As a result, the evidence has stimulated changes in       policy priorities and a range of government initiatives in an area where       past policy has been largely ineffective.
These policy measures have, in       turn, resulted in improved recreational access to inland water, which has       generated economic and social benefits for local communities as well as       improved health and wellbeing for those who have been able to take       advantage of the new access (source 5.1).
Changing government policy and expenditure in the UK: A range of       government bodies have acted on recommendations and knowledge produced by       the UoB research leading to policy innovations and changes to expenditure       to support new initiatives.
The Welsh Government has worked with partners       to implement the regional water recreation strategy for Wales devised by       UoB which has subsequently influenced policy expenditure, guidance and       legislation.
Delivery of the strategy was a priority for relevant Welsh       Government-sponsored bodies (5.2).
In 2008, in response to the 12       priorities set out in the regional strategy, the Welsh Government       established the `Splash' Water Recreation Challenge Fund.
This fund spent       &#163;2m in 2008 to 2013, supporting over 130 projects to improve water       recreation opportunities, which generated a further &#163;1.8m of match funding       in the projects (5.3, 5.4).
In 2009, new planning guidance in the       Technical Advice Note on Planning for Sport and Recreation (TAN16)       required Welsh local authorities to address the UoB strategy in relevant       policies, and notes that the strategy is: `designed to develop         awareness of, and facilities for water based sport and recreation in an         environmentally sensitive way' (5.5).
The strategy also identified       the difficulties encountered by some users in accessing inland water and,       partly in response, the National Assembly for Wales Sustainability       Committee (2010) held an inquiry into access to inland waters in Wales       (5.6).
The opening oral and written evidence was requested from UoB       researchers and was presented at the first public committee meeting.
A key       outcome of the inquiry was that the Welsh Government decided not to       introduce legislation on access to inland water and to follow UoB's       negotiated voluntary approach, an approach supported by various       consultees, including the National Trust, the Country Land and Business       Association, the Countryside Alliance and the Angling Trust (5.5).
The       research has also been used as contributing evidence in the 2013 Welsh       Government review of legislation on access and outdoor recreation, which       includes access to inland water (5.2).
Shaping waterway management in Europe: British Waterways (now the       Canal and Rivers Trust) was a leading stakeholder in the development of       the UoB's regional strategy for water recreation in the Midlands region.
Its officers worked with the UoB researchers to develop a conceptual       framework for harnessing the local social economy to underpin the       recreational development of waterways (5.7).
This concept has since been       developed further by the UoB researchers, as part of the Green and Blue       Futures project run by the Canal and Rivers Trust, and is now being used       by 17 local authorities in 11 EU countries to stimulate policy debate over       the role of social forms of ownership for enhancing the management of       smaller waterways (5.7).
Improving access to inland water spaces for recreation: Research       commissioned by the Environment Agency that piloted the implementation of       voluntary agreements resulted in policy actions that led to the       establishment of new voluntary access agreements and improved access to 70       miles of multiple-use recreational routes on four rivers in England (5.1).
An independent evaluation undertaken by Ipsos Mori of the four routes       found they were viewed positively by sporting, land owning and other       stakeholders (5.1).
The research also influenced the decisions of 300       landowners or tenants, who, in response to the participatory methods, gave       their written support for the new voluntary agreements and improvements in       access to water.
In Wales, public and private-sector organisations have       also improved access to water in response to the `Splash' fund and the       regional water recreation strategy devised by the UoB.
Dwr Cymru/Welsh       Water has delivered new access and improved water-sports facilities on       four of their largest reservoirs (5.3).
Similarly, the Brecon Beacons and       Snowdonia National Park authorities, in response to the regional strategy,       now have a greater engagement with water-recreation issues and are       investing in improvements to visitor centre sites (5.3).
Stimulating social and economic benefits: The economic benefits of       the `Splash' fund set up in Wales directly in response to the UoB research       have been evaluated independently (5.8).
This evaluation indicates that       the fund has stimulated economic activity and increased tourism, which,       during 2008 to 2013, resulted in the addition to the Welsh economy of 102       FTE jobs and &#163;1.83m of Welsh gross value-added (GVA) (5.8).
Of the 130       Splash-funded projects, 40% are in or within 5kms of the most deprived Communities         First areas of Wales and the projects have produced health and       well-being benefits to the users of water-recreation sites (5.4).
One of       the four new voluntary access agreements resulting from the UoB research       covers a 29km stretch of the River Mersey, which passes through a number       of deprived communities.
This agreement is viewed as an important       recreational resource by local recreational stakeholders and is seen as a       considerable achievement that could not have happened without the UoB       research (5.9).
A private-sector outdoor activities business, opened up as       a result of the new agreement, estimates that the number of customers the       business has introduced to canoeing has increased four times between 2010       and 2013, to about 1,700 people per year, most of whom are novice water       recreationalists (5.9).
The agreement has also facilitated the hosting,       since 2010, of the River Mersey `memory paddle', the first annual open       water canoe event for the Alzheimer's Society.
