     The UoB EPHRU team uses its expertise in the behaviour of waterborne       microbes to produce technology and policy tools that provide local       solutions to the global burden of waterborne disease.
Three examples are       described here:     1) Initiated the first low-cost, on-site emergency disinfection       process for cholera treatment centre wastewaters, which prevented the       onward waterborne transmission of disease from emergency medical       facilities in Port-au-Prince, Haiti.
The UoB team was the trusted source of expertise commissioned by M&#233;decins       Sans Fronti&#232;res to support, at short notice, the development of novel       emergency wastewater disinfection technology at its cholera treatment       centres in Haiti following the 2010 earthquake and the subsequent       catastrophic outbreak of cholera (source 5.1).
Instructed by TAYLOR, the       NGO constructed and operated successfully three treatment plants that       disinfected over 600,000 litres of highly contaminated wastewater,       containing up to 10 million Vibrio cholerae pathogens per 100 ml.
The design and operation of these in-situ treatment plants       prevented the hazardous practice of trucking highly contagious materials       to uncontrolled disposal sites.
This innovation is the first known       response to a UN Panel of Experts' recommendation that UN facilities       should disinfect their wastewaters in emergencies.
The disinfected       effluent complied consistently with WHO health standards for unrestricted       irrigation, and the intervention therefore protected impoverished       communities located downstream of the plants from the risk of cholera       infection during the epidemic.
The standard operating practices employed       in Haiti have been made openly available to all NGOs working in disaster       settings on the `Solutions for Water' web platform of the World Water       Forum (5.2).
2.
Prompted the launch of a National Water Safety Strategy for       Malawi in November 2012 and led the UK-based NGOs Pump Aid and WaterAid to       improve the quality of drinking water supplied to rural Malawians.
In Malawi, 1,000 children under five years of age die from water-related       illnesses every month, but by improving drinking water and sanitation,       water-related diseases can be reduced by nearly 90%.
The UoB team's recent       work in Malawi, commissioned by UNICEF, demonstrated how well-designed       sanitary surveys can play a pivotal role in securing the safety of water       supplies in Malawi and other low-income countries.
TAYLOR was invited to       report the team's findings to Malawian civil servants and international       NGOs at a workshop in Lilongwe in August 2012.
In response to this, the       Malawian government immediately launched the country's first Water         Safety Task Force.
In December 2012, the UK-based NGO Pump Aid made       significant changes to its provision of water-supply technology in Malawi       as a direct result of the team's report.
The research led the NGO to       improve standards, implement more rigorous quality management, and to       employ additional staff to raise community awareness of the issues raised       by the UoB research (5.3).
This has already resulted in the improved       design and siting of 300 new shallow wells in Malawi during 2013 (with       1,500 to be commissioned by the end of 2015, serving a population of       180,000 people).
The research in Malawi also led the NGO WaterAid to       review its approach to water-quality testing in the country using the       model developed by TAYLOR (5.4).
In April 2013, the Water Institute at UNC       (USA), in collaboration with the Ministry of Health in Malawi, held a       consultative workshop on the development of a national action plan for       safe drinking water in Malawi.
Evidence from the UNICEF report was used in       the recommendation for a strengthening of monitoring and evaluation in       this area (5.5).
Arising from this work, TAYLOR was invited to join the       core group of the `International Low-cost Water Quality Monitoring Panel       of Experts', which will report back to the WHO in 2014.
3.
Development of low-cost methods that identify and quantify       viruses of human origin in surface waters and engineered treatment       systems, enabling European environmental protection agencies and water       companies to protect public health and therefore meet the requirements of       EU environmental legislation.
New methods developed at UoB to identify human faecal contamination of       river basins and treatment systems have been used by national monitoring       laboratories to pinpoint sources of pollution in river catchments (eg       CEFAS in the UK, the Cypriot State General Laboratory, LAIST (Portugal)       and the Swiss Department of Health).
Thames Water Services has used the       group's findings to control potential health hazards associated with the       Old Ford wastewater reuse system at the Olympic Park in East London (5.6)       and as a result the company has been able to satisfy an International       Panel of Experts that it is adequately protecting human health.
Southeast       Water and the Environment Agency are using the group's novel hazard maps       to support local implementation of the EU Water Framework Directive in       southeast England and this work was cited by an independent witness to the       UK Defra Water White Paper, 17 February 2012 (5.7).
Application of       our Microbial Source Tracking method has enabled the Cypriot Ministry for       Water Resources to identify previously unknown discharges of human faeces       to an ecologically sensitive Cypriot river basin.
The Ministry is now       enforcing the compliance of local authority wastewater treatment       facilities with the EU Urban Wastewater Treatment Directive in the       Limnatis (300 km2) and Garillis river catchments (100 km2),       which are the source of 15% of the country's drinking water supplies       (5.8).
