     There has been demonstrable impact of the underpinning research at Nokia       in its L&amp;C Division in two main areas: the semantic web (source 5.2)       and privacy engineering (5.5).
The privacy area, particularly, is of high       importance to Nokia because of the significant risks associated with data       misuse.
Nokia's adoption of UoB's research stems from the accessible       nature of the formal diagrammatic logics developed, allowing effective and       accurate communication between stakeholders.
The partnership between UoB       and Nokia was instigated by Nokia, which recognised the potential to apply       our diagrammatic reasoning research to solve the significant problems with       which it was faced.
Nokia's L&amp;C Division is responsible for ensuring that data collected       through L&amp;C services is handled appropriately.
All end users of       Nokia's mobile devices access L&amp;C's services.
When end users interact       with these software products, their data are collected and stored by       Nokia, which must be done in accordance with legal requirements, stemming       from many legal jurisdictions and individual policies.
Nokia analyses the       data for product improvement and targeted advertising purposes and must       ensure that the legal and analysis requirements are met.
To this end, a       wide variety of stakeholders (eg lawyers, managers, software engineers,       data analysts, and marketing personnel) are involved in the process of       specifying what data can be used and how data must be transformed in order       to ensure, for example, that end users' privacy is protected.
Producing accurate models of information, with respect to privacy       concerns, is of paramount importance.
A significant problem that Nokia       faced was the inability of its stakeholders to communicate effectively and       accurately when producing such models.
They found that textual       communication proved difficult, especially as people with different       business backgrounds (legal, technical, consumer advocacy) and native       languages are involved, leading to ambiguity and inadequate models (5.2).
This is problematic because any misuse of data may have potentially       catastrophic consequences for Nokia, as will be further explained below.
The first instance where Nokia used UoB's concept diagrams was on its       Smart-M3 project, which focused on ontology design, developing ways to       share infrastructure across software entities and devices (5.3).
Concept       diagrams helped Nokia design ontologies and reason about them in this       project.
The Smart-M3 project was migrated from Nokia Research to be used       in L&amp;C's services, and now forms a core part of their technology.
The       Smart-M3 project involved a small group of Nokia's researchers who       trialled the use of concept diagrams, to determine whether they could be       successfully used by Nokia; this trial work was undertaken in 2009-2010       and involved software engineers, supported by the delivery of tutorials at       Nokia by HOWSE and STAPLETON.
Nokia's Smart-M3 project was a success, demonstrated by its transfer from       research to use in L&amp;C's services.
As a result, during 2011 Nokia       rolled out the use of concept diagrams across its privacy engineering       work, in the L&amp;C Division.
Concept diagrams are now used in the       specification of data processing requirements, for example (5.5), that       arise in the provision of L&amp;C's services (5.1).
In particular, Nokia's       internal taxonomies and ontologies and their relationships, for data       analytics purposes, are now defined formally using concept diagrams and       can be communicated to diverse stakeholders quickly and consistently (5.1,       5.5).
Nokia has found that concept diagrams are understood much more       intuitively and accurately by diverse (non-engineering) audiences in this       domain of privacy engineering.
The communication and other benefits that Nokia has realised through       using concept diagrams is further reflected in their use in all       discussions related to the collection of data, including purpose, use, the       information type, security and provenance (5.1).
The classification       infrastructure derived using concept diagrams forms the basis of Nokia's       data asset cataloguing, used to hold and reason over data sets.
UoB's research has led to the improved protection of Nokia's consumer       data, thus reducing Nokia's risk and liability, and increasing the speed       of its product development cycles, which has obvious impact in terms of       cost reduction (5.1).
These improvements are brought about because concept       diagrams allow Nokia to reduce ambiguity problems and they have been       easily understood by Nokia's stakeholders, including both technical and       non-technical staff.
Moreover, the succinctness of representation that       concept diagrams afford aids accurate communication.
The consequences of       this improved communication include reduced development times for Nokia's       company standard information classification systems and more effective       alleviation of security and privacy threats to Nokia and its consumers       (5.1).
Reducing miscommunication between disparate groups removes key risks       relating to the processing of data, such as potentially analysing data in       a manner that is illegal and could lead to financial penalties: the risk       of potential future losses has been reduced.
The scale of these potential       losses can be extremely large, exceeding tens of millions of euros and       immeasurable financial implications arising from damage to the Nokia brand       and, thus, Nokia's market value (5.1).
The maturing nature of the privacy engineering process at Nokia has been       subjected to a capability maturity model review with improved outcomes in       rating, thus demonstrating improved performance (typically CMM1 or CMM2,       increasing to CMM3).
Moreover, concept diagrams have been instrumental in       Nokia's compliance and audits relating to ISO2700 (a certification       standard for information technology and management information systems)       and ISO9000 (a family of standards providing guidance to ensure that       products and services meet customer requirements and that quality is       consistently improved) (5.1).
As a direct consequence of the underpinning research, Nokia gained access       to concept diagrams that allowed them to move quickly in solving data       security and provenance challenges, privacy protection mechanisms and to       avoid costly delays in production.
