     The Sketch Engine has attracted considerable attention, letting users       access information on between 30 million and 15 billion words for a wide       range of languages (61 languages are currently covered).
Lexical Computing       Ltd, formed in 2003, has expanded throughout the last 10 years, with key       organisations employing the Sketch Engine throughout the impact period.
Staff are now employed in the UK and the Czech Republic, along with       freelancers in a number of other countries; half of the company's business       is overseas.
Commercial lexicography: The Sketch Engine is part of everyday use       for lexicography worldwide and is currently used by commercial dictionary       producers, including Cambridge University Press, Collins, Macmillan and       Oxford University Press (OUP), along with Cornelsen Verlag, Le Robert, and       Shogakukan (source 5.1).
At OUP, for example, the use of the Sketch Engine       has served to revolutionise their in-house research into word behaviour,       building a detailed statistical profile of a word in seconds (5.2).
Macmillan started implementing the Sketch Engine during 2007, resulting       in embedded use throughout the impact period.
The word sketch approach has       enabled Macmillan to suspend print and focus on online dictionaries; Macmillan         Dictionary Online, launched in 2009, has seen `explosive growth' and       from 2012 has fully replaced the print version (5.3).
Word sketches are       used to find patterns in the use of words, phrases and grammatical       configurations, allowing lexicographers to build up a picture of the most       important facts about words, which then form the basis of how that word is       described in the dictionary.
The building of dictionary content comes       directly from this analysis, resulting in content that is more accurate,       comprehensive and detailed than was possible with previous methods.
Dictionary producers such as Macmillan can now work efficiently and       reflectively, to manage evolving data use caused by the growth in digital       information.
They have moved away from intuitive and introspective methods       for building information to this more comprehensive, evidence-based       approach.
In addition to this, Macmillan has acknowledged that the unique       feature of its dictionaries, the labelling of red and black words, is only       possible through the comprehensive analysis made possible by the Sketch       Engine.
Red and black words distinguish between high-frequency core       vocabulary and the less common words needed mainly for reference.
The Macmillan         English Dictionary is the only advanced learner's dictionary to       highlight effectively the most important 7,500 words an advanced learner       needs to be able to use so that they can become as fluent in English as       native speakers (5.4).
Professional training, language teaching and learning: An annual       one-week, intensive commercial facing training course, LEXICOM, has been       delivered by KILGARRIFF and colleagues during the impact period.
LEXICOM       has been delivered at venues all over the world attracting participants       from the publishing industry (managers and editors), other commercial and       not-for- profit companies (engineers and linguists), universities and       government agencies (terminologists and translators).
This widespread       exposure has led to the application of the Sketch Engine in national       language institutes in nine European countries and over 100 universities,       including Reading, Leicester, Portsmouth, Warwick and Birmingham.
Internationally it is being used in key language annotation modules by       Brandeis University, which adopted the Sketch Engine in 2012, and for       foreign language teaching at the Institute for Applied Slovene Studies in       Slovenia (5.5, 5.6).
The Sketch Engine has been highlighted as a key       learning resource on independent forums, such as `Methodologies and       Approaches to ELT' [5.7].
It is promoted as a tool that can operate       reflexively and works particularly well for small, short-term projects       such as translating and preparing topic-based teaching material.
Lang-8, a       language-exchange social network, also highlights Sketch Engine as an       effective interface for English writing and language learning (5.8).
Spreading the application: The Chief Executive of brand naming       company, Operative Words, describes the Sketch Engine as the `most       powerful naming tool available', instrumental in information gathering to       enable branding techniques and new creative directions for their portfolio       (5.9).
In 2012, a Guardian article highlighted how the Sketch Engine was       used to analyse thousands of exhibition announcements to discover the       specific characteristics of `Art Speak' and its effect on the public       (5.10).
The analysis was originally published in an American art journal,       Triple Canopy, in July 2010 and this journal article has since become a       widely circulated piece of online cultural criticism, sparking further       debates on other forums, including Wordpress, Tumblr, Google+, Ikono,       Artblog and Artsia (the Society of International Artists).
In addition,       the BBC has joined forces with OUP to explore children's writing.
The       Oxford Children's Corpus, in 2011, was adapted to include a component on       children's writing, primarily with data from the BBC Radio 2 `500 Words'       short story writing competition.
Lexical Computing Ltd is working with OUP       to analyse the language that children use.
The 74,000 entries, received in       2012 now form a large part of the Children's Writing component of the       Oxford Children's Corpus (5.11).
In 2011, the Sketch Engine was used to undertake `A Corpus Linguistic       Analysis of Ecosystems Vocabulary in the Public Sphere' commissioned by       the UK National Ecosystem Assessment (5.12).
