     Between 2008 and 2013 CENTRIM records indicate that more than 5,000       people have experienced the Managing Innovation training programme.
These       include managers from companies and organisations that have purchased       Managing Innovation training such as Abbott Laboratories (a leading       international pharmaceutical company), Applied Materials (makers of       manufacturing equipment for integrated circuits), BNDES (the Brazilian       Development Bank), Cisco Systems, Citibank, Hass Business School, IBM,       Johnson Controls (a global company with more than 170,000 employees),       Liberty Mutual (the third-largest property insurer in the USA), Medtronic       (on BusinessWeek's top 100 most innovative companies list) and       UNESCO.
Some companies that have adopted Managing Innovation believe that the       programme should be at the centre of their business model (source 5.1,       5.2).
For example, UK Innovation Director of Logica (now part of CGI       consultancy) observed that, `the training has been well received and is       now becoming the standard for how we talk about innovation internally as       well as how we work with clients externally' (5.1).
The Managing Innovation train-the-trainer programme has now provided       intensive development for trainers in Australia, Brazil, Chile, Denmark,       Poland, Mexico, Tanzania, UK, USA and Venezuela.
Fifty-four trainers have       been certified to deliver Managing Innovation, all of whom have       subsequently delivered successful programmes.
The detailed impacts of Managing Innovation on companies are best       illustrated by examples of its use in different national contexts:     Venezuela: Members of staff from Eureka, a long-established       consultancy company in Caracas, became certified trainers and delivered       workshops throughout the country.
As a result, 961 managers have       experienced Managing Innovation since 2009 and the Managing Director of       Eureka has stated that the programme has served them `a very strong and       successful theoretical framework for all of our work' (5.2).
Recently, a       random sample of past participants has been followed up and completed a       questionnaire and/or were interviewed (19 interviews have been conducted).
Using the Kirkpatrick evaluation model, it was found that the immediate       level of satisfaction was very high (4.73 out of 5).
In the Venezuelan       steel company (Industrias Unicon CA), the manager in charge of innovation       reports that within 18 months of the Innovation Management programme being       introduced:            1,400 employees, from all levels, had received an Innovation         Management training course, based on the Managing Innovation model       innovation projects were in the pipeline       more than 70 employees, from different levels in the organisation,         directly participating in the active innovation projects       widespread diffusion of the basic concepts of the Managing Innovation         model, to assure the application of only one perspective, concept and         language about the innovation process throughout the organisation.
The same manager also notes that, while unable to declare economic       results as the projects have yet to be completed, there are been positive       results in the following aspects:            company-wide adoption of a solid concept of innovation and innovation         management, which the company has have been able to transmit to         increasing numbers of employees at all levels       increasing credibility and acceptance of the potential of the model at         higher levels of the organisation.
increasing numbers of employees expressing interest in participating         in future innovation projects, (5.3).
Tanzania: Nearly all the senior managers of the National Security       Fund (the largest pension provider in the country) attended a Managing       Innovation course in March 2011 as a team.
Having learnt the principles of       innovation management they decided to apply them to increase electronic       communication to facilitate communication with members.
So, for example, a       fund member can now pay contributions by mobile phone, which one of the       senior managers confirms is a process innovation `having a tremendous       impact on the efficiency of the Fund's operations' (5.4).
The major       upgrade in the use of electronic communication has, according to senior       managers simplified communication with members, reduced cost, improved       service levels and, importantly, improved decision making so that, `top       management can (better) decide on cash-flow'.
In addition, the Fund       redefined its investment policy (an innovation for them) to part-fund a       new multi-billion dollar gas pipeline (5.4).
Chile: Fundation Chile (the national innovation agency in Chile)       has had eight of its executives and consultants trained, by CENTRIM, as       Managing Innovation Certified Trainers.
In 2009 they won a contract with       one of Chile's largest companies to develop innovation capacity in six of       their largest divisions.
The Grupo Claro Innovation Capacity Development       Programme (GCICDP) began in 2010 by establishing a project organisation       structure and in April of that year all participants attended the Managing       Innovation training programme.
The participants were prepared to develop       an innovation plan for each division (June 2010) and developed further       their innovation skills with follow-up workshops in each of the five       phases (August to November 2010) (5.5).
Implementation was on going       throughout 2011 and each division presented its innovation plan to the       company's directors in January 2012.
A senior manager observed that: `the       methodology taught us... gave us a framework and a very efficient context       in the management of ideas and we still use its structure' (5.5).
Across       the six divisions, more than 1,000 ideas were generated in workshops and       195 of these became projects (5.5).
For example, one division (Mega       Television) undertook a major structural reorganisation in order to       increase `openness and agility' (5.5).
