     Influencing practitioners and practice developments: Practitioners       from statutory and voluntary sectors (occupational therapists (OTs),       social workers and voluntary sector workers) involved in the research and       knowledge exchange have been impacted directly through experience of       working with older people, exposure to research findings, and opportunity       for reflection provided through the KE approach.
Commenting on how this       had made a difference, one voluntary sector practitioner contrasted this       `REAL' involvement with more familiar `tokenism' (source 5.1).
Practitioners have adopted the learning resources in their own       organisations across West and East Sussex as well as in Brighton.
An       Operations Manager in OT claimed that they are `invaluable to our       organisation as it is an area that is relatively underdeveloped and I have       had difficulty finding suitable material' (5.2).
Between January       2013, when the resources were launched at Age UK headquarters, and July       2013, the six films (5.3) were accessed a total of 486 times and the       accompanying handbook downloaded 696 times; 100 DVD versions have been       distributed.
The local Age UK research partner has described how the research has       benefited the development of professional practice, service delivery and       enabled the organisation to raise its profile.
Findings and learning       resources are being used in staff training, impacting on its capacity to       contribute to local planning regarding older people's services, and to       national consultations and campaigns &#8212; for example on dignity and       safeguarding (5.4).
Research is also impacting on practice via its uptake       in professional education courses.
There is evidence of use in social work       education in, for example Nottingham and Cambridge, psychologists training       in NHS Wales and in nurse training in New Zealand (5.5).
Website evidence       shows that, during the impact period, the learning resources had been       accessed in 31 countries.
Enhancing older people's participation: The well-being research       has been acclaimed as `exemplary' by Age UK nationally (5.6) in terms of       university/Age UK collaboration and of working with older people in       research and development.
More locally, research findings and innovations       in ways of working with older people are being drawn on directly in       developing Brighton and Hove Council's bid to become a World Health       Organisation (WHO) Age Friendly City; a series of `age-friendly'       indicators, based on the research, have been developed to be used in       assessing the council's progress towards the WHO criteria (5.7).
In the       wider Sussex area, the Chair of the Meridian Mature Citizen's Forum       (Newhaven) states that participation in the Growing Older, Being Heard       research `gave the Forum confidence and a sense of purpose' regarding       involvement in debates with local authorities about the need for community       transport.
Councillors from three towns affected by poor transport       connections now meet regularly to further this agenda (5.8).
Older people themselves, working as co-researchers, have benefited       directly through their participation in the research, developing skills       and confidence and an enhanced sense of pride in what they can achieve,       particularly regarding advocating for the rights and interests of older       people, as Film 6 in the film-based learning resources demonstrates (5.3).
Their enhanced confidence and skills are further reflected in a booklet       they produced &#8212; As time goes by: thoughts on well-being in         later years, which offers guidance to older people on strategies for       well-being (5.9); 2,000 copies of this publication have been distributed       via community organisations.
Co-researchers have also presented research       findings at local and national conferences and seminars, including:       INVOLVE (a leading charity promoting participation); ESRC Social Science       Festival seminar, `Looking at Ageing Differently'; Civil Service       Pensioners Association, and; Older People's Council, Brighton and Hove.
Informing policy and stimulating policy debate: Research has       informed local policy, as indicated in Brighton and Hove's Joint Strategic       Needs Assessment, where sections on both `Ageing well' and `Older       People-Social Care' make explicit reference to the importance of the       well-being research and the centrality of relationships to well-being in       older age (5.10).
The research has stimulated policy debate by challenging assumptions       about well-being.
The well-being project report was launched at an event       in April 2012 attended by 70 older people, practitioners from local       statutory and voluntary agencies, Age UK and the Social Care Institute for       Excellence; 62% of feedback forms said the research had added to       understanding or changed attendees' points of view.
Responses from those       attending the national launch of learning resources were enthusiastic       about the ethic of care framework and, at a local launch in April 2013,       discussion reflected the contribution this research is making to debate on       independence versus relationality and the implications of this for policy.
International impacts: Researchers seeking to develop similar ways       of working with older people in research, policy and practice development       from the Netherlands, France, Spain and Australia are drawing directly on       this research.
The professor of Client Participation in Elderly Care at       the VU University Medical Centre in Amsterdam has confirmed that the       research and collaboration with researchers has fed directly into their       own methods of working with older people, stating that: `We developed and       evaluated a work format for participation of older people in long-term       care institutions in which an ethic of care approach is central (enhancing       relational empowerment amongst older people) and building more equal       collaboration between older people and professionals'.
They are also using       the learning resources directly in their collaborative work with older       people and practitioners, building explicitly on the approach developed at       UoB (5.11).
