     Overall, the Vernarcular Religion project has contributed to       public discourse around questions of       Nepali identity both for Nepalis themselves and within the larger contexts       of Great Britain and the       globe.
In an era of great cultural change across the world, where the       relationships between       minority communities and their host countries are being contested in every       country and context,       analysing the case of a nation as remarkably internally diverse and       globally mobile as Nepal       serves to remind interlocutors at every level - Nepalis in Nepal and       abroad, as well as European       local governments learning how to accommodate diversity in their own       backyards - of the multiple       ways difference and integration may be handled and addressed.
The Vernacular         Religion project       also reminds such interlocutors of the importance of recognizing       multiplicity and the possibilities of       multiple belonging in the area of religion, as well as in the arena of       every other identity category.
This AHRC-funded research on the religious practices of Nepali       populations in the UK and Belgium       (as well as back in Nepal) has both been conducted by and contributed to       discussions of       community and social organization within the Nepali community itself, in       Great Britain and globally.
The project began its quantitative component drawing from a survey that       had been conducted by       the Centre for Nepal Studies-UK, an organization run by Nepali social       scientists for the benefit of       Nepalis living in Britain.
The work that CNS-UK did in reaching out to the       Nepali community was       conducted largely on a volunteer basis, and through community fundraising       efforts.
The collective       will within the Nepali community to support social science about their own       numbers within Great       Britain was evident in the support and funding that was raised internally       (and an awareness was       developed early on about the difficulties in researching a migrant       community, some members of       whom wished to stay under the radar).
The process of pursuing the initial CNS-UK survey further developed an       interest about the       demographics of the Nepali community within the diaspora population: the       project has built upon,       and in turn contributed to, this deep interest within the community, with       a particular focus on       religion.
A number of political issues were at stake, including, as just       two examples, whether       Nepalis would be named as a minority population in the census of Great       Britain, and the religious       demographics of the Gurkha forces, which until 2008 had only employed       Hindu pandits or priests       for its Nepali regiments, consistent with the designation of Nepal as a       Hindu state.
In the context       of a new location like Great Britain, religious and ethnic breakdowns of       the Nepali population       constituted an information base in unknown terrain that had implications       for issues of       representation both in Nepal and in the diaspora: reliable information       about religious organizations       and practices could be brought to bear both on the emerging relationship       between a newly arrived       minority population and its host country, and also upon the internal       politics of representation       pertaining to religious specialists, festival events, and local temples.
Social science was made real       for the subjects of the research themselves, who have welcomed CNS-UK's       efforts to gain       information, at first prior to and now through the work of the Vernacular         Religion project.
As a result, the project has consistently been called upon to contribute       information on the       breakdowns of Nepali religious identification and practice in Great       Britain.
In a time of vocal public debate and discourse about migration and       migrant communities, the       information gathered by the Vernacular Religion project has been solicited       at many levels, and for       many reasons.
For Nepalis in Britain working to build a diverse array of       ethnic, religious, regional,       professional, and military social groups, data collected by the project       has justified certain claims of       presence within the diaspora.
For Nepalis in Nepal working to build       relationships with diaspora       community members and wishing to keep track of religio-political movements       across the world,       information from the project has helped to build bridges and information       networks between       research and activists.
For the British government, and in particular the       local borough councils of       Rushmoor and Surrey Heath concerned to facilitate community integration,       museum personnel       wanting to reflect the changing nature of the local community, and       organizations wishing to better       provide social services (health care, English classes, funeral       arrangements) for minority or under-       represented populations in general and for their famed Gurkha forces in       particular, the project's       material has provided accounts of a legitimate - if newly arrived -       population of Great Britain.
Three particular non-academic outcomes of the project thus far are of       note:     1) A CNS-UK publication, Nepalis in the UK: An Overview (K.       Adhikari, ed.
CNS-UK 2012).
Closely supervised by Hausner, who also co-wrote a chapter for public       information, Nepalis         in the UK has been disseminated far and wide, to the Nepali       community in Great Britain, to       journalists, activists, and policymakers in Nepal (including ethnic and       political leaders) - as       well as to public libraries - and to people interested in the dynamics of       Nepali history and       life in the diaspora, including the Mayor of Rushmoor and members of the       Rushmoor       Borough Council.
In Surrey, the book was given to the Mayor of Surrey       Heath at the       opening of an exhibition of Nepali Connections, a collection of       Nepali and Gurkha objects at       the Museum of Surrey Heath (Surrey Heath, April 20 2012) [i].
2) Community integration programmes (e.g.
Best of Both, Aldershot, Feb 4       2012).
In parts of       Britain where large densities of Nepalis have settled in the last decade       (due to a new law       allowing Nepali Gurkha residency and citizenship), particularly in the       areas surrounding       Gurkha barracks, such as Aldershot and Ashford, English residents have       felt a dramatic       shift in the demographics in their cities; in some cases resentment       against Nepali migration       has started to build.
In Aldershot (Greater Rushmoor Borough, Hampshire),       Hausner was       asked to address the crowd of 500 (in English and Nepali) with a summary       of their project       during a programme called `Best of Both', designed to bring the two       communities together       in a day of festivities, performance, and local craft; the Mayor was also       in attendance [see       sources ii &amp; iii, in which the Mayor of Rushmoor commends the       publication of Nepalis in the         UK: An Overview as `a timely contribution, which explores and       analyses the pathways to       integration'].
Similarly, in Wembley, Hausner was asked to address the       Non-Resident       Nepali organization about the research, in order that leaders of the       Nepali community       worldwide would have information about the dynamics of Nepalis in Britain.
3) Feedback session (Aldershot, April 28 2012).
The project invited key       informants and       respondents - including leaders of religious organizations and community       representatives,       as well as specialist religious practitioners - to a session where it       presented its findings and       invited further discussion.
The event was unique insofar as rarely have       these multiple       strands of religious activism engaged with each other in person about       beliefs, practices,       and the dynamics of their engagement; in the context of a session       organized by a team       researching the multiplicity of Nepali religions, they were able to place       themselves and their       practices in a larger context, with a number of shamans comparing notes!
A       special       bilingual edition of CNS-UK's newsletter was published for dissemination       in connection with       this event [iv][v].
