     Influencing policy in local authorities and the NHS: CMIT was       central to the development of local policies on alcohol community safety       and domestic violence, and contributed directly to the UK's first local       LGBT specific housing policy (source 5.1).
The Housing Strategy Manager       for Brighton and Hove City Council has stated that `CMIT was of       fundamental use in helping us to develop the city's LGBT People's Housing       Strategy 2009.
The research provided a vivid insight into the lives and       experiences of the city's LGBT communities that we would not have got from       our traditional engagement routes' (5.2).
The Housing Strategy is also       being used by LGBT community groups in Irish LGBT community organisations       &#8212; GLEN and BeLong (5.3).
The extent of need identified in the findings on mental health from CMIT       and the Suicide Distress research led to the incorporation of these       recommendations into Brighton and Hove's first Suicide Prevention       Strategy, 2008-11 (5.4) and the NHS Brighton and Hove's Single Equality       and Human Rights Scheme 2010-13 (5.5).
The two studies underpin a chapter       on LGBT community resilience in the Director of Public Health's annual       report 2010 (5.6), where the researchers are cited as contributors, and       the research underpins the sexual orientation section of Brighton and Hove       Joint Strategic Needs Assessment (JSNA 2013).
The localised and       participative nature of the research was key to making these initiatives       possible, and the opportunities to develop ground breaking research that       challenged key stereotypes, and engaged politicians and heads of service,       were imperative to the impacts achieved in the local area.
Influencing national policy in the UK: The research findings and       approaches have had impacts at both national and international level.
CMIT       findings informed the Department of Health (UK) policy document Be         active, be healthy, showing why LGBT people might be deterred from       physical activity (5.7).
The recommendations of CMIT were taken up by the       UK Drug Policy Commission (5.8) and used in the UK Cabinet Office's Call         to end violence against women and children (5.9).
The       Equalities and Human Rights Commission Report uses this research to       address homophobia in the UK and inform work on ageing and older people       (5.11).
The research was also used as part of the evidence base for the       companion report for the national LGBT Outcomes Framework that makes       recommendations for action at local, regional and national levels (5.11).
Influencing policy in Australia: The research has informed       directly policy developments in Australia through the National LGBTI       Health Alliance, responsible for a range of organisations and individuals       from across Australia that work in a variety of ways to improve the health       and well-being of LGBT communities.
In particular, insights from UoB's       participative approach to research and service developments has been used       in the Alliance's pathways to inclusion for mental health and suicide       prevention services, and health services document (5.12).
In the state of       Victoria, the GLVH, an LGBTI health and well-being policy resource unit,       has used the research in its guide to GLBTI Inclusive practice for health       and human services (5.13).
The Brighton &amp; Hove LGBT Housing Strategy       is being used to aid advocacy and wellbeing in gay and lesbian health by       the charity Open Door in Australia.
Reshaping mental health services: The evidence for the need for       LGBT-specific services underpinned the establishment of MindOut as an       independent charity, informed practitioner debate and reshaped local       service delivery to meet the needs of LGBT people.
Findings on mental       health from the two studies were used by MindOut to help secure its future       by two successful bids to the Big Lottery and local health funding (total       funding: &#163;485k) to provide appropriate services for LGBT people with       mental health issues and expand their delivery (5.14).
The research       findings supported the development of a senior practitioner at MindOut.
Allsorts an LGBT youth project changed their practice through the       appointment of a new mental health worker (5.14).
In Brighton and Hove, the local NHS and City Council used the research to       indicate levels of local LGBT need and to provide a rationale for targeted       community mental health services.
CMIT data around mental health issues       informed equality and diversity training for members of the GP Clinical       Commissioning Group and GP Practice Managers (5.15).
As a result of       findings from CMIT, the Sussex Partnership NHS Foundation Trust has stated       that it `decided to respond proactively in reaching out to LGB and T       people to raise awareness of mental health issues' and that they `are       listening to what local LGB and T people want and showing how we provide       it by demonstrating that our services are LGBT affirmative' (5.16).
CMIT       research recommendations resulted in two LGBT workers being recruited to       RISE, a charity that supports women and families affected by domestic       abuse, benefiting gay men and trans people who might otherwise be excluded       from services focused on women/heterosexual men (5.17).
