     Shaping national policy debate in the UK: The influence of RT on       policy debate is evidenced by it being commended by the Chief Medical       Officer (UK), who included details of Brighton's RT research and training       in support of the case for a resilience-based approach to child       development, in her 2012 Annual Report (Volume 2: Giving Children the         Best Start in Life and Building Resilience) (source 5.1).
Resources,       learning and critique have been fed in to key national policy teams via       internal briefings for senior civil servants and ministers; meetings with       Department of Health leads for children's mental health, public health;       and briefings for the new Health Visiting national implementation       programme and the Department for Education policy lead for Vulnerable       Children and Mental Health.
In 2012-13 HART was an advisor to the big       lottery steering committee involved in decisions on how to set up and fund       future resilience projects totalling &#163;75m.
The impact of the research on       policy debate is further evidenced by its inclusion as one of just five       case study projects in an ESRC film in 2011 on the value and impact of       social sciences (over 1,000 views by July 2013) (5.2) and as a key case       study of public engagement promoted by the National Co-ordinating Centre       for Public Engagement (5.3).
International impacts on the delivery of children's services: In       Sweden (5.4) over 500 professionals have now been trained in the RT       approach.
In west Gothenburg an outpatient-based healthcare section of       the Swedish National Health services has started a Resilience       Framework-based project involving community services, working with 30       schools, preschools, social services and all healthcare services for the       10,000 children and youth living in the area.
RT has been taken up by       children's services in Crete, where the research led to children's       services becoming more community-focused and has influenced the ways a       diagnostic centre designs, delivers and evaluates its interventions (5.5).
Adoption of RT by local authorities: Research-based RT training       has been delivered to a total of 10 local authorities, often as part of       their children's workforce training programmes, leading them to adopt and       adapt RT.
Examples include:     Brighton &amp; Hove: RT is used as part of a common set of skills       now required by everyone working or volunteering with children, young       people and families (5.6).
London Borough of Newham: resilience research has changed the       development of the outcomes framework used to commission and evaluate       services (5.7).
West Sussex County Council: the Targeted Mental Health in Schools       (TaMHS) Project placed the RT framework at the `heart' of its project,       claiming that it `gets results' (5.8).
Newport: a consortium of local authority and community       organisations, led by Mind in Wales, was trained and supported in RT by       the Brighton team, contributing directly to earlier interventions, which       is in turn is reducing pressure on other services (5.9).
Adoption of RT by charities: The RT model has impacted on local       and national charities who have adopted it in a range of contexts.
Examples include:     Mind: Training and workshops delivered directly to national and       local representatives of the mental health charity Mind, resulted in the       national office issuing a briefing on RT to the network of 150 local       Minds.
This informed local ways of working in relation to the mental       health resilience of local communities in response to crises including the       impact of serious floods in Denbighshire in 2012 and huge stock losses in       the farming community in 2013.
This led Mind to look at wider issues of       community response which led to the exploration of partnership working       with the Red Cross concerning links with emergency response teams (5.9)     Right Here Art Project: a consortium (comprising Sussex Central       YMCA, Mind, Brighton &amp; Hove Children and Family Services and NHS       Brighton &amp;Hove) built its mental health project for 16-25 year olds       around the RT model from design, through facilitation to evaluation       (5.10).
Amaze: a charity working with over 1500 parents of       disabled children, has included RT in their strategic developments (5.11).
Impacts on co-researchers: The co-production process that is core       to the research involved 120 community partners and service users.
For       many of them their roles in the wider community have changed as they       become involved in networks, producing learning material and delivering RT       training.
The research has been made available through the systematic       co-production of books, training materials (5.12) and the provision of       workshops.
The initial book Resilient Therapy was strongly       endorsed by the Director of Well-being Projects at Mental Health Today       for the way in which it `recognises and validates the role of front line       staff and the experiences of young people... to support and empower a       workforce' (5.13).
A collaborative book, Helping Children with Complex         Needs Bounce Back, produced with a community partner, had sold 1,500       copies to July 2013 (5.12).
The Insider's Guide, a manual-based       course for parents, designed and co-facilitated by parent carers and       practitioners, has been used in training in ten local authorities (see       above).
Other co-produced handbooks and guides include one produced by and       for Kinship Carers and another aimed at parents of young people       with mental ill health and produced by Experience in Mind (a group       of young volunteers with complex mental health challenges).
These are made       available free of charge via websites and are used directly by benefitting       children and families (5.12).
BoingBoing is a novel community interest company established by       HART and community partners in 2010 in response to the demand for       research-based resilience training.
It developed an RT Learning Programme       that is delivered regularly to practitioners and students in social work,       medicine, nursing, teaching, psychology, occupational therapy and       inclusive arts, reaching over 4000 individuals to July 2013 (5.12).
Since       the end 2011, the BoingBoing website has had 89,770 hits, and       46,155 downloads of presentations and materials from the repository.
Its       Twitter presence has 2,120 followers (all figures July 2013).
