     F4P is rooted in cross-cultural, comparative studies of carefully       engineered sporting encounters in culturally, ethnically and religiously       divided societies.
Its reach over the decade of its development has been       into the cultural fissures of Ireland and Israel, and other countries.
Its       significance lies in the way it reveals how, if carefully managed, sport       can foster intercultural understanding and harmony.
Changing the policies of sporting organisations: The Israeli       Sports Authority (ISA) has adopted the F4P programme in many different       locations.
The Nazareth Manager of the British Council confirms that F4P       was recognised, in 2012, as the `flagship project' of the Israeli Ministry       of Culture and Sport, and that the F4P child-protection training programme       has been adopted as policy by the ISA, where previously no such procedures       were in place (source 5.1).
Support from sports and education       policymakers, and evaluative action research reports and reviews, have       enabled coaches to independently initiate and plan cross-community       activities in football and other sporting arenas.
In 2012, ISA and F4P       partners agreed that communities themselves would in future own the       programme and deliver it independently within their communities.
In 2013 a       new NGO, Sport Unites, began working with the ISA, inheriting and adapting       the F4P model for a broader application beyond football, in the newly       named Sport 4 Life project.
The Director of Football Development at the Irish Football Association       (IFA) described his experience of F4P as `eye-opening' in relation to       values of inclusion, basing the IFA's grassroots programmes `on the values       and principles of Football 4 Peace, embedding these values in coaching       reaching thousands of children throughout Northern Ireland' (5.2).
The       Ulster Sports Academy observed in 2013 that: `The University of Brighton       maintains the overarching leadership of Football 4 Peace       International...It has been the connection to other programmes overseas       pioneering the development of the methodology, curriculum and training'       (5.3).
The Head of International Relations at The Football Association (England)       has observed that F4P shows how `football can be used as a vehicle to       bring people and communities together' matching the FA's vision of `using       the power of football to build a better future'; its emphasis on       `teachable moments' has been adopted at grassroots level by the Derby       County (Football Club) Community Trust, for example, to engage       disaffiliated youth (5.6).
Social change through intercultural understanding and challenging         cultural prejudice: In Israel over 8,000 children from 40 Arab and       Jewish communities benefited from F4P.
In 2009 Sir Bobby Charlton and the       Manchester United Foundation sent coaches out to be trained and to       volunteer in Israel.
He reported on this as follows: `Using football to       bring different people together is an approach that we endorse as part of       our community outreach at Manchester United.
I am delighted to be       extending this philosophy to Israel.
It is a privilege to be working with       Arab and Jewish youngsters and to be a part of Football 4 Peace project'       (5.4).
In 2012, over 1,000 children were involved in activities and 230       coaches and community leaders in Israel have been trained, cascading       training locally to create a national network.
Over 200 volunteer student       coaches from the UK have travelled to Israel to work with Jewish and Arab       children, alongside volunteers from Germany.
Support and mentoring enables       15 locally planned events each year.
The British Council, (5.1) writes: `In 10 years Football 4 Peace reached       children, coaches and community leaders throughout Israel and has become       the leading cross-community sports project.` In November 2011, the Israeli       Sports Minister, Limor Livnat, addressing a public conference of       international sports professionals, talked of F4P's work in bringing       Jewish and Arab children together with Palestinian and Jordanian children:       `In ten years of activity, amazing and wonderful experiences were       accomplished and strong ties and friendships were established between       children that are different from each other almost on any parameter &#8212;       language, (ethnic) origin, nationality &#8212; but share together their love of       football ... one cannot exaggerate the importance of these experiences in       reducing stereotypes and fostering good neighbourhood and brotherhood in a       place where once ignorance and fear thrived.
Thanks to some of our actions       we were already able to implement we can already see the results on the       ground' (5.5).
Transforming citizens into ambassadors for peace: In 2010, the       model was implemented in Palestine (100 children and 8 coaches) and Jordan       (300 children and 16 coaches).
It has been adopted in the Republic of       Ireland and Northern Ireland, where the Pilot Programme (`Gateway'       project) involved ten schools.
Renamed F4P Ireland in 2008, the scheme       involved a further 11 schools in the first three years of the full       project, with 15 clubs and 60 coaches.
In 2013, in collaboration with the       University of Ulster and Derry City Council, F4P ran an international       residential training camp for 90 participants (5.10, 5.11).
In collaboration with the University of Johannesburg, the F4P model has       also been adapted and adopted in South Africa (5.7); in Jordan, a new NGO       based on the F4P model was established, working in partnership with the       Scouts Association for the development of values-based coach education,       and focusing upon relations between indigenous and refugee communities       (2011/12).
In 2012, the F4P model was adopted in South Korea, by the Peace       Culture Institute in Korea (PCIK) and the Korean Sharing Movement (5.7).
Shaping political discourse: The high impact of the project in       political debate is evidenced in the F4P Director's invitation to the UK       Prime Minister's dinner/reception at 10 Downing Street (December 2009), on       the visit of Israel's President Shimon Peres.
The profile of our F4P work       was further enhanced through the endorsement of the President of the       Republic of Ireland Michael D. Higgins when he visited a F4P international       training camp in Derry/Londonderry in March 2013, hosted by Football4Peace       Ireland as part of the City's programme of events as UK City of Culture       2013.
The F4P Project Director has contributed to debate on the security       and defence agenda at NATO, in the context of cultural relations, conflict       prevention and resolution (5.9).
Several film documentaries have been made       of the Israel F4P initiatives as well as one focusing on implementation of       the model in Ireland; many news/media/press features have reported the       projects, including a television feature in Korea (5.8).
