     Safeguarding Paralympian well-being: UoB research on injuries and       risk factors has protected the well-being of Paralympic athletes by       improving how injuries are monitored, changing acclimatisation strategies,       safety rules and equipment design, and enhancing the education and       practices of clinicians working with Paralympic athletes.
The findings on       pre-cooling in Paralympic athletes influenced the strategy for Great       Britain's athletes in the Beijing 2008 Olympic Games.
The research was       adopted in the acclimatisation strategy used by the British Paralympic       Association to safeguard athletes from heat stress in Beijing and is       identified by the English Institute of Sport as having impacted on the       sports performance of athletes during the Games.
Following the Beijing Olympics, the English Institute of Sport has       confirmed that this strategy has ongoing use within individual sports, in       particular wheelchair rugby and tennis (source 5.1).
Based on empirical evidence collected by WEBBORN at successive Winter       Paralympics, there have been rule changes for ice sledge hockey,       instigated by the International Paralympic Committee in the 2008 rule       book, which require standardised sledge design and the mandatory use of       protective clothing (5.2).
The rule changes have been followed by a       reduction in injuries during the Paralympics and the eradication, thus       far, of certain injury types (5.2).
Ice sledge hockey produced only one       lower limb fracture out of the 40 injuries (2.5%) treated in the 2010       Winter Paralympic Games compared with 4 of 12 (33%) of the injuries in       2002, before the introduction of the regulation change.
WEBBORN's research, along with his advisory roles to the International       Paralympic Committee and as Chief Medical Officer to the London 2012       Summer Paralympic Games, have ensured his findings have been disseminated       widely to clinicians.
The International Paralympic Committee has       acknowledged that WEBBORN's work has made a significant contribution to       the Paralympic movement in relation to the education of clinicians in the       field, resulting in improved medical care.
The injury study initiated by       WEBBORN in 2002 has now been integrated by the International Paralympic       Committee as a standard practice in all future Winter and Summer       Paralympics (5.3).
Improving elite athletes' preparation and acclimatisation: The       research on pre-cooling as a coping strategy for competition in hot       environments has also benefitted elite athletes.
The findings were used by       the USA Olympic committee to guide its strategy for its athletes competing       in the 2008 Beijing Olympic Games (5.4).
The USA Olympic Committee's       preparation manual that advises coaches and athletes on competing in heat       and humidity contains four recommendations, all of them based on       referenced sport science research publications written by leading       researchers and institutions in the UK and Europe.
UoB's research       publications underpin three of the four recommendations for cooling       strategies, including cooling vests, whole-body immersion and ice       packs/towels.
The manual notes the recommendations will help to delay and       potentially prevent body core temperature from rising to a point where it       impairs performance (5.4).
The Brazilian Olympic Committee has also acknowledged the importance of       the research, in particular the underpinning research publications [3.3]       and [3.4] above, and that this research is currently being used as       evidence in devising pre-cooling and heat acclimatisation strategies       designed to improve performance in the 2016 Olympics and Paralympic Games       (5.5).
Enhancing the training practices of recreational athletes: The       innovative findings of the sport science research at UoB have resulted in       improvements to the training equipment used by recreational athletes,       having a indirect impact on personal fitness.
It has also led to changes       in the advice given to military personnel and people with disabilities       taking part in physical exercise.
The research by Jones and DOUST showing that starting a treadmill test       with a 1% gradient brings the same benefits as exercising outdoors has       contributed to personal fitness by changing how people are tested and       advised in gyms.
Most treadmill tests of exercise function for fitness       assessment and personal training in sports and gyms use the principles       verified in this research and adopt the 1% gradient.
The USA Navy refers       to the UoB research in online advice to navy personnel on how to maintain       personal fitness and recommends adding an incline of 1% when using a       treadmill (5.6).
Recreational athletes with disabilities are one of the target audiences       for the Peter Harrison Centre for Disability Sport, which has been       developing a `Fit and Healthy Resource for People with a Disability'.
WEBBORN has undertaken consultation and research activities that inform a       series of recommendations on which this new resource is based.
These       recommendations have led to changes in how the centre delivers and frames       material to ensure that practical resources are available for people with       disabilities to engage in recreational physical activity (5.7).
