     The underpinning research and participatory methods have impacted on       policies that aim to address the lack of tourism and hospitality human       resources capacity, which is key to any nation's successful tourism       development.
The World Bank commissioned research into education, capacity building       and training in Gambia, which led to a re-designed education and training       policy.
The research influenced the decision of the Spanish government to       fund The Gambia Tourism and Hospitality Institute (GTHI), a national       centre of excellence for tourism and hospitality education.
The research       provided: a feasibility assessment (2009) and business plan (2011) to       direct policy, later implemented through `The Gambia Tourism and       Hospitality Institute Bill', which sought to create an enabling       environment for Gambians to study up to the level of a Higher National       Diploma in travel, tourism and hospitality.
This bill was approved by the       National Assembly in 2011 (source 5.8).
Drawing upon the University of       Brighton's recommendations, the GTHI was inaugurated in 2013 after an       investment of &#8364;2.7m.
The GTHI aims to train an average of 200 school       leavers per year and upgrade the level of professional training amongst       the 30,000 workers in tourism and hospitality, a sector that contributes       16% to the national GDP (5.1, 5.2).
UNESCO-funded research in Nigeria led to a new national curriculum for       leisure, tourism and hospitality workforce training.
As part of a larger       project aimed at revitalising Nigeria's Technical and Vocational Education       and Training (TVET), in collaboration with the Nigeria Board of Technical       Education (NBTE), NOVELLI produced a `Leisure, Tourism and Hospitality       Curriculum Review' (2004), followed by a `Capacity       Building/Train-the-Trainers Programme' (NOVELLI and BURNS 2009).
This led       to the adoption of new industry and employment-centred leisure, tourism       and hospitality teaching materials and a new national curriculum replacing       the previous redundant one, which dated back to colonial times.
An       evaluation of the material and curriculum undertaken by the NBTE concluded       that the impacts had spread beyond Nigeria and that: `The tangible       outcomes of the initiative have been accepted for adoption in the ECOWAS       countries... Other counties outside the region, e.g.
Libya, Bahrain,       Ethiopia, etc.
have also benefitted from its achievement and have used the       curricula developed as part of their own national curricula.'
(5.6).
Sub-Saharan Africa (SSA) contains 32 coastal states, where unsustainable       tourism practices have already led to irreparable damage to fragile       ecosystems and significant economic losses.
The United Nations       Environmental Programme (UNEP), Global Environmental Facility (GEF), UNIDO       and UNWTO have worked together to develop the Collaborative Actions for       Sustainable Tourism (COAST) initiative targeting the sub-Saharan       coastline.
University of Brighton researchers were part of a consortium of       five experts undertaking research in three of the nine COAST Demonstrator       Projects.
Research into `Best Available Practices/Technologies' in       Nigeria, Gambia (NOVELLI) and Ghana (BENSON) led to the identification of       training needs and government guidelines for ecotourism development.
On       this basis, COAST identified demonstrator sites and delivered, for       example, targeted training and local initiatives in the village of Kartong       (5.7).
This research enabled local stakeholders to articulate a vision for       tourism development in their village and contributed to the community's       growing confidence in the future of that village.
The process was       transformative on both sides leading to direct and indirect support for       local businesses, having far-reaching social and economic benefits within       the wider community (5.3).
The Gambia Ministry of Tourism and Culture commissioned the research       project GambiaHost that was aimed at the design of national       tourism and hospitality service standards to improve destination       competitiveness.
NOVELLI facilitated participatory research with 67       industry stakeholders that identified the pitfalls of service standards       and the mitigating actions required to address them.
Drawing upon the       recommendations from GambiaHost the Gambia Ministry of Tourism and       Culture funded a follow-up 12-day `Train the Trainers Programme' with 40       staff from hotels and tourism-related institutions on Customer Service       Skills and F&amp;B Cost Control.
The beneficiaries of this training will       in turn train the rest of the employees on best practices on customer       excellence in their respective hotels (5.2, 5.9).
The Commonwealth Secretariat funded a project into customer service       capacity building in order to support the Namibia Tourism Board (NTB) in       implementing the 2011 `Tourism Human Resources Strategy for Namibia'.
NOVELLI and Taylor led three `train-the-trainers' pilot programmes with 60       Namibians working in tourism, who then became NTB-certified trainers in       January 2013 (5.5).
Following the success of these programmes the NTB has       commissioned a further project into customer services and the delivery of       a Capacity Building Customer Service Training Programme that will train 25       tourism and shuttle operators and immigration officials in Swakopmund and       Windhoek.
NOVELLI and BURNS were further commissioned to produce two research       studies by the Aga Khan University (AKU) that produced recommendations on       ways to bridge the gap in postgraduate and executive education in Africa.
These led to AKU's strategic decision to invest in the establishment of a       new tourism-focused graduate and research school in East Africa (5.4).
