     Poltimore House is an emotive site with strong bonds to the city of       Exeter.
Until 1921, it was a country house, the home of the Bampfylde       family, Lords Poltimore.
Thereafter, it was a private school, and an NHS       hospital, before suffering serious fire damage in 1988.
After a further       decade of neglect and vandalism it was acquired in 2000 by a charity, the       PHT, whose aim is its long-term preservation and re-use.
In Feb. 2009, the       PHT approached the University of Exeter for academic guidance and to help       prepare a Heritage Lottery Fund bid.
It quickly became clear that       instead of academics supplying ready-made expertise, the site and PHT's       300-strong volunteer base offered an opportunity to engage more fully by       creating a group of volunteer researchers who could recover and take       ownership of the house's past.
This collaboration resulted in a successful       AHRC Knowledge Transfer grant award in April 2010.
Between Aug. 2010 and July 2012 the project focused on two elements:     a) Working with volunteers to trace the history and evolution of the       Poltimore House gardens and estate landscape primarily through detailed       documentary research and map analysis on the 18th and 19th       centuries.
For instance, in 3-monthly project workshops Prof. French       introduced volunteers to the wider historical context of their detailed       analyses of nineteenth- century census records, and their findings from       surveys of nineteenth-century newspapers, maps and the 1910 Estate Duty       Act valuation.
b) Leading teams of volunteer, non-professional researchers in methods of       archaeological research (field-walking, geo-physical surveying, landscape       archaeology), to assemble a longer, archaeological time-scale for the       estate's development.
All the activities described below took place between 2010 and 2012       unless otherwise specified.
Working alongside PHT, the project         developed on-site educational activities with primary and secondary       schools in East Devon, plus A-level students from Exeter College (the main       tertiary college in Exeter).
During the course of the project 721 school       pupils from seven partner schools in Devon participated in 18 training and       outreach events mapped to the National Curriculum.
Events included on-site       training workshops on masonry recording, archaeological survey, landscape       analysis and visits to schools and a film made by Broadclyst Community       Primary School (Section 5 reference 3).
These sources, objects and       resources have enabled PHT's Volunteer Manager to provide on-site School       visits, and continued curriculum engagement with Broadclyst Community       Primary School in 2012-13, allowing pupils to produce artwork for PHT's       new on site information boards (Section 5 reference 2).
The project contributed significantly to PHT's future development         plans.
The project team emphasized PHT's most accessible (but       unknown) legacy, the gardens and the estate history.
This enabled PHT to       use this resource as a beacon project in its successful HLF bid, Access,         Interpretation, Learning and Archives (Section 5 reference 2).
This funded rebuilding of a service wing of the house, creating a base for       the PHT, and a first stage towards its wider re-development plans for the       site within Exeter and East Devon Growth Point.
Archaeological fieldwork       in the environs of the house revealed a number of formerly hidden       landscape features, such as an Edwardian Chinese Garden, which were       surveyed in detail, for inclusion into new reconstructions and phased       plans `to support their long-term preservation by the PHT' (section 5       reference 2).
Detailed sub-surface archaeological reports on the park and       gardens will inform the PHT's future management strategy, and enable       scheduling of the garden and park, as housing and business development       expands around the site as part of the East Devon Growth Point.
Public involvement in research was built into the processes of       research training and project co-ordination among PHT volunteers and       Poltimore village residents, including documentary research,       field-walking, archaeological surveying, geo-physical surveys, and finds       identification (Section 5, reference 7).
PHT's partnership with the social       enterprise Forward25 provided placements and workplace experience for       young local unemployed people (Section 5, reference 5).
The project `made       sure volunteers gained new knowledge and understanding of the processes       involved in landscape history' (section 5 reference 2).
It also created a       template of sustainable public participation, research-skills training and       volunteering that can be applied elsewhere in a climate of long-term       declines in public funding and professional skills shortages in local       government.
Since the end of the project in Aug. 2012, volunteers have       continued historical and archaeological research, through a research group       (Poltimore Estate History &amp; Archaeology Group, PEHAG) founded in       October 2012, which was turned into a formally-constituted historical       society in Oct. 2013 (Poltimore Estate Research Society, PERS), affiliated       to PHT.
Project participants have become a group of skilled volunteer       researchers, who can take forward further investigations into the history       of the estate, house and gardens.
The project increased public access to Poltimore House and its       grounds.
Before the project started Poltimore House was open one afternoon       a month between March to October.
As the project built capacity in the       form of trained volunteers, Poltimore House has been able to open twice a       week between March and October, significantly improving access to the       grounds and has made `a significant difference to the condition of the       parkland' (section 5 references 2 &amp; 7).
The project stimulated public       interest in the neglected historic landscape at Poltimore, by making       techniques of landscape research more widely accessible.
During the course       of the project 2,127 members of the public participated in 86 training and       outreach events (including flagship launch events and an end-of-project       symposium), two project open events and other `local history days'       (section 5, references 6 &amp; 7).
The project made the history of Poltimore house publicly accessible       with information about the heritage of the estate presented to the general       public through the creation of a specific project website (Section 5       reference 1), which contains 101 documents, photographs and analyses of       census, newspaper and mapping evidence undertaken by project volunteers.
For example, volunteers trained in analysis of the censuses have       undertaken detailed reconstruction and presentation of life in Poltimore       village in the nineteenth century (section 5, reference 7).
A public       exhibition was held at Poltimore to mark the conclusion of the project in       July 2012 (section 5, reference 7).
PERS have now taken over the website       in 2013 in order to continue its development.
The project created new       archaeological find collections for PHT, moveable on-site displays and       five permanent on-site visitor display boards to present new       interpretative materials about Poltimore, its gardens and estates,       incorporating the work of school children and volunteers involved in the       project, and leaflets providing key information and maps.
These have been       built into on-site presentations at open days by volunteer guides, and a       new guidebook to be written by the volunteers (PERS), sold to raise funds       for the PHT.
Material from the project will be incorporated into a new       volume on the history of Poltimore House (J. Hemming, The House That         Richard Built), published by PHT in November 2013 to raise funds.
