     New Exhibition at PTM     Called `Nerve Centre of Empire', the exhibition is dominated by       forty-seven large panels on which images, text and diagrams are displayed.
The content of the panels, display cases and interactives were determined       by the academics' research findings and the need to highlight the PTM       archive's strengths in the social and cultural history of telegraphy.
The       text and images of the panels were reproduced in a booklet accompanying       the exhibition and available for sale in the PTM: Wendy Gagen and David       Dawson (ed.
), Nerve Centre of Empire: Connecting Cornwall, Expanding         Empires 1870-1918 (Porthcurno: Porthcurno Telegraph Museum, 2010).
The opening of the exhibition has generated local interest.
Between July       2010 and Feb 2013 59,783 people visited the PTM, as documented in the       museum's `Key Performance Indicators' spreadsheet, along with website hits       and remote archive inquiries (section 5 reference 1).
In the same period       there have been school visits which brought 507 children to the museum.
The visitors' book in the museum provides largely anonymous and undated       comments, including many on the content and design of the `Nerve Centre of       the Empire' exhibition and these are generally very positive.
They include       examples such as: "It's very informative.
Lots of interactive sources.
BRILLIANT!...It's enjoyable and helps learning"; "I really enjoyed my day       here and learned a lot about communication and electricity.
It is good for       all the family because there is stuff for kids to do as well.
I think it       would be good if volunteers from the audience could take part in some       demonstrations so kids would enjoy them more"; and "Super activities for       the children which helped them understand the exhibits or keep them       occupied.
Wide ranging and diverse.
Thank you!"
(section 5 reference 2).
The exhibition also influenced those who work in the industry, an       instrument engineer writes: "Having experienced the Porthcurno `Nerve       Centre of the Empire exhibition I found it a valuable backward glance into       the forward thinking lives of British innovation.
We must continually       preserve and protect this historic information to enable future       generations to appreciate the giant steps taken in effective       telecommunications.
The laying and successful operation of the cable trunk       networks showed British ingenuity and its determination to succeed and       lead the way in this new technology.
It wasn't always mobiles, Skype,       iphones and sat-navs.
My thanks to you and your team for your work in the       field of saving our history."
(section 5 reference 5).
The exhibition attracted national and international interest, as Dr       Richard Noakes was interviewed about it for the BBC History Magazine       and also for a podcast (section 5 references 6-9).
All the coverage       emphasised the exhibition's focus on the importance of Porthcurno in       particular, and Cornwall in general for the history of telecommunications.
Noakes drew on project findings about telecommunications research in his       contribution to the BBC2's Genius of Invention series, broadcast       on 7th February 2013 (section 5 reference 9).
A research fellow at the Science Museum, London, has been a champion of       the exhibition at PTM: "Since my first visit to the Porthcurno Telegraph       Museum more than 10 years ago it is quite evident today, that investment       and, no doubt much hard work has transformed it into an unrivalled       collection and research archive for the history of submarine       telecommunications.
This, in no small part, is due to their collaboration       with Exeter University to encourage post-graduate research into the       extraordinary archive collection.
This has been further enhanced by       creating appeal to a broad section of the public through its imaginative       exhibition and its much improved web-site."
(section 5 reference 3).
The exhibition has helped forge a strong working relationship with PTM       and its staff.
According to PTM staff, `the opportunity to work with the       University has had ongoing positive impacts for the museum &#8212; not least by       helping to support our bid for a &#163;1.4 Million Heritage Lottery Bid to       development the museum.
The exhibition was seen by the HLF assessors and       helped to show our commitment to providing access to our collections at a       variety of levels &#8212; from 6 years to 106.'
(Section 5 reference 10)     Enhanced Website (http://www.porthcurno.org.uk/nerve-centre/)       Officially launched with the exhibition, the website is the means by which       the research has had its greatest geographical reach.
The academic and       museum partners selected specific archival materials that, after being       digitally scanned and uploaded onto the museum website, would be most       effective in highlighting the social and cultural aspects of the PTM's       collections.
These included the detailed diaries of an obscure `cable       man', staff records, and photographs of life aboard cable laying ships and       remote cable stations.
Owing to their richness, the textual materials were       also transcribed allowing website users to conduct full-text searching.
To       give context to these materials and to make them altogether more       interesting to users, the `Connecting Cornwall' project linked them with       the text and images from the museum, and several interactive features,       including a sensitive map and timeline.
Between July 2010 and Feb 2013 the       PTM website has received 215,000 hits with 84,476 unique visits.
Improved Archive     The Cable and Wireless Archive at the PTM is used by non-academic and       academic enquirers.
The enormous number of people who worked for Cable and       Wireless means that its staff and other records have become an important       resource for family history.
Between July 2010 and May 2011 there were 269       remote enquiries made regarding the archive (section 5 reference 1).
The       archivists in the `Connecting Cornwall' team recognised that they could       significantly improve their service to all future users by making       changes initially designed to benefit the academic research, exhibition       and website aspects of the project.
Accordingly, they used a portion of       the AHRC grant allocated to the museum for four key initiatives.
First,       they added internet access to and significantly increased the size of the       room at the PTM in which archive users work.
Second, they purchased new       archive boxes to improve the preservation of (often fragile) historic       materials.
Third, with the help of the researchers, they were able to       identify gaps and errors in the electronic archive catalogue which       stimulated a long-term overhaul of this crucial database of information.
Fourth, they constructed a small enclosed area within the archive for       digitally photographing and scanning archival materials that can then be       mounted on the website or sent electronically to any enquirer.
All four       initiatives have long outlasted the project and are appreciated by users       outside the project (section 5 reference 3).
To date, there have been 186       onsite researchers and 489 museums enquiries using the archive remotely       for research.
