     As the `UK's leading air power scholar' (section 5 reference 5) Professor       Overy's research has       been used since 2008 on an international scale by armed services to       influence their methods and       ideas about air power strategy and contribute to their professional       development.
His research has       been used in modern air campaigns by the Royal Air Force, most recently in       Libya in 2011 (section       5 reference 5).
He has sat on military advisory boards.
Professor Overy       has also engaged non-academic       audiences through seminars, meetings and lectures in which his research       has been       used to inform discussions.
Internationally, Overy's research has been used in military publications       by service academies       discussing historical air power and bombing warfare.
The Royal Australian       Air Force in its doctrine       publication `Strategy, Air Strike and Small Nations' cited Overy on pp.
43-44 as the source of the       argument about the diversion of German resources in the Second World War.
Overy also       contributed directly to a book edited by a senior Royal Norwegian Air       Force officer on A History of         Air Warfare, with a chapter on air power in World War II and       provided the introduction to the US Air       Force Academy Military History Symposium (vol 6) on Air Power: promise         and reality with an       introduction on `Air Power and Warfare'.
The History Department Head in       the Academy describes       his `extraordinary contribution to scholarship' which is `lasting and       important' (section 5 reference       1).
Overy has contributed to the continuing professional development (CPD) of       both UK and US air       force cadets since 2008 particularly through his books The Air War       and Why the Allies Won.
These       are core textbooks for the US Air Force Academy, Colorado Springs (over       1,000 trainees a year),       the US Navy War College, Newport Rhode Island (approximately 200-300       trainees a year), and the       UK Defence Academy, Shrivenham (approximately 700 trainees a year).
The       head of the history       department at USMA writes that `his work contributes immeasurably to       education' for around 1,000       cadets a year (section 5 reference 4).
His work features on courses at the       USAF Research       Institute, the US Air War College, and the School of Advanced Air Power       Studies, involving around       3,000 mid-career officers per year (section 5 reference 5).
Professor Overy's books are also used in A Level History courses (Edexcel     GCE History Unit 4,     CW37: the Changing Nature of Warfare 1845-1991).
Overy's research features     in three of the     recommended texts.
The unit uses quotations from Overy's books as sources     and recommends     discussion around the sources with questions to be answered.
The Air War (section 3 reference 2) has been cited in The RAF       Manual of Doctrine, now in its       fourth edition (2008) as one of its reference works.
The RAF Air Power       Review, a quarterly journal,       has also carried articles which refer directly to Overy's research (eg       `Reappraising RAF Bomber       Command's Role in World War II', no 14 (2011), pp.
5-18).
His research has       `been one of the most       important influences on Royal Air Force policy and doctrine since the end       of the Cold War, with his       books being cited frequently in both policy and doctrine papers' (section       5 reference 5).
Due to Overy's research expertise and knowledge, he is a regular       contributor to the Royal Air       Force's CPD opportunities in both a teaching and an advisory role.
Overy       has been appointed as a       member of the Advisory Board of the RAF Centre for Air Power Studies       (CAPS) based at       Shrivenham which discusses issues of air power education and meets twice a       year.
He is also       invited, and has attended, every year since 2008 by the Chief of the Air       Staff to the annual RAF Air       Power Conference in London, a professional development opportunity for       Royal Air Force Staff.
Most recently, Overy has taken part in a symposium on the direction of       education and academic       outreach for the RAF.
His involvement in these activities has       `unquestionably added to the richness       of air power education offered to...servicemen and has touched hundreds if       not thousands of       officers and airmen' (section 5 reference 2).
Overy lectured on bombing at the US Military Academy (West Point) summer       seminar in June       2009 and was appointed the Thomas Johnson Visiting Professor at West Point       in March 2010,       where he had the opportunity to present his research findings to the       entire cadet corps and also in       small staff seminars to raise awareness of the history of air power       strategy.
During this time       Professor Overy gave a keynote lecture to 1,000 US army officer cadets and       several classes with       c. 30-50 cadets on the bombing war and the outcome of World War II.
Overy attended and gave the opening talk on 'Lessons from the Strategic       Bomber Offensive' at       'Strategic Attack: From Bomber Command through to the Present Day', a       Westminster think tank       event organised by the Policy Exchange organisation on 14 May 2012.
The       purpose was to       present senior airmen with ideas about the development of offensive       airpower since the Second       World War and to draw lessons for today's RAF.
Attendees included the       Deputy Chief of the Air       Staff and around 30 senior airmen from Britain, the USA and Europe.
Overy organised a joint workshop with the RAF Museum in March 2013 and       gave a paper on       'Archives and Airpower' to a mixed military/civilian audience.
The       Director of the RAF Museum       commented that the workshop `encouraged new contacts with researchers and       students, as well       as helping highlight the scale and richness of the Museum's archive       holdings' (see section 5       number 3).
In continuing involvement with the Museum, Professor Overy has       been appointed Chair       of a new Research Board at the Museum, which will meet two or three times       a year to ensure that       academic research is being used effectively to enhance the way the Museum       engages with       informing the wider public.
The museum believes that Professor Overy's       appointment will add       `credibility and authority' to the initiative.
Professor Overy's research       knowledge `has proved       invaluable in creating the basis for a comprehensive and productive       research programme' and that       he has `facilitated an important bridge between the Museum and Academia'       (section 5 reference       3).
Overy has also taken part in many public engagement events, including an       Intelligence Squared       debate `The Allied Bombing of German Cities in World War II was       Unjustifiable' on 25 October       2012 in London, where he spoke about his research into air power and the       strategic bombing       options that the Royal Air Force used in the Second World War (section 5       reference 6) and a       symposium on the bombing war at the Imperial War Museum on 12 October       2013.
