     Professor Jackson's research has generated information and advice for the       media, charities and commercial marketing companies.
He has worked with       clinicians and policy-makers to influence how they conceptualise the       historical epidemiology of allergic diseases and his research has raised       public awareness and understanding of allergies through engagement       activities.
International reviews of his research have resulted in regular and       on-going requests from newspaper, magazine, radio and television editors       and journalists for Professor Jackson to act as historical consultant and       to participate in live radio and online debates.
He was interviewed for a       BBC Radio 4 Today programme on allergy (21 April 2008) and contributed to       a live panel discussion on how to explain and tackle modern trends in       allergy on the Simon Mayo Show, Radio Five Live (13 May 2008).
Professor       Jackson provided detailed historical statistics for a Horizon programme       `Allergy Planet', aired on BBC2, 9 December 2008.
In January 2012, he       contributed historical evidence for an article, which appeared on io9       website, entitled `Are allergies for real?
', and was interviewed by an       American journalist from Slate.com, to provide information drawn directly       from his research on asthma.
On both occasions, Professor Jackson's       contributions were acknowledged.
In March 2012, he was commissioned by       American online magazine Z&#243;calo Public Square to write a feature       article on the death of Anthony Shahid, an American journalist who       suffered a fatal asthma attack while reporting in Syria (1).
In 2010, Professor Jackson's research was used by Asthma UK, a charity       dedicated to improving the lives of people affected by asthma, to produce       an award-winning educational `Asthma Timeline' (2), which charted the       history of asthma and was created to complement the charity's online       research pages.
Visitors to the website (which attracted nearly 4,000       hits) were introduced to key features of the history of the disease,       including how and when novel therapies were introduced, and were made       aware of the continuing use of controversial treatments such as `asthma       cigarettes'.
Professor Jackson's contributions, which included providing       historical depth and reviewing the accuracy of information provided to       patients and families, were acknowledged on the website and regarded as       having a significant impact.
According to the Asthma UK Timeline designer,       Professor Jackson's research `was essential to the creation of the       timeline' (3).
One of the charity's trustees highlighted the `invaluable       contribution' made by Professor Jackson's `admirable biography of asthma'       to the work of Asthma UK and to patients with asthma (4).
The trustee also       invited Professor Jackson to serve as a trustee of the charity.
The impact of Professor Jackson's research has extended into the       commercial sector.
MEAT Brands, a British marketing company, approached       Professor Jackson twice to `provide expert insight' into cultural aspects       of allergies and into current and future trends and policies in the field.
According to MEAT, Professor Jackson's ability to `interpret and discuss       his work in a way that makes it easily applicable to research projects       outside the academy' made his contributions `invaluable' as part of the       branding process for a `major global pharmaceutical organisation' (5).
Professor Jackson has been invited to present his research to clinical       and policy groups.
In 2008, he participated in a seminar series hosted by       the World Health Organization that brings together policy-makers,       scientists and clinicians to discuss global health issues.
Professor       Jackson's presentation on asthma, which emphasised the importance of       history for informing debates about patterns of disease, stimulated       subsequent correspondence with participants about the historical       epidemiology of asthma (6).
Professor Jackson has promoted clinical and       scientific awareness of the distribution and cultural identity of asthma       by writing articles in the medical press and presenting to research and       professional organisations, such as the Medical Research Council &amp;       Asthma UK Centre in Allergic Mechanisms of Asthma (December 2008) and the       British Society for the History of Pharmacy (February 2009).
These       activities have led to further engagement with scientists and clinicians:       according to a Danish epidemiologist, Professor Jackson's `impressive and       very successful overview' of the history of allergy alerted him to the       historical precedents of recent debates (7).
The reach of Professor Jackson's research has been enhanced by       invitations to take part in national and local public debates and       educational initiatives for young people.
In March 2008, Professor       Jackson's lecture on the allergy epidemic was `very much appreciated' by       approximately 120 attendees at the Medicine and History seminar series       organised by the Thackray Museum, Leeds (8).
As a result of his work on       Marcel Proust's illnesses, which provided a focus for his book on asthma       and which was specifically mentioned in the event description, Professor       Jackson participated in the 2008 Times Cheltenham Literature Festival,       where he contributed, along with Professor Alison Finch, Peter Guttridge       and D. J. Taylor, to an expert panel that discussed, and answered audience       questions about, the relationship between illness and creativity (9).
In November 2012, Professor Jackson organized a debating competition for       Year 11 students at Colyton Grammar School, Devon.
Part of the ESRC's       Festival of Social Science, the event was designed to deepen students'       understanding of the recent history of asthma, pollution and social       policy, raise their awareness of methods in the humanities and social       sciences, and introduce them to the challenges of creating evidence-based       arguments.
Thirteen pupils worked with Professor Jackson to identify       sources, themes and questions and presented arguments about how best to       reduce levels of asthma to an audience of 80 students, 3 staff members and       an external judge.
Formal evaluation highlighted the impact of the ESRC       event.
Students directly involved in the research and presentations agreed       that the event `increased my knowledge of the topic' and `raised my       awareness of the benefits social science brings to society'.
According to       the Head Teacher and the Head of Science, the event was beneficial to all       students taking part in the debates, encouraging them to study well beyond       the scope of their individual A level specifications.
It promoted deeper       awareness of research methods and a greater understanding of asthma       amongst all students and teachers participating in the debate (10).
