     The Centre's research has benefited the design community, public bodies       and industry, and since 2008 work has been undertaken with clients       including Centre for Protection of National Infrastructure (CPNI),       National Counter Terrorism Security Office (NaCTSO), LINK, NCR, Royal Bank       of Scotland, Transport for London and local councils on projects ranging       from tackling ATM crime to shoplifting.
Work has been undertaken with six       Metropolitan Police boroughs and five other police forces, plus the       Association of Chief Police Officers (ACPO), and with partners including       Broxap, Design Council, Designing Out Crime Association (DOCA) and Design       and Technology Alliance Against Crime (Home Office).
Evidence of both reach and significance is given by the role played in       developing international understanding and capacity building for `design       against crime' as both a concept and tool.
The Designing Out Crime       Research Centre (DOCRC) at the University of Technology Sydney (UTS) was       established by the Attorney General of New South Wales (NSW) after his       department identified the UAL Centre as a `shining example' of best       practice.
Given governmental support in 2007, and becoming established       during the REF impact period, DOCRC has worked closely with the UAL Centre       who have helped to deliver some of DOCRC's first projects, given       workshops, and collaborated on the first Design + Crime International         Conference and Exhibition (2012); a meeting of professionals and       academics exploring new ways of preventing crime.
DOCRC have now delivered       over 90 projects, including the invention, production and installation of       the Counter Terrorism rubbish bins at stations in NSW.
In 2010 the       incoming Mayor of Seoul, Park Wok Soon, visited the UAL Centre and,       inspired by its work, implemented two `design against crime' projects when       he was appointed.
Positive results have engendered plans to operate       similar programs at three more sites.
In 2012 a Memorandum of       Understanding was signed between DACRC (UAL), the Seoul Design Foundation       and DOCRC.
The Centre's design benchmarks have attracted significant media coverage       bringing `design against crime' into the public domain, exploiting       the Centre's strong visual language.
Examples include: BBC Business News'       coverage of DACRC's ATM Crime Expo (2011), BBC Scotland's       programme on DACRC for Designed World (2009), and Design Week       naming DACRC in its Hot 50 (2009).
Designs have been shown by the Design       Council/Home Office (2011), at University of Technology Sydney (2012)       funded by the Attorney General's Office, and have featured in 12       additional exhibitions since 2008 raising awareness of `design against         crime'.
The Centre has worked to gain support for `design against crime'         within business and professional communities.
There have been five       ATM exhibitions with the 2011 ATM crime exhibition being funded by       NCR Corp (the world's largest ATM manufacturer), LINK (the UK ATM network)       and Royal Bank of Scotland.
The Covent Garden ATM event (2012) was       reported by the Metropolitan Police to have facilitated crime awareness       training with 12,800 people.
The significance of this work to business is       evidenced by the RBS-funded evaluation of DACRC's ATM designs in 2013, and       a significant investment by LINK to fund a research studentship at the       Centre.
The Centre's design resources have reached new audiences via exhibitions       and competitions, catalysing commercial and cultural innovation.
Resources have been used for national competitions authored by DACRC       including for the RSA (2008/2009), Design Council (2010) and Nesta (2012).
This builds innovative capacity and catalyses new product development such       as bike parking furniture from UK design companies including Cycle Hoop,       established in 2008, who state on their website: `Our cycle parking       products are designed to reduce the risk of bike theft and are based on       the research and studies carried out by BikeOff.'
Engagement with       the Centre and its resources by UAL students has resulted in success in       national design competitions such as Audi Design Foundation's Sustain our       Nation (2009) and D&amp;AD Student Awards (2008).
Focusing on the visual to alert and empower has generated tested       and evaluated communication products by the Centre (Hang it Up       posters, Anti-bike theft stickers and leaflets and Hang your       bag flyers).
Clients since 2008 include Transport for London,       Nottinghamshire Police, Brighton and Hove Council, and the Metropolitan       Police.
During the impact period 586,500 items were ordered.
Examples of       additional design outcomes include: CPNI-commissioned toolkit for       Controlling Hostile Reconnaissance, co-researched with Huddersfield,       designed/delivered by the Centre, and tested through CPNI, being made       available to CPNI/NaCTSO members charged with protecting sites of UK       critical infrastructure (power and chemicals stations, major transport       hubs; major retail sites, and sporting and events venues); and Bikeoff's       M-stand licensed to Broxap (UK's largest cycle parking manufacturer)       which, since 2008, have sold to clients including the London Borough of       Camden, Brighton and Hove City Council, Cambridge Cycling City and South       Eastern Railways.
Examples of the significant impact of DACRC research on public bodies is       evidenced by inclusion in published guidance and information.
Examples include Designing Out Crime: A Designer's Guide, Design       Council (2011) using examples of DACRC's work (Grippa, Bikeoff       and ATM Crime), as well as including DACRC research processes and       Tactics and Strategies for designers (Ekblom).
Case studies       published on the Design Council website also showcase three of the       Centre's projects.
Contributions on secure cycle parking       information are evident in the ACPO's Secured by Design Schools Design       Guide (2010), and have fed into the Home Office's bike theft       prevention communications.
Thorpe and Gamman contributed to the US Centre       for Problem-Oriented Policing practitioner guides Bicycle Theft       (2008) and Theft of customers' personal property from cafes and bars       (2010).
There have been over 65,000 downloads of these two publications.
Research has informed the understanding of policymakers, public       bodies and professionals.
In May 2008 Boris Johnson said `The       caMden stand is a great example of the type of innovative solution to       crime that can be made reality given the right support...I've asked       Transport for London to do all they can to support such initiatives.'
Ekblom, Gamman and Thorpe were expert witnesses for the State of Victoria,       Australia Parliamentary Drugs and Crime Committee Inquiry into the       application of safer design principles and crime prevention through       environmental design (2012), and are quoted extensively in the final       report (June 2013).
Ekblom was commissioned to review guidance literature       on counter-terrorism designs for the Australian Government       Attorney-General's Department (2011).
Gamman was a member of Home Office's       Design &amp; Technology Alliance Against Crime (2007-2012), leading its       business crime stream, and is a board member of the Designing Out Crime       Association (DOCA).
Thorpe has advised policy forums on cycle parking and       security including as part of Transport for London's Anti-Bike Theft       Partnership (2007-2008) and Brighton and Hove City Council Cycle Theft       Steering Group (2006-2009).
In 2011 Ekblom and Gamman participated and       presented at a Cabinet Office Behavioural Insights Team workshop on theft       in retail and leisure environments and mobile phone theft.
The Behavioural       Insights Team, often called the `Nudge Unit', applies insights from       academic research to public policy and services.
DACRC's initiation of the       Graffiti Dialogues Network has led to advising on strategies for       Southbank Centre.
