     The research discussed above underpins the Sex and History Project,       directed by Professor Fisher       and Dr Langlands (launched in 2009), which reconstructs the kind of       productive engagement with       the past experienced by tourists in Pompeii and Herculaneum, through a       variety of public and       school-based interventions, workshops and museum visits all of which use       sexually-themed       museum objects to facilitate the exploration of contemporary issues around       sex, gender and       personal identity with positive long-term impacts.
Sex and History has       involved collaborations       between five regional museums, in excess of 30 schools and colleges,       sexual health charities, sex       education experts, local authority youth services, young people's       charities and arts organisations.
It       has involved museum-based workshops, creative responses (linked in some       cases to coursework,       including film making, soundscapes, dance, animation), museum-collection       visits, intergenerational       discussion, exhibition curation, sex education sessions within schools       (totalling in excess of 1,000       young participants), games-based sex education workshops and a sex       education resource pack       (the Talking Sex Pack), developed with Royal Cornwall Museum, Truro,       trialled in 20 schools in       Cornwall (totalling in excess of 15,000 pupils).
The development of an improved sex and relationship education service       is a key priority in       the South West where rates of sexually transmitted disease infection are       increasing, and the       teenage pregnancy rate is both higher than the national average in many       areas (especially Torbay       and Plymouth) and not reducing in line with national targets.
Agencies in       the South West have       highlighted the need for such education to take place not only in formal       educational settings, but       also within the wider community (youth groups, drop-in centres, museums       and libraries) and to       include a broad range of issues to do with emotional health and       well-being, including self-esteem,       communication skills, life skills, understandings of power and consent,       positive relationships, and       social pressures.
Recent Department of Education guidelines highlight the       importance of sex       education which helps `children and young people develop confidence in       talking, listening and       thinking about sex and relationships'.
The research of Langlands and       Fisher speaks directly to       these agenda and through the Sex and History Project is having a direct       impact on mental and       physical health (with particular relevance to sexual health) in Devon and       Cornwall in two distinct       ways: directly (through work with young people and their       teachers/educators) and indirectly (by       making a contribution to policy discussion).
Sex and History pioneers a new approach to sex education; it provides a       wider social and cultural       framework for the assimilation of biological and practical information       about sexual health, and       empowers young people to make healthy choices about sex and relationships       Third party       evaluation [1] drawing on over 100 interviews, concluded that the project       delivered significant       social outcomes for the young people involved: `it empowered participants       to talk honestly in a       trusting environment (through the projective techniques &#8212; discussing in       the third person, and       exploring historical objects and behaviour in the past, rather than the       embarrassment of talking       about sex directly); opened up discussion of topics that are particularly       difficult to address,       concerning issues such as consent, pornography and power within       relationships; provided young       people with an awareness of historical difference that encouraged them to       challenge contemporary       attitudes or resist peer pressure; fostered greater understanding of       cultural difference; encouraged       social and familial ties (many reported that they were able to have       discussions with their peers and       in particular their parents, often for the first time); encouraged healthy       lifestyles and contributed to       mental and physical well-being (some projects had a noticeable impact on       participants' body image       and self-esteem) [1, 3, 7].
A participant from Exeter's state tertiary       education college stated: "We       found it inspirational...The historical objects opened our minds to new       ideas.
It made us more       mature in the way we thought about sex.
We all discovered things about       ourselves."
A team leader       from Plymouth Youth Service commented: "In every young person in our group       we can see how       this project has developed and moved them to a different place."
The use of the Sex and History methodology in projects with vulnerable       young people was       particularly profound.
A long-term evaluation report [3] which traced the       lives of 35 participants       referred by Plymouth Children's services over a 3 year period, concluded       that the Sex and History       methodology had enriched their lives, ameliorated some of the effects of       structural disadvantages       and provided a sustained transformation in future opportunities and       personal well-being.
One, who       was in trouble for shoplifting, was deemed by a magistrate to have       successfully turned his life       around, as a result of his involvement in Sex and History, and       subsequently obtained work as a       child-care apprentice.
While another participant was inspired to enrol in       a media course and       secured employment as a producer with an arts company.
S/he stated: "It       gave me direction; it       showed me what I was capable of.
It changed me to the person I am now.
It       was a major turning       point in my life."
A report on the trial of a sex education resource pack [2] found it to be       attractive and useful, and       this initiative is now informing policy debate.
A teacher at Exeter's       Academy of Music and Sound       commented: "We have to deliver certain SRE targets in college and we use       college tutorials ...       [but] it's hard.
This provided a new way of meeting these requirements.
The objects are       surprising...
They facilitate discussion, they make it okay to talk about       sex...We've never found a       better way to do it.
It was a revelation."
Fisher and Langlands are now       developing the methodology       and methods of delivery in collaboration with regional co-ordinators of       PHSE and SRE in Bristol,       Cornwall and Devon, with the newly-formed national RSE Hub; and have       recently been invited to       showcase their work at the national Sex Education Forum.
Developing museums' work with young people       In all its many manifestations (object-based workshops in schools and       colleges in Devon and       Cornwall, museum/archival visits, exhibition curation and creative       object-response projects [1, 2, 5,       6, 7, 8, 9, 10]), the Sex and History Project has brought young people       into close collaboration with       five regional museums (Bristol Museum and Art Gallery, Plymouth City       Museum, RCM Truro,       RAMM Exeter, Russell Coates Museum Bournemouth) their collections, and the       Wellcome Trust       collection in London.
A third party report concluded that the use of the       Sex and History       methodology in museum settings transformed relationships between museums       and teenagers and       young adults (already identified as an important but hard to reach       audience).
Young people       reported a change in their attitudes towards what museums can offer, a new       appreciation of the       value of historic objects and their relevance to their own lives, and some       are now working towards       future careers in the cultural sector [3, 10].
Museums reported a change       in the ways in which they       use their collections, a rethinking of their archiving and cataloguing       practices, and new learning       about their objects from the research.
Museums found the methodology a       refreshing and effective       way of working with young people, engaging them on a deep level, e.g.
through co-curation, which       produced impressive creative outputs that enhanced the museums' displays       and reached new       audiences [1].
At RCM Truro the methodology informed a reshaping of the       ways in which the       museum staff work with their collections.
Staff were retrained and a       report published by RCM Truro       has been promoted nationally by the Collections Trust as an example of       best practice within the       nationwide Revisiting Collections' agenda [10].
Developing regional partnerships       Through the Sex and History Project, Exeter University, young people's       charities, sexual health       agencies, arts organisations and museums have developed new, mutually       beneficial long-term       connections and partnerships.
The Sex and History Project has received       positive media attention,       it won an award for Outstanding Social and Cultural Impact at the Exeter       University Impact       Awards (2011) and was put forward for an EngageU award for European       innovation in university       public engagement.
Since 2009 Sex and History's innovative methodology has       been widely       recognised as an effective and adaptable model, and has attracted a wide       range of partners who       seek to make use of it.
The third party report also highlighted the       economic benefits to partner       organisations of working with the Sex and History methodology: Fictional         Projects is using the       methodology to construct a marketable games-based resource, youth       facilitators have used to       project to develop consultancy work, and the dynamics arts company Effervescent       attributed the       increase of its turnover by 320% between 2010-11 and 2012-13, increased       regional visibility and       its showcasing by the Arts Council to its work on the Sex and History       Project.
[1] The methodology       is currently being developed with leading children's charity Barnardos as       a way of working with       very vulnerable young people.
The Arts Council has showcased the project       as a model for using       the arts to enhance health and well-being.
It was presented at a workshop       on Strategic       Commissioning for the Arts, Health and Wellbeing, and delivered as a       keynote demonstration of       best practice at symposium of regional experts in Health, Wellbeing and       the Arts: `Next Steps in       Commissioning Arts and Health', and showcased at the Devon Museums Forum       2013.
