     Increased immigration, the rising influence of far-right groups, the       success of UKIP in local elections, Cornish nationalism, and the       forthcoming Scottish Independence Referendum have thrust questions about       Britishness to the forefront of public discourse.
Research at ECLIPSE has       engaged different publics in the cultural and historical contexts of these       highly charged social and political debates.
Informing and influencing policy debate and practice     Groom's research on the symbolism of flags has informed       discussions about national identity in the British media and the work of       political pressure groups.
His published papers led to an invitation to       speak at a Fabian Society seminar on citizenship at the 2008 Labour Party       Conference and the TUC's Equality Summit in the same year.
The       significance of Groom's work is evident in its citation in the successful       campaign to allow the permanent flying of the Union Jack over the Houses       of Parliament on the grounds that the flag was a vital component of       British cultural heritage.
The 2010 decision marked an end to a 150-year       rule that the flag only flies when Parliament is sitting.
The MP who       chaired Parliament's All Party Flags and Heraldry Committee, and who led a       nine-campaign on the issue, declared that `Prof. Groom's research and       publications have contributed to the campaign to gain formal recognition       for the national flag .
.
.
(Groom) has played a noteworthy role in this       process' (5.1).
The President of the Flag Institute, an advisor to       the All Party Flags and Heraldry Committee, noted that Groom `has       contributed significantly to the better understanding of what a national       flag means to people and its unique importance to the nation' (5.2).
Informing the content of associations between people and groups to         illuminate and challenge cultural values; extending the range of         evidence to enhance public understanding of major social issues     The `Mysticism, Myth, and "Celtic" Nationalism' project resulted in a       number of events which engaged publics at both regional and national level       with issues of Cornish heritage and identity.
Gibson organized a       public exhibition on myth and the supernatural in Cornish culture in 2010       in collaboration with regional artists, photographers, and cultural       industries.
The exhibition was initially held at the University's Penryn       campus and then moved to Cornwall Council's Cornish Centre in Redruth,       accompanied by an oral history archive of 60 interviews with locals and       tourists.
One of the 20 comments in the visitor's book at Penryn commended       the `clear link between [public] lectures and exhibition'.
A Cornish       independent publisher reported that the exhibition `felt like an       appropriate and happy meeting between the University and a local cultural       industry' (5.3).
The event drew national media interest and Gibson       was interviewed about Cornish ghost stories in popular culture on BBC       Radio Five Live `Drive', BBC1 Spotlight, and BBC Radio Cornwall.
Her       research subsequently led to appearances as an academic expert in Tony       Robinson's 2011 Channel 4 series about supernatural belief in Britain, Gods         and Monsters, including overseeing what the producer calls a `key       episode' in the series involving recreation of an exorcism, and on Radio       4's `Open Book' feature on `Literary Landscapes &#8212; Cornwall' (18 August       2013) (5.4).
Groom has been a prominent commentator on issues of national       identity in diverse forms of regional, national, and international media.
The reach of his research is indicated by the fact that his 5000-word       podcast, `Conflict and Cohesion in Britain, 2005-10', broadcast on       Scholarcast, a digital humanities project run by University College       Dublin, was downloaded on average 100 times a day in June 2011 by visitors       from around the world (5.5).
He has written on the topic of       identity for national newspapers and magazines including The Sunday         Times, The Sun, Total Politics, and Prospect (5.6).
He has been interviewed by the BBC about Britishness in relation to a       range of topics, including the Olympics on Radio 4's `Today' programme (4       June 2012), when he argued that the Union Jack is `a symbol of inclusivity       and diversity' and that it is `the people's flag' (5.7).
Groom was       also a key academic contributor to BBC 4's Citizen Smith (2010),       about the search for a modern-day definition of English nationality.
An       example of the diversity of these media contributions is an interview in The         Guardian discussing the use of the Union Jack in fashion (5.8).
During the Jubilee, Groom provided expert testimony to international media       outlets, including CNN and France's TF1 (5.9).
These media       contributions have influenced online debate among an extraordinarily wide       range of interest groups: from lobbyists arguing for and against Scottish       independence, to gay rights activists observing that the BNP's emblem was       designed by a homosexual king, to members of the Scout Movement stressing       the cultural importance of the St George flag.
Groom's publications are       often cited as authoritative sources to settle disagreements (5.10).
The Wikipedia entry for `the Union Flag' refers readers to Groom's 2007       essay `Union Jacks and Union Jills'.
