     Helping professionals and organisations adapt to changing cultural         values; generating new         ways of thinking that influence creative practice     Giannachi and Kaye have collaborated with a number of       artists towards the creation of novel       forms of documentation that encompass the user experience.
The `Performing       Presence' online       research facility (2004-11), disseminating the team's research to the       general public, had a wide       reach, receiving between 260,000-625,000 hits in 2010 alone (5.1).
The documentation of the       artwork Life Squared (2006-9) led to a series of conversations       that the creator, an award-winning       US media artist, described as follows: `working with [Giannachi and Kaye]       has expanded and       enriched original conceptual themes as well as allowed a remapping of       strategies that greatly       expanded the original notion of what constitutes archives [...] I doubt       very much if my work would       have expanded as fully as it did without the dialogues with them' (5.2).
An impact of this exchange       was that the technologist who developed Life Squared created a       virtual world, Sirikata, and then       founded the company Katalabs, aimed at creating virtual worlds that can be       embedded in websites       and accessed through browsers with WebGL (5.3).
Giannachi's       research into CloudPad led an       award-winning British artist company to devise a new form of archival       work, Riders Have Spoken,       documenting their work Rider Spoke, which was shown at British       Library as part of their Growing       Knowledge Exhibition (2011).
The company acknowledged that Giannachi's       `inquisitive, rigorous       interrogation and elucidation of the group's work enabled [them] to learn       more deeply, reflect more       fully and disseminate more widely' (5.4).
Kaye's research into the theory and practice of documentation for       multimedia and installation       practices led to his invitation to act as consultant to the Israel Museum,       Jerusalem, for the       selection, installation, and curation of the permanent exhibition of       artists' film, video and       performance documentation in the newly-built 20th-century wing.
In particular, he contributed to the       integration of film and performance art into the galleries.
Funded by the       Rockefeller Foundation,       the wing opened in 2010, receiving c. 400,000 visitors in the first year.
Kaye's work contributed to       the ongoing enrichment of public appreciation of the Dada, Surrealist, and       Fluxus works in the 20th-century       wing and to the integration of additional media within the galleries (5.5).
Kaye also       collaborated with Arnolfini, Bristol, towards Version Control, a       large-scale interdisciplinary       exhibition about the re-use and re-visiting of art works and performances,       which received 32,507       visitors between February and April 2013 (5.6).
Preserving, conserving and presenting cultural heritage     Giannachi's research led to a series of international invitations       to arts festivals (ars electronica,       Linz 2009; Transmediale, Berlin 2010; ISEA, D&#252;sseldorf 2010; ICK2011,       Amsterdam).
These in       turn prompted numerous subsequent invitations to `closed' expert workshops       on conservation       (Netherlands Media Art Institute; Virtueel Platform, the sector institute       for e-culture in the       Netherlands, Amsterdam 2011; Tate, London 2012; Gulbenkian       Foundation, Lisbon, June 2013).
The exchanges between Giannachi, museum curators, and sector institutes       were influential on the       Dutch field of digital arts conservation: `As a professional in the field       of art documentation, I believe       the work that has been done on documentation far extends the regular work       that is done in       museums and arts organizations' (5.7).
Giannachi's research with Horizon led to the development of Art       Maps, which makes over 68,000       artworks by Tate available through a web app to mobile users.
Art Maps,       which `might not only       provide valuable data to Tate but also deliver the fundamentals of Tate       Learning Strategy and the       Mission itself' (5.8), was described by a user as something which       `takes art to people who wouldn't       necessarily access it and it broadens other people's horizons, [...]       people who probably have never       been to an art gallery' (5.9).
Art Maps, which has been in receipt       of an EPSRC impact award held       by project Research Fellow Laura Carletti, was exhibited at Tate Britain       as part of the Looking at         the View Exhibition (February-June 2013).
Giannachi's       collaboration with RAMM on Moor Stories       has similarly made it possible to connect the museum's collections from       Dartmoor with their       original locations.
The web app, which has supported RAMM's policy of       facilitating access to its       collections as widely as possible, has thus far been showcased at RAMM's       Festival of Archaeology       (2013) (5.10).
