     Preserving, conserving, and presenting literary and cultural heritage     Kendall has collaborated with Gloucestershire County Archives to       preserve and disseminate a       neglected part of English literary heritage and to create an enriched       public awareness of the work       of a major English poet and composer.
This has been achieved through       performances, readings,       and publications aimed at academic and non-academic audiences (5.1).
Lancaster's cataloguing       of the Gurney papers was supervised by Kendall and the fully annotated       catalogue of Gurney's       papers &#8212; letters, essays, poems, plays, musical scores &#8212; has been       accessible via the Archives       website since 2011.
Selections from the archive were publicly exhibited at       the Three Choirs       Festival in Gloucester from 11-14 August 2010 (5.2).
The       Gloucestershire Archives website notes       that the work of Kendall and Lancaster has made available to the public       for the first time the       `musical manuscripts, letters and notebooks' of `one of the greatest       composers of English art song       of the twentieth century and one of the most significant poets of the       First World War' (5.3).
Richardson played a leading role in the successful campaign to       preserve the papers of the       Thomas Hardy Players, the Dorchester theatrical group with whom Hardy       associated and who       staged adaptations of his novels.
In December 2009, a rare collection of       Hardy manuscripts,       including unique material related to the Hardy Players, was put up for       sale by a private collector.
The export of the collection was temporarily barred following a       recommendation by the       Parliamentary Reviewing Committee on the Export of Works of Art and       Objects of Cultural Interest.
A collaborative campaign by the Museum, the University of Exeter, the       Dorset History Centre, the       New Hardy Players, and the Thomas Hardy Society secured the collection for       Dorset.
Richardson       played a key role in the campaign to keep the archive in Dorset by       explaining to the public the       significance of keeping the archive in the South West for Hardy       scholarship (5.4).
She was widely       interviewed about the campaign, including on BBC Breakfast News, and was       involved in       fundraising events such as a public performance at Dorset County Museum       which featured the last       remaining member of the original Hardy Players, cast by Hardy himself in a       performance in 1924       (5.5).
The campaign was cited by the Times Higher Education Awards       2010 when Exeter was       shortlisted for the `Excellence and Innovation in the Arts' award.
Subsequently Richardson became       education strategy lead for the Hardy Country Steering Group, a       partnership between the National       Trust and Dorset County Council to increase visitors to the Trust's Hardy       Property.
She has since       established a monthly series of public lectures on Hardy supported by       Dorset County Museum and       the National Trust (2012- ) and conducted workshops on Hardy with 35       pupils from four Exeter       secondary schools (2010-11).
Developing stimuli to tourism; engaging different publics in literary         and cultural heritage     In 2008, the Chair of Devon and Cornwall Business Council estimated that       the West Country's       literary heritage had brought &#163;20m to the region from 2003-8, citing the       region's connections with       writers such as Daphne du Maurier and the work of the University of Exeter       (5.6).
One instance of       this contribution of SWW to literary tourism is the annual Literary       Festival at Fowey, Cornwall.
This       is a regional engagement activity which has acquired a national       reputation.
One of the aims of the       Festival is to increase public engagement with the work of du Maurier, who       lived in Fowey.
Taylor       has played an advisory and managerial role in this festival since its       inception in 1997 and is       currently co-programmer.
English staff have consequently played a key role       in bringing academic       strength to the programme: the 2011 Festival, for example, sold 12,000       tickets, of which events       given or chaired by English staff accounted for 798 (5.7).
The       Department's involvement has been       growing: in 2013 over a quarter of the events over the ten days of the       Festival involved colleagues.
Taylor has given many talks at the Festival, including in 2007 a sell-out       interview on stage with du       Maurier's three children which addressed the importance of the Exeter       archive and drew on earlier       family interviews included in Taylor's Daphne du Maurier Companion.
Kendall and Lancaster's project has raised Gurney's profile across       the city of Gloucester.
They       have lobbied successfully to have Gurney's blue plaque moved to a more       visible location; acted       as advisors to a new sculpture situated at Gloucester Docks; and enabled       the world premiere of       Gurney's A Gloucestershire Rhapsody at the Three Choirs Festival       in Gloucester in 2010 (5.8).
A         Gloucestershire Rhapsody was then broadcast for the first time on       BBC Radio 3 on 6 December       2012, and Gurney will be `Composer of the Week' on BBC Radio 3 in June       2014.
Gurney's       previously unpublished poem `The Bugle' was edited by Kendall and       Lancaster for The Guardian       (13 Nov. 2010) to mark Remembrance Week (5.9).
As a direct result       of his work on Gurney,       Kendall was commissioned to write and present a 1-hour documentary on       `Ivor Gurney: the Poet       Who Loved the War', which will be screened on BBC4 in 2014 as part of the       BBC's       commemoration of the centenary of the First World War (5.10).
