     The collective research-as-practice the University of Exeter's Creative       Writing team (ECW) has enriched public appreciation of contemporary       literature in the UK and globally.
Their publication of a number of       critically acclaimed and popular works has given ECW the standing to hold       a series of events and workshops as part of a strategic outreach programme       that has increased public participation in creative writing and inspired       and supported new literary publications and careers.
Creating new forms of literary expression and enriching public         appreciation of contemporary writing     Hensher's fiction has received international critical acclaim for       its originality; he has had a correspondingly important role as a critic       and reviewer in fostering public engagement with contemporary literature.
His novel The Northern Clemency (2008) was reviewed on publication       in every major newspaper in Britain and America, and many others in the       English-speaking world.
It was short-listed for the Man Booker Prize       (2008), Commonwealth Writers prize (2008), and the International IMPAC       Dublin Literary Award (2010).
Amazon.com chose The Northern Clemency       as the Best Book of 2008; it was also among Time Out's Best Books       of the Year (5.1).
The Washington Post commented: `Amazon       may disappoint some customers with a novel as demanding as The         Northern Clemency, but it's encouraging to see that the ascendancy       of online booksellers needn't mean the end of high culture' (5.2).
King of the Badgers (2011) was similarly widely reviewed and was       long-listed for the Man Booker Prize.
Moss's Night Waking       (2011) was reviewed to great acclaim by UK broadsheet newspapers&#8212;the Financial         Times described it as `a brilliantly observed comedy of 21st century       manners'&#8212;and was one of the winners in the 2011 Fiction Uncovered       promotion, sponsored by Arts Council England (5.3).
It was Mumsnet's       Book of The Month in May 2012 and Moss was interviewed on the site about       her writing process (5.4).
Engaging different publics in creative practice through participation         and events; inspiring and supporting new forms of literary expression     The ECW team gave 47 invited readings and talks in the REF period (Hensher       24, Brown 18, Moss 5), including in Hensher's case at       major international events: India International Literature and Media       Festival, Hay Festival Dhaka, and Melbourne Festival.
Some of their talks       are freely available on-line and relate their creative practice to their       research into the history of literary forms, such as Hensher's       `What Would Dickens Write Today?'
for the British Council in Berlin (5.5).The       publishing success and reputation of ECW created a research environment at       the University and in the South West of England which helped to bring       literary figures of international standing to Exeter to give public       lectures, including Philip Pullman, Hilary Mantel, and Paul Muldoon, and       to increase public participation in creative writing events.
Mantel has       subsequently become Honorary Visiting Professor in Exeter's College of       Humanities.
Twenty public events were held between 2008 and 2013,       attracting audiences of over 3,000 people (5.6).
Public writing workshops held in partnership with regional and national       cultural agencies have been central to the ECW's strategy to engage       different publics in creative practice.
Arts Council England (ACE)       describes ECW as `a key strategic client' and has repeatedly funded the       team's outreach activity (5.7).
Brown came to Exeter with       experience in this area having directed an annual programme of creative       writing residential courses in his role as Centre Director for The Arvon       Foundation in Devon from 1996-2002.
Brown's ACE award in 2009, for       example, funded the appointment of two writers-in-residence at the       University of Exeter, Paul Dodgson and Claire George, who acted as       ambassadors and mentors for Exeter's regional activities, collaborating       with staff to offer workshops for audiences who might not ordinarily have       access to the arts.
The research interests of Brown in       `eco-poetics' and Moss in writing and the environment led to their       collaboration in 2010-11 with Claire George in a series of public       workshops in Devon and Cornwall around the theme of `Imagine There's A       Future', in which participants were invited `to create fictions set in a       sustainable future' and were brought together in creative encounters with       experts in climate change and environmental campaigners.
The workshops and       a competition resulted in over 80 stories, the best of which were included       in a published anthology which was freely given away (500 copies) (5.8).
One participant praised a workshop for offering `encouragement that       environment issues are permitted in fiction'; another noted that `the       workshop has given me a more confident approach to quickly writing       whatever comes into my head' (5.9).
As part of this scheme, twelve       selected writers from the South West were mentored by ECW.
Two of these       writers (Beatrice Hitchman and Rupert Wallis) subsequently contracted       their novels to major publishers (Serpent's Tail and Simon &amp;       Schuster).
One of the most notable achievements of the research environment       developed by ECW has been to inspire and support new and commercially       successful writing.
In 2007 Brown and Hensher launched Riptide,       a bi-annual short story journal.
Riptide is now a commercial       venture: its editors are two former ECW PhD students and among the writers       first published by the magazine was Jane Feaver, who has since published       novels with leading publishers including Harvill Secker (Love Me Tender,       2009), and who from 2013 replaced Hensher as permanent lecturer in fiction       writing at Exeter (5.10).
