     Research at UoB has changed the way the design profession values and         represents its own history: The Design Council, the International       Council of Societies of Industrial Design (ICSID) and the International       Council of Graphic Design Associations (ICOGRADA) (ICOGRADA and ICSID       embrace 352 member organizations in 72 countries in 5 continents) have all       chosen UoB for the deposit and research-led promotion of their archives       (source 5.1).
Amounting to 430 linear metres, 13% of which were deposited       since 2008, the Design Archives were considered by leading industry       publication Design Week (6 June 2010) to be amongst the five key       design research collections in the UK.
Standing has also grown through       receipt of recurrent external core funding, with the Times Higher         Education (10 August 2010) reporting that for `the first time, a       university's design archives have been nationally recognised through a       grant from the Higher Education Funding Council for England' (5.2).
UoB's       Design Archives influenced the establishment of the Design Archives at       RMIT, Australia, and informed policy in this capacity for the South Korean       government (2012), which is in the process of building a national design       archive (5.3, 5.4).
Continuing Professional Development (CPD) involvement       includes presentations for the British Institute of Interior Designers and       in 2011 the Design Archives hosted a seminar `Archiving Design       Organisations' which included archivists from the V&amp;A, the RSA,       D&amp;AD and the Design Museum.
Research on mapping design history through       a Collaborative Doctoral Award with the Chartered Society of Designers       (2010-13) involved the membership in creating a new view of the       organisation's past (5.5).
Enabling access to previously hidden resources has widened the sources       available to picture, television and museum researchers.
Sustaining       investment by JISC and others in digital resource development, currently       9,000 images from the Design Archives and 20,000 catalogue records are       distributed through aggregators, including the Archives Hub, the Visual       Arts Data Service and the Archives Portal Europe.
Documentation and new       images have featured in the BBC series The British at Work (2011)       and in The Genius of Design (2010), and between 2008 and 2013,       have featured in 80 separate publications and exhibitions, including those       by the Cooper-Hewitt National Design Museum, MoMA, Vitra Design Museum,       Helsinki Design Museum and Centre Pompidou.
Research by TAYLOR and WOODHAM has influenced the form         and content of design courses around the world: This has contributed       significantly to the expansion of design and dress history as fields of       study since the 1990s at both undergraduate and postgraduate level, for       example, in the embracing of design on art history courses and in the       inclusion of dress and the everyday as topics of study.
Their work is one       of the mainstays of reading lists around the globe.
TAYLOR's continuing       influence on dress studies is evidenced by her consultancy to the       Department of Fashion Studies, University of Sweden in 2010; she was also       the keynote presenter of the research series, La Mode: Objets         d'Etudes?
for the Institut National de l'Histoire d'Art, Paris and       invited contributor to the Fashion studies handbook (2013, Oxford:       Berg) (5.6).
Likewise, WOODHAM's Twentieth-century design was       translated into Korean in 2008 and Chinese in 2012; with over 55,000 sales       worldwide it continues to inform design, design history and design       education studies at all levels, from BTEC to masters degrees.
Adopting       institutions include Harvard University Graduate School, Parsons, the New       School for Design, Sydney University of Technology, Greenside Design       Centre College, Johannesburg, the Indian Institute of Information       Technology, Mexico City University, Delft University of Technology and the       University of Manitoba.
WOODHAM's A Dictionary of Modern Design       (Oxford University Press (OUP) 2004 hb.
and 2006 pb.)
is endorsed by the       British Library and the V&amp;A, and is licensed to Answers.com and to       Handmark for handheld devices.
Part of OUP's online presence for eight       years, it reaches 3,000 institutional subscribers worldwide.
WOODHAM's       role with the International Committee for Design History and Design       Studies also testifies to his impact on teachers and students of design       history globally.
WOODHAM's keynote at the Osaka conference (2008) `Design       Peripheries, Hidden Histories and the Cartography of Design' was one of       three selected to represent the International Council of Societies of       Industrial Design's (ICDHS) aims and ambitions on its website.
The 2012       Sao Paolo conference, `Design Frontiers', comprised 154 papers by speakers       from 27 countries in 6 continents: WOODHAM's research is referenced 52       times in the published proceedings (5.7).
As a professor Emeritus at the       Department of Art History, University of Illinois, Chicago asserts:       `Professor Woodham has consistently promoted the internationalization of       the field, especially the inclusion of countries that would otherwise be       considered marginal.
He has in fact become one of the few authoritative       voices in the international design history community, based on the high       quality of his scholarship, his efforts to promote an understanding of       design history to the general public, and his championing of inclusion       within the ICDHS itself.'
(5.8).
The UoB has become an international nucleus for the training of         researchers employed in museums and archives throughout the world:       TAYLOR and WOODHAM have shaped curatorial practice directly, through their       role as curators and consultants, and indirectly through the professional       practice of their research students.
TAYLOR's graduates include Dr Lesley       Miller, Head of Textiles at the V&amp;A, and Dr Alexandra Palmer, the Nora       E. Vaughan Curator of Costume at the Royal Ontario Museum, Toronto.
The       2011 Developments in Dress History Conference at Brighton Museum       marked TAYLOR's influence on an entire generation of curators: 70 speakers       from 14 countries and 4 continents attended.
Likewise, WOODHAM's research       themes now occupy centre stage in museum displays.
WOODHAM's expertise was       embraced by the Czech Centre in a series of exhibitions and symposia (most       recently in 2012), which `exerted a significant impact on the way design       is understood by designers, historians and the public inside and outside       the Republic, whether in terms of the Czech and Czechoslovakian cultural       legacy and the relationship to politics, economics and Europe, or the       design opportunities and complexities in the establishment of the Republic       in 1993 and membership of the European Union in 2004' (5.9).
Devising the       British Academy/AHRB Institutional Fellowship at the V&amp;A       (1997-present), WOODHAM's research has informed collecting as well as       exhibition policy, and UoB's AHRC CDAs at the V&amp;A and the Design       Museum continue this trajectory.
The embedding of design research in       exhibition contexts also drives the work of colleagues, for example,       MORIARTY's exhibition Black Eyes and Lemonade was reviewed in the       London Review of Books (LRB), the Times Literary Supplement       (TLS), and attracted 146,000 visitors, with the Whitechapel       recording `fantastic feedback from the general public' (5.10).
In       Margolin's view, `the professors and archivists at the University of       Brighton have built up an impressive complex of resources that embrace       teaching, research, and the dissemination of knowledge' (5.8).
