     Impact at the international level (United Nations and World Bank):       In 2009 Atkinson was commissioned by the World Bank to write a paper on       the issues and       challenges involved in the use of environmental valuation methods in       official policy appraisals.
The       paper, titled "Greening the National Accounts: Challenges and Initial       Practical Steps", served as       input into processes on natural capital accounting being undertaken by the       United Nations       Statistical Office and was also disseminated by both the World Bank [A]       and the UN Department of       Economic and Social Affairs [B] as a guide for member countries.
In the UK       this report proved to       be "a very useful reference in helping Defra [the Department for       Environment Food and Rural       Affairs] understand different perspectives on natural capital accounting,       including the role and       potential for application of economic valuation within an accounting       framework.
It has also       informed the UK contribution to the review of the recent UN SEEA [System       of Environmental-Economic Accounting] publication on Experimental Ecosystem Accounting"       [C].
Following that project, in 2012 Atkinson was invited to serve as a member       of the Policy and       Technical Experts Committee (PTEC) providing guidance to the World Bank's       Wealth Accounting       and the Valuation of Ecosystem Services (WAVES) Partnership, which is       assisting partner       countries to implement natural capital accounting.
He is a member of the       Methodology Working       Group, which is conducting its own research projects as well as advising       on pilot projects designed       to test proposed accounting methodologies in a number of partner countries       [D].
The underpinning research has also had impact on the development and       implementation of the       United Nations Environment Program's (UNEP) City Biodiversity Index (CBI).
The CBI is a       pioneering self-assessment and monitoring tool designed to help cities       better understand how they       can improve their biodiversity conservation efforts.
This tool helps       cities to: engage with the issue       of biodiversity; monitor and manage their biological resources; and raise       awareness of biodiversity       amongst citizenry more widely.
The full index is now being used in more       than 100 cities worldwide,       while a further 334 cities from five countries are using a truncated       version.
LSE impact on the CBI was in the development of the set of indicators       dedicated to governance       with respect to biodiversity.
Specifically, Nancy Holman was a key member       of the Technical Task       Force [2009-11] ensuring that indicators were clear and adaptable to       individual city circumstances       [E, F, G].
Holman translated the underpinning research into direct lessons       for creating elements of       the CBI.
One insight was to design indicators so as to require `competing'       policy departments to       exchange information and ideas before proceeding with the act of       measurement.
This creates a       new network of policy actors around the issue of biodiversity and further       embeds the idea into       policy discourse.
This approach has demonstrated a direct impact on the biodiversity policy       in the cities that applied       the index.
For example, in Lisbon, Portugal, the application of the CBI       led directly to the       development of a Biodiversity Strategy and Local Action Plan for       Biodiversity [H].
Application of the       CBI has also diversified, such that it is now used a) by city officials to       set project priorities, b) by       city planners in planning new cities, c) in environmental sustainability       ranking systems, and d) by       schools for their biodiversity audits.
In addition, partnership networks       are being created between       local government, local communities and businesses to provide things like       sustainable urban       drainage systems, which are benefitting both the environment and       partnership development.
The beneficiaries of this impact on biodiversity indicator governance are       thus not confined to       UNEP and the Convention on Biological Diversity-Conference of the Parties       (CBD-COP).
Given its       implementation across many cities and deliberate targeting towards       communication to a public       (city-based) audience, beneficiaries include many national and local       stakeholders, including       municipal and local governments, communities, businesses and citizens who       will be affected in the       present and the future.
Impact on UK environmental policy:       Within the UK, Atkinson has been involved in Government reviews and       projects that have led to       revision of the Government's assessment of its contribution to Sustainable       Development (SD) and       the way in which it accounts for and manages UK natural capital.
One of these reviews was conducted by the Government Economic Service       (GES) Working Group       on the Economics of Sustainable Development, which was comprised of       representatives from       across Whitehall departments and chaired by the Chief Economist of Defra.
Dr. Atkinson was       commissioned by this working group to provide an assessment of current UK       practice on       sustainability [H,I].
Grounding his findings and recommendations firmly       within the underpinning       research cited above, Atkinson proposed revision of the Sustainable       Development (SD) Test       required as part of the Impact Assessment that UK policy-makers must       conduct for any proposed       policy action.
In particular, he recommended the incorporation of an       'asset check' that would keep       track of key environmental assets and require policy-makers to give       special consideration to the       impact that a proposed policy would be likely to have on natural capital.
This proposal featured       prominently in both the GES Working Group's own recommendations in 2010       [I] and in the Natural       Environment White Paper published by Defra in 2011 [J].
This work led to Atkinson's involvement in two separate research       projects: a pilot study by Defra to       define what an asset check might look like in practice, and further work       on developing an asset       check as part of the National Ecosystem Assessment Follow-On study       (NEAFO).
A piece of this       involved gathering case studies and establishing what an additional focus       on natural capital adds       to `conventional' ecosystem assessment.
According to Defra's Deputy       Director for Sustainable       Land and Rural Evidence and Analysis, "the principle that impacts on key       assets should be       assessed and considered in decision-making has already influenced the       development of specific       appraisal guidance.
Specifically, new impact assessment guidance recently       published by Ofgem       recommends combining valuation of environmental impacts with a broader       assessment of the       longer-term impacts of energy investments on critical natural stocks (as       well as on GHG emission       reduction targets)" [C,K: p. 23].
Defra's 2011 White Paper also announced the establishment of a Natural       Capital Committee       (NCC) reporting to the UK Economic Affairs Committee and chaired by the       Chancellor.
This       committee was charged with advising HM Government on whether England's       natural assets are       being used unsustainably and on priority actions to take in addressing any       identified problems and       concerns.
Atkinson was appointed a member of the NCC in May 2012 [L] and       has been active in       co-leading the NCC's work on improving accounting for natural capital.
Atkinson's underpinning       research on the practical issues and challenges in measuring natural       capital, and particularly the       benefits and costs associated with environmental loss and the 'saving' of       natural resources, has       been particularly relevant and influential in this work.
In addition, in       July 2012 the Office for       National Statistics began a public consultation on a rationale and process       for including the full       value of natural capital in the UK Environmental Accounts by 2020.
Dr       Atkinson was one of the       authors of the NCC's written response to this consultation.
Some of the       NCC's advice, most       importantly the recommendation to develop parallel ecosystem accounts that       maximise the       opportunity to identify cross-cutting issues, has been incorporated in the       ONS' published       implementation Roadmap [C, M].
Wider Implications: LSE research on accounting for natural capital       is helping to shape UK and       World Bank environmental policy by proving a more robust accounting       methodology.
LSE work       with the United Nations to develop a core biodiversity indicator set is       being applied in cities       worldwide and is aiding urban biodiversity conservation efforts.
