     Impact on the curatorial practice, display and interpretation of 20th-         and 21st- century design: The underpinning research in       both curatorial practice and learning spaces has transformed curation,       approaches to acquisition at the V&amp;A, and promoted wider public       understanding of post-war and contemporary design.
Exhibitions have       offered new approaches to the curation of design in specific periods, and       the object scholarship and `learning spaces' research both provided more       practical understandings of design and its cultural impact as well as       providing a series of public fora for dialogue and debate.
Overall the       research has fundamentally changed the curatorial practices of the V&amp;A       and it has succeeded in placing the museum at the forefront of       international design debates.
In particular, it has transformed the ways       in which different departments within the V&amp;A communicate and       collaborate and how the museum works with universities.
The first of       PAVITT'S two exhibitions: Cold War Modern: Art and Design in a Divided         World 1945-70 [3.1] from 2008 attracted 91,300 people (source       5.1).
Its thematic presentation of the subject, drawing on artefacts from       many different fields of design, showed how `politics influences design'       (5.2).
International impact is evidenced by the exhibition's subsequent       showing in Italy and then Lithuania, where it was one of the most highly       attended exhibitions ever held and the accompanying literature clearly       placed it within the Lithuanian context (5.3).
The second exhibition, Postmodernism:         Style and Subversion 1970-1990 from 2011, attracted       attendance figures of 114,900, exceeding predicted numbers by 15% and       attracting, according to V&amp;A reports, a very different demographic       from previous exhibitions of a design `period'.
Visitors were more likely       to be professional (63% of the visitors were from the creative industries)       and younger (34% were in the 16-24 age group) (5.4).
Postmodernism       was subsequently shown in Italy and Switzerland.
Both exhibitions were accompanied by publications [3.2] and V&amp;A       Publishing, 2011, conferences and educational events including an       international conference (Cold War Culture, 2008) and a symposium (The         Postmodern Legacy, 2011).
A central focus of these was an       examination of how art and design was enmeshed with social and political       issues.
These initiatives stimulated the international press and media to       generate widespread public discourse, which raised awareness of the       political and historical significance of design and ephemera behind the       iron curtain (5.5).
PAVITT's research has been extended and developed by her successor at the       V&amp;A, JULIER, who has overseen the formation of a new V&amp;A       Contemporary Team (2013) (5.6), focusing on the social role of design.
He       has instigated the popular `Design Salon' series (5.7) putting the V&amp;A       at the centre of professional, educational and public debate about the       contemporary role of design.
Additionally, JULIER's role as a member of       the Associate Parliamentary Design &amp; Innovation Group (APDIG) that       examined the design of public services (Restarting Britain 2: Design         &amp; Public Services, 2013) has led to increasing influence on       Parliamentary discourse about design issues in the UK.
Developed contemporary conceptions of learning spaces: The work of       BODDINGTON, BOYS [3.5, 3.6] and Cook et al [3.4] as part of the CETLD       resulted in structural and operational changes within the V&amp;A and       contributed to the development of the Sackler Centre for Arts Education.
For example, the Learning and Interpretation Department and the Research       Department now work collaboratively to maximise opportunities for       structuring learning from research, and have together produced a new       programme of events for these new and growing audiences.
As a direct       outcome from the CETLD the museum created a new dedicated HE and creative       industries programme manager to support university tutors, undergraduate       and postgraduate students through a regular cycle of events, including       tailored tours and talks.
This manager also advises on how to make optimal       use of the V&amp;A both as a physical and an online learning space and       encourages graduates and academics to apply for residences within the       museum.
In addition to working closely with six major HE partners, the       museum has, since 2009, acted as a creative agent, running over 100 events       that link HE students with creative industry professionals to augment       learning and knowledge exchange between sectors (5.9).
As the V&amp;A's       former Director of Learning and Interpretation explained of this project:       `It has changed the landscape in an important area of museum work, and       will have an impact on thinking in museums (and, I hope, higher education)       for years to come' (5.8).
This research continues to develop through the first award of an AHRC       Collaborative Doctorate in 2010 (SPEIGHT) with the museum's Learning and       Interpretation Department.
Two international cross-sector conferences held       in 2010 (Re-shaping learning?
the future of learning spaces in         post-compulsory education, Brighton; and Learning at the         Interface: museum and university collaborations, V&amp;A) resulted       in the publication of two books [3.5, 3.6].
They both brought together       international cross-sector audiences that included museum curators,       learning and interpretation specialists, academics, architects, planners,       social scientists, and estate and facilities managers.
They examined: 1)       the implications of integrating physical, digital and personal learning       spaces within universities and museums; 2) the practical and policy       barriers for such realisations, and; 3) how these may be overcome.
In       addition, they identified the need for further research to construct       theoretical models and evaluation frameworks to monitor and review the       commissioning, user experiences and effectiveness of the significant       investment currently being made in educational buildings and digital       infrastructures for learning worldwide.
The wider impact of this research       has been acknowledged within the museum world both in the UK and abroad:       `the project had a transformatory effect on the V&amp;A.
It prompted the       Museum to introduce a range of new services for HE students, and to       reshape other public services, for example, in the design of new       galleries, to better meet their needs' (5.8).
The work has also been       adopted by the Danish Ministry of Science, Innovation and Higher Education       following visits and consultations with BODDINGTON and BOYS in Brighton,       (5.10).
