     Our research has led to: the creation of new cultural capital enriching       the public imagination; deepening of cultural experiences and insights for       audiences and specific communities, and; the expansion of photography       within the creative economy to build and sustain audiences.
Creating cultural capital: The creation of new cultural capital       has given increased visibility in the public imagination to major public       and commercial endeavours (e.g.
Treasury, Airbus) as well as to less       explored aspects of the cultural heritage of the UK and Europe.
Through a       sustained programme of commissions and exhibitions, our research has       enabled public bodies, cultural institutions, galleries and corporate       sponsors to engage new audiences and communities in innovative ways.
Their       work has enabled audiences to visualise unique features of national and       popular cultures, changing urban landscapes, and heritage.
Making a       significant contribution to cultural life, our researchers have held nine       international solo exhibitions and featured work in over 40 other shows       since 2008, including at major venues such as the Guggenheim Bilbao,       Stedelijk Museum Amsterdam, George Eastman House, Somerset House and the       Art Science Museum in Singapore.
POWER and RIBAS have attracted major       features in the international press (the Guardian, Gazeta         Wyborcza, Rochester City News), magazines (Outlook, China's       leading lifestyle magazine) and professional photographic journals (Royal         Photographic Society, PhotoEye and Fotografia)       (sources 5.1 and 5.2).
In 2009 the Guardian newspaper identified a selection of images       from POWER's The Shipping Forecast (1997) for their feature, 100         years of great press photographs (5.2), thereby attesting to the       capacity of such images to endure in the public imagination and       underscoring his contribution to the increased recognition of documentary       photography within the art market (5.3).
The Photoeye nomination of Sound         of Two Songs (POWER, 2010) and Concrete Geographies (RIBAS,       2012) as being among the best photographic publications of the year is a       measure of the influence of our research on contemporary photographic       practice and its contribution to shaping the market for high-value       photographic books, which has drawn increasing cultural attention in the       past decade (5.4).
The longevity of our researchers' contributions to       cultural life has been secured by the inclusion of works in major public       collections (British Council, English Heritage, Government Art Collection)       during the period (5.5).
Enriching and deepening audience experience and engagement: There       is both qualitative and quantitative evidence that our exhibitions have       captured the imagination of public and professional audiences alike.
The       former is expressed in audience responses such as the following on POWER's       Sound of Two Songs: `when you study images from another country,       strange to you, you are given the opportunity of seeing your familiar       surroundings more clearly'; mirrored in the end-of-show ACE report: `As       much as it being a portrait of contemporary Poland, the work talks of       travel and its role in our vision of the world' (5.6).
And the latter can       be seen in the significantly higher-than-anticipated audiences our solo       exhibitions have attracted: Black Country Stories (38,000) at the       New Art Gallery, Walsall (2012) and Sound of Two Songs (10,700       people) at the Impressions Gallery, Bradford (2012) (5.6 and 5.7).
In many cases the exhibition or publication has been the starting point       for deeper and richer forms of audience engagement.
The impact of POWER's       Black Country Stories project was enhanced by his work with local       communities and with students from Walsall and Sandwell Colleges.
Stimulating the contemporary re-envisioning of photographic documentary       traditions, the project provided participants with the opportunity to       exhibit their work alongside POWER (5.7).
The transformative success of       this project enabled its commissioners (Multistory) to secure a further       &#163;415k from Arts Council England's strategic touring fund for a new project       Open for Business.
Multistory has invited POWER to contribute to       this project, which will be in partnership with the Financial Times,       Magnum Photos and the children's charity Creativity, Culture and Education       (5.7).
PURBRICK's and WINCKLER's research has created new public understandings       of the capacity of photographs to unearth both personal and cultural       memories and to support processes of reconciliation.
WINCKLER's Traces       exhibition at the Austrian Cultural Forum brought important responses from       the Association of Jewish Refugees (AJR) acknowledging that her work made       `the private public, the individual universal, transforming the most       humble photographs into images so utterly powerful' (Clare Best).
The       exhibition also led to her appearance on Tikkun Spectrum radio (broadcast       to London's Jewish community), which offered insights into how creative       photographic practices can assist in ameliorating the trauma of       disappearance associated with the Holocaust (5.8).
PURBRICK's work with       Wylie (2004) led to her sustained involvement with Healing Through         Remembering.
This cross-community organisation addressed the legacy       of the conflict in Northern Ireland, including, through an open call and       subsequent workshops, inviting proposals for a `living memorial museum' on       the site of the former Maze/Long Kesh Prison.
PURBRICK's contribution to       the project and subsequent report contributed to the case for the       construction of a peace and reconciliation centre which was awarded &#163;18m       support from the EU's Special European Programmes Body (designed by Daniel       Libeskind; subsequently withdrawn following political disagreement within       Northern Ireland) (5.9).
Expansion of the audience for photography within the creative economy:       Over more than ten years, our research strategy has nurtured an       infrastructure for photography in the region, which is now home to the       UK's largest photography festival.
Delivered principally through a       partnership between Photoworks and the UoB, the 2012 Brighton       Photo Biennial `Agents of Change' saw an increase of over 200% in its       audience figures from 2008 (5.10).
The convergence and co-location of       these organisations (finally realised in 2010), alongside close       collaboration with the region's creative and cultural communities,       including Photo Fringe, has benefited and positioned Brighton       &amp; Hove's cultural life and economy as a vital international centre of       professional and public photographic discourse.
This is underpinned by the       co-development of research, systematic investment in the Biennial and the       foundational legacies of photographic cultures that have emerged from       GREEN and LOWRY's Photoforum and our sustained partnership with Photoworks       (5.10).
