     As a result of the approach developed in his research, Vogler contributed       substantial innovations to the Georgian CPC, enacted in 2009, and provided       recommendations and training on its implementation from 2008-12.
Vogler       has actively promoted this approach through numerous consultancies over       recent years, on behalf of the Council of Europe, the European Union and       the US Department of Justice.
He has worked as an adviser to drafting       committees and justice ministries in many countries of Eastern Europe, the       Caucasus and Eurasia, including Ukraine (where he was awarded the national       Medal of Honour for services to the drafting committee which produced the       2012 Criminal Procedure Code).
He has also been able to articulate these       principles in summer schools and training sessions to legislators and       justice officials in the region on behalf of the Organisation for Security       and Co-operation in Europe/Office for Democratic Reform and Human Rights.
But the opportunity for the most sustained and focused application of       this approach was in Georgia, during a period of rapid and radical       transition over the last decade.
In 2002 this former Soviet republic was       amongst the most crime-ridden, dangerous and corrupt countries in the       world.
By 2011, at the conclusion of the criminal-justice reform process       undertaken by the Sakaashvili government, it was found by the Former       Director of Crime Prevention at the United Nations Office on Drugs and       Crime, Jan Van Dijk, that the country had metamorphosed into one of the       safest countries in the Western world.
Items 1-3: Articulating Principle and Identifying Imbalance     In 2002, on behalf of the British Council, Vogler was the adviser to a       group of NGO/opposition activists in Tbilisi developing a critique of the       Shevardnadze government's proposed redraft of the Criminal Procedure Code       (CPC).
The critique that was advanced drew on Vogler's international       research and in particular focused on the failure of the draft to address       the endemic problems of state torture and corruption and the dominance in       all stages of authoritarian Soviet-style inquisitoriality.
Vogler chaired       meetings between opposition NGOs, the drafting committee and government       ministers in 2002-03 in which these critiques were forcefully made by the       opposition group.
Vogler's group eventually managed to convince       representatives of the Council of Europe to withdraw their support for the       draft proposals and they were abandoned.
Item 4: Correcting the Imbalances     Criminal justice reform was at the heart of the reform agenda identified       by the new Saakashvili government after the `Rose Revolution' in 2003.
With the support of the American Bar Association and the US Department of       Justice, Vogler served as a principal overseas adviser to a small       government working group drafting the new CPC in 2005/2006 and made       numerous visits to Tbilisi to assist in the drafting process and to       present and commend the proposals to the Georgian Parliament.
The       provisions on arrest (Arts 170-76), pre-trial release (Arts 5, 196-208),       and non-compulsion of witnesses (Arts 49-50) represented principled       attempts to reinvigorate adversarial elements in the pre-trial.
The       establishment of jury trial (Arts 219-24, 226, 231-36) was an attempt to       introduce more popular justice in the trial phase.
The innovations were       all the outcome of debates in which Vogler was able to provide extensive       data on practice elsewhere, directly from his `World View' research.
In 2009 Vogler was asked by the Council of Europe to assess the draft for       conformity with the European Convention on Human Rights and to develop       further critiques which were presented at the `Experts Review Panel on the       Georgian CPC' in Paris in February 2009 and which led to a number of       amendments.
The CPC was finally enacted by the Georgian Parliament in       November 2009 and, in December 2010, Vogler was invited by the Council of       Europe to present recommendations on the implementation of the Code to the       Georgian Justice Minister and representatives of the Ministry of Justice       at a round-table meeting in Strasbourg.
These recommendations were based       substantively on Vogler's `World View' research [R1].
In January 2011, on behalf of an American Bar Association project, Vogler       chaired a meeting with the Georgian Justice Minister and Justice Ministry       Officials in Batumi, Georgia, on changes to the Plea-Bargaining system.
Between 2008-12, Vogler devised and conducted annual summer-school       training for the Constitutional Court on the principles of the new CPC.
All these interventions have been directly informed by the research       conducted for the `World View' [R1] and `CPE' [R2] projects and these data       facilitated an evaluation of the proposals which has had a direct impact       on the final CPC text and its implementation.
He continues to work for the       new Ivanishvili administration on the reform of the Criminal Code,       visiting Tbilisi for ministerial round-table meetings in December 2011 and       March 2013.
