     At the leading edge of contemporary performance arts for over two       decades, performance researchers at Brighton have focused on the agency of       performance as mediated by human difference and augmented by creative       technologies.
In drawing attention to and articulating cultural value,       their research has impacted upon diverse sectors and communities,       including the building of new public, and professional audiences.
For       example, AGGISS and COWIE have developed the international presence and       professionalisation of screen dance as invited expert curators and       cultural ambassadors for the British Council's screen dance collection Forward         Motion, 2009 (source 5.1).
Accompanied by an international tour of       UK Screen Dance, this promoted `UK PLC' as a place of cultural innovation       and creative education.
This has been screened over 330 times to a broad       range of cultural, educational and intergenerational audiences in over 35       different countries, including India, North and South America, Japan,       China and Spain.
The tour was augmented by AGGISS' delivery of performance       lectures and master-classes that stimulated professionals and enhanced       public understanding (5.2).
Expanding and Developing audiences: Intrinsic to Brighton's       performance research has been the use of distinctive and inclusive means       to extend and engage new audiences, through the innovative use of screen       and film technologies and locating and opening up the work in new contexts       (AGGISS and COWIE); or through employing inclusive forms of practice       (KARIKIS and FOX).
Throughout AGGISS and COWIE's long creative       collaboration (1980-2006), their work has developed and extended the       representation of dance on screen, rather than on stage, in addition to       autobiographical content and hybrid forms.
Their continued innovation,       influence and cultural enhancement of screen dance has intentionally       blurred the boundaries between `high art' and `popular culture', rejecting       any notion that the moving image's only role within dance was to document       live performance.
Through this they have increased audience access to       screen dance both nationally and internationally, and in doing so have       brought alternative forms of performance to a broader public consciousness       (5.3).
Since 2008 this has been evidenced by dedicated television profiles       (eg Diva, Channel 4, peak-viewing (2009, 2010), a 20-minute       feature on French/German arts channel ARTE (2011), invitations to       participate in international festivals (AGGISS' Survival Tactics       was presented at the Lubanja Women's Festival in 2011) and Time Out:         London featured Motion Control (2001) in their Top Ten Dance       Videos on the Web (YouTube viewing figures circa.100k) (5.4).
Enhancing       the international profile of screen-based performance and generating       discussion on inclusion, feminism, and geopolitics, the work of AGGISS,       COWIE, FOX and KARIKIS has been discussed online and in the national and       international press.
An article in the New Zealand Herald reported       that AGGISS' work `polarised the critics.
Some, mostly male, were       incensed, repulsed.
Others, predominantly female, were thrilled to see       this female dance body that broke with the stereotype' (5.5) 	  Engaging         and affecting marginalised communities: Co-creation is central to       KARIKIS' work with marginalised working communities, for which he       harnesses the sounds and songs of others as his material.
He employs       visual media and various technologies to compose and orchestrate new forms       of social sound sculptures that `give voice' to these communities and       their cultures and heritage.
Its purpose is to engender belonging, reveal       and accentuate the genius loci and locate the works within broader       geopolitical contexts.
Examples of this that demonstrate the impact and       influence of his practice include: Sounds from Beneath (2011),       developed with Snowdown Colliery Welfare Male Voice Choir in Kent (5.6)       and; SeaWomen (2012), with elderly female sea workers living on       the Korean island of Jeju (5.7).
Attracting critical acclaim, he       contributed to the Danish Pavilion at the 54th Venice Biennale       in 2011 (visitors circa.440k), and Manifesta 9 in Belgium 2012 (visitors       circa.100k) to illuminate the inclusive methodologies that underpin his       research and to develop a wider understanding of them (5.8).
Continued       interest in his work has also led to the production of a dedicated profile       on SeaWomen for TV ORF Austria (viewers circa.300k) and the       inclusion of Sounds from Beneath as part of the UK tour of the BBC       Big Screen's Opera Season and consequently an invitation to screen this       film at the Tate as part of a survey of recent artists' film and video in       Britain 2008-2013.
FOX similarly has worked with marginalised communities, shaping inclusive       methods that employ performance as a means to extend and share ideas       `beyond words'.
Her curatorial, creative and theoretical collaborative       work brings together non-disabled artists with artists with learning       disabilities, leading to the design of new public spaces for the creation       and discussion of new and groundbreaking work (5.9).
This commitment to       transforming public perceptions and understanding is well represented by Side-by-Side       (2013), the first major international inclusive arts practice exhibition       staged.
Attracting over 6,500 visitors, it was commissioned by London's       Southbank Centre, supported by ACE (&#163;58.5k), and brought together 150       artists representing the approach and outlook of 30 international       organisations, including Rocket Artists, Corali Dance Company, JumpCuts,       Kunstwerkplaats and Inventura.
It provided these groups with a       high-profile international venue to showcase their work alongside       non-disabled artists.
According to the Artistic Director of the Southbank       Centre, the exhibition was `groundbreaking in its ambition and       realisation' and marked `a paradigm shift for artist and audience       perceptions of inclusivity' (5.9, 5.10).
In this it had a major impact on       the ways in which able-bodied artists and artists with learning       disabilities engaged in performance.
