     Changed the values and practices of global businesses: The theory of       emotionally durable design has shaped policy discussions and transformed       the thinking, practices and values of some of the world's largest consumer       brands.
With Sony (2012), for example, CHAPMAN's research advanced their       sustainability journey by informing a `one device for life' approach to       modular mobile technology (source 5.1).
Sony's General Manager of       Sustainability reports: `(CHAPMAN's) research into emotionally durable       design has helped shake up the way designers, researchers and       futurologists think about the relationships between people, technology and       sustainability.
It has shifted the language in this space and contributed       directly to the Sony FutureScapes project and development of the Wandular       concept' (5.2).
The outcomes of the Wandular project were then exhibited       at the London Design Museum (July 2013) as part of The Future is Here       show, in partnership with the Technology Strategy Board (TSB).
A section       of the show was dedicated to professional design work that responded to       the theme of `Emotionally Durable Design' (5.3).
Working with Puma (2009&#8212;2013), CHAPMAN developed the `50 Ways of Thinking       and Doing Sustainable Design' toolkit, a visual framework that aims to       enhance the ecological performance of products and processes at Puma.
This       visual toolkit was blown-up and mounted on the studio walls of Puma's five       Global Design Centres, providing inspiration, support and guidance to       designers during the design process.
CHAPMAN conducted a series of       sustainable design master-classes (2012), with attendees from Puma along       with designers from leading brands in the sector such as SeymourPowell,       Adidas, Dragon Rouge, IDEO, Wolff Olins, H&amp;M, Marks &amp; Spencer and       ASOS.
A documentary film was developed from this that presented the key       findings from the sessions (5.4).
This was disseminated across the Puma       Global Network and to the rest of the PPR group, which own brands such as       Gucci, Stella McCartney, Alexander McQueen and Balenciaga.
The documentary       film that resulted from these critical sessions was broadcast across PUMA,       worldwide, receiving over 900 full views (start to finish), within just       two weeks of it being posted online.
The film was launched on a large       outdoor cinema screen at the `360 Global Meeting' in Germany 2012, which       was attended by Puma staff, including senior executives, and       representatives from Puma's parent company.
According to Puma's Head of       Global Sustainability Strategy: `CHAPMAN's research has advanced our       thinking on sustainable design and made a considerable contribution to our       quest for enhanced resource efficiency, and increased product and brand       value.
His lectures, master-classes, workshops and training films have       helped to move our sustainability story forward by shaping the attitude       and approach of our designers and management teams' (5.5).
Contributed to public debate and policy: Research into emotionally       durable design has generated significant levels of attention in the media       and ignited policy debate, with examples including: BBC Radio 4 Today       programme (2013), United Nations (2013), The Royal Society for the       Encouragement of Arts, Manufactures and Commerce (2013), the Guardian       (2013), ITV (2013), BBC Radio 4's Material World (2011), the Telegraph       (2011), BBC Radio 4's Click-On (2009), The House of Lords (2008),       and the New York Times (2008).
BBC Radio 4's Today       programme introduced Chapman's research as `the birth of a social       movement', while articles about him in The New Scientist refer to       him as `a new breed of sustainable design thinker' (2007) and one of the       key `movers and shakers' in the development of new approaches to       sustainable living (2008) (5.6).
In 2008, the Science and Technology Sub-Committee 1 of the House of Lords       called upon CHAPMAN to present his theory of emotionally durable design as       written and oral evidence.
This formed a central part of their Enquiry       into Waste Reduction (February 2008) arguing for reductions in the       generation of e-waste, by increasing the lifespans of a range of domestic       electronic products in accordance with the EU WEEE Directive.
The report       that followed was later discussed and critiqued in the House of Commons by       Members of Parliament (October 2008).
The report informed the Government's       latest Waste Policy Review (2011), which proposed an economy where       resources are used sustainably `through design for longer life, upgrading,       re-use or repair' and encouraged companies to `design and manufacture       goods that are more efficient, durable, repairable and recyclable' (5.7).
Building on this, CHAPMAN was asked if he would like to contribute to a       document for the UN Industrial Development Organization (UNIDO)       emphasising the importance of this research.
The article was prefaced by a       statement saying: `emotionally durable design presents a robust economic       model for creating products, services and brand loyal customers &#8212; driving       future sales, upgrade, service and repair' (5.8).
CHAPMAN's book is core reading at many of the world's leading design       schools (Parsons, The Royal College of Art, Stanford, TU Delft, Seoul       National University).
Due to the sustained international success of the       book, a subsequent 2nd edition has been commissioned       (Routledge, 2014), with editions in Chinese (2012), Spanish (2010) and       Korean (2009) (5.9).
In addition, the theory of `emotionally durable       design' now has a specific entry in Warwick University's Glossary of         Design, Education and Cognitive Science (5.10).
