     The underpinning research has resulted in international impact in the       ecological, economic, social and political aspects of advancing       sustainability in urban environments within the UK, Europe, North and       South America, and South Africa.
It has:     Reduced energy consumption: MCEVOY and SOUTHALL's work has       enhanced domestic eco-retrofitting and reduced carbon footprints.
Under       MCEVOY's leadership, the EU IFORE Interreg IVA project has resulted, as of       July 2013, in the retrofit of 100 social housing units in deprived areas       of Isle of Sheppey (by the end of the project an additional 100 units in       Nord-Pas de Calais, France will have also been retrofitted).
Two       large-scale social housing organisations, Amicus Horizon and Pas-de-Calais       habitat, have invested in excess of &#8364;4 million, a substantial amount for       private organisations, on new ventilation technologies and       resident-oriented education and advice solutions (source 5.1).
Although       data for this winter (2013) remains to be collected to confirm the annual       energy savings, it is expected that the project will reduce carbon       emissions by 4,693kg CO2/yr per unit, generate energy savings       for residents at &#163;512/yr, and eliminate condensation, damp and mildew.
Residents have already noticed a drop in their energy bills (5.2).
Amicus       Horizon confirmed that the retrofit in Rushenden `is the exemplar for our       forthcoming rollout of retrofit throughout our other communities' (5.3).
The project has also benefitted residents in deprived urban communities       through the establishment of community liaison roles that advise residents       on ways to save energy.
The Green Doctor has, according to the housing       association, strengthened relations with tenants, with one participant       saying that the project had `made me aware of the technical improvements       that had been made in my house so that I could use them properly and       efficiently' (5.3).
Developed cutting-edge ideas about re-using waste material: The       work of BAKER-BROWN has changed attitudes to thinking about waste both       regionally and nationally.
The House that Kevin Built was featured       on Channel 4 to an average audience of 1.78 million per episode (5.4) and       showed how straw can be used to construct a sustainable and efficient       building.
The Brighton Waste House, constructed with `waste' material on       the university's estate as an early-stage prototype, has been a unique       demonstrator vehicle for engaging learners through hands-on activities       linked to cutting-edge sustainable construction techniques.
The project       has allowed educational activities to be developed for over 30 local       schools and further education learners that champion sustainable building       design.
On-site construction activities have played a central role in the       training of 60 apprentices for the Mears Construction Company and Brighton       City College, with the innovative nature of the learning through direct       interaction contributing to Mears being awarded Regional Employer of the       Year 2012 by the National Apprentice Service (5.5).
`The Brighton Waste House' has been adopted as a `living laboratory' by       Brighton and Hove City Council, which has changed planning practices and       policy in the city to encourage eco-retrofitting, promote sustainable       design, and reduce waste during construction phases (5.6).
Eco-retrofitting research projects by BAKER-BROWN are described by the       Head of Planning as exemplars that show developers `it can be done', and       have contributed to the Council's award-winning Sustainable Design and       Waste Minimisation Planning Strategy (5.7).
Influenced strategic planning around urban architecture: VILJOEN       and BOHN's research has changed urban policy in Middlesbrough, London and       Berlin as well as in South Africa and South America.
Redesigning urban       space to incorporate food growing has impacted on how major cities promote       sustainability through the management of greenspace.
In 2008, the Greater       London Assembly (GLA) developed the policy paper Why London needs to         grow more food with one GLA member stating that VILJOEN and BOHN's       research had been `significant in helping to frame the growing interest in       policy related to urban food systems and the future shape of London'       (5.8).
In 2012, the Berlin Senate and the Department for Urban Development       and the Environment incorporated the CPUL concept within the Landscape       Plan (Strategie Stadtlandschaft &#8212; nat&#252;rlich urban produktiv) for Berlin as       one of its three visionary themes for the development of open space in the       German capital (5.9) The CPUL concept has also been incorporated into       community projects in Rosario (Argentina) and Bobo Dioulasso (Burkina       Faso) (5.10).
In Rosario, there are now 22ha of multifunctional productive       areas of park land that are cultivated by several hundred different       producers.
As a direct result of VILJOEN and BOHN's participation in the       Design Council's DOTT 07 project that took place in Middlesbrough in 2007,       17 new allotment sites have been developed, an annual town meal which       regularly feeds over 2,500 local residents with locally grown food has       been established, and over 30 schools in the area now use school-grown       food in their kitchens (5.11).
Having demonstrated the CPUL concept at       venues including the Venice Bienniale (2012), the Graham Foundation Exit       Arts, New York (2009), and the British Council in Cuba (2006), this       concept and examples of its practical implementation were cited by the       United Nations University Institute for Advanced Studies in a 2010 report       as model examples for delivering urban sustainability (5.12).
