     The research underpinning this case study has changed professional       practices in the museums sector and shaped public discourse.
At its height       EPOCH involved 609 researchers and 3DCO-FORM ran over 30 deployment       experiments, combining tools to address curatorial challenges, test       technologies and integration, raise awareness and train a new generation       of heritage professionals.
The former Head of the V&amp;A's Photographic       Studio confirmed that 3D-COFORM `brought the V&amp;A Photographic Studio       into a new realm of expertise' absorbing new skills and creating `a whole       new form of imaging media'.
(5.8) In Egypt, the National Centre for       Digitisation and the Egyptian Museum are collaborating to implement tools       and techniques that build on the 3D-COFORM project for the museum       conservation laboratory' and The Royal Belgian Museum of Art and History       has said `the 3D-Coform project was the first to adapt an integral       approach' (5.9).
The research has had a `cutting-edge' impact on the       creation of collaborative international cross- organizational networks and       had a `joined-up' effect on cultural institutions (5.8).
Specific tools developed under EPOCH and/or 3D-COFORM such as, for       example, the KU- Leuven Minidome now are in regular use.
The Minidome       employs 198 lights and 1 camera to produce 3D relief-models of physical       artefacts.
It is now in daily use in `the capture of digital simulations       of inscriptions on Near-Eastern clay tablets (5.9).
Additionally, the       Minidome integrates with MeshLab which is an advanced 3D mesh processing       open-source software system developed and maintained by 3D-COFORM partner       CNR-ISTI.
Downloads of MeshLab have increased sevenfold as a result of the       redesign originated by 3D-COFORM to over 250,000 per annum and viewers for       iPad, iPhone and Android are all being released in 2012-13.
3D-COFORM partner ICS-FORTH has provided the secretariat for development       of ISO standard 21127:2006 CIDOC-CRM, which is a reference ontology for       the interchange of cultural heritage information.
3D-COFORM's description       of provenance-related entities contributed to this activity by drawing       together the workflow from initial data capture to the communication of       results.
The take-up of 3D-COFORM's metadata handling system is being       integrated within infrastructure projects, such as repositories, with       direct bearing on professional practice and standards.
The former Technical and Operations Director of Europeana (formerly the       European Digital Library) confirmed that 3D-COFORM was `instrumental' in       bringing the new content category of 3D models to Europeana being `one of       the first data suppliers to use the new...Data Model, and working through       the intricacies of 3D metadata [which] helped shape both the model and the       workflows around it' (5.10) In testing the workflow 3D-COFORM became the       first data provider to upload ~50 virtual objects to Europeana.
A recent exhibition of the 3D-COFORM research, Reshaping History,       made it possible for ICT and Cultural Heritage professionals and members       of the public to share, experience and explore stereoscopic digital       reconstructions of cultural objects and heritage sites (5.6).
Opening in       Brighton (2012) the research has since travelled to Prato and to the       Naples National Archaeological Museum with requests for it to be exhibited       in Cairo, Berlin, London, Paris, Rio and Sao Paulo.
In addition to a       footfall of &gt;10,000 exhibition visitors the research also has       stimulated public discourse through the press and media.
This has included       a Euronews documentary broadcast in 121 countries to 193 million homes and       a BBC Radio 4, Today Programme, interview broadcasts to circa 4       million listeners.
Other coverage includes: BBC South East News; ITV       Meridien News; Discovery Channel Canada; Italian regional TV channels; Al       Jazeera; The Telegraph; The Daily Mail; The Times       and La Stampa.
EPOCH has established new connected communities of practice and developed       a significant and sustainable legacy including a network of ten centres of       expertise (5.5).
For example, the Norwich Forum Trust has cited its       `profound effect' in leveraging &#163;2.5m of capital investment, funding for       new projects and creating new forms of employment in the field of cultural       heritage (5.7).
Professional advice and guidance from EPOCH's Stockholm       centre led directly to the formation of Digital Intangible Heritage Asia       (DIHA), a new research and development cluster at NTU, Singapore.
3D-COFORM has subsequently furthered this legacy establishing a Virtual       Competence Centre for 3D (Company No.
07912842) that will provide       independent advice on 3D-technologies to cultural institutions in the next       period.
Current collaborations with cultural organisations provide further       evidence of impact.
During this period Brighton joined University College       London and Oxford University winning an EPSRC Centre for Doctoral Training       in Arts, Heritage and Archaeology, with Brighton leading the Digital       strand.
Over 45 partners, including V&amp;A, British Museum, Tate, British       Library, BBC, English Heritage, Natural History Museum and Historic Royal       Palaces will all collaborate in the approved Centre.
