     The Ure Museum database, disseminated via the museum's web page, serves       both as a shop window for the museum, allowing 24/7 access to its       holdings, but also provides users with a level of access not normally       experienced by the public, whether schoolchildren, artists or curators of       further collections.
Broadly its impact can be described under two main       headings: i) innovation and dissemination of new approaches in museology,       and ii) direct impact on education and pedagogy:     1.
Innovation and dissemination of new approaches in museology     Dissemination of Database and the Virtual Lightbox for Museums and         Archives (VLMA) Techniques       The VLMA project, which has been widely disseminated in conferences,       seminars and articles, introduced a new approach to encourage curators to       annotate, share and reuse museum data, including images, for the purposes       of education and research.
It has had fundamental impact on the early       planning and development of major resources in the digital humanities in       the UK.
The way the Ure's approach and its underlying database and       technology, radical at the time, informed the development and acceleration       of this trend is clearly shown by the Ure's acknowledged influence on       successor projects such as the development of the Oxford Virtual Resource       Environment (cf.
http://www.oerc.ox.ac.uk/image-library/Kirkham.pdf)       and the Pliny platform at King's College London (cf.
http://pliny.cch.kcl.ac.uk/docs/Illinois-Poster.pdf).
These kinds of accessible virtual platforms are now almost ubiquitous,       transforming museums, collections, and archives worldwide, extending to       major international institutions such as the British Museum and the J.       Paul Getty Museum.
Smith was among the first who suggested (and, in       creating the Ure museum database, undertook) a digital overhaul of museum       database and curation systems.
Impact on artistic work and museology       The Ure database has been utilised by, and has informed, other museums and       artists, nationally and internationally.
It was used, for example, in 2013       by staff of the Reading Museum (not affiliated to any university), both in       preparation of their current exhibit on `Greek vases in Reading' (http://www.readingmuseum.org.uk/events/details/358/)       (through November), which also incorporates 25 objects from the Ure (and       on which Smith was consulted) and it borrowed the UreView animations for       display in the Reading Museum and Town Hall.
The research that has resulted in the database, as well as the research       that the database itself has generated, has impacted directly on art, film       and blockbuster museum displays overseas, and it has thus unlocked the       huge potential of the Ure's collection to audiences which would otherwise       not have been reached.
A highlight in that respect was the insights       generated by the Aphrodite Revealed conference (2008; see above,       Section 2), which had a significant impact on subsequent artistic work       carried out by a number of participants in the first conference, among       them the Greek and Roman curator at the Museum of Fine Arts, Boston, who       incorporated insights learned from the conference into her subsequent work       in creation a blockbuster museum exhibition &#8212; Aphrodite and the Gods         of Love &#8212; displayed at the Museum of Fine Arts, Boston, the Getty       Museum and the San Antonio Museum of Art, published in a 2011 catalogue       (ISBN 9780878467563).
Integration into Larger Digital Library &#8212; Europeana and Pelagios       The Ure database also played an important role in the integration of       museum information into digital libraries of European Culture: from 2003       its data was incorporated into ECHO, an EU-funded project of MPIWG, and       when in 2006 the EU developed its own digital library of European Cultural       Heritage, Europeana (www.europeana.eu),       the Ure Museum was a founding member.
Smith is also a member of       Europeana's Council of Content Providers, generating policy impact       stemming from the Ure's research work at an international level.
The VLMA technology and the Ure Database featured prominently in a       high-profile international project on geospatial data from antiquity in       2011.
It is used by scholars and the general public to link artefacts to       geographical locations, and used the Ure Museum database to contribute to       its own records.
(http://pelagios-project.blogspot.co.uk/2011/12/converting-ure-museum-data.html).
Smith's museology research also contributed to a JISC-funded project,       OBL4HE (Object-based Learning for Higher Education), a partnership between       the University of Reading, University College London and the Collections       Trust, which developed a series of online resources, as highlighted at 	  http://blogs.reading.ac.uk/engage-in-teaching-and-learning/2013/01/25/students-like-live-lectures-and-online-ones-as-backup-by-rebecca-reynolds/       About 6,500 objects and archive documents were digitised and put with       already digitised sources to create a source base of about 150,000 digital       assets.
Seventeen open access e-learning resources based on these were       developed.
2.
Direct Impact on educational resources and pedagogy:     The purpose in presenting the museum's data to the public is to allow its       use and reuse in whatever way suits their learning interests and styles.
Smith and her colleagues have created substantial impact by means of       disseminating and encouraging reuse of this data among as wide an audience       as possible:     Impact on school groups and the general public through improvement to         the Ure Museum.
The database developed by Smith enabled the Museum to better inform       visitors of the content and significance of the items they were viewing.
During the REF cycle the Museum has hosted about 4,000 pupils and teachers       from 54 schools for formal group activities; public family events for a       total of c.2,000 young visitors; adult visit events for a total of       c.6,000 visitors; and seminars and colloquia for c.2,500       visitors.
Feedback from these activities has been overwhelmingly positive:     "Last year you kindly invited us to the museum and put on a fabulous       workshop and gave the children an opportunity to look at the artefacts on       display.
It was a wonderful afternoon and the children thoroughly enjoyed       it and got a lot out of it.
Would it be possible for us to come over       again?"
Feedback from a teacher at St Martin's School in Caversham Park (3rd       Sept 2012)     "I learnt that the little clay pots were actuarly childrens toys in greek       times.
I hade a fabulous time I deffently want to come again with my       family.
[sic]" Feedback from a student at Grazeley Primary School       (30th Sept 2010)     The impact of the Museum contents and catalogue, enabled by the       underpinning research, on the local and wider community and on school       teaching and learning has therefore been very substantial.
A series of special projects using digital technologies.
i) Open Olympics       The database enabled incorporation of Ure images and data in an       award-winning learning module developed by the Open University (http://openlearn.open.ac.uk/course/view.php?id=4450).
A quiz prepared initially for this module was then adapted in       collaboration with AACT (Access-ability Communications Technology), a       local charity seeking to open up museums to special needs individuals 	  (http://www.aact.org.uk) via an       Olympics themed iPad trail made available in 2012 on occasion of the       London Olympics.
ii) Stories of the World       As part of Ure View, a team of digital animators (Steve K. Simons       and Dr Sonya Nevin (Roehampton University), relying on Reading's research       expertise, worked with students and pupils from two local schools to       produce animations of their interpretations of the Greek vase paintings in       the Ure.
These animations are now centrally hosted on http://www.panoply.org.uk       and available on YouTube.
Along with the storyboards on which they were       based they were displayed in local schools and the University (University       Library, School of Humanities and Ure Museum) and in Westminster Hall,       Parliament, on the occasion of the Launch of the Stories of the World       project, as part of the Cultural Olympiad, 24 July 2012 (http://tinyurl.com/pg62k2t)     The second, even more substantial wave of activity, Ure Discovery       (http://tinyurl.com/ot54ugo) engaged pupils from three local schools       (including one special needs school: Addington School), informed by       Reading's research expertise, working again with AACT.
This involved the       creation of a multimedia display and iPad trail that presents viewers with       original animations and artwork, voiceover interpretation, museum       photographs, as well as the original database entries on each of six Ure       vases.
The feedback form from Addington School noted that the project "was         a great experience for the pupils!"
Since the launch and display of the work, the animations have reached an       audience of over 20,000 on the web (24,897 views in 75 countries, approx.
1383 per month), via http://www.panoply.org.uk and YouTube, engaging       especially enthusiastic international audiences, for example, in Greece       and Spain.
As determined by the dissemination and public-facing mission behind the       database, the impact resulting from it has been broad in scope;       exemplifying curation techniques, enabling pedagogical gains through a       variety of direct and indirect channels, informing artwork and improving       the ultimate goal of museum curation &#8212; more efficient and informative       access to historical arefacts.
