     Since its first publication in working paper form in 2007, the AF method       has been adapted by several governments to create tailored       multidimensional measures of poverty and well-being which contribute       directly to poverty reduction [see Section 5: C1-C5].
Furthermore,       it is used to construct the 104-country Multidimensional Poverty Index       (MPI) included in UNDP's annual flagship publication Human Development         Report (HDR) [C6], and in the monitoring and evaluation of       US government aid programmes [C7, C8].
In June 2013, OPHI with President Santos of Colombia and high-level       representatives of 22 countries, the Organisation for Economic Cooperation       and Development (OECD), the Economic Commission for Latin America and the       Caribbean (ECLAC) and the Southern African Development Community (SADC),       launched the Global Multidimensional Poverty Peer Network.
The Network       connects policy-makers who are exploring or implementing official       multidimensional poverty measures based on the AF method at the regional,       national and international levels.
Network participants include China,       India, Nigeria, Brazil, Philippines, Iraq, and Morocco, and OPHI acts as       the Network's Secretariat.
Key users:     UNDP Human Development Report Office (HDRO) &#8212; Global Multidimensional         Poverty Index 		OPHI collaborated with the HDRO to develop a new       Multidimensional Poverty Index in 2009-10.
This index was constructed by       Alkire and Santos using the AF method, was launched in the Human         Development Report in 2010 and updated with new estimations and       analyses for subsequent reports [C6].
Covering over 100 countries,       the MPI shows the nature and extent of poverty from the household up to       the regional, national and international level.
It continues to attract       attention from the media and high-profile thinkers and commentators around       the world, including, in 2013, the Economist, the Telegraph and the       Observer in the UK, the China Post, Bloomberg, Fox News, and the Times of       India.
Government of Mexico &#8212; National Multidimensional Poverty Measure     Following a 2006 law, requiring the construction of a multidimensional       poverty measure, the Mexican government's National Council for the       Evaluation of Social Policy examined five multidimensional poverty       measurement methodologies, including the AF method.
Based on their       research, Alkire and Foster participated as international experts in a       two-year process, applying the AF model to suit the specifications of the       Mexican government via a two-way dialogue process.
Mexico's official       multidimensional poverty measure, using a version of the AF method, was       launched in 2009 and updated in 2011 and 2013.
This pioneering measure       reflects people's simultaneous deprivations in income and social rights,       including health, housing, education and food, enabling policy-makers to       devise more effective poverty-reduction strategies [C1].
Government of Colombia &#8212; National MPI and Poverty-Reduction Strategy     In 2011, the government of Colombia launched a national multidimensional       poverty measure using the AF method and developed in close collaboration       with OPHI researchers.
Devised by Colombia's Ministry of Planning, the       measure reflects the national plan's goals and targets.
It has been       cascaded through the policy process, and is used for policy coordination,       for geographical and household targeting, and for monitoring and       evaluation.
The MPI is now an official statistic, updated annually based       on new survey data [C2].
Government of Bhutan &#8212; Gross National Happiness (GNH) Index     In 2008, the president of the government of Bhutan's Centre for Bhutan       Studies (CBS) co-developed the first (pilot) GNH Index with Alkire using       the AF method, and co-authored two OPHI working papers.
The index was       updated and strengthened in 2012, again using the AF method, with Alkire       as co-author [C3].
The landmark measure has nine domains and 33       indicators, and the surrounding policy framework creates incentives for       the government, as well as NGOs and businesses, to increase GNH.
Bhutan       has also adapted the AF method to construct a national MPI, with tailored       indicators that reflect deprivations in rudimentary services and core       human needs.
USAID and IFPRI &#8212; Women's Empowerment in Agriculture Index (WEAI)      Alkire and OPHI consultant Ana Vaz constructed the WEAI in 2012 in       partnership with the US government's Feed the Future initiative, the       United States Agency for International Development (USAID) and the       International Food Policy Research Institute (IFPRI).
The WEAI, which was       commissioned by the US government to monitor the impact of its Feed the       Future interventions, captures women's empowerment in the agricultural       sector directly, without using proxies such as income and education [R6].
Alkire and Vaz developed the index from pilot survey data using an       adaptation of the AF method.
The work has now been expanded to       representative datasets in 19 countries, and there is uptake from NGOs,       including CARE and Oxfam, and interest from the UN's Food and Agriculture       Organisation (FAO) in further implementations [C7, C8].
In addition to the users above, the AF method has been adapted and       applied at the national or subnational level in China [C4],       Malaysia, and Minas Gerais and S&#227;o Paulo in Brazil [C5].
Official       National AF multidimensional poverty measures are under development in       Chile [C9], El Salvador, and Vietnam among others, and tailor-made       AF MPIs have been published in UNDP national and regional Human         Development Reports in Mercosur, Eastern Europe and Central Asia,       Malaysia, Nicaragua and Iraq, among others [C10-C12], often       sparking consideration as national indices.
Training:     Further impact occurred through OPHI's training of policy-makers, which       helped to build their technical capacity to implement an AF measure.
Two-week training courses have been held in Chile, Nicaragua, India,       Indonesia, Jordan, the Netherlands, Peru, the UK and the US, and tailor-       made courses given in locations such as Bhutan, Brazil, Egypt, Ethiopia,       Hungary, Jordan, Lebanon, Malaysia, Rwanda, Saudi Arabia, Thailand, the US       and Venezuela.
