               Impact 1: Creatine commercialisation       Creatine is a naturally occurring guanidino compound confined principally       (95%) to skeletal       muscle, where it plays a pivotal role in maintaining energy homeostasis.
Pre 1990, worldwide sales       of creatine monohydrate were low, when it was used as a food additive in       mg quantities.
In the       1990's a body of work from the UoN and Professor Eric Hultman's       laboratory, Karolinska Institute,       Sweden (a close collaborator of Greenhaff and Visiting Professor at the       University of Nottingham)       led to a surge in interest in creatine as a research topic and a       nutritional supplement.
As a direct       result of this research, creatine supplements became a boom industry in       the mid 1990's, e.g.
"nothing has captured the hard-core sports nutrition enthusiast quite as       well"A.
In 2003, creatine       sales were estimated to have totalled $193 million (U.S.) or ~10% of the       $1.9 billion (US) sports       supplement marketA.
The UoN patent (WO1996018313, Increasing       creatine and glycogen       concentration in muscle) was purchased by the North American company       MuscleTech Inc.B in       2001 (along with provision of &#163;750k research funding to the Greenhaff       laboratory) and was used to       underpin their highly successful carbohydrate and creatine supplement,       CellTech.
In 2006,       MuscleTech was ranked the 6th largest sports nutrition company       in North America with annual       sales estimated at $40 million and a 30% year-on-year growth rateA.
Creatine is a world-wide       market leader in sports-nutrition and the company currently claims to be       "America's #1 selling       bodybuilding supplement brand based on cumulative wholesale dollar sales       2006-present"A.       MuscleTech, now Iovate Health Sciences International Inc. has used the       patent for [text removed       for publication] products since 01/01/10 amounting to sales in excess of       $[text removed for       publication] million (U.S.)C. Translation of this science from       the field of exercise biochemistry has,       in addition to the commercial benefit, also resulted in numerous clinical       trials into the efficacy of       creatine supplementation in conditions where muscle and nervous tissue       energy metabolism and       function are compromisedD.
Impact 2: Carnitine commercialisation       More than 95% of the body store of carnitine is located within skeletal       muscle, where it fulfils two       essential metabolic roles.
Firstly in mitochondrial fatty acid       translocation, and secondly, as a buffer       of acetyl group accumulation during intense exercise.
Furthermore, it has       been proposed that       muscle free carnitine availability is rate limiting to both of these       processes, particularly during       exercise.
Not surprisingly therefore, oral carnitine feeding has been       targeted as a potential       nutritional strategy to enhance exercise performance.
Research and IP       developed at the UoN       produced a novel technology to increase muscle carnitine transport and       accumulation (by 15-20%)       in human skeletal muscle via an insulin dependent mechanism, which also       impacted upon muscle       fuel metabolism.
All published attempts to increase muscle carnitine       accumulation up to that point       had failed.
This research formed the basis of the UoN patent filing WO       2004082674.
On the       foundation of this research, further work unequivocally demonstrated       muscle carnitine content       could be elevated in human volunteers by dietary means, and had a       significant impact on muscle       fuel use during both low and high intensity exercise, resulting in       performance benefits in humansE.
NutraMet Ltd, a UoN spin out company, was formed in July 2011 with an       exclusive licence to       commercialise this latest novel carnitine related technology, which was       used by Team GB athletes       before the 2012 London OlympicsG.
As a result of the collective       achievements of Greenhaff's       laboratory in the area of human muscle carnitine transport and metabolism,       a Heads of Terms and       Exclusive Option agreements between the University of Nottingham and a       global company       regarding carnitine related intellectual property licensing have been       signedH.
