     Impact 1: Technology Transfer, Out-Licensing and Commercial Exploitation       Since publication of the patents, Material Transfer Agreements have been       established with over 250 research and industrial institutions worldwideA       to allow distribution of ClosTron, ACE and CodA reagents.
The technologies       have been licensed through the university to 5 companies worldwideA,       with other companies accessing the technologies by collaborative research       with Minton and the Clostridial Research Group.
This has enabled further       commercial investment and exploitation by the companies, bringing       financial benefits to them and the university.
In addition, patent search       has identified 15 patents published by other research and development       groups that cite use of ClosTron to achieve their inventive step(s)B.
These include genetic manipulations for production of biofuels (including       LanzaTech, Total S.A., Qteros, IFP Energies and TetraVitae) and vaccines       (Wyeth/Pfizer, Altermune and London School of Hygiene and Tropical       Medicine).
All these businesses and other organisations are beneficiaries       of the university's research.
Impact 2: Reducing clostridial infection and food contamination       Knowledge of C.difficile and C.botulinum virulence       mechanisms is being enhanced through the generation by Minton's group, and       others, of virulence mutants and their phenotypic characterisation.
For       instance, strains of C.difficile expressing recombinant       immunogenic but non-toxigenic toxoids A and B, generated using ClosTron by       Wyeth (subsequently acquired by Pfizer)C have led to       development of a C.difficile vaccine to prevent hospital acquired       infections (currently in Phase 1; http://www.clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT01706367).
Wyeth/Pfizer have benefitted from the university's research by being able       to develop the vaccine.
Further tangible benefits will arise worldwide for       patients suffering from C.difficile associated infections       (approximately 350,000 in the USD and 15,000 in the UK annuallyE).
The technology will also help to reduce associated deaths (14,000 in the       USD and 2,000 in the UKF annually), and reduce the       estimated annual healthcare burden (~$5 billion USD annually).
Similarly,       generation of a non-toxigenic strain of C.botulinum for use by the       food industry as a food processing challenge test strain8       overcomes strict regulations on containment and use of highly toxigenic       strains of C.botulinum, benefitting manufacturers by reducing       costs of food testing, contamination and wastage, as well as reducing       costs and improving food safety for consumers.
Impact 3: Novel anti-cancer therapeutic approaches       The anaerobic requirement of C.sporogenes can be used to target       the poorly vascularised centre of a solid tumour mass; early studies       injecting unmodified spores induced partial tumour lysis but showed       systemic toxicity.
Development of non-toxigenic C.novyi-NT spores       avoided this toxicity in Phase I trials in 2011 (http://www.clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT01118819),       but did not cause complete tumour lysis.
Transfecting C.sporogenes       with an E.coli enzyme (via single cross-over plasmid insertion) to       locally activate a prodrug, enhanced tumour lysis (Lui et al.
2002; Gene       Therapy 9: 291-296. doi: 10.1038/sj/gt/3301659).
This novel anti-cancer       treatment method, termed `Clostridial-directed Enzyme Prodrug Therapy'       (CDEPT) was patented in 2002 (US20030103952, with Minton as an inventor).
It offers improved, targeted oncolytic efficacy and significantly reduced       side effectsG.
However, Regulatory Authority requirements       stipulate that genetic modifications of bacteria that encode therapeutic       enzymes must be stably integrated to prevent gene loss in clinical use.
The knock-in capability of ACE was used for the first time in 20127       to meet this requirement, opening up the pathway to achieve significant       impacts in cancer therapy.
Impact 4: Bioengineering benefits       The capability of these Clostridia genetic manipulation tools is       proving pivotal to gaining a greater understanding of metabolic networks       present in clostridia that are useful in chemical commodity production, as       well as in metabolic engineering approaches to improve product yield.
Industrial exploitation of ACE technology, under licence from the       university, is most visible in development of second generation biofuels.
TMO RenewablesH are engineering C.acetobutylicum and C.thermolyticum       to produce butanol and ethanol from cellulosic and lignocellulosic       feedstock, whereas LanzaTech are developing a microbial fermentation       process for conversion of carbon dioxide to ethanol.
TMO Renewables       has a current book value of &#163;10.9 millionH and has recently       signed a $500 million order to build 15 factories across the US to produce       ethanol from household wasteH.
Similarly, LanzaTech has       received in excess of $70 million of government and private funding, and       has recently joined a biofuels collaboration with the Indian government       and the Indian Oil CorporationI.
Both companies aim to address       the worldwide demand for ethanol (principally as a petroleum blending       additive) which is projected to be nearly 200 billion litres annually by       2022J.
First generation production capacity (from maize and       sugar cane fermentation) is currently only 50 billion litres.
The impact       of using clostridial genetic engineering tools to expand biofuel and       chemicals production, without impinging on use of agricultural land, not       only benefits the university through technology license fees, and the       companies through access to the technology and revenues generated from it,       but also has significant worldwide environmental benefit.
Summary       The beneficiaries of the clostridial bioengineering technology developed       at Nottingham, as a consequence of its myriad of applications, are       extremely diverse and its subsequent benefits far reaching.
Its       availability has revolutionised the genetic approaches being undertaken by       academic and industrial researchers alike, aimed at understanding       pathogenic and commercially-important clostridial species through       mutational analysis.
It has implications for disease prevention and       treatment, cancer therapy and chemical commodity and biofuels production.
It therefore has direct and consequential impacts in Health, Energy and,       through the generation of sustainable biofuels, the Environment.
