     The UoN has a long-established track record for conservation of rare       species, starting from the 1970s: Bryan Clarke's studies of evolution       rescued an entire genus of Pacific partulid snail from extinction (for       which he received the Darwin-Wallace [2008] and Darwin [2010] medals).
By       developing a suitable diet, these snails were captive-bred in Nottingham       and then zoos worldwide.
The UoN's conservation research over the last 40       years provides the background to conservation of the Sinai Baton Blue       butterfly.
Francis Gilbert's long-standing research programme in South       Sinai has enabled the work of his research group to have a far-reaching       impact in Egypt and more broadly for conservation worldwide.
This work       specifically led to the butterfly being declared Critically Endangered by       the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) in 2012A.
Impact 1: Conservation of Sinai Thyme and the Sinai Baton Blue         butterfly     The underlying context of the conservation activities is based on changes       to the traditional Bedouin desert-dwelling, nomadic lifestyle.
Bedouin       families, usually accompanied by small herds of goats and camels, would       migrate between wadis seeking fresh grazing for their livestock.
The       Bedouin managed their grazing lands through a tribal agreement, termed       `hilf', not to graze in certain wadis for a defined periodB.
However, exploitation of traditional grazing land by the Egyptian       government from the 1980s onwards as developments for the Tourist       industry, coupled with a desire by the Bedouin for a higher standard of       living, has resulted in Bedouins settling around the outskirts of cities       and seeking employment within the cityB.
This has increased       grazing pressure on the local environment, and led to abandonment of       `hilf' agreements.
Fortunately, the inaccessibility of the regions in       which Sinai thyme grows has somewhat protected it from over-grazing.
Nevertheless, the effects of grazing on the condition of the Sinai thyme       and the survival of the butterfly are key to successful conservation       strategies.
In 2009, as part of a Rufford Foundation Small Grants AwardC       to an Egyptian collaborator working with Francis Gilbert, fencing was       erected around a central region of thyme to prevent access by livestock.
Paved paths were also laid by local Bedouin workmen (using local stone as       building materials, in keeping with the aesthetics of the region) for use       by tourists visiting the Protectorate (bringing employment and financial       benefits for local tribes).
A traditional `hilf' agreement was also       reached with Bedouin herdsmen not to graze their stock near thyme patches       for a defined period during 2009 to determine the effect on the thyme.
This seemed to indicate that the Bedouin were correct and that lack of       controlled grazing may prove harmful to the thyme, threatening the       survival of the butterfly.
Such observations are transforming the       conservation strategy of the Protectorate to one that encourages       traditional Bedouin natural resource management.
Impact 2: Ecological Awareness in Egyptian and Tourist populations     St Katherine Protectorate (established in 1996), was declared a UNESCO       World Heritage Site (Cultural Landscape) in 2002.
Gilbert's research made       the butterfly a major target for conservation in the Protectorate       management plan in 2003D, which it has continued to be since       2007E.
The area has enormous cultural and religious       significance, attracting 300,000 visitors every year and hence provides a       significant opportunity for raising public awareness of its unique       biodiversity.
Due to the close collaboration of Gilbert's research group       with the Protectorate, photographs by Mike James feature prominently in       the Protectorate's Visitor Centre.
The butterfly has a display panel to       itself.
It features in all of the Protectorate's literature and websites,       has acquired its own Wikipedia pageF, and is emphasised in       ongoing management work and evaluationE.
It also featured on an       Egyptian stampG.
As a result, countless Egyptians and tourists       have had an opportunity to reflect on its beauty and ecological       importance, all stemming from the efforts of Gilbert's group.
Few       organisms receive such exposure and prominence in the public eye, and few       ecological studies can claim such an impact on public awareness.
Gilbert's long-standing association with Egyptian ecology led in 2005 to       his appointment as International Director of BioMAPH, a       $1-million Egypt-wide project running from 2005-8 inclusive, aimed at       improving biodiversity research, monitoring and assessment across the       Egyptian national park network.
Project outputs included raising public       awareness of biodiversity among Egyptians, which was woefully low despite       indications of interest among young people.
Its public awareness campaign       targeted school children and the educated elite.
A set of children's       stories were writtenI, each structured around a different       environmental issue using a particular organism in a specified Protected       Area.
One of these was based on the biology of the Sinai Baton Blue       (called `Farfousha' &#8212; farasha is Arabic for `butterfly').
Gilbert's group wrote, produced and printed four sets of each story (two       Arabic, two English), with one pair aimed at young children aged 4-8, and       the other at the 10-14 age-group.
The story was converted into a short       claymation film (Wallace-and-Gromit-style clay animation) in ArabicI.
In collaboration with the Ministry of Education, a team of people was then       commissioned to take these stories to more than 100 schools, and also to       out-of-school clubs and school conferences all over Egypt.
In each school,       a lecture was given to 100-300 participants, followed by a discussion and       writing/art competition, with prizes given by the Ministry of Education.
More than 5300 books and 1350 CDs were distributed in this way.
A further       output of the story was a booklet and PowerPoint presentationG,I       on the science behind each story, aimed at teachers and other adults.
These materials are used as teaching resources in school in all regions of       Egypt to this day.
Senior-level dissemination of Sinai Baton Blue educational materials on       climate change and biodiversity conservation was achieved in national and       international presentations to policy-makers by the head of Egypt's Nature       Conservation Sector &#8212; the Government official responsible for Egypt's       national parks.
Additionally, academics, wildlife consultants and Nature       Conservation Sector staff were trained in the Red Listing of Egyptian       fauna and flora, at a workshop run by BioMAP and the IUCN in 2007, using       the Baton Blue as a model.
Thus the Sinai Baton Blue butterfly has become one of the best-known       examples internationally of biodiversity within Egypt, as a direct result       of Gilbert's research work.
Impact 3: Influencing Worldwide Conservation Policies     Unchallenged narratives of pastoral destructiveness have informed       conservation policies worldwide.
In Egypt, the Protectorate's conservation       policy remains grounded in the assumption that overgrazing of the       host-plant by Bedouin herders is the most significant threat to the       butterfly's survival.
However, both indigenous knowledge and recent       research by Gilbert's group cast doubt on that assumption, providing the       evidence needed to challenge the Protectorate's policy, to allow instead       an effective, evidence-based conservation policy to be applied.
This sets       a precedent for replication elsewhere.
Adoption of traditional land       management habits into local conservation policies across the globe will       have beneficial repercussions for conservation strategy and pastoralist       indigenous peoples worldwide.
