     Impact 1: Pharmaceutical Industry Drug Development     A good indicator of the importance of a particular validated receptor       target to the pharmaceutical industry is the number of patents filed to       protect compounds in development.
To date, in excess of 800 Patent       Co-operation Treaty (PCT) patents surrounding the use of 5-HT6       receptor ligands to treat cognitive impairments (e.g.
in dementia and       schizophrenia) have been published worldwide from 2002 onwardsA       (subsequent to the underpinning research).
Searching within these patents,       99 (12%) include direct citations to research by the Fone group that       validated the 5-HT6 receptor as a drug target1,2,3,A.
A number of pharmaceutical companies contributed these filings, most       notably F.Hoffmann-La Roche, Glaxo-SmithKline, Esteve, Servier and Epix       Pharmaceuticals, all of whom the Fone group collaborated with.
It has been       confirmed by three of these companies that their confidence in the 5-HT6       receptor as a valid drug discovery target, leading to patent filings and       subsequent R&amp;D investment, are dependent (at least in part) upon the       underpinning research by the Fone groupB,C,D.
Specifically,       Esteve stated that "the research of the Nottingham group and [Fone's]         contribution were critical to the success of the project"B,       and for Servier "proved crucial in internal deliberations to establish         and pursue a broad based R&amp;D programme"C. GSK       conclusively stated: "a significant in-house research programme,         representing several millions of pounds investment, continued for         approximately a decade, culminating in the identification and         progression of SB-742457 into Phase II clinical studies in Alzheimer's         disease"D. Several other pharmaceutical companies also       progressed 5-HT6 antagonists into clinical development on the       groundswell of confidence in this target to address cognitive deficits       associated with AD and dementiaE, (e.g.
Phase I: Proximagen       [BVT.74316], Roche/Biotie Therapies [SYN-120], Abbott [ABT-354], AviNeuro       [AVN-322]; Phase II: Pfizer [PF-5212377], Lundbeck [Lu AE58054]).
The extended 10 year+ timeframe of drug development makes it difficult to       assess impact on the pharmaceutical industry within the 5-6 year window       since the beginning of 2008.
However, it is possible to estimate the       investment by pharma companies in a specific drug development target from       the industry-recognised costs and timeframes of the different phases of       drug development (e.g.
Morgan S et al.
2011.
Health Policy 100: 4-17).
Thus, for Proximagen alone, completing preclinical development and Phase I       for their 5-HT6 antagonist indicates an R&amp;D investment of       around &#163;50 million, which is reflected in the sale of the business to       Upsher-Smith for &#163;357 million in 2012E.
Impact 2: Healthcare Costs and Benefits     Although compounds acting at the 5-HT6 receptor have       progressed into Phase II clinical trials, and therefore are likely to have       already brought drug benefit to restricted numbers of patients, none has       yet received Regulatory approval for human therapy, so the full global       healthcare and societal benefits are yet to be fully realised.
However, to       indicate the potential return on pharma R&amp;D investment in the context       of heath care costs and benefits: it was estimated in 2010 that there were       35.6 million people worldwide affected by dementia (including AD), with       this figure set to rise to 65 million by 2030F.
The global       market for AD treatments was $4.1billion in 2008, with the expectation       that this would rise to $10.4 billion in 2018 as the population agesF.
If the formal and informal costs of patient care are added to the       therapeutic costs, the global economic impact of dementia was estimated to       be a staggering $604 billion in 2010F.
Although drugs targeting       5-HT6 receptors will only comprise part of the dementia/AD       therapeutic arsenal (currently there are around 70 dementia/AD drugs in       developmentB, of which drugs targeting 5-HT6       constitute about 10%), and will therefore only address part of this global       therapeutic and health care cost, nevertheless the benefits they will       bring to patients and their carers is enormous.
Impact 3: Advisory Expertise provided to the Pharma Industry     Professor Fone has also had a direct impact on Pharmaceutical R&amp;D       strategy by serving as an industrial consultant (e.g.
Consultant adviser       for 5-HT6 cognitive research programmes around E-6801 for       Laboratorios Dr Esteve S.A.; around Ro 04-6790 for F. Hoffman-La Roche;       and around SB-271,046 for GSK).
