     Lung cancer causes more deaths than breast, colon and prostate cancer       combined, and its       incidence will increase further up to 2030.
The National Lung Screening       Trial (NLST) spiral CT lung       cancer screening study (NSLT Research Team, et al; 2011.
N Engl J Med.
365(5):395-409)A,       indicated that early detection of lung cancer by low-dose CT scan (when       identified as small lung       nodules and treated accordingly), leads to a 20% reduction in lung cancer       deaths, and a 6.7%       reduction in overall mortality compared to later stage detection by chest       X-ray (when the tumour is       often larger and palliative care is often the only treatment option       available).
At this late stage, lung       cancer survival rates are as low as 15%.
EarlyCDT-Lung is the first (and currently the only) autoantibody       blood test for detecting lung cancer       in people identified as being at high risk (e.g.
aged over 40 with more       than 20 pack-years history of       smoking).
The test detects AABs to TAAs from an early stage when the       cancer (observed by       CT-scan) is small, often asymptomatic, and is also potentially curableB       (e.g.
by surgery or       stereotactic radiotherapy).
This leads to better patient risk assessment,       closer surveillance and       less invasive treatment options, resulting in greater survival rates and       better patient quality of life.
Impact 1: Foundation of Oncimmune and Commercialisation of Early       CDT-Lung       Professor Sewell's contribution to establish a commercially-viable       diagnostic test was central to the       University's decision in 2003 to support the generation of spinout       company, Oncimmune (based in       the UK and USA), to exploit the commercial value of the 4 patent families       arising from the UoN       research, to which Oncimmune has added 3 others.
Oncimmune has attracted       investment of       &#163;30.5 million to date, and generated 15 jobs in the UK and 28 jobs in the       US within the companyC,       as well as helping to secure positions within suppliers and distributersC.
The EarlyCDT-Lung test is       available in multiple continents (North &amp; South Americas, Europe,       Middle East), with sales of       upwards of 6,000 tests per month, generating substantial revenues for the       company.
Oncimmune       is therefore the principal beneficiary of the University's research.
Impact 2: Accelerating Development and Clinical Validation of Early         Cancer Detection Tests       The EarlyCDT-Lung test took almost a decade to bring to market.
Further tests for other tumour       types require a considerably shorter development timeline to be       commercially viable.
Professor       Sewell's research within CEAC, using high throughput screening and       micro-array technology as       the next generation platform for detecting autoantibodies to cancer       antigens, has achieved a       reduction in technical development time (and hence, cost) for Oncimmune,       with the next EarlyCDT       test for hepatocellular cancer planned for launch after only 5 years in       development.
This will allow       faster world-wide commercialisation of the autoantibody approach for       diagnosis of all solid       tumours.
CEAC has also designed and initiated a prospective randomised       clinical trial of       EarlyCDT-Lung in the USA with Chief Investigator Dr James Jett       (National Jewish Hospital,       Colorado), and is involved in the NHS-Scotland-supported ECLS trial that       is randomising 10,000       individuals at increased risk of lung cancer to have the EarlyCDT-Lung       test or not.
Both of these       studies are expected to accelerate clinical validation of the test to       support its commercialisation.
Oncimmune is therefore the beneficiary of ongoing non-clinical and       clinical research developments       from the university.
Impact 3: Clinical use of Early CDT-Lung to         save lives       From the 7 year NLST study showing that early detection and treatment of       lung cancer improves       survival outcomes [see above], the EarlyCDT-Lung test, which has       been in use in the US since       2010, is expected to have at least a similar long-term patient benefit to       CT screening, but with an       improved safety profile because it is a simple blood test and does not       involve patient exposure to       x-rays.
It is known that repeated CT scans have an increased risk, albeit       low, of possible       secondary cancers associated with radiation exposure.
By using EarlyCDT-Lung       to screen high       risk people, the number of individuals who will require follow-on CT scans       using repeated exposure       to radiation is decreased.
EarlyCDT-Lung test has been shown to be       cost effective and beneficial       from a healthcare economics perspective (Weycker et al, 2010)D       to save lives and money.
Many       patients and their clinical practitioners in the US have already reported       transformation in life styles       and quality of life due to the physician's use of the EarlyCTD-Lung       test in clinical management;       testimonials available on the Oncimmune UK (and US) web siteE       attest to the benefits it has       already brought to individuals.
On-going studies have also demonstrated       its usefulness in the       follow up of patients with indeterminate lung nodules that have been       identified by CT scans.
Thus,       in conjunction with diagnostic imaging, EarlyCTD-Lung has shown       its potential to aid in the       identification of lung cancer at a very early stage when treatment can be       most successful.
The       expectation is that a 10 year follow-up will show a significant       improvement in patient survival.
The on-going NHS-Scotland-supported ECLS clinical trial is expected to       produce the same positive       outcome seen so far in the US, leading to adoption of the test for       population screening by the NHS       in the UK.
The positive healthcare and reduced mortality benefits for       patients, as well as the health       economic value, are likely to lead to a change in healthcare policy on       lung cancer screening and       risk assessment.
Impact on public awareness of the ECLS clinical trial and       its healthcare benefits       has already been made through newsprintF articles in 2010 and       a television broadcastG in 2012.
Patient risk assessment, early detection and diagnosis of lung cancer in       high risk patients, and       changes to healthcare policy are therefore the ultimate benefits that are       progressing from       development of the EarlyCTD-Lung test by researchers at the       University of Nottingham.
In summary the primary impacts and beneficiaries derived from this       ongoing research are:     a. Commercialisation of university research by foundation of the spin-out       company, Oncimmune     b.
Job creation, revenue generation, and further technical and clinical       developments for       Oncimmune.
c. Changes to clinical practice and healthcare policy to improve lung       cancer risk assessment and       early diagnosis, bringing benefits to clinicians and healthcare funders.
d. Transformation of patient outcomes to reduce mortality and improve       health and quality of life.
