     Impact has been generated as a consequence of the underpinning research       in two principal areas:     1) improvements in food and beverage manufacturing processes to reduce       product wastage and       customer complaints at Glaxo SmithKline (GSK).
2) Improvements in production of nutritional supplements used in food       manufacture at DSM.
Impact 1: Industrial Process Benefits at GSK and beyond     The underlying research has benefitted the manufacture of foods and       beverages at GSK through a       LINK project from 2009 - 2012 and a Knowledge Transfer Partnership (KTP)       in 2010.
The principal       outcomes of the LINK and KTP projects were a better understanding of the       sources, species and       seasonal variations in fungal contamination entering the aseptic       manufacturing production lines,       methods to reduce fungal contamination, and improved, rational use of       sorbic acid as an anti-fungal       preservative in manufactured foodstuffs.
The LINK project at the Coleford site generated a large quantity of data       on mould resistance to       preservatives and an extensive photographic catalogue of mould isolates       from ecological surveysA,       and was very influential in the way the KTP project was used to undertake       ecological surveys of       the aseptic manufacturing production lines.
The KTP project led to development of a growth medium for isolation of       preservative resistant       moulds.
Initial screening using an antibiotic-based agar has been replaced       by an acidified and       sorbic acid supplemented agar that isolates higher numbers of preservative       resistant species from       the manufacturing environmentB.
The greater sensitivity of this       improved monitoring method has       been particularly useful in assessing the efficacy of the bottle cap       treatment systemC.
Furthermore, passive air sampling using exposed agar plates identified       problems with recovery of       fungal isolates due to desiccation of the medium.
A new filter paper       capture technique was       developed to use in aseptic areas with laminar air flow.
This has led to       changes in air sampling       practices applied in manufacturing sites globally.
As a consequence of the LINK and KTP projects, a program of regular       environmental monitoring       was implemented at Coleford to take weekly samples across all aseptic       manufacturing areas,       accompanied by more localised daily screens.
The mould isolates catalogue       generated by the       LINK project has been used as a valuable tool to aid in the identification       of fungal species in these       ongoing ecological screens at the manufacturing sites.
Another consequence       of this regular       monitoring is that seasonal variation in contamination frequency has been       identified, that also       correlates with the number of samples returned by customers registering       product complaints.
The       overall consequence of improvements in contamination monitoring during       manufacture has been a       reduction in customer complaints and product recallsC.
Beyond GSK, the third party supplier of analytical services (Mologic,       used to assess consistency of       product formulation and resistance to fungal contaminationD),       has improved their challenge test       design to detect the fungal species isolated and identified at GSKC.
Furthermore, Mologic have       investigated the impact of sorbic acid as a preservative on its       interaction with [text removed for       publication]D. This identified why [text removed for       publication] food products demonstrate       spoilage with otherwise preservative-sensitive mould strains.
Overall,       this has improved the safety       assessment of current products, and will help GSK to develop future, more       robust, improved       product formulations.
The outputs of these projects contributed significantly to change       processes for environmental       monitoring to reduce fungal contamination in the manufacturing facilities,       for identifying fungal       contamination in product samples returned by customers (and hence help       identify the source of the       contamination), and for quality control testing of materials obtained from       third party suppliers.
We       anticipate further progress with the recently-awarded Industrial       Partnership Award (2012 - 2015),       funded through the BBSRC with input from GSK and DSM.
Undoubtedly, the       manufacturing       improvements arising from this work and instigated at production sites       worldwide, have contributed       to the value of the &#163;1.35billion sale of GSK's Ribena and Lucozade       manufacturing business to       Japanese company, Suntory, owners of the globally-recognised       Orangina-Schwepps brandsE.
Impact 2: Additional Industrial Benefits     Prof Archer has also achieved significant impacts on other industrial       processes utilising fungal       genetics and biology.
His group was the first to describe a method for       genetic manipulation in the       filamentous fungus, Mortierella alpina.
This species is in       industrial use to produce the essential       fatty acid derivative, arachidonic acid, which is added as a nutritional       supplement to baby milk to       aid nervous system development and function.
DSM is a world leader in the       production of       arachidonic acidF.
In addition to the partnership with DSM       through the LINK projectA, Prof Archer       has acted as a scientific advisor to DSM to optimise their arachidonic       acid production process and       he advises DSM on enzyme production from fungi in relation to the       generation of biofuels.
