     The overarching outcome of the research conducted by Richard James and       colleagues is that the development of new antibiotics targeting novel       aspects of bacterial biology is difficult, expensive and, even if       successful, can only ever be part of an integrated strategy for the       prevention and control of HAIs.
Impact 1: Raising Public Awareness and Changing Government Policy     The importance of using the media and other practical means to better       inform the public of the scale of the problem posed by HAIs emerged as a       strategy to persuade the public and healthcare professions to modify their       practices to reduce the spread of infections.
This was backed up by       lobbying for changes to UK Government policy, to help mitigate the need       for new antibiotics.
Arguably, greater health and economic benefit has       been achieved through changing public awareness and healthcare policies       than has been achieved by development of new antibiotics.
Despite the dramatic increase in HAIs caused by antibiotic resistant       superbugs such as C.difficile and MRSA reaching 8.2% of all       hospital admissions in 2006A, the difficulty of trying to       change UK Government policy to control HAIs was revealed in a statement       from the Department of Health in 2007, who considered "talk of a         post-antibiotic apocalypse as sensationalist and scaremongering".
Nevertheless, insights from CHAI research programmes led to development of       a strategy of practical and policy measures to prevent and control HAIs,       which were proposed by Professor James in the invited article "Battling       the bug" for the House of Commons magazine, `House', in December 2007.
The       measures proposed were:            Screening of all hospital admissions for MRSA       Strong leadership from Trust Chief Executives on the importance of         reducing hospital infections       Provide information to patients about hospital Trust infection and         patient isolation policies       Significant investment in NHS Microbiology laboratories       Universal MRSA screening to raise concern about the large numbers of         patients carrying MRSA into hospital       Monitor infection rates in individual wards and feedback this         information to all staff       Introduce effective measures to increase staff hand hygiene compliance       Improve staff training and involvement in improving infection control       Improve information for patients and visitors concerning infections          A key aim of CHAI was to act as a source of information about infections       to journalists and the public.
Professor James provided the spinal       interview that ran throughout the Panorama investigation (broadcast in       April 2008)B of the C.difficile outbreak at Maidstone       &amp; Tunbridge Wells NHS Trust in 2005 to 2006 that resulted in the       deaths of approximately 60 patientsC.
He also assisted the       production team in their analysis of NHS Trust responses to a number of       Freedom of Information Act questions that featured in the broadcastD.
The average `reach' of the programme throughout 2007 was around 3.6       million, indicating the size of the viewer audience.
Comments from viewers       following the broadcast, such as those below transcribed from the BBC News       websiteE, show the impact that the programme had on public       awareness.
"I was most impressed with this programme.
It's about time that we         were all made more aware of this awful contagion".
David Knowles,       Sutton Coldfield     "Thanks Panorama for highlighting this issue.
Most hospitals have lost         their basic nursing care and cleanliness".
Allan Hunt, Blackburn     This was a major factor to bring about changes in government policy to       reduce the threat to NHS patients posed by C.difficile and MRSA.
The policy of MRSA screening of all patients on admission to hospitals in       England began in March 2009 and seven other elements of the strategy were       also introduced between 2008 and 2011.
The annual report from the Chief       Medical Officer (England) for 2011, volume 2 (published in 2013)F       stated that "the apocalyptic scenario of widespread antimicrobial         resistance ... is a threat arguably as important as climate change for         the world", vindicating the policy measures introduced by CHAI.
As a consequence of policy changes, there has been a significant decline       in all HAIs from 8.2% in 2006 to 6.4% in 2011A, with reported       cases of C. difficile and MRSA infections declining even further.
This has brought widespread healthcare benefits to hospital patients, as       well as considerable economic benefits to the NHS through reduced       in-patients care costs, to Government through increased worker tax       revenues and reduced sickness benefit payments, and to employers through       reduction of sick-leave.
Professor James was awarded the Society for       Applied Microbiology Communications award in 2008G for his       media contributions to raise the profile of the problem of HAIs and       antibiotic resistance to the wider public.
Impact 2: Novel Practical Approaches to Promote Public Engagement     Activities to continue to improve public behaviours to reduce the spread       of HAIs are ongoing within CHAI.
Improving hand hygiene in hospitals and       the community has been targeted as the single most effective approach.
A       member of CHAI, Dr Hardie, has developed a prototype educational toy, the       `GloYo', as a practical aid to teach children good hand hygiene in       schools, and for visitors and patients in hospital paediatric departments7.
Taking a lead from Professor James, media campaigns on television, radio       and in newsprint have promoted GloYo as a practical demonstration to raise       public awareness.
To date, it has been widely approved by over 1000       children, parents, teachers, hospital visitors and patients, over 75% of       whom have improved their hand hygiene after playing with GloYoH.
A licence agreement for commercial development of the GloYo was agreed       between the University and Ravencourt Ltd in 2012, with a view to       commercial launch in 2013.
Adaptation of GloYo for use with the elderly is       also being investigated.
Impact 3: Healthcare Benefits of Novel Antibiotic Approaches     Professor Williams has continued the theme of media involvement to raise       public awareness of the need for novel antibiotics, by making TV, radio       and webinar broadcasts on the theme of Quorum SensingI, most       recently with a `Bang Goes the Theory' episode on BBC1 in 2011 and a       `Frontiers' episode on Radio 4 in 2013.
Manipulation of bacterial Quorum       Sensing as a means to allow the host immune system to overcome bacterial       infections has been tested in an exploratory clinical trial conducted by       Professor Williams and colleagues at the University of Nottingham, in       collaboration with colleagues in Respiratory and Paediatric Medicine at       Nottingham University Hospitals Trust and at the University of Copenhagen8.
Juveniles and adults with Cystic Fibrosis were treated with garlic       capsules containing inhibitors of Quorum Sensing, or placebo.
Blood,       respiratory and weight parameters were measured to determine if garlic       improved patients with lung infections by Pseudomonas aeruginosa.
The small trial encouragingly indicated beneficial effects on respiratory       FEV1, weight gain and clinical scores in the garlic-treated group,       suggesting that a larger clinical trial would be worthwhile to evaluate       the potential benefit of Quorum Sensing inhibitors in Cystic Fibrosis.
Summary     Thus, a concerted effort by University of Nottingham researchers to       control antibiotic resistant superbugs has: 1) introduced new government       policies and practical measures to reduce the risk of superbug infection;       2) increased public and professional awareness of the spread of superbug       infections; and 3) developed novel antibiotic approaches to treat       superbugs; all resulting in a significant decline in healthcare associated       infections since 2008.
