     Impact 1: in vitro assessment of mouthwash         formulations to aid product development     The research at UWE has informed GABA International and its parent       company Colgate-Palmolive in its choice between putative mouthwash       formulations, and hence its product development priorities (see source       [S1]).
As a result of the success of our model for assessing the potency or       efficacy of inhibitory, biostatic or biocidal agents in oral healthcare       products, GSK Consumer Healthcare now use UWE's model in-house.
The research findings have been used by Givaudan Fragrances Corporation,       which provides flavours for oral care products as a core part of its       business.
Its Vice President, Technology (North America) says that, since       2008, UWE research has enabled them "to identify commercially successful       technical solutions to deliver longer-lasting breath freshness from our       flavours.
These flavours are now in the marketplace in various consumer       product formats (toothpaste, mouthwash and breath mints).
Several of our       multi-national and national clients use our Breath Freshening Flavour       Technology in brands across the globe and used by millions of consumers       every day.
The bar has been raised in breath freshness and much can be       directly attributed to the scientific and collaborative studies of       Professor Greenman's research."
He adds that UWE's in vitro model       "has enabled us to increase speed to market through reduction in our       flavour development time".
The resulting flavour technology has       contributed to flavour sales in the period 2008-2013 that were "certainly       in the $100,000's and in turn, they were incorporated into major oral       healthcare brands with sales in excess of $10 million (conservative       estimate)."
Although confidentiality agreements with their consumer-brand       clients limit what he can reveal, he confirms that Givaudan's flavours       "are present in many major `everyday' consumer products that are used by       people across the world for oral hygiene and breath freshness."
[S2]     Impact 2: improved industrial testing of novel wound dressing and oral         healthcare products or formulations     The perfusion matrix flat-bed model was a novel test method used for the       assessment of novel Oxyzyme&#8482; and Iodozyme&#8482; prototype wound       dressings for Insense Ltd, a client company.
Without it, they would have       had to rely on animal models to show efficacy against microbes, a more       expensive route to market.
Their Chief Scientific Advisor confirms that       the research gave them "compelling evidence of the superior efficacy of       our products."
This was "of great importance in the promotion of our       products and in building a basis (together with clinical performance and       cost effectiveness) for their acceptance and adoption by healthcare       professionals and purchasing authorities.
The products have been accepted       on the National Formulary and are in use in various clinical centres in       the UK and The Netherlands.
They have achieved an impressive record of       clinical efficacy, and the company is now developing the next generation       of products working on the same basic principles."
[S3]     The company cites our research in its promotional material to justify its       claims about this product, reproducing its quantitative findings [S4].
The       flat-bed model has now been used more extensively to compare       "biocidal/bioactive" surfaces in general and testing of novel combinations       of treatments by Philips International, for purposes of incorporation into       new products for oral healthcare (see source 4).
This company adopted       UWE's new flatbed models "in house", thus enabling them to repeat critical       experiments (first performed on their behalf at UWE) prior to final       selection of best candidate formulations for further evaluation.
Impact 3: clinical trials leading to commercialisation of oral health         products     On behalf of Healthcare International (industrial clients), UWE has       performed human clinical trials on oral health products (with appropriate       ethical approval) for products to eliminate, for up to 12 hours, bad       breath in human subjects.
(The results were published in reference 4       above.)
A test product SB12 has been shown to be highly efficacious, thus       supporting further development of product (scale-up manufacture and       commercialisation).
The formulation has been rebranded as CB12 and is       distributed and sold by Boots International (marketed at       http://www.boots.com/en/CB12/About-CB12/).
Impact 4: improved diagnosis of breath malodour; training and         engagement of practitioners from the UK, Europe and the US     Building on the research findings, our group at UWE has trained       organoleptic odour judges in the only such courses in the UK and EU.
Delegates have learned how to assess breath malodour using scoring systems       known as organoleptic and hedonic scales, and to relate these scores to       individual volatile components present in human breath as well as breath       samples from human subjects.
Since 2008, five such 5-day courses have been       conducted with up to 12 trainees per year (from Europe and US), including       academics, clinicians, dental nurses and hygienists, enabling them to more       effectively diagnose and treat causes of breath malodour in their       patients.
Since 2010, the courses have been sponsored by GABA       international [S1].
Professor Greenman's workshops for dentists and health professionals       across the EU and US have enabled many to improve their patient care by       understanding the microbial aetiology of bad breath and the nature of the       organoleptic scale for measuring malodour.
