     The inclusion of psychologists in all UK cleft teams     UWE research, highlighting the prevalence of psychological distress, the       unmet psychosocial needs of patients and families affected by cleft and       the ground-breaking finding that psychological factors played a       significantly greater part in adjustment to cleft than aesthetic and       functional outcomes, has played a leading role in ensuring that all       patients with a cleft and their families in the UK have access to       healthcare which includes a psychologist as a key and central member of       the team.
Following a Clinical Studies Advisory Group (CSAG) enquiry into       sub-optimal outcomes in cleft care in 1996, the Department of Health       established a Cleft Implementation Group to oversee the reorganisation of       cleft care.
We submitted our research evidence demonstrating the       importance of psychological factors in adjustment to a cleft to this       Group.
On the basis of this evidence, Rumsey was invited to join this       expert group as the only psychologist.
The deliberations were published in       the form of a Government Circular (HSC98/238) and Department of Health       reports (2002; 2003).
All these publications included the recommendation       that "an appropriately trained psychologist should be a core member of       each cleft team".
Following a rolling programme of implementation       (2003-June 2013), all UK cleft teams have now complied with this guidance.
Psychologists across the UK now engage in screening, intervention, audit       and research and have significantly altered the ethos and agenda of cleft       care for all patients and families.
The results of UWE research have been used to improve the quality of the       newly configured UK cleft psychology services.
Furthermore, our research       findings setting out the crucial importance of psychological care and       including patient-centred outcomes in assessing the quality of care       worldwide, has been taken up by The Global Task Force in Patient-Centred       Outcomes in Cleft 2009-2017 and is being used in a programme of work to       implement patient-centred outcomes as a method of assessing the quality of       care by cleft teams from the 70 member countries.
In the UK, with leadership from Rumsey, Bradbury (University of       Manchester) and Middleton (Great Ormond Street Hospitals, London), the       newly appointed clinical psychologists in cleft came together in 2004 to       establish the Psychology Special Interest Group of the Craniofacial       Society of Great Britain and Ireland (CFSGBI) to provide a professional       `home' for the new clinical psychologists in cleft.
Our research       identifying the need for psychological support and intervention influenced       the Group's work from 2004-2009 to develop and adopt new UK Standards of       Psychological Care in Cleft (2010).
These now guide the clinical work of       psychologists across the UK and provide the framework for UK-wide audit       and research data collection [T1].
(We collate this audit and research       data and are currently participating in projects to assess the impact of       changes in care provision in the UK over the past 10 years.)
Effective interventions for people with disfigurement     The ground-breaking study of the largest sample of people with       disfigurement to date led by Rumsey (2004-2009) (G1) resulted in the       development of a theoretical framework of adjustment to disfigurement and       to a stepped model to guide the development of interventions.
This has       resulted in the development of a range of evidence-based interventions       suitable for patients with varying levels of psychosocial need, including       two online interventions (one for adults [S1], with Bessell and Moss in       2009; one for young people [S2], with Williamson in 2011) which have       demonstrated significant gains in psychological adjustment [T2].
These       interventions are being used by in excess of 50 psychosocial specialists       with their clients.
(A study is currently underway, funded by NIHR       Research for Patient Benefit, to assess their efficacy as       self-administered interventions.)
International interest is considerable       and their use has been extended to professionals in the USA and Australia       in 2013.
Negotiations to translate the tools into the languages of 8       European countries are currently underway [T3].
Evidence-based training and protocols for practitioners     Rumsey's research has underpinned successful applications to fund       international networks of practitioners and researchers.
Rumsey and her       team have developed evidence-based training materials and research       protocols for practitioners and researchers from 25 European countries who       are members of these networks.
These materials are guiding vocational       trainers, educators and social activists in 25 European countries in their       work with people disadvantaged by appearance-related distress (including       cleft).
Rumsey also currently leads the Global Task Force on Holistic       Outcomes in Cleft which includes representatives from 70 countries who are       implementing methods of auditing psychological adjustment to cleft and its       treatment, based on her research [S6].
Supporting lay-led organisations in providing interventions and         training materials     Rumsey's research highlighting the prevalence of psychological distress,       the need for psychosocial support, and the identification of key       psychological factors contributing to adjustment in those affected by       cleft and their families has resulted in long-term collaborations with the       key lay-led organisations in the field: the charities Changing Faces,       CLAPA (the UK's Cleft Lip and Palate Association), CleftPals (Australia),       Facial Palsy UK [S4] and The Healing Foundation [S5; T2].
Over the past       decade, this research, together with funded evaluations led by our team       have contributed to shaping            the content and focus of support and interventions offered by these         charities (including written materials, online interventions, support         offered face to face and over the telephone) [S3]       the development of training materials for healthcare professionals         (including a training package for cosmetic surgeons to facilitate         psychological screening of potential patients) [T2].
Public engagement     We, together with others, have published a number of landmark       publications, including most recently The Oxford Handbook of Appearance       (2012).
The aim of such publications is to disseminate research findings       to a broad audience of healthcare professionals, social scientists and       policy makers.
Rumsey is keenly committed to public engagement as a key       mechanism of disseminating her research.
She has engaged in public debate       in over 50 contributions to national and local radio during the past 5       years (including Radio 4's Today, Woman's Hour; You and Yours, All in         the Mind) as well as televised interviews and documentaries for BBC3       (Jess: My New Face), ITV's Trinny and Suzannah and Channel       4's Beauty and the Beast.
More than 50 key note addresses have       been given by Rumsey to audiences of healthcare professionals around the       world since 2008.
She has also engaged in audience debates at several       Science Festivals in the UK and USA, public debates at The Science Museum,       The Wellcome Centre and at The National Portrait Gallery and has led       interactive workshops based on her research with large cohorts of GCSE and       A level students at Disneyland Paris and London's O2.
The team developed       an interactive display for Bristol's public hands-on science exhibition       @Bristol.
This attracted 22,000 visitors in the first six months of 2013       and raised public awareness of cleft.
