     Topic guides and picture materials developed by Roulstone et al.
[R1, R2] to investigate the perspectives of children with speech, language       and communication impairments (SLCI) and their families have been used to       support user consultation.
For example, the national Commissioning Support       Programme (also part of the Better Communication Action Plan in 2008) was       tasked with providing support for commissioning of services for children       with SLCI.
The final guidance [S1], published in 2011 contains the topic       guides and picture materials developed as part of Roulstone's research.
The consultation with parents and children, led by Roulstone for the       Bercow Review (2008), presented parents' views regarding their ideal       world.
In such a world, communication was seen as fundamental, diagnosis       was timely, services were signposted with easy access, people work in       partnership, specialist resources are appropriate and available, and       speech, language and communication needs are recognised by the public.
The       influence of these findings can be clearly seen in the groupings of four       of Bercow's five recommendations: communication is crucial; early       identification and intervention are essential; a continuum of services       around the family is needed; joint working is critical [S2].
Roulstone's       research is acknowledged in Bercow's report [S2] which uses quotes and       illustrations directly from Roulstone's data.
For example, the opening       quotation for Bercow's review on p16 "Speech language and communication is       the most important thing in all our children &#8212; it's their key to life" is       a quotation from a parent taken directly from Roulstone's research.
Roulstone's research into the perspectives of children and young people       regarding their SLCI has prompted practitioners to search out these       perspectives within their own services.
An example is given [T1] by a       speech and language therapy team leader from Wiltshire who describes the       influence, in 2004, 2011 and 2012, of Roulstone's research on the practice       of her service.
She describes the introduction of children's views into       their auditing process and how this helped her team to understand the       value that children placed on activities within therapy.
Roulstone's findings emphasised the central role of communication in       children's lives and the perceived lack of awareness of this in       professionals and the public.
Bercow's report picked up this finding and       recommended a national campaign year to promote awareness of the role that       communication plays in children's lives and the damaging effects of SLCI.
The government accepted this recommendation and announced the National       Year of Communication in 2011 &#8212; a campaign to increase understanding of       the importance of communication to children's and young people's welfare       and development.
During the National Year (2011), Roulstone's research       findings from the ALSPAC data were used to support the campaign, that is,       the finding that parents' activities in the first two years of life were       associated with increased vocabulary in their children at the age of two       years and improved school readiness.
Roulstone was invited to present her       findings in seminars for early years practitioners, museum curators and       therapists (for example, in London and Manchester) that were staged as       part of the national year.
Speech and language therapists have described       the research as invaluable [T2] in their work with children's centres and       families supporting the need to develop environments to support children's       language development.
Roulstone's research, based on the data from ALSPAC and the investigation       of the evidence base underpinning current practice, has been referenced in       a number of recent policy documents that argue for the development of       services for the early identification of and intervention for children       with SLCI.
For example, Roulstone's research is widely referenced in the       All Party Parliamentary Group on Speech and Language Difficulties recent       report (February, 2013) on the links between SLCI and social disadvantage       [S3] and in the 2012 Nutbrown Review [S4] which referred to the       `overwhelming evidence for the strong support of young children's early       language development' from Roulstone's research.
The research is also       being picked up at a local level where it is cited to support the       development of services which promote support for children's early       language development, for example [S5], a speech and language therapy team       in South Wales cite Roulstone's research to support their `Strategy for       the Prevention, Early Identification and Intervention for Speech, Language       and Communication Needs for Children '.
Finally, Roulstone's research [R6] to identify the evidence underpinning       current practice is having an impact on the use of evidence-based       practice.
In 2012, the Communication Trust used the research to generate a       searchable web-site [S6, S7].
This has stimulated developers of       intervention programmes to investigate the evidence supporting their       intervention and The Communication Trust has commissioned Roulstone to       provide support for its membership to develop their evidence base [T3].
It       is also the case that commissioners, managers and practitioners see it as       a source of information so that they can select interventions that have       some level of underpinning research evidence [T4].
The website was       launched in March 2013; over 4000 users have signed up to use the site       with over 27,000 page visits in the first six months.
