     Loughborough University research has identified fundamental changes in       the way professional support services are delivered when organisations       introduce SSCs.
The insights that have emerged from this work have       influenced the educational policy of the world's largest professional body       of management accounting and the working methods of a range of businesses       and organisations, from multinationals to SMEs and new companies.
The Chartered Institute of Management Accountants (CIMA), which       represents more than 200,000 members and students in 173 countries, has       used the research as the basis for "developing a new course on SSCs to add       to our [CIMA's] suite of courses offered to practitioners."
[5.1].
This both draws on novel competency frameworks and knowledge content       arising out of Loughborough's work and reflects the research team's       conclusion that syllabi need to be revised in light of the growth of SSCs.
Working in conjunction with CIMA, Herbert, Fitzgerald and Seal have       informed the development of a new syllabus topic to support the       accreditation of workers in finance service centres, thus benefiting       individual employees, organisations and professional bodies and informing       the authorities responsible for national and regional employment policy [5.2].
In May this year CIMA's Executive Director of Education acknowledged the       research's "profound effect on the industry and CIMA", observing: "There       are major changes to the way in which business support services are       provided that are creating new models of organisation.
[We] need to       understand these changes if we are to continue to provide relevant       education and training.
The research of the Loughborough team is an       exemplar which meets this objective" [5.1].
One of the earliest corollaries of Loughborough's work was the founding       in 2010 of the CIMA/Loughborough Shared Services Forum.
This reflected the       research team's model of bringing together a variety of stakeholders &#8212;       including management consultants, professional bodies, practising managers       and academics &#8212; to generate business knowledge through the circulation and       sharing of ideas.
Members include Shell, the Department of Work and       Pensions, Grant Thornton UK, Glasgow City Council, Associated News, ITV,       the Hackett Group and Network Rail.
The Forum has achieved international       reach, with meetings held in the UK, Singapore, Malaysia, Poland, Sri       Lanka, Hong Kong and South Africa.
Feedback from member organisations, which receive regular visits from the       research team, demonstrates the value placed on the Forum's approach,       which, in contrast with vendor-created and consultant-dominated networks,       emphasises the informal and interactive discussion of practical and       academic knowledge.
The Finance Director at Local World, a       Loughborough-based media business with a portfolio of market-leading print       and digital brands, has observed: "Sitting alongside real people doing a       real job with the sort of problems we can all identify with is so much       more useful than any amount of abstract training courses or advice from       consultants."
[5.3] A Director of KPMG has noted: "It is good to       be involved in a forum... free from the sort of competitive pressures that       are a feature of some other, more commercial business forums."
[5.4]       The Deputy Head of Accounting at DMG Media Finance Services has praised       the Forum for offering an "opportunity to learn from others within agendas       that are well structured and combine a sensible mix of consultant       led-practice and academic theory" [5.5].
In bridging the gap between practitioners, consultants, a professional       accountancy institution (CIMA) and academics, the research and the Forum       have helped to influence practice and strategic thinking in dozens of       participating organisations, including world-renowned multinational       companies.
The Global Head of Financial Service Centres at Rolls-Royce,       for example, has remarked that involvement with the Forum "has provided...       a greater understanding of how to optimise the current shared services       provisions within Rolls-Royce and also what the future options are likely       to be" [5.6].
Major national organisations that have benefited include the Post Office       and UK Business Services (formerly SSC Research Councils UK).
The Post       Office has acknowledged the Forum's role in informing a new enterprising       resource planning (ERP) system for almost 12,000 branches across the UK,       with the Senior Manager of the Accounting and Reporting Team confirming:       "Whilst ERP systems are no longer new developments, their application to       the new working methods of shared service centres is more recent... We       have been able to ask both ourselves and our suppliers more intelligent       and detailed questions in planning the new configuration and its       implementation."
[5.7]     The Service Delivery Manager of UK Business Services has confirmed that       its record-to-report performance improved to "world-class levels" within a       year of an intervention made possible by involvement in the Forum and that       Loughborough's research was a factor in the time taken to complete       year-end accounting routines falling from four months to 13 days [5.8].
Regional/local employers and new businesses have also benefited.
For       instance, Local World has reported introducing a range of new working       practices, including the prioritisation of larger national accounts and       the standardisation of procedures, as a result of involvement in the Forum       [5.3].
MyCSP, based in Cheadle, Greater Manchester, which was       founded in 2012 to administer the Principal Civil Service Pension Scheme       and provide pensions for over 1.5m people, tested its strategic approach       and organisational models against Loughborough's research and made a       profit of &#163;1.7m in its first year, "greatly helped by efficiency savings"       [5.9].
SKS Business Services, of Twickenham, a relatively new       chartered accountancy company providing business support to SMEs, has       stated that many of its key decisions and provision models have been built       on "the wide-ranging expertise... accumulated through the       CIMA-Loughborough Shared Services project" [5.10].
Loughborough University research has bridged the gap between       practitioners, consultants, a professional accountancy institution (CIMA)       and academics.
Insights from the research have influenced the educational       policy of CIMA and the working methods of a range of organisations.
As a       key participant in the forums summarised, "[t]he whole research project       has allowed leaders in shared service organisations to examine our common       challenges, share best practice.....
Overall, to date, this has been an       excellent project and please be assured Rolls-Royce Plc will continue to       support the study and research."
[5.6].
