     People with rheumatoid arthritis (RA) have learned how to self-manage       fatigue; rheumatology healthcare professionals have read or heard the       research findings and used them to enhance their clinical practice in       supporting self-management.
Impact on patient self-management.
Our cognitive behavioural       therapy (CBT) programme for fatigue self-management led to reduced fatigue       impact and severity, improvements in physical and mood states, increased       social participation and a return to lost leisure activities.
Local       patients have indicated their improvement in quality of life since       receiving this CBT intervention, describing the effects as "long-lasting",       "life-changing", and with "reduced hospital appointments" (source T1).
Similar findings have been demonstrated in clinical practice in Scotland,       where Occupational Therapists are utilising the programme with       "improvements in outcome measures and patient experience" (source T2).
To       disseminate these approaches to patients, the trial funders (Arthritis       Research UK) asked to us to write a patient booklet for fatigue       self-management.
The booklet contains self-help information, activities       and materials based on our trial (source S1).
It is displayed in most UK       rheumatology clinics, many GP surgeries and can also be ordered by       patients.
In the 16 months since publication in January 2012, over 30,000       hard copies have been requested (still averaging 1100/month).
The National       RA Society (a patient organization) utilised it to include a fatigue       session in their general self-management programme.
Impact on clinician awareness and treatment guidelines.
Our       research into fatigue is cited in the standards for UK service provision,       the 2006 British Society of Rheumatology and British Health Professional       in Rheumatology Guidelines for managing RA, which states that fatigue must       be addressed (source S2).
Our 2008 Fatigue Topic Review commissioned by       Arthritis Research UK is a publication series distributed nationally to       all UK rheumatologists, rheumatology health professionals and GPs, to       inform care.
Following the development of our BRAF scales (2010), the       joint working party of pharmaceutical agencies and the USA Federal Drug       Administration looking at rheumatology outcomes invited Hewlett to submit       information to a policy meeting (2012) considering fatigue as a key RA       treatment target for patients, in support of the industry's need to       evaluate fatigue as a drug licensing claim (source S3), and the possible       use of the BRAFs to do this.
The FDA was broadly supportive and talks       continue; meanwhile the BRAFs have been translated into 35 languages, and       are being used in drug trials worldwide with 2000 patients.
The       pharmaceutical industry has highlighted how our work has helped place       fatigue at the centre of drug development: one company has described this       "breakthrough" and "major advancement" as "critical in the drug       development process" (source T3).
Impact on clinical practice: Following our successful RCT of CBT       for fatigue self management, a rheumatology Occupational Therapist and a       consultant nurse (Hewlett) supported patients in fatigue self-management       using materials and approaches from the CBT course, with Hewlett receiving       an average 2 new referrals per week from the local team, and occasionally       another Trust.
Our use of CBT approaches has altered local practice, with       3 health professionals deciding to attend CBT skills courses and using       these in clinic.
During 2003-2013, 15 NHS clinical rheumatology teams and       professional bodies throughout the UK requested presentations on RA       fatigue and its management.
Following these, our 2013 repeat survey of UK       rheumatology nurse specialists showed that 82% are now using our booklet       to deliver support for fatigue self-management, 98% find it helpful for       patients, and 83% do not require more RA fatigue information (compared to       35% in 2007).
Many clinical teams say they have decided to use our       methods: a rheumatology unit in Scotland that has used our materials for       their fatigue self-management programme has reported significant       improvement in fatigue impact, and also that uptake is spreading as other       units have visited to observe, resulting in "NHS Glasgow and Clyde       starting their [programmes] this year" (source T2).
Seven NHS teams across       England and Wales have offered to be trained in the manualised CBT course.
The OMERACT patient panel (see section 2 above) has testified to       improvements in clinical practice internationally, describing them as       "groundbreaking... fatigue is no longer denied, dismissed or neglected"       (source T4).
During 2003-2013, 10 presentations to rheumatology clinicians were       requested across USA, Europe and Asia, together with a series of       presentations in Iceland, including a public lecture.
Following these       presentations, clinical rheumatology teams from the Netherlands, Finland,       Denmark and Canada have requested the manualized CBT course.
In 2012,       Hewlett's presentation of our CBT research transmitted to 15 hospitals       across British Columbia in Canada, led to their staff changing their       clinical practice in the management of fatigue by "using the work of Dr       Hewlett's team to better assist clients" helped by provision of "tangible       resources" (source T5).
The Arthritis Society of Canada has used our       fatigue self-management materials to develop an online fatigue module for       Canadians living with arthritis ("very grateful for Dr Hewlett's support       and the ability to make use of her work").
The content, which was based       directly on Hewlett's research, completed online testing in July 2013       ready for launch in autumn 2013.
Impact on fatigue in other long-term conditions: Hewlett was       invited to present the fatigue work to the patient conferences of the       National Ankylosing Spondylitis Society and the quality of life group       LifePsychol, where patients expressed considerable interest in adopting       some self-management aspects.
Keynote Lectures were given to the British       Association of Cognitive and Behavioural Therapists and the British Pain       Society to help clinicians understand links between fatigue, thoughts,       feelings and pain; after the BPS presentation, the Chair asked the       clinician delegates how many would now address fatigue with patients, and       approximately 50% indicated they would.
