     Context     Between 30% to 60% of the world's natural gas (6,186 trillion cubic feet       (TCF)) is classified as "stranded", meaning that it cannot be used locally       or transported economically to other markets.
As a result the natural gas       is often flared causing economic waste and environmental concern.
One way       of utilising "stranded" gas is to convert it into synthesis gas (Syngas),       that in turn can be converted using Gas to Liquids (GTL) technology into       fluids that can be readily pumped through the same pipelines as the       produced oil.
In addition, there are still large amounts of undiscovered       gas (4,133 TCF) that could be produced by using GTL technology.
New       methods to convert natural gas to liquids enable producers to transport       gas more easily and economically from previously inaccessible areas.
However, 38% of the world's stranded gas fields cannot be monetised using       current large footprint GTL systems [I1.../stranded_gas].
Pathway to Impact     Ceramic membrane research at RGU, combined with experience of process       intensification through eco-friendly reactors, led to the foundation of       the spinout company Gas2 Ltd by RGU in 2005, to commercialise eco-friendly       ceramic membrane technology through the development of Syngas and       Fischer-Tropsch (FT) technologies.
The eco-friendly ceramic membrane       technology can be streamlined into modular reactors and reconfigured to       monetise small reserves of "stranded" gas that cannot support traditional       large-scale GTL technology [I1 Timeline, I2].
A Knowledge Transfer Partnership (KTP 001658) between Gas2 and RGU       (2006-2008) successfully built, tested and optimised a working,       multi-tubular, miniature, industrial, eco-friendly, ceramic membrane       prototype, producing high quality Syngas at variable ratios, using an       input of air/oxygen and natural gas only [I3].
In early 2008 Gas2 secured an exclusive licence for the development of       the Syngas and Fischer- Tropsch technologies from RGU [R4, R6].
A       significant estate of granted and pending patents in multiple territories       has subsequently been established around the Syngas and Fischer-Tropsch       technologies [I1 Timeline].
Reach and Significance     The eco-friendly ceramic membrane technology captured the attention of       major global energy investment company Lime Rock Partners for possible       onshore and offshore deployment, to monetise stranded gas, and to avoid       flaring/venting of unwanted associated gas.
The optimised prototype       fortified Gas2's global competitive position, with the result that in       February 2008 Gas2 was able to attract an inward capital investment of &#163;10       million from Lime Rock Partners (USA) and a private investor syndicate to       finance the commercialisation of the technology [I4].
In February 2010, the achievements of the KTP partnership between RGU and       Gas2 were recognised with the Best Knowledge Transfer Partnership for       Scotland award [I5].
Gas2 was awarded a further &#163;1.7 million in 2010 to make       out-of-the-laboratory slip-stream testing of the optimised ceramic       membrane prototype system.
Gas2 has, and continues to support the       exploitation of RGU intellectual property in the Syngas and       Fischer-Tropsch patent families.
During 2010 and 2011, Gas2 established a       laboratory Syngas programme at the specialist petrochemical research       Wilton Centre in Cleveland to extend their Syngas test capability while       further laboratory work and computerised modelling continued in the       Aberdeen laboratory [I2]     Gas2 secured a further &#163;5.5m in February 2012 to further the development       of the next generation of GTL technology, including the construction of a       pilot reactor plant on a 0.4 acre site at the Wilton Centre in Cleveland.
Gas2 is developing a catalytic ceramic-based porous membrane (pMRTM)       that is used in its GTL technology, to combines gas reforming Syngas       reactors and fluid forming Fischer-Tropsch reactors to create liquid       hydrocarbons [I6].
"Gas2 has a new technology that has the potential to fundamentally         disrupt the gas-to-liquids market.
The global demand for new solutions         is vast and the ability of Gas2 to secure this level of funding in         today's economic climate is a powerful indicator of confidence in the         company and the potential of its technology."
Saad Bagach, Lime Rock       [I6]     "We are entering a new and exciting phase with the build of the pilot         plant which will validate on a larger scale the commercial viability of         the Gas2 process.
We have a unique technology and process, and the         commercial prize is great for a successful outcome."
Mike Fleming,       Gas2 [I6]     In July 2013 Gas2 was on track with development of the next generation       GTL technology and test results from its pilot reactor plant at Wilton are       encouraging.
The Gas2 Syngas reactors have been commissioned and are       operating successfully, producing upper quartile gas conversions in a       single pass and through-puts within a narrow 2:1 hydrogen to carbon       monoxide output ratio.
The Fischer Tropsch (FT) reactors were commissioned       during summer 2013.
[I7]     The number of posts at the Aberdeen laboratory peaked at 9 people,       including KTP associate Chen and PhD student McKenzie.
February 2012       funding ultimately resulted in 16 posts within Gas2 in Aberdeen plus the       creation of 5 operative positions at the Cleveland pilot plant site [I2].
Gas2 continues to protect its IP developed from the Syngas and       Fischer-Tropsch technology with new patent applications related to its       pMR&#8482; CPOX process and new generation GTL reactors based on pMR&#8482; porous       membrane cores [I8, I9].
The Gas2 approach offers great potential       for working very efficiently at low and medium gas pressures and at high       single pass conversion rates resulting in radically lower CAPEX and OPEX       and significantly smaller footprint than conventional GTL solutions.
[I1.../intellectual-property,       I1]     "Gas 2 has a unique technology and process with the potential to         fundamentally disrupt the current gas-to-liquids market."
Mike       Fleming, Gas2 [I7]     Each funding round has assisted Gas2 to move towards commercialisation of       the technology in the form of compact reforming and FT reactors.
These       reactors will be marketed on a global basis as the core chemical       processing within small and medium scale GTL plants.
It is envisaged such       plants will be built by consortia involving Gas2, natural gas field       operators, and engineering companies licensed to exploit the RGU/Gas2 IP       portfolio.
It is estimated that a 1000 barrel per day plant deploying Gas2       technology for stranded gas monetisation will convert around 10 million       cubic feet of natural gas per day into synthetic crude oil, which is       cleaner than its naturally occurring mineral-based equivalent [I2].
