     Addressing the development of policy     Norwich's research on SEN pedagogy reflects his wider research about the       SEN category that has addressed the development of current policy       proposals for children with SEN (he has made contributions to SEN Policy       Research Forum1).
He gave expert testimony to the House of       Commons Education Committee in June 20122 in relation to       legislation following the SEN and Disability Green Paper and also provided       further written evidence in November 20123.
Generating a resource     One outcome of the research has been its practical translation into a       resource to support trainee teachers and teacher educators in addressing       the teaching of pupils with SEN on PGCE or other pre-service courses.
This       took the form of a SEN task drawing on the key principles from the       research &#8212; the pedagogic continuum and the intensification of general       teaching methods for SEN pupils &#8212; which were trialled by 550 teacher       trainees across the country in 2007/8.
Following the positive outcome of       these trials4, they were then adopted by the TDA5       for national dissemination to all PGCE providers in 2009, with two years'       funding (2009-2011) to support the dissemination process through regional       hubs.
A small-scale national survey led by Nash and Norwich of 19 ITT       providers' use of the personalised SEN task in 2011-12 showed widespread       awareness and uptake of the task or some variation of it in their ITT       (15/19 of these Employment-based, School-centred and University PGCE ITT       providers).
The task was mostly used for all trainees rather than as a       trainee option on these programmes and tutors' planned to continue using       it; 17/19 reported that the task had some or great value in their       programmes.
As one tutor reported:     It is an opportunity for trainees to demonstrate how they can have an         impact on children's progress over time.
The data was very convincing         with some children making huge steps forwards in their reading         attainment and in their attitude to reading in general.
Many trainees reported that the task had value for them, as these typical       examples show:     The task &#8212; `helped raise awareness of the children's individual needs and       strategies that can be implemented'.
- gave `a lot about individual needs and barriers to learning'     - showed `how to plan my lessons so that individual needs could be met       for all children; to recognise how to plan for personalised learning'.
Shaping professional understanding     The cumulative research from studies led by Norwich have shaped       professional understanding of inclusive pedagogies and how best to teach       pupils with SEN.
Feedback from trainees who have used the SEN       teacher-training resource indicates that using the task achieved a shift       in their sense of professional identity, moving away from the idea that       only those with specialist training can and should teach pupils with SEN,       to a much more inclusive model which has left them feeling empowered to       work with SEN children4.
This, in turn, supports the current       trend towards more inclusion of pupils with SEN and disabilities in       mainstream schools.
Tutors working with trainees mostly believed that the       task contributed to trainees' knowledge and understanding about the       educational needs of these children, the SEN Framework, how to assess and       adapt teaching, to manage support and to be more positive and confident       about teaching pupils with SEN.     More broadly, the programme of research conducted by Norwich has informed       professional discussion about SEN provision, including in specialised       professional contexts.
Norwich was a proposer for a debate at the National       Children's Bureau in 20087, considering the saliency of the       concept of Special Educational Needs.
The SEN Policy Options Group publish       a summary of this debate.
In 2011, Norwich gave a keynote presentation for       NALDIC8, which addressed inclusive education making connections       between SEN and EAL provision.
He has contributed to various debates and       professional sites, including an article on Teaching Expertise, a       conference paper on Inclusion on the TES website section for teaching       resources, (which has had 1364 viewings since 2010), a NASEN blog and an       Ambitious for Autism 2011 panel discussion about future national policy       directions9.
Improving the quality of teaching     Norwich's research has had a direct impact on the quality of teaching of       pupils with SEN.
The Department for Education website supporting the       dissemination of the SEN personalised task5 makes direct       reference to Norwich's research and offers five video testimonials from       practitioners explaining how much the task has helped their practice.
The       coordinator of the National TDA ITT SEN programme summarised the       contribution of the task in these terms10:     "The task contributes to the initial training of teachers by giving       trainees and those supporting them a clear conceptual framework and an       easy to understand task to test it out in practice".
Similarly, the final TDA project report4 includes a positive       evaluation of its impact and feedback from trainees and teachers.
The       following examples taken from this report are typical:     Primary school trainee talking about the task's impact on their       teaching:     "It has given me more confidence to take risks with them, I've gotten         to know them, I've opened it up and we've started using different         teaching styles, which they've taken well and I'm able to use that and         implement it into my lessons a bit more."
Secondary school trainee who saw positive effects of the task on       pupils:     "I do think it's helped him.
He's a lot more focused.
I mean [...] his         attention span is still very small but he's lot keener, he's a lot more         enthusiastic than he was.
[...] This seems to have got him back on track         and he turns up very early in the mornings."
Teacher trainers' comments about the task:     "I think there was an enthusiasm for the idea of students actually         working with one child and actually having the time to really analyse         what this child's needs were and then to put something in place and         again reflect on it. "
The wide take-up of this task by the TDA (re-named Teaching Agency in       April 2012) and the testimonials by educational practitioners indicate       that it met a need and has improved the quality of SEN teaching       nationally.
Although the progress achieved by SEN children taught by       trainees using the task was not the focus of Norwich's research, the       evidence provided by trainees indicates that the children made very       considerable progress in their learning.
