     The UK continental shelf hosts significant on-going exploration and       production of oil and gas.
The       UK and Scottish Governments are responsible for assessing the       environmental impact of human       activities and, where appropriate, the introduction of relevant       regulation.
As such, there is a need to       undertake monitoring of marine sediments, both to assess possible impacts,       and to determine if       the regulation is delivering what it is intended to do.
A key aspect to any monitoring programme is survey design.
Ultimately,       this is a process which       takes account of the main causes of random, between year variation, as       this is fundamental to       improving the power of trend monitoring programmes.
There is also the       desire to reduce costs by       analysing as few samples as possible whilst maintaining the required       discriminatory power.
Ultimately, Governments and Industry together have a responsibility for       monitoring and assessing       the impact of anthropogenic activities; this must be done in as efficient       a way as possible, coupled       with a common methodology to permit comparability of data.
This was a       central objective of the       process to provide a more robust statistically-based sampling regime for       sediments, to inform       Government and Industry.
The Scottish Government's national monitoring programme for marine       sediments is now based       entirely around the Random Stratified Statistical Sampling Regime.
There has been a period of       overlap between the former (fixed sampling) protocol and the introduction       of this new regime.
However this is now well established and being used in assessments (IR1       pages 44-47).
As part of       the UK Marine Monitoring &amp; Assessment Strategy (UKMMAS), the Marine       Laboratory has       promoted the sampling scheme through the UK Clean and Safe Seas Evidence       Group and the       data has been used in UK assessments (IR2 pages 65-66).
Such methodology has proved very successful, and the UK offshore Oil       &amp; Gas industry now       routinely uses the Random Stratified Statistical Sampling Regime.
It is the adopted regime that       monitors the &#163;22 billion Oil &amp; Gas Industry in the North Sea.
Not only       has this provided a robust       methodology, but it has also ensured that the Department of Energy and       Climate Change       regulators have a high confidence in the assessments.
The studies, which       have been conducted,       have shown clearly that the regulation that was introduced was       appropriate, and there is a high       confidence in the assessment, including following specific incidents (IR3,         IR4, IR5).
The UK, as a Contracting Party to OSPAR, has promoted the methodology at       relevant Working       Groups, in both OSPAR and the International Council for the Exploration of       the Sea (ICES).
This       includes the ICES Marine Chemistry Working Group and the OSPAR Working       Group on Monitoring       in the Marine Environment.
This has resulted in data from the Random         Stratified Statistical         Sampling Regime being incorporated into international assessments (IR6       page 44).
Key to       assessments at a regional scale (such as the North Sea) is a common       methodology across the       various countries.
The UK has taken a strong lead both in the       determination of assessment criteria       and sampling methodologies which are part of the OSPAR Coordinated       Environmental Monitoring       Programme (CEMP) which is the international basis on which many North Sea       countries base their       monitoring.
This lead has leant heavily on the science of the sampling as       detailed above and the       use of passive samplers, which are now being considered as one of the key       ways forward in       environmental sampling.
In recent times the EU have introduced new legislation pertaining to the       marine ecosystems.
The       Marine Strategy Framework Directive (EU Directive 2008/56/EC; MSFD) and       the associated       Decision of 1 September 2010 (2010/477/EU) detail the descriptors of good       environmental status       and the required criteria and indicators.
For hazardous substances, the       descriptor is       "Concentrations of contaminants are at levels not giving rise to         pollution effects."
While the       common indicators (across Member States bordering a Region e.g.
North Sea)       link concentration       with effect.
Marine Scotland has just published a report (IR7) outlining the       proposed new sampling programme       to meet the requirements of the MSFD Monitoring, to be implemented from       July 2014.
The       Random Stratified Statistical Sampling Regime of the sediments is       integral to the monitoring       programme.
Basically, there is a critical need to correctly assess the human impact       on the environment.
ICES       and OSPAR both play a fundamental role in providing direction and ensuring       a common       methodology across marine regions.
By presenting robust data, backed up       with peer-reviewed       publications, UK representation at both OSPAR and ICES, on occasions led       from Marine Scotland       Science, is based on a strong and robust evidence base of which this is a       fundamental and       important part [IR8].
The outcomes are monitoring programmes that       deliver in a sound and robust       way, ensuring that the UK is compliant and also using common techniques       and assessment       criteria.
Environmental impact has been achieved for a range of different       beneficiaries both in the UK and       internationally providing cleaner seas which has improved marine       sustainability particularly the fish       stocks and marine animals.
Cleaner beaches and seas encourage increased       leisure activities       which improve lifestyles and consequently health.
Economic impact has been achieved in the Fisheries industry as cleaner       seas provide increasing       and healthier fish stocks.
Also the earlier indication of problems in an       area instigates timely       corrective action which can reduce costs to the Oil &amp; Gas and others       industries.
