     A 2010 survey of British political scientists by the Institute for       Government voted the National Minimum Wage (NMW) the most successful       government policy of the last 30 years (http://www.instituteforgovernment.org.uk/events/policy-reunion-national-minimum-wage).
As Tim Butcher, LPC Chief Economist, notes in his written testimonial,       `Professor Dickens' work has played an important role in achieving that       outcome'.
Direct impacts of this research have included raising the wages       of thousands of young workers.
Research by Dickens and colleagues [see Section 3, R2 , R6] on the age       from which the NMW for adults is paid had a direct impact on young workers       through a change in legislation in 2010 whereby 21-year-olds became       eligible for the adult NMW (NMW Regulations 2010).
This research was       commissioned by the LPC (Project LPC 2009-10) and findings were presented       to the LPC in the form of a report and presentations to Commissioners and       the Secretariat in April and October 2009.
The LPC had previously recommended to the government that the adult rate       should apply at age 21 rather than age 22.
The government rejected this       proposal but the LPC persisted.
In reporting to the government in 2009-10,       the LPC cited R2 and R6 in re-asserting their case.
The research by       Dickens et al.
was instrumental in persuading the government to       finally accept the LPC recommendations [see Section 5, testimonials].
The       change in legislation came into effect in October 2010 [C7]; workers aged       21 years were to be paid at the adult rather than the youth (development)       rate of the NMW.
This resulted in a 20 per cent increase in the legislated       minimum wage for 21-year-olds.
The LPC estimated that 55,000 young workers       benefited from this pay increase (see LPC 2010, p. 118) [C3].
The conclusions from the research were that there was no evidence of any       harmful effects on employment from paying 21-year-olds the adult rate.
These conclusions, and the reasoning behind them, were presented to the       LPC through a number of mechanisms outlined below.
The 2010 LPC Report       stated that:     The research [R2] suggested that lowering the starting age of the adult       rate to 21 could actually increase employment of 21-year-olds.
They       concluded that there would be little harm to the employment prospects of       21-year-olds in legislating to start the adult minimum wage rate at age       21.
We continue to believe there is a case for applying the adult rate       from age 21.
Other studies by Dickens et al.
[R1, R3, R5] are heavily cited by       the LPC in various reports (LPC 2009, 2011, 2012, 2013) [C2, C4-C6].
The       LPC seeks to build consensus across employee, employer and independent       members of the Commission and relies on an evidence base in its       deliberations.
The evidence in R5 and R7 of negative impacts on employment       effects for part-time women was discussed extensively at an LPC workshop       in October 2011.
This and the work on the age-related structure of the NMW       [R2, R6] informed subsequent LPC deliberations over the impact of the NMW       on vulnerable workers in the recession.
Independent Member, Machin states:     It (the research by Dickens, Riley and Wilkinson) also fed in to       discussions in the last few years where the uprating of the youth       development rate was detached from that of the adult minimum because of       concerns about the employment position of younger workers during the       economic downturn.
R4 informs understanding of both the policy effectiveness of the NMW and       the methodological issues that may arise in the analysis of its employment       effects.
After almost two decades of rising wage inequality, pay       differentials at the bottom of the distribution began to fall in the late       1990s.
This work strongly supports the view that the NMW was largely       responsible for the observed falls and excludes most other explanations       such as migration, skill changes, etc.
This provides the LPC and the       government with strong validation for the use of the NMW as a policy tool       and also allays fears that the NMW would lead to a significant wage-price       spiral as workers above the NMW try to maintain differentials.
For       example, LPC Chief Economist Butcher's testimonial states:     This research, along with previous econometric analysis of the impact of       the NMW on differentials, suggests that this does not appear to have       happened to any significant extent.
As a consequence, Commissioners have       not placed as much weight on these concerns as they did in the earlier       years of the Commission.
All the underpinning research cited was either funded by the LPC or       conducted jointly with LPC Chief Economist Butcher.
As such, a number of       interim and final reports have been written and presented to the LPC over       the years 2007-08, 2009-10, 2010-11 and 2011-12.
The methodology employed       is presented in the LPC's methodology workshop in April of each year,       where Commissioners and other researchers are invited to comment on it.
The final results are presented &#8212; directly to Commissioners &#8212; at the       annual research workshop in September and policy conclusions discussed.
A       final report is then prepared in time for the LPC deliberations in       December each year and published the following April.
