     Sexual health initiatives in schools     As a result of the work of the UWE team, young people were able to       identify, discuss and analyse a range of difficult sex and relationship       related situations.
This led to tailored versions of the drama       intervention being produced (S1).
The beneficiaries of these interventions       nationally since 2008 include: school pupils (1,620); health, social care       and educational professionals (over 1120); arts based practitioners (55);       governing bodies (207); and national politicians (30).
Sexual health       service design was influenced by the voices of these young people and       professionals.
Our underpinning research informed the Teenage Pregnancy       Unit Good Practice Guidelines for arts-based work with children in the       care system.
Additionally it provided evidence that enabled the uptake of       this approach to be broadened further as a national multi-agency training       tool to address inequalities in health (T1, S2).
As a result of the research concerning `The Brook Sexual Health Outreach       Service in Schools', the new schools-based service was modified and then       commissioned across all nineteen secondary schools in Bristol.
This       resulted in 12,000 pupils using the service during 2012 for a range of       contraceptive and sexual health needs and numbers have grown year on year.
Bristol Young People's Public Health Manager (T1) highlights that "policy       developers were able to build on a number of recommendations from the       research around: the involvement of young people in service development;       improving access to vulnerable groups, including young men and developing       transitional pathways to enable young people to move into primary care and       mainstream sexual health services".
The robustness of UWE's research was demonstrated by its inclusion in a       Health Technology Assessment Systematic Review (S3) as one of only six       UK-based studies meeting the criteria for inclusion in a review of       effectiveness and acceptability.
Healthier eating in schools     UWE research demonstrated how the Food for Life Partnership influenced       eating behaviour, e.g.
by increasing school meal take-up, particularly       those eligible for free school meals and increased fruit and vegetable       consumption amongst pupils.
The evaluation evidence is integral to key       Soil Association and Garden Organic publications (S4, S5, T2).
Commenting       on the Soil Association's `Good Food for All' publication, the Director of       the Food for Life Partnership (T3, S4) highlights the impact of UWE's       research "This seminal report demonstrating the key impacts of FFLP has       formed the evidence base from which we've been able to develop       conversations with Public Health commissioners leading to the       implementation of locally commissioned FFLP programmes that support the       health strategies in local areas."
Furthermore, the Head of Education,       Garden Organic (T5, S5) reported that "The Department for Environment,       Food and Rural Affairs supported a Food Growing in Schools Taskforce which       produced a report and 6 key recommendations for helping every school       become a food growing school based on the evidence demonstrated in reports       like the `Good Food for All' publication".
The Executive summary report of       UWE's evaluation has been downloaded 1107 times and there have been 1152       downloads of the full evaluation report from UWE Research Repository       (July, 2013) (S6) and the FFLP website has been accessed over 2600 times       (S4).
Three key areas of impact from our research include additional funding to       extend reach of the current programme, development of new commissioning       models and policy level impact.
Between 2011 and 2012, Professor Orme       gave four key national presentations to audiences of policy makers, health       and education professionals, practitioners and researchers: (i) BIG       Lottery Wellbeing Research Outcomes Conference, Birmingham (March, 2011),       ii) Faculty of Public Health (national professional body) conference       attended by the Minister for Children and Families (S7) (June, 2011), iii)       HRH Prince Charles Royal Commission consultation event (November, 2011),       iv) Department for Education National School Food Plan (NSFP) consultation       event (November, 2012) (T4, S8).
As a result, BIG Lottery were influenced       to fund FFLP to the tune of a further &#163;4.6 million in September 2013       enabling the programme to extend its reach to additional communities.
In       addition, our research findings underpinned the development of a new       approach that FFLP adopted to commissioning their services to support       school food improvement across whole local authorities and school clusters       (T3).
FFLP have subsequently geared up to put in place measures to embed       the programme into a wider range of settings i.e.
hospitals, early years,       universities, care homes and workplaces (T2).
Also, our research helped to       shape government public health policy.
Former Deputy Director of Soil       Association (T2) notes that "The [UWE] review has provided us with many       opportunities to share the evidence with policy makers at the highest       level".
Most recently UWE's research contributed to the NSFP (S8, T2, T3,       T4, T5), which provides an action plan to accelerate improvement in school       food.
A co-author (T4) of the NSFP comments "These [UWE] assessments were       one important input into our development of a business case for investing       in increased school meal take-up".
