     The ArtLift evaluation guided new arts on referral services in primary       care.
On the strength of it, &#163;200,000 was awarded by NHS Gloucester for       art groups reaching approximately 780 patients up to July 2012.
The scheme       is now embedded in clinical practice, funded by the Clinical Commissioning       Group, with up to 60 patients receiving ArtLift `treatment' at any one       time (source 1).
The lead GP from Walnut Tree Surgery, acknowledges that Daykin's       research was key to persuading doctors and funders to continue and enlarge       on the work.
Because of the evaluation, follow-on activities are targeted       at groups that benefit the most.
A wider debate was started about the       importance of art and, `how we need to de-medicalise mild to moderate       mental health issues' (source 2).
The research is an acknowledged       influence on work in other localities, such as Bristol's ArtShine inner       city arts on referral scheme (source 3).
The Moving On evaluation brought together a multidisciplinary team of       clinicians, artists and service users who carried out its key       recommendations, securing charitable funds (2009) to establish a       participatory arts project at a large Bristol NHS mental health hospital.
A poet, a musician and two visual artists each delivered successive       residencies for approximately 50 patients drawn from adult acute,       rehabilitation and psychiatric intensive care wards, and an older adult       unit.
These patients recorded music and created permanent artworks that       continue to enhance the hospital environment.
The team created a toolkit       and resources so that therapies staff could continue with the activities       once the residencies had finished.
The patients also took part in public       performances and showcasing events.
These reduced stigma, generating new       community partnerships for the hospital.
Therapies staff gained new       creative skills and resources, reporting their practice as invigorated by       the project.
Senior clinicians and managers observed the positive impacts       of the arts process, being persuaded to maintain three artists' employment       on an ongoing basis.
These impacts are documented in the report,       co-authored by Daykin with Barbara Feldtkeller, the Trust's arts       psychotherapy research lead (source 4).
The Director of Willis Newson acknowledges the significant impact of the       KTP research on organisational learning and business development (source       5).
By generating a framework for arts and health evaluation and a       supporting library of tools, it supported the launch of a new consultancy       service (source 6) that has evaluated arts and health programmes for NHS       and Third Sector organisations, generating new income of &#163;19,977 up to 31       July 2013.
This has enhanced their reputation and strengthened their       eligibility for grant funding, supporting sustainability, with new income       of over &#163;140,000 projected for evaluation services over the three years       from January 2014.
Local impact is acknowledged by LightBox Community Interest Company, a       Bristol based arts on referral project providing workshops to promote       mental wellbeing.
Without the research, `we wouldn't have been able to       access the &#163;200,000 funding we were subsequently awarded by BIG Lottery's       Reaching Communities Fund' (source 7).
The research also, `enabled us to       critically appraise out achievements and weaknesses as an organization,       and use that knowledge to continually improve how we engage with the       public who access our resource' (source 7).
National level impact is also evidenced by Making Music, which represents       over 3,200 voluntary groups across the UK.
The research findings generated       a CPD workshop on arts and health evaluation, well attended and received       at their national conference in September 2011.
Consequently, they were       able to successfully launch a `Manifesto for Music and Wellbeing.'
The       Head of Development acknowledges the significant influence of Daykin's       research on `the thinking behind many of our recent strategic decisions,       and the drafting of funding proposals ... for projects in this important       and largely misunderstood area' (source 8).
By identifying risks as well as benefits of arts, and linking this with       improved evaluation practice, Daykin's research is widely       acknowledged as encouraging arts organisations to adopt a more considered       approach to their work.
This has ensured their sustainability, and has       generated wider benefits for the sector, through dissemination by local       and national advocacy organisations (source 9).
Daykin's research       is acknowledged as helping to raise standards and increase effectiveness       of arts in health activity across the UK.
Over the last five years, it       has, `influenced the way in which arts in health work is described, framed       and examined.... Over this same period, the field of arts in health ... is       much more widely accepted.
This is not coincidental.
Improved evaluation       and a better approach to defining the impact of arts activity on health is       a big part of the reason for arts approaches being adopted by clinicians       and healthcare providers' (source 10).
