     Murjas has developed a distinctive practice-led, community-based       methodology that has engaged her own diasporic Polish-British community,       which is now the second largest immigrant community in the UK, in a       sustained dialogue, through her collaboration with the Polish Cultural       Centre, London (POSK), the UK national centre for the promotion and       dissemination of Polish culture (http://www.posk.org/).
Informing and influencing the teaching of Polish Saturday Schools also       falls under POSK's remit.
She has also engaged with other networks of the       British Polish diaspora such as the Kresy-Siberia Reference Centre (http://www.kresy-siberia.com).
One of the main beneficiaries of Murjas's research is the Polish-British       community, The Polish community in Reading has been estimated at around       10,000 (http://www.polish-migrants.co.uk/polish-assimilation-in-the-uk.html).
In       the pre-REF period she built up a sustained relationship with the       Polish-British community in Reading and in London and, through POSK, with       the nation-wide network of Polish Saturday Schools (http://www.polskamacierz.org),       where schoolchildren learn Polish language and culture and can study for       Polish A levels and GCSEs.
In turn, Thorpe has also built up a sustained relationship with the       London Jing-Kun Opera Association &#8212; the only Chinese theatre troupe to be       permanently based in the UK (http://www.londonjingkunopera.co.uk/index_flash.htm).
This practice-based research has, through a sustained programme of       performances across the UK over a ten-year period, including Lady         Precious Stream, contributed significantly to non-academic/Chinese       diasporic audiences' interaction with Chinese performance.
Evidence of Impact     Education:     i) Murjas's research has continued to provide educational and cultural       resources to the Polish-British community in the UK throughout the REF       period.
Students from Polish Saturday Schools across the UK attended her       research productions in Reading and London and her research publications       are on their syllabus.
These students number around 2,500 each year, at       122 schools.
(http://tinyurl.com/k3wd68z).
Her translation of The Morality of Mrs Dulska is used to support       A-Level study of this text, as the only English text with sustained       contextual analysis of the work.
The Report on the 2010 AQA GCE Polish       Examination states that "There were very many essays on Moralnos&#263; Pani         Dulskiej [The Morality of Mrs Dulska]" and that it "was the       most often discussed".
Murjas' analysis of the work is studied alongside       the original Polish text as a learning and teaching resource to assist       A-level learning on this text.
ii) Thorpe's practice-as-research with the London Jing Kun Opera       Association has led to performances of traditional Chinese theatre for       non-academic audiences, including the Victoria &amp; Albert Museum,       London, 31 January 2011, Firth Hall, Sheffield, 4 May 2010,       Waterfront Theatre, Belfast, 19 June 2009, and Northern Music       Centre, Carlisle, 25 January 2008.
Several of these programmes included       workshops on Chinese theatre with school children.
Cultural enrichment and enhanced access to cultural heritage:     i) Over the REF period, Murjas's productions in Reading and London have       attracted audiences of around 1000 (23 public performances in total with       approx.
50 attendees per performance).
Media and web coverage have       extended the reach of these productions.
Documentation and discussion of the performance of Miss Malicewska       and its impact on UK Polish diasporic community by CTV company TV Polonia       (aimed at the global Polish diaspora) stating its significance as the       first English translation of the play (April 2008).
An extract from the       performance is still available on YouTube http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=u1h5VJy3rJI       (over 500 views).
The Polish Weekly (which is the weekend paper under the banner of       The Polish Daily) commented about Murjas's production of Ashanti:       `This effort is valued all the more by Polish communities, because it is       connected with the translation and production of Polish dramatic texts       into English...
Praise and acknowledgement should perhaps above all be       given to the translator and director, thanks to whom English readers and       theatre goers can get to know Polish art and culture, along with the       Polish community'.
(31st January 2010)     ii) Thorpe's research production of Lady Precious Stream was the       subject of a seven-minute `in focus' news report for the Chinese News       Channel transmitted across Europe (7th January 2012) and       included interviews with the playwright's family.
A public talk about the       project, held at SOAS, was covered by the UK newspaper China Daily       (9th November 2012).
This media interest indicates substantial       renewed interest in the play amongst the Chinese and Chinese-British       communities produced by the production.
Testimony from audiences     Feedback from Murjas's research production, Surviving Objects       (June 2013), includes audience questionnaires and a film of a post-show       discussion involving UK-based survivors of the Soviet deportations from       Poland and their families.
They discuss the personal significance of the       performance, and its importance in relation to diasporic cultural memory       and therapeutic self-expression.
The international Kresy-Siberia       Foundation, which supports survivors, disseminates their stories and       manages an extensive website that acts as a repository for survivor       testimonies, advertised the performance and the director took part in the       post-show discussion.
Feedback forms from other non-academic audience       members, and interviews with them, attest to a previous lack of awareness       of this strand of Polish diasporic and British colonial history, and to a       renewed interest in memory and history.
Comments from members of the       general public included the following:     `Didn't know about Polish camps in S. Africa during WWII i.e.
that were       placed there... may get out old items with relatives'.
`a subject I know very little about...
I have often thought of the       possibility of incorporating memory into my work; the seemingly       insignificant moments that have an impact'.
`It has added to my knowledge of my own family history'.
`It will affect my work at school on the war in history' (school pupil).
Extract from email 26 June 2013 (available upon request): `Being       surrounded by the lived experience of the child &#8212; and the adult       remembering childhood- has got inside me and deepened my understanding of       the subject in a `felt sense'...
It has also inspired me to begin a little       project memorialising a relative's memories of World War II.'
The effect on the audience has been in enriching their emotional       understanding of a cultural experience, whether their own culture, or that       of others.
