     The Liverpool studies of bronchodilator responsiveness in COPD have       changed the respiratory community's view of the optimal management of       COPD.
Before our studies, guidance from the American and European       Respiratory Societies and the Global initiative for COPD recommended that       bronchodilator testing should be a routine part of diagnostic evaluation       in COPD [8,9].
The publication of the data by Calverley et al led to a       change in the approach adopted in the first NICE guidelines in 2005 and       then in the revised GOLD guidance in 2007 [10].
These issues have recently       been reviewed by Albert et al in Lancet Respiratory Medicine.
The       preliminary presentation of data by Albert et al in 2010 led the       Department of Health to revise their quality outcome points allocation by       removing routine reversibility testing from the points allocated to GPs       assessing COPD patients [11], Instead points were awarded for undertaking       better quality spirometry and recording symptom intensity which we have       shown to be better markers of disease severity.
In this regard the Chief       scientist in the Department of Health said `The work of Professor       Calverley and his colleagues in Liverpool has had a direct effect on the       recommendations for assessment of the COPD patient' [12].
The paper by Davis et al on oral corticosteroids in exacerbations [3] has       been cited 344 times as of November 2013 and has been quoted in many COPD       guidelines documents [8-10] and in the NICE evidence review about the       management of COPD exacerbations [7].
Subsequent work from Canada       published in the NEJM confirmed Liverpool's findings and showed that       corticosteroid treatment reduced re-admission rates.
Recent data from       clinical trials indicate that upwards of 80% of exacerbations are now       managed using oral corticosteroids, a considerable change when the       previous practice, where antibiotics were the first line of treatment.
After the UoL RCT of hospital-at home-care, multiple NHS Trusts have set       up outreach teams based on the model the UoL developed and this has now       been taken up across the UK from 2008 onwards.
Dr Davies has spoken       extensively nationally and internationally on this topic and members of       the UoL team have helped developed the British Thoracic Society Guidelines       on Hospital at Home Care [13] which accelerated the adoption of research       into wider practice.
A Spanish trial reported that these protocols reduced       COPD treatment costs by 62%, reduced hospitalisation from 4.2 to 1.7 days       and increased patient satisfaction [18].
Professor Calverley has given invited lectures to all the UK medical       Royal Colleges, all the international respiratory societies (ATS, ERS,       APSR, ELAT) and in many other countries on the subject of inhaled       corticosteroids and long acting inhaled bronchodilators and related       topics.
The TORCH study provided the pivotal evidence which led the FDA to       license the combination of an inhaled corticosteroid and a bronchodilator       in the prevention of COPD exacerbations, the first time the Agency had       accepted exacerbation prevention as an indication for COPD treatment [8].
The data the Liverpool group generated played an important role in the       evidence-based evaluation of drug therapy in COPD conducted by NICE and       now published as revised guidance [7].
Similar recommendations were made       by the international GOLD guidelines [9,10] The new drug roflumilast,       which the UoL investigated in several large clinical trials, has been       reviewed by both the European Medicines Agency and the Federal Drugs       Administration and in each case our data, together with expert witness       input from Prof Calverley, played an important role in the licensing of       this therapy as well as identifying areas for future research [16].
This       led the sponsor's Medical Director to say, `(Prof Calverley's) advice         has significantly helped our company to bring Roflumilast to the market         and provide the severe ill COPD patients an additional treatment         option...' - global sales were &#163;19m in 2012, &gt;200% increase over       2011 [17].
The large clinical studies have involved a range of collaborators in       other UK centres and across Europe and North America.
This has led to       on-going collaborations such as the NIHR HTA grant held with Prof Wedzicha       at UCL and the jointly managed EU FP7 grant recently awarded to UoL and       colleagues in the Politecnico di Milano to study the early identification       of exacerbations in COPD patients with co-morbidity monitored at home.
Professor Calverley has been able to translate the findings into practical       effect, having served from 2000-2011 on the GOLD Executive Committee and       as Chair of both the Science and Dissemination Committees.
He helped       develop the joint ATS/ERS COPD guidelines and the UK NICE Guidelines.
He       chaired the Department of Health External Reference Group which produced       the Clinical Strategy for COPD Care published in 2011 [15] and presently       chairs the NIHR Respiratory Speciality Group charged with delivering high       quality clinical trials of the type the Calverley group has conducted for       the last decade.
