     This research has had a wide impact and influence on the HR professional       community and public policy.
A common approach in all of the projects has       been to disseminate the research findings through extensive feedback and       recommendations for practice.
This has resulted in some positive action by       many of the case studies to improve line management performance and       effectiveness.
At Selfridges, for example, one of the early case studies,       the role of front-line managers (team leaders) was redefined and changes       made to the selection criteria for these managers.
Senior managers at the       company attributed improvements in sales performance, wage costs and       labour turnover to these changes in the team leader role This organisation       has continued to invest in its line managers over successive years       following the research through ongoing training and other support       mechanisms.
At the Royal United Hospital in Bath, training and support was       offered to ward managers both during and after the course of the research,       and a new appraisal process introduced.
Consequent improvements in ward       management behaviour were evident in improved employee attitudes and       reduced vacancies.
At the MOD the findings of the research were used to       inform the `People Plan' designed to improve employee engagement and link       to the organisation's HR strategy.
The former HR Business Partner and       Board Member in the MOD's Information Systems and Services organisation       reported that the UWE research was `used to develop the organisation's         research-based People Plan which defined how we would achieve an         engaged, empowered and accountable workforce &#8212; which was fully aligned         to MOD's personnel strategies.
The research was considered invaluable.'
One of the most significant impacts has been the use of the research       material by the CIPD (the Chartered Institute of Personnel and       Development) &#8212; the professional body for HR practitioners.
The research       has informed CIPD policy and its qualification syllabus.
For example, a       range of publications, guides, factsheets and practical toolkits have been       produced for members which recognises the influential role line managers       play in delivering HR policy, the constraints that they face and the       support needed from the HR function.
The research on the role of         front-line managers in reward and learning and development has been       particularly influential in this respect.
Sue Hutchinson also acted as       consultant in the design of a diagnostic toolkit for improving line       management behaviour which is available on the CIPD web site for members.
The new qualification standards for the profession introduced in 2010       recognised (for the first time) the critical role of line managers in       people management and this is reflected in some of the module learning       outcomes.
The latest CIPD book on core HRM has a new chapter on line       managers.
The then Policy Advisor at the CIPD highlighted that the UWE       research, `fed into the CIPD's policy work with government agencies and         other bodies.
The work was also used to inform the CIPD syllabus and is         quoted in teaching materials for CIPD.'
Public policy is also paying particular attention to the role of line       managers in aspects of people management.
For example, the research       inspired and informed the ACAS advisory booklet &#8212; Front-line managers,       produced in 2009.
Sue Hutchinson acted as a consultant in the production       of the booklet, and most of the content of the guide draws on the research       projects undertaken prior to 2009, and references the research sponsored       by the CIPD.
This is a practical guide used by senior managers to help       them get the best from their line managers, and covers the role of line       managers, what problems they face and what support organisations can       provide.
Other policy documents which have been informed by all of this       research include Engaging for Success: Enhancing performance through         employee engagement.
A Report to Government London: Department of       Business, Innovation and Skills by MacLeod, D. and Clarke, N. (2009).
This       national review on engagement emphasises that the most important       relationship in the workplace is with the line manager.
The publication by       UKCES (2009) High Performance Working: A synthesis of key literature.
London: United Kingdom Commission for Employment and Skills also       recognises the critical role of these managers.
