     Transport CO2 emissions have risen in all city contexts and       there has been a strong imperative to examine how these can be reduced and       to develop strategies to tackle the problem.
Efforts to mitigate the       impacts of climate change rely heavily on a changed approach in the       transport sector (typically 20-40% of CO2 emissions at the city       level).
The research described above has led directly and indirectly to       significant changes in policy determining how the transport sector       responds to the challenge of climate change, in multiple jurisdictions in       the UK and internationally.
(i) Informing changes in UK city-wide, regional and national policy         and investment:     Prior to 2006 there was little, if any, consideration of climate change       in UK transport planning.
Since then, the need to reduce transport CO2       emissions has featured prominently in all strategy development, usually as       one of the primary objectives for the strategy.
This major shift in       emphasis has been informed, in part, by findings from the VIBAT studies,       which were the first to consider this issue at the national level.
Those       findings have been disseminated at a huge range of seminars, conferences,       workshops and publications, including over 50 presentations by Hickman [1].
In 2006, Hickman and Banister held a lunchtime seminar on the VIBAT-UK       study for transport experts at the UK Department for Transport (DfT).
Written and oral submissions were also made to the Environmental Audit       Select Committee (EAC) at the House of Commons, and the final EAC report       cited the VIBAT work substantively, and requested that the DfT       become more progressive on this topic.
Since then, there have been       significant changes in national, regional and city-based transport       strategies, investment programmes, local masterplanning and urban planning       strategies, at all scales of transport planning, and in multiple contexts.
These have included much increased funding in public transport, walking       and cycling (through dedicated transport funds in London and the Local       Transport Plan mechanism in the UK); an increased use of urban planning as       an instrument within transport planning; and revised street design       approaches.
In addition, a Local Sustainable Transport Fund of over &#163;100       million has been provided by the DfT.
The BSP research was carried out largely with city authorities, using a       participatory approach that brought in local officers and politicians to       help develop transport strategies and investment programmes over the long       term (up to 2026 and beyond).
Accordingly, it has fed into spatial and       transport strategies and revised investment programmes devised by city and       regional authorities.
Notable examples since 2008 include the use of the       research to inform the London's Mayoral Transport Strategy (Transport for       London, or TfL, and GLA, 2009, 2011) [2, 3], which now includes       reducing transport CO2 emissions as a major objective; and in       Local Transport Plans and Delivering a Sustainable Transport System       (DaSTS) studies for the Oxfordshire (2011) [4] and Swindon (2010)       LTPs, where investment programmes have been developed to help reduce       transport CO2 emissions.
These will be implemented over the       next 10-20 years and aim to significantly change travel behaviours and       reduce CO2 transport emissions.
The research has also facilitated a shift in policy approach at the       national level towards low carbon transport, including a new emphasis on       the need to consider alternative futures over the long-term.
Thus, for       example, the 2011 White Paper Cutting Carbon, Creating Growth: Making       Sustainable Local Transport Happen by DfT [5] considers climate       change as a major objective, takes a longer-term approach to strategy       development over 20 years and includes consideration of the range of       measures considered in the VIBAT studies.
(ii) Emerging changes in travel behaviour:     This improved awareness of the role of transport in reducing CO2       emissions, and the changing strategy and investment programmes, has begun       to translate into changes in transport funding patterns and, subsequently,       in travel behaviour.
More specifically, investment has been made in public       transport, walking and cycling, and the use of urban planning to help       support transport investments.
This has been one of several important       factors responsible for changes in travel behaviours, including less car       usage and greater use of public transport, walking and cycling.
Some       studies of recent trends suggest that car usage is beginning to peak in       certain urban areas in the UK (particularly London), and that public       transport, walking and cycling are increasing in popularity (e.g.
LeVine       and Jones, On the Move, 2012).
Although by no means the only       factors, the changed policy and investment approach at the urban level &#8212;       supported by the use of the VIBAT studies to demonstrate realistic       investment policies for city authorities &#8212; has contributed to this.
(iii) Influence on international policy:     The VIBAT studies have similarly influenced strategy and policy       development in international contexts.
Research by Hickman et al [d]       has had a particularly significant impact on the development of policy in       Asia.
Here, the sustainable urban transport concept, closely linked with       the need to reduce transport CO2 emissions, is now the dominant       policy approach and forms a central element of transport planning and       major project investment by the Asian Development Bank.
This has led to       significant investment in public transport, walking and cycling, as       alternatives to the private car, although of course there is a long way to       go before sustainable travel behaviours are achieved internationally.
The       sustainable mobility approach is being further developed in related work       by Hickman et al on multimodal interchange design in China (forthcoming in       2014).
(iv) Take-up of BSP methodologies in governmental and consultancy and         academic work:     Key methodologies developed through the VIBAT research include       scenario analysis and backcasting; methods to quantify policy impacts and       assess the likelihood of policy targets being met (such as the UK CO2       emission reduction target and London Mayoral CO2 emission       reduction target in London); simulation gaming and participatory scenario       development.
Since 2008, these approaches have been used in many other       governmental, consultancy and academic studies (beyond the work of Hickman       and Banister), including in work conducted by national and international       policy-making organisations.
The quantification of scenarios, for example,       which was rarely used in the transport sector before the VIBAT-UK       study, is now well used in almost all studies in mitigation in transport,       providing a much clearer evidence base for policy makers.
The UCL       approaches have also been applied in the EU Logman and EU OPTIC projects,       which applied very similar scenario development methodologies in to       freight (rather than passenger) transport.
Similarly, scenario analysis       and backcasting (developed and applied in the transport sector in the VIBAT       studies) have been used as part of the 2008-10 FP7 EU Freightvision       project on long-term futures for freight transport in Europe [6].
They have also been used at the UK governmental level, for example in       publications seeking to quantify the impact of policy measures against       targets.
Important examples include the 2008 Delivering a Sustainable         Transport Strategy and Carbon Pathways Analysis (both by       DfT), and the 2009 documents on Low Carbon Transport: A Greener         Future.
A Carbon Reduction Strategy for Transport (DfT) and An         Analysis of Urban Transport (Cabinet Office), the latter an       important document feeding into the development of national transport       strategy and funding levels for local authorities, including in Local       Transport Plans [7].
All of these, in fact, used BSP approaches to       quantify the likely impact of scenarios and strategies; BSP research also       informed their new focus on reducing transport CO2 emissions       and using urban planning to reduce car dependency.
The approach have also underpinned UK consultancy studies, such as those       by Halcrow/CH2M (jointly with the BSP) [8], WS Atkins, and Arup in       the Guildford Transport Strategy, which made direct use of the VIBAT       approaches in scenario development, visioning and scenario quantification.
This has improved awareness of robust and practical approaches to reducing       transport CO2 emissions.
The BSP methods have also been used in       international studies such as those by AEA Technology in the EU         Transport GHG: Routes to 2050 Project (2010) and in various Asian       Development Bank projects.
These include their global regional modelling       of low carbon transport pathways in the ASEAN region, considering policy       approaches that can be taken in Indonesia, Malaysia, Philippines,       Singapore, Cambodia and Thailand (2011-14); and studies on sustainable       mobility and investments in sustainable transport projects [8].
