     Nature of the Impact:     Research undertaken by LSE staff has influenced Government policy       directly &#8212; through research outputs, formal roles on expert panels, and       close working with Ministers and officials (see Sources A-C, E-J).
Impact       has also been achieved indirectly through policy intermediaries &#8212; notably       think tanks such as Centre for Cities (see Source D), Institute for Public       Policy Research (IPPR) and Policy Exchange, who have used the underpinning       research in their policy reports and lobbying.
The move from regional to city policy-making: The       Coalition's shift from regional to city policy-making represents the       biggest shift in sub-national governance and institutions since the       establishment of Regional Government Offices and Development Agencies       (RDAs) in the mid-1990s.
The 9 RDAs (created and funded by central       government) have been replaced by 39 Local Enterprise Partnerships or LEPs       (voluntary partnerships between local authorities and business).
At the       same time 10 `City Deals' have handed greater independence to a number of       cities.
A second wave of city deals will expand this approach to 20 more       areas.
Central government is also considering how to further devolve       funding to Local Authorities following the recommendations of the       Heseltine Review.
As a result of these reforms local governments have       increased freedom to determine policy and expenditure priorities (albeit       with decreased resources and capacity to do so).
The underpinning research described in Section 2 directly influenced       these reforms.
In particular, it made the case that to improve local       economic performance (a) policy should be focused on a smaller number of       places best placed to achieve private sector growth, and (b) that local       decision making should `line up' with functional urban areas.
While a       belief in localism has driven the overall approach, the specific changes       implemented by the City Deal and LEP reforms have translated these general       principles into the resulting policy framework for local economic       development policy.
SERC policy paper #001 [7] made the case for (a),       drawing on other LSE research.
The Local Growth White paper (Source A)       references this and other LSE research as providing evidence to support       the coalition's new approach.
The case for (b) is made in output [3].
`Unlocking Growth in Cities' (Source B) references this paper as central       to the economic case for the City Deal approach.
Cheshire, Gibbons and Overman worked with BIS, CLG, HM Treasury and       Cabinet Office to persuade them of the case for (a) and (b).
Examples of       meetings where these issues were considered include the SERC launch event       at BIS (25/06/08), a BIS ministerial seminar (13/11/08), a Strategy unit       seminar (11/12/08), a BIS Secretary of State Seminar (09/03/09), a GES       housing conference (26/03/09), a BIS analysts conference (24/09/09), a BIS       ministerial seminar (24/06/10), a BIS local growth white paper meeting       (14/09/10), a BIS ministerial clusters meeting (05/04/11), and a BIS       Secretary of State planning briefing (10/05/11).
SERC annual reports       catalogue dozens of additional meetings during 2008-2013.
Overman further       highlighted these points with the Deputy Prime Minister and the Cities       Minister at a roundtable on City Deals (14/04/11; Source E).
Following the       first round of City Deals, Overman held monthly meetings with the Cities       Policy Unit to provide advice on issues arising in the Wave 2 City Deal       process (Source E).
He also provided advice to BIS on possible reforms to       the Regional Growth Fund and the implementation of the Heseltine Review,       which sought to strengthen the role of local authorities (Source F).
High-profile think tanks &#8212; the Centre for Cities in particular &#8212; also used       the underpinning research in their own policy papers, which in turn       influenced the process (Source D).
Helping cities make the most of localism: The underpinning       research has also helped a number of local governments to respond to these       changes and develop stronger economic strategies.
The most significant       impact resulted from work undertaken for the Manchester Independent       Economic Review (MIER) and the on-going relationship with policy makers in       that city (Sources C, G).
The report by Gibbons and Overman for MIER drew       on a conceptual framework developed from output [7] to make the case for a       strong focus on Manchester, even if this might widen spatial disparities       in the North West.
On the basis of output [3] and further original       research for the review, our report questioned MIER's original focus on       key sectors and the need for a `local' industrial policy.
Accepting that       `On the basis of the evidence presented in this review, conventional       sector-based policies seem not to add value' (p. 6, Source C), the Review       Panel called for an emphasis on skills, transport and housing (again,       supported by the underpinning research).
Our emphasis on the need for land       use and transport planning to be more responsive to demand drew heavily on       [5] and [6] and helped make the case for two specific policy developments.
First, the decision to locate the city's Enterprise Zone in the high       demand area near Manchester airport.
Second, the decision to focus       transport investment on growth objectives and to include this as a       component of the City Deal struck with Whitehall.
The research continues       to influence policy development in Manchester through Overman's role on       the LEP Economic Advisory Board.
Funding from the HEIF 5 programme allowed the SERC to work with a number       of other local authorities to help them respond to the City Deal process       (Sources G-I).
In Birmingham, we worked with the Strategic Director       (Development) to help develop the LEP economic strategy.
Our land market       research underpinned our think piece for the North East LEP on land use       policy (one of a number of pieces of evidence used in the development of       the recommendations of the North East Independent Economic Review).
We       worked with Cambridge and partners on their City Deal expression of       interest, with a particular focus on demonstrating that new growth was       likely to be additional rather than simply a result of shifting activity       to Cambridge from other UK cities (drawing on our work on agglomeration       economies [1]).
Interventions here were crucial in helping the city reach       agreement on the governance arrangements for the city deal (Source H).
Wider Implications: Effective city policy making will be       increasingly important for achieving the UK's economic growth objectives.
This Unit's research and impact work is making a significant contribution       toward this objective, informing central government's reforms aimed at       moving from regional to city policy making and helping Local Authorities       and LEPs respond to these reforms.
