     Loughborough University's work in the field of Decision Support Systems       (DSSs) has transformed the production and logistics operations of       Baosteel, which, as China's largest and most advanced steel company,       employs more than 130,000 people around the globe and was ranked the       second most productive steel and iron enterprise worldwide in 2012.
The research team collaborated mainly with mid-level managers and       operations planners during the course of its investigative and       evidence-gathering work.
It noted that Baosteel had advanced process       technology and information systems but had not used them to their full       potential in terms of scientific planning: instead planners still made       decisions based mainly on their experiences.
The team's research       demonstrated to the company's management the potential of using       optimisation models and algorithms to make decisions, particularly at a       time when increased competition and raw material prices compelled the firm       to improve its operations management through better use of resources and       IT systems.
Managers went on to identify four bottleneck areas across the production       and logistics system and decided to improve them by applying the       optimisation techniques that emerged from the research.
The company       collaborated with the research team in implementing the techniques and in       developing DSSs for each of the bottleneck areas:            Integrated charge batching and casting width selection decisions in         the continuous casting operation of the steel-making stage       Open-order slab allocation and slab reallocation decisions in the slab         yard of the hot-rolling stage       Coil batching decisions in the batch annealing operation of the         cold-rolling stage       Ship consolidation and ship stowage planning in the final product         delivery stage          The structure of each of these four DSSs (shown in figure 2) is similar.
Introduced at the company's Shanghai plant from 2006 to 2011, they have       delivered benefits that have been reflected in a series of key performance       measures throughout the impact period.
For example, it has been estimated       that up to 2012 the use of the DSSs at the Shanghai plant resulted in a       total cumulative benefit of US$76.81m.
It has also been estimated that       since 2011 the DSSs have together generated an annual economic benefit of       approximately US$20m.
Other tangible benefits include an annual reduction       of energy consumption equivalent to 293,967 tons of standard coal, an       annual reduction in CO2 emission of 585,770 tons and a 9% reduction of       inventory.
All of these figures have been calculated and/or corroborated       by Baosteel [5.1, 5.2, 5.3, 5.4].
The company's Executive President has credited the implementation of the       DSSs at the Shanghai plant with improving the productivity of Baosteel's       planners more than 30-fold and having a "huge impact" on strategy across       the organisation by promoting "the integration of informisation and       optimisation" and equipping staff with "invaluable" knowledge.
He has       confirmed: "The use of DSSs has significantly increased production and       logistics efficiency, improved productivity, improved product quality, cut       down energy and resource consumption and reduced production and logistics       costs."
Baosteel has championed the project as the first successful       example of the large-scale use of operational research in the Chinese       steel industry [5.3].
The company's Vice-President for Engineering       has highlighted further benefits, including greater customer satisfaction       and a shift "from experience-based decision-making to more scientific       decision-making" in Baosteel's management culture.
The methods were       classed "five-star optimisation software" in the company's 2011 systems       review, and Baosteel has already made a commitment to implementing the       DSSs at its other plants [5.4].
As a major state-owned enterprise,       the company has also set a precedent for other Chinese firms and       industries through its pioneering use of operations research techniques &#8212;       particularly in light of the fact that China is now the largest steel       producer in the world, with its annual output accounting for some 45% of       the global total.
Baosteel and the research team jointly submitted the project to INFORMS       for the Franz Edelman Award.
This is INFORMS' most prestigious award,       emphasising real applications of operations research and management       sciences and requiring savings and benefits verified by the users.
The       project won a Franz Edelman Finalist Award at the INFORMS Conference on       Business Analytics and Operations Research in April 2013 [5.5].
