     Those benefiting from the UoL TDM research in the period 2008-2013 are 1)       patients and patient       groups through optimisation of appropriate treatment doses and therefore       better disease       prognosis; 2) healthcare providers who are more effectively using their       resources; 3) the economy       through continued high levels of ritonavir sales and; 4) commerce through       the performance of a       spin-out company.
Impact on health policy and patient welfare     Although TDM was incorporated into guidelines of many European countries       (including the UK)       before the current REF evaluation period, TDM was introduced into US       national (DHHS) guidelines       in 2008.
In the UK, around 4,000 TDM tests are requested from &gt;100 NHS       Trusts each year.
TDM       is recommended in selected, often difficult to treat patients, including       children, pregnancy, liver       impairment, suspected non-adherence and clinical failure.
Examples of guidelines developed since 2008 which recommend use of TDM       are British HIV       Association Guidelines for HIV treatment in Adults (2012), Pregnancy       (2012), TB co-infection       (2011), European Pediatric Treatment (PENTA) guidelines (2009) , European       AIDS Clinical       Society Treatment Guidelines (2012; translated into 13 languages) [8-12].
The UoL's role in       influencing both the policy, and its subsequent implementation includes       (i) developing the requisite       evidence base through studies describing variability, linking that       variability to failure, (ii) being one       of the earliest to undertake an RCT to examine the utility of TDM, (iii)       developing the infrastructure       to deliver a national (and international) TDM service which was       comprehensive in number of drugs       analysed, quality assured (GCLP) and timely, (iv) developing the training       and education required       to undertake TDM (talks, written/web resources including webcasts), (v)       tools to interpret TDM       such as mathematical models, particularly when optimal sampling is       difficult e.g.
evening dosing,       children and (vi) advocacy.
TDM interpretation algorithms were developed in Liverpool from 2008 -       2010, and adopted across       the UK, as well as by the HIV TDM reference laboratory in Torino, Italy       (currently undertakes 3,500       TDMs/ year).
Since 2008, the UoL has developed new TDM assays, including       for darunavir,       raltegravir, etravirine, rilpivirine and maraviroc - these now account for       over a third of TDM       requests.
The uptake of TDM across the UK, and widespread adoption into a broad       range of BHIVA       guidelines attests to the utility of TDM in complex patients and clinical       scenarios such as extremes       of age and body weight, pregnancy, drug interactions, drug toxicity, poor       treatment response or       adherence, renal or liver impairment, acute opportunistic infection, solid       organ transplantation or       malignancy.
Modelling outputs since 2008 have informed health policy, changed       clinical practice and drug       labelling, e.g.
challenging systematic and widespread underdosing of young       children and       optimising the use of TB and HIV drugs in late pregnancy.
Examples       include:            WHO guidelines revising rifampicin/isoniazid pediatric dosing (2010)         cited 3 PKPDia         studies.
Malawian Ministry of Health dosing guidelines revised to include         pediatric formulations,         informed by UoL PK data       Modelling and simulation of oral dihydroartemisinin-piperaquine in         malaria argued for         revised dosing for children, now under review by WHO and Medicines for         Malaria Venture.
Modelling and simulation of intramuscular artesunate in severe malaria         argued for revised         dosing in children, now under review by the manufacturer.
International (including WHO) guidelines on dosing of lopinavir and         efavirenz have been         informed by PKPDia studies.
Impact on economy     Use of ritonavir as a `booster' has expanded globally as a consequence of       the UoL's initial       description, and is now the standard of care globally.
Since 2008,       co-formulation of       lopinavir/ritonavir has been licensed for children, and generic       formulations (manufactured in India       and Brazil) are a backbone of second line regimens utilised in low/middle       income countries (eg       approximately 9% of treated patients across sub-Saharan Africa are on       boosted protease       inhibitors).
New formulations of darunavir (the most commonly prescribed       protease inhibitor in the       UK) requiring ritonavir boosting were introduced for children (2012) and       adults (2013).
Impact on Health &amp; Wealth     Following initial spin-out of TDM from the University in 2005 to Delphic       Diagnostics, the company       grew as a direct result, adding a further 4 full time positions between       2008-2009.
TDM was       acquired by Lab21 in Dec 2009, and a new laboratory service introduced in       2010 (with continuing       input from the University of Liverpool).
In addition, a second laboratory       at St George's Hospital,       London established TDM for HIV from 2008 onwards.
An international quality       control programme       reported that by the end of 2009, 56 laboratories across the world were       offering TDM [16].
