     Kapcia's unparalleled knowledge of Cuban politics makes him recognised as       `one of the top Cuba experts in the UK' (5.1).
In addition to the examples       below, this knowledge has been drawn on in (i) 28 international media       interviews (since 2008), adding accuracy and insight to public       understanding of Cuba (5.2), and (ii) regular consultations by journalists       over a sustained period of time, consultations which have proved       `indispensable' to their understanding of the country and the region       (5.3).
The narrative below describes the influence of Kapcia's research on       policy-makers and intelligence units: the Foreign and Commonwealth Office       (FCO), the Economist Intelligence Unit (EIU), the Center for Strategic and       International Studies (CSIS) in Washington, D.C., and The Cuba Initiative,       demonstrating the comprehensive reach of Kapcia's research and the       different ways in which it informs and influences policy and practice       nationally and internationally.
Informing and shaping UK and US government policy towards Cuba       Workshops and briefings presented by Kapcia have enriched the       knowledge-base of policy-makers in the UK and the US and have contributed       materially to how these two countries understand and make decisions about       their relationships with Cuba.
The Senior Principal Research Analyst of the Americas Research Group in       the FCO considers that Kapcia has provided significant assistance to the       FCO for many years as an external expert on Cuba.
Discussions with FCO       officials and other external experts during his regular invitations to the       FCO in London are considered to be `important in the development of       government policy towards Cuba'.
These meetings are often organised around       the briefing of senior staff being posted to Cuba: Kapcia has been a key       participant in the briefing of the last two Ambassadors who have been       posted there.
The briefings have covered the future of Cuba after the       Castro brothers, the prospects for the economic reforms in Cuba, and the       relationships between Cuba and other countries, for which Kapcia has been       able to draw on research insights from the published outputs listed in       section 3.
During these sessions, Kapcia's remit is always to focus on       explaining and making judgements on the current political situation in       Cuba and assessing possible future developments.
This initial briefing has       always been followed up subsequently by the British Embassy in Havana,       which takes advantage of Kapcia's visits to Cuba to arrange meetings to       discuss current Cuban politics and to exchange ideas with the Ambassador,       and the First and Second Secretaries of the Embassy.
In addition, on four       occasions, Kapcia has been invited by the FCO to participate in small       seminars run by the FCO's Americas Research Group, with the explicit       purpose of providing orientation for new FCO researchers on current Cuban       issues.
The latest such invitation was in February 2013 (5.1).
Through his contribution to a panel on `Ra&#250;l in Power: What to Expect'       (October 2008) Kapcia fulfilled a similar advisory role for the Americas       Program at the Center for Strategic and International Studies (CSIS) in       Washington, D.C.
The panel in which Kapcia participated was part of a       series of seven panel discussions between October 2008 and July 2009       examining a wide range of topics related to Cuba and U.S.-Cuba relations.
As CSIS's former Director explains, each panel discussion was attended by       `an invited audience of U.S. government officials, foreign diplomats,       academicians, representatives of international organizations,       Washington-based think tanks, civil society and the private sector and was       open to the public in general'.
The director commented that `Prof.       Kapcia's presentation on Ra&#250;l Castro's relationship with the Cuban       Communist Party and the link between the Party and the Revolutionary Armed       Forces of Cuba was outstanding, providing an excellent perspective on the       role of those key institutions in Cuban governance looking forward.
His       comments provided an excellent framework for discussion on the nature of       the exercise of power in Cuba and set the stage for subsequent panels to       follow.'
The publication pursuant from the panels received `very wide       electronic distribution and was also available in hard-copy'.
It was       primarily targeted at the policy community in Washington and abroad (5.4).
Providing intelligence on Cuba to business agencies, diplomatic         missions and journalists       Kapcia has provided political updates and analyses on Cuba to the       Economist Intelligence Unit (EIU) (the research unit owned by the       Economist Group) which, through their use by academics (40%), financial       services (28%), government and NGOs (including diplomatic missions) (25%),       corporate sector organisations (5%) and professional services (1%), and       international journalists, have been a significant element in informing       external analyses of the country.
The EIU specialises in preparing focussed `country reports' on current       political and social developments in given countries.
The reports contain       extensive analysis and forecasts of political, policy and economic       conditions to help clients understand the current situation and likely       future political and economic developments.
Given the level of specialist       expertise, these reports are highly respected and valued for their depth       of analysis, the EIU reports on Cuba being frequently singled out by       members of the diplomatic community and journalists as especially       perceptive and well-informed, reaching into areas of the Cuban political       and economic scene which those observers are less able to cover (5.5).
The       Regional Director for the EIU suggests that `the continually firm demand       for our Cuba products suggests that clients value the product, and in turn       the insights that our contributors provide' (5.6).
The Head of the Reuters Office in Havana sees the EIU's reports as the       means through which Kapcia has `always helped Reuters to understand the       country and events'.
A reduction in the flow of economic information (both       through official channels and leaks) that has characterised President Ra&#250;l       Castro's term in office means that journalists increasingly rely for       information on two key public sources (of which the EIU is one), and in       many cases make decisions based on that information.
He considers the       information provided by Kapcia through the EIU reports to be `currently       indispensable' (5.3).
The Cuba Initiative (CI) is part of the Caribbean Council.
It fosters       trade, investment and deve-lopment in the Caribbean and promotes the       region's interests internationally (5.5).
Kapcia's contributions to the CI       (through discussion groups and a broader advisory role) have provided `an       unbiased understanding of the Cuban political system', and have helped the       CI `in arriving at the considered advice we have to give to investors, the       private sector, government, the European Commission and others who are       involved in the day to day working relationship with Cuba and its       Government and enterprises'.
Like the EIU, the CI particularly values       Kapcia's advice in the current context of Cuba where there is limited       access to senior figures in Government, officials and others.
It sees       Kapcia as being able to provide alternative views or opinions `based on       well-founded and realistic research against which we can measure our own       opinions' giving Kapcia's work a `unique practical application in as much       as it also enables us at the Caribbean Council to better consider the       impact of new thinking in Cuba on the rest of the Caribbean' (5.5).
