     4.1 The pathway to impact:     4.1.1 As indicated in section 2, Hitchcott's research on fictional       responses to the 1994 Rwanda       Genocide uncovered the significance of memorials as a focus for literary       production [2.1].
One of       her key primary texts was Boubacar Boris Diop's Murambi, which       places the memorial museum at       Murambi at the centre of a fictional commemoration of a massacre whereby       some 50,000 Tutsi       were slaughtered at Murambi Technical School.
The title of Hitchcott's       article `Writing on Bones'       [3.2] alludes to the parallel commemorations of the Murambi Memorial       Centre, which displays       mummified bodies, skeletons and skulls at the site of the massacre [5.2],       and that of Diop's novel,       which inscribes both the massacre and its material memorial within its       writing.
It was background       research on the history and commemorative significance of the Murambi       Memorial that led       Hitchcott to make contact in 2008 with The Aegis Trust, the       Nottinghamshire-based NGO and       genocide education charity that manages the Murambi Memorial Centre [5.2].
Correspondence       and a series of meetings with the Executive Director of Aegis (an       internationally respected expert       on the Rwanda genocide [5.3]) led to the partnership that underpins the       impact of Hitchcott's       research.
4.1.2 The Aegis Trust has a very significant presence in Rwanda: along       with the Murambi       Memorial and five other commemorative sites, it manages the Kigali       Genocide Memorial Centre       which houses Genocide Archive Rwanda [5.4].
In the course of on-going       discussions between       Hitchcott and Aegis in 2008, it emerged that Aegis had begun the process       of archiving and       digitising over 2,500 testimonies from survivors of the 1994 genocide.
In       2009, Aegis agreed to       partner and support Hitchcott's application for an AHRC Collaborative       Doctoral Award       `Remembering and Recording the Rwandan Genocide: Women's Testimonies'       [5.3].
A successful       application led to the recruitment of Caroline Williamson, who spent the       second year of her PhD       (2011-2012) working as an archivist at the Kigali Genocide Memorial Centre       [5.1; 5.9].
During the       year, Hitchcott supported the CDA-holder's work for Genocide Archive       Rwanda by maintaining       regular contact via email and skype.
4.1.3 As part of this work, Hitchcott's CDA-holder was responsible for       indexing, transcribing and       translating her own selection of fifty survivor and witness testimonies       from the Kigali holdings for       the digital Visual History Archive of the Shoah Foundation, directed by       the co-founder of Aegis at       the University of Southern California [5.5].
Crucially, her work involved       the identification and       correction of translation errors in testimonies that had been collected in       three languages       (Kinyarwanda, French and English); where careless translations had       misrepresented the factual       content of individual testimonies they were likely to lead to distorted       interpretations of events of the       genocide.
The testimonies now form part of `Witnesses for Humanity', an       ongoing Shoah       Foundation project that aims to enhance genocide education through the       digital preservation and       worldwide accessibility (for teachers and the general public) of the       testimonies of survivors [5.5].
Brief news coverage of the work of the CDA-holder at Genocide Archive       Rwanda was included on       University of Nottingham website (9 November 2012), Times Higher         Education `Campus roundup'       (22 November 2012), and the blog `Africa at LSE' (22 November 2012) [5.9].
4.2 Beneficiaries of Hitchcott's research:     4.2.1 The Aegis Trust (Nottinghamshire-based NGO)       For Aegis, because education of the next generation is key to the       prevention of genocide,       meaningful commemorative memorials and digitised survivor testimonials are       central to its mission.
Hitchcott's research outputs on commemorations of the 1994 Rwanda genocide       have contributed       to enhanced visibility of Aegis and its work in Rwanda (the commemorative       and educational       mission of Aegis Rwanda is specifically mentioned in Hitchcott 2009b       [3.2]).
Having supported       Hitchcott's successful application for a Collaborative Doctoral Award to       be managed in partnership       with Aegis, a letter from its CEO confirms three key benefits of the       project for The Aegis Trust: 	        Provision of a French-speaking graduate to work on the archive which is       a resource of global       significance, searchable from anywhere in the world, and where there is a       vast amount of       material waiting to be documented       Help with raising the profile of The Aegis Trust in the UK through the         dissemination of the         project's findings.
Strengthening of the links between The Aegis Trust and the University         of Nottingham [5.3].
The partnership is now developing a more ambitious collaborative project       on post-traumatic growth       in genocide testimonies.
A meeting with Aegis CEO and its Executive       Officer for Education on       30.4.13 at Aegis HQ in Newark formalised this continuing commitment [5.6].
4.2.2 Genocide Archive Rwanda (based at Kigali Genocide Memorial       in Rwanda) [5.2 &amp; 5.4]       Hitchcott's CDA-holder's work has made an important contribution to one of       the most important       digital genocide archives of the world by improving its consultability and       accuracy (through       correction of significant translation errors).
Examples of translation       errors identified by the CDA-holder       include: a claim it was possible to get away with being Tutsi (not true       and not stated); an       implication that both French and Belgians were involved in beatings of       Tutsi at roadblocks (the text       says it was the French only); removal of a criticism of the international       community through       omission of a key phrase (`they say they will help Rwanda but then they go       and take their help       elsewhere') [5.8].
This work has improved the quality of evidence on the       1994 genocide.
4.2.3 Rwandan genocide survivors [5.7; 5.8]       Hitchcott's 2012 analysis of Benjamin Sehene's fictionalised confession of       real-life perpetrator,       Father Wenceslas Munyeshaka, has been described by Sehene as a       contribution in itself to the       process of commemoration (`a magnificent gesture in memory of the victims       of Father       Munyeshyaka' [5.7]).
The work of Hitchcott's CDA-holder for Genocide Archive Rwanda has       benefited Rwandan       genocide survivors whose post-traumatic psychological and social       adjustment requires that their       testimonies be accurately recorded and disseminated to the world.
One       survivor explains: `The       Rwandese should help the rest of the world by sharing our history, telling       them how things really       are to help prevent them not repeat the mistakes made here.
If you look up       the written documents       that have been stored you will find all the evidence.
[...] If someone       participated in the genocide       and that person is capable of destroying all the evidence of his       involvement, it is like telling you that       the genocide did not take place, or saying that there was a civil war       knowing that it wasn't what       really took place.
People were killed from one hour to the next.
The way I       see it, there is no other       way of fighting the genocide unless we show how it took place by storing       and archiving its history.'
[5.8]     4.2.4 USC Shoah Foundation (The Institute for Visual History and       Education) [5.5]       In April 2013, the Shoah Foundation invited The Aegis Trust to add its       first collection of testimonies       outside the Holocaust.
The selection and editing by Hitchcott's CDA-holder       of fifty Rwandan       survivor, rescuer and witness testimonies from Genocide Archive Rwanda for       the digital Visual       History Archive directly furthered the educational aims of the Shoah       Foundation's award-winning       genocide-prevention website for secondary school teachers and pupils       (Iwitness).
This website is a       globally accessible resource for:            Teachers and school pupils throughout the world wanting to use         testimonies for pedagogical         purposes       Members of the public wanting to learn about and understand the 1994         Rwanda genocide.
The Executive Director of the USC Shoah Foundation, explains that `The       Rwandan testimonies will       support scholarship and research into the causes and consequences of       genocides and the role of       audio-visual testimony in research and education, as well as the       development of education       programs and learning tools for students in Rwanda and worldwide' [5.5].
On his recent       appointment to the UNESCO Chair of Genocide Education, he reaffirmed: `I       am a firm believer that       education is the bedrock of our efforts to prevent genocide.'
[5.5]
