     This research programme has introduced new peoples-based approaches to UK       heritage       conservation and, in the process, has brought together and engaged new       communities in both the       UK and New Zealand with their cultural heritage.
Its impacts on       conservation practice and       community engagement with cultural heritage can be seen particularly in       the transition of the       approach of the NT to the conservation of Hinemihi [3], and the current       active role of Hinemihi's       People in her care [4,5,6].
As well as benefiting participants, the work       has enhanced conservation       in the UK and internationally through its influence on theory, practice,       and teaching [1,2].
Benefiting Conservation Theory, Practice, and Teaching     The Hinemihi project has led to new ways of understanding and teaching       conservation, as well as       to a reworking of practice within the discipline.
Its influence on the       developing conservation       profession can be seen in the use of the peoples-based approach advocated       by Sully based on his       work in New Zealand within post-graduate teaching.
That approach now       features, for example, in       the Institute of Conservation's (ICON) Sharing Conservation Decisions       courses (2011-2013),       which reach approximately 120 conservation practitioners and postgraduate       students per year [1].
Research that has led to the establishment of a new definition of       conservation has been       established within a wider view of heritage, that reflects the       transmission of cultural practice in the       care of cultural spaces and objects [2].
This has enabled heritage       conservation to address the       social issues of the present and engage the future, rather than merely       seeking to fix the past.
In so       doing, it validates conservation responses that seek to incorporate the       multiple ways that people       care for and use their own cultural heritage.
This has been developed       through the work of       ICCROM (International Centre for the Study of the Preservation and       Restoration of Cultural       Property) as a part of the Living Heritage Programme (2009-2011) and their       developing research       on People Centred Approaches [2] and, more broadly, acknowledged within       the conservation       discipline [1].
Transforming the Conservation of Hinemihi     The volunteer group Te Maru o Hinemihi (In the embrace of       Hinemihi) was established in March       2012 with Sully as a founder committee member [9].
The group represents       the institutionalisation       of an object centred network of people around Hinemihi to collaborate in       her effective care with the       National Trust, whose conservation approach to Hinemihi has been       transformed during the years       since the research began.
In 2003, the meeting house was described on the       NT website and       Clandon Guidebook as "...the single most important [ethnographic] item         held....the house         commemorates the Governorship of New Zealand..." [10] The research       itself and the subsequently       increased participation of Maori in Hinemihi's care has catalysed a shift       within the NT from a focus       on the material authenticity of Hinemihi as a historic building towards a       Maori view of Hinemihi as a       living being and an active marae [3,4,6].
Today, the translation       of Maori conservation approaches       to Hinemihi is evident in the decisions taken and even the language used       by the NT, for example in       its description of the observance of Maori tikanga (philosophy) and         kawa (protocol) [3,4,8].
Community Cohesion and Involvement with Cultural Heritage: Engaging         Hinemihi's People     One of the project's many legacies is the vibrant and sustainable network       of social relationships       between communities &#8212; both New Zealand and British &#8212; and their cultural       heritage There are       believed to be around 8,000 Maori, and an additional 50,000 New Zealanders       presently living in       the UK.
Since 2004, a community of Hinemihi's People has been built and       engaged through       regular participatory events such as annual Kaitiakitanga Hinemihi       Maintenance Days, and       community-building events such as the workshop series [4,6,7].
Between       2008-2013 these events,       which have involved over 400 participants and many encounters with       National Trust visitors, have       nurtured and developed relationships between Hinemihi and her people.
`Hinemihi's People'       encompasses both the role of Maori in Hinemihi's care, and that of British       people in sustaining her       future in ways based on lived experience.
Accordingly, the research       encourages and facilitates       both the local community of Clandon and those of New Zealand origin to       think of Hinemihi as an       intrinsic and living part of their community.
A project participant's       comment demonstrates this view       of Hinemihi almost as a family member: `We keep her warm when we visit       her, we keep her from       being lonely.
I lived in New Zealand for 33 years and coming back here       it's like home; my       grandchildren were baptised here two years ago, the first babies to be       baptised in this marae'       (interviewee 2012) [7].
An important aspect of this unique model of community engagement is that       of engaging children       with cultural heritage.
The five `Being with Hinemihi' sessions run in       2009 as part of the       `whareNOW' workshop series led to the development in 2009 of a       dance performance with the       children's educational group, Kohanga Reo o Ranana, to share the       significance and stories of       Hinemihi and her People.
As one young Kohanga Reo tamariki (child)       participant explained during       Being with Hinemihi: `I like Hinemihi because she is pretty.
She makes me       feel important because       she is special and she's my ancestor' [7].
The Kohanga is intended to       engage New Zealand       children in the UK with Maori culture, to which the connection with       Hinemihi is central.
A       performance, Ko au te whare (I am the house), was staged at       several venues from 2009-2013,       including at Hangi celebrations at Hinemihi and at cultural       festivals and academic conferences in       the UK, Raratonga, New Zealand, and Australia [7, p. 21].
Ko au te         whare has now become an       important learning resource used with children from diverse cultural       backgrounds.
In October 2012,       for instance, 45 children from Clandon School participated in Ko au te         whare, and similar events       have been held for children from inner city London schools and as part of       the `Origins: Heritage of       First Nations "Border Crossings" in 2011 [7, p. 11].
A second aspect is that of creating an essential means for Hinemihi's       people to engage with their       cultural heritage in a similar way to meeting houses in New Zealand.
The       "Sharing with Hinemihi"       series (attended by 65 participants) culminated in "Staying with       Hinemihi", a noho marae (sleep       over) in August 2010.
This also had important implications for the       conservation project and the       future use of Hinemihi.
For the first time in 124 years, Hinemihi was kept       awake with the sounds of       43 of her people sleeping inside her.
Staying with Hinemihi provided an       important channel to foster       the development of cultural heritage: one participant observed `I will       always remember sleeping in       Hinemihi and what a privilege that was.
I loved singing and talking with       her and helping her to be       fed on a wairua (spiritual) level.
As a Maori, I understand this       important facet of caring for such a       taonga.
If people can stay in Hinemihi on a regular basis, she will       be warm and fully fed all the       time...' (interviewee 2012) [7].
During the event itself, the group completed an artwork titled `Painting       Hinemihi by numbers' to link       the conservation work and paint analysis at UCL with a communal vision of       Hinemihi's future       appearance.
The visual artist Cecilie Gravesen also produced an original       piece entitled `Between       Hinemihi and Other Things' as a response to her participation in these       workshops [7, p. 20].
The       tukutuku weaving workshops have likewise supported the production       of new artwork, this time in       the form of decorative panels produced using traditional crafting       techniques.
At the same time, the       sessions also enhanced the capacity of Hinemihi's People to look after       her.
By June 2013, 36       workshop participants had completed 16 of the 49 panels needed, and over       50 weavers had       contributed to the work.
The remaining panels are being completed by Ngati       Hinemihi in New       Zealand and by Hinemihi's People in the UK [7, p. 15].
The development of the Hinemihi marae also provides opportunities       for visitors to Clandon (50,000       in 2012) [10] to encounter Maori culture and consider the modern legacy of       Britain's past colonial       relationships.
An illustration of this was the formal powhiri       (ceremonial welcoming) of the New       Zealand Olympic team at Hinemihi on 8 August 2012.
Hinemihi's presence       provided much needed       tautoko (support) to inspire the New Zealand athletes [7].
This       intercultural encounter is       fundamental to the role of a marae, and is critical in a       multicultural society seeking to understand       what it is to be British [5].
