     Very few research programmes take a clinical sign from obscurity to the       standard textbook description of a disease.
This is exactly what research       by the Department of Eye and Vision Science has done with malarial       retinopathy, and it is all the more remarkable because malaria is a common       and frequently fatal disease.
There are approximately 10 million episodes of cerebral malaria in Africa       a year and examination for malarial retinopathy has the potential to       improve the care of all of these cases.
It is plausible that half these       cases, since 2008, have some sort of funduscopy as a consequence of this       UoL research, improving the assessment of prognosis in 5 million and       uncovering misdiagnosis in 1.25million.
Patients benefit from improved       diagnosis and better directed treatment.
This research has "revealed the       importance of the ocular funduscopic examination in distinguishing "true"       cerebral malaria from "faux" cerebral malaria" [15].
Malarial retinopathy is now included in the description of malaria in       standard medical textbooks which is a key indicator of the impact of this       research.
Since 2008, retinal photographs taken by Beare and colleagues       such as that presented here) appear in four standard text books -       Harrison's Principles of Internal Medicine [7], Davidson's Principles and       Practice of Medicine [8], Lecture Notes: Tropical Medicine [9] and       Manson's Tropical Diseases[10], as well as multiple reviews on severe       malaria and its pathogenesis.
These are major reference works used by       clinician's worldwide to guide clinical practice.
Malarial retinopathy       (with the UoL figure) and the importance of funduscopy is now included in       the 2013 WHO guidelines on severe malaria [11], particularly used by       clinicians and policy makers in malaria-endemic countries to determine       best practice, and also regional guidelines eg South-East Asian Regional       Guidelines for the Management of Severe Malaria in Large Hospitals 2006       [12].
Note the characteristic patchy retinal whitening around the fovea (~3       disc diameters to the right of the optic disc) and also some white-centred       haemorrhages.
The reasons that the authors of these authoritative texts have included       malarial retinopathy in the description of malaria for the first time are       the quality of the UOL research and the importance of its findings.
This       includes the startling retinal photographs and results of retinal       angiography which demonstrated graphically the information on CM       pathogenesis that can be gleaned from the retina.
The high quality colour       images allowed the features of malarial retinopathy to be demonstrated to       non-ophthalmologists, and to teach them to recognise malarial retinopathy       for themselves.
The research has been disseminated by peer-review       publication and conference presentation to key opinion leaders initially       before wider dissemination in textbooks and guidelines.
Publications 1 and       2 were featured by the American Academy of Ophthalmology in its EyeNet       magazine and on its Homepage respectively, as well as reported by medical       media and Voice of America radio.
The discovery that malarial retinopathy alone can reliably distinguish       malarial coma from co-infection in a comatose child was of particular       importance, and has literally redefined the disease of cerebral malaria.
Now malarial retinopathy is required to be present in order to diagnose CM       with specificity.
This is established practice in Malawi and has been       taken up by other research units in endemic areas; as well as clinical       practice in endemic and non-endemic areas to the benefit of critically-ill       children in coma.
This is now confirmed in a popular website, www.malariasite.com       [13].
The Department of Eye and Vision Science has worked with its       collaborators who have set up the Paediatric Research Ward in Malawi and       have provided for patients with severe malaria and other comas from 1990       to present.
Since 2008 this has cared for more than 1,500 patients who       have had funduscopy.
The malarial retinopathy programme is led by the       Department of Eye and Vision Science, whilst collaborators provide       expertise in malaria.
Improved specificity in the diagnosis of CM by using malarial retinopathy       has reduced spurious results in other CM research which previously       included misdiagnosed patients.
It has allowed parallel research       programmes to use patients without retinopathy as controls or comparators,       and to focus on retinopathy-positive CM.
Eliminating misdiagnosed patients       from studies of severe malaria improves their power to demonstrate the       benefit of the investigation or treatment they are studying.
As a result       of UoL research on malarial retinopathy more studies on severe malaria can       be conducted with fewer patients with quicker results.
"Without the "eye       findings", our clinical case definition would be far less precise, and the       work would have proceeded at a much slower rate."
[15]     This case study of malarial retinopathy demonstrates impacts on health       and welfare, by advancing care of children in coma; public policy and       services through WHO guidelines on severe malaria; practitioners and       services through improving medical texts and knowledge [14-17].
A clinical       diagnostic paradigm has been changed with new criteria adopted into       clinical practice.
The treatment of a major global health issue has been       improved with the reduction of potential harm.
New research findings have       been applied into clinical practice and an improvement in international       quality of life and welfare has occurred.
