     The research has had a major and wide-ranging impact on individuals and       companies involved and/or interested in the preservation of television       heritage.
The work supported or modified the actions of non-academic       bodies with interests in the availability of historic TV material, the       selection of audio-visual content for preservation and public access, and       the commercial value of past and present TV programming.
The principal beneficiaries were:            commercial media companies and publicly funded stakeholders who used         University of Reading expertise;       the staff of non-academic archives and collections who engaged with         the research, influencing decisions around the preservation and         dissemination of TV heritage, and       interested members of the public who accessed the research through         public-facing seminars and blogs and whose enjoyment of television was         enriched.
Specific examples of impact     &#8226; Impact on professional TV production staff     The TV drama producer (and now Senior Commissioning Editor for Drama at       BskyB) Cameron Roach (whose credits include Casualty and Life         on Mars and who has worked for the BBC, Kudos, Shed Productions and       Tiger Aspect) started ongoing dialogues with University of Reading       researchers Bignell, Knox and Woods in October 2009.
He became interested       in the team's work through awareness of its published results and its       web-based research dissemination.
Roach's dialogues with the group       enlarged his conceptual and historical understanding of the role of the TV       producer in the UK in comparison to the USA, to assist him in developing       his current career as a `showrunner' (creative producer) in the UK TV       industry and to develop plans for an academia-industry network around this       subject.
In 2013, he completed a 3,000-word chapter for a second edition       of the ground-breaking academia-industry volume British Television         Drama (2000), co-edited by Bignell, reflecting on his role as       Executive Producer of BBC series Waterloo Road.
He discusses       spatial aesthetics in TV, prompted by the findings of the `Spaces of       Television' research project.
This edition also contains contributions on       spatial meaning by Phil Redmond (Brookside) and Tony Garnett (Cathy         Come Home), both of which are available as impact evidence.
&#8226; Impact on cultural institutions concerned with the preservation of           TV heritage         Many non-academics working in the field of TV heritage preservation took       part in events held at the University of Reading during the course of the       research.
They included staff from BBC Information &amp; Archives, the       British Film Institute (BFI), the National Public Broadcasting Archives       (USA) and the Netherlands Institute of Sound and Vision.
This involvement       led to collaborations and the seeking of expert advice from the research       team.
For example, the research has played a key role in defining the selection       of historic TV drama programmes in preparation for a season of screenings       in early 2014 at the BFI in London, representing the changing aesthetics       of British TV drama.
The Reading team also provided promotional copy and       are involved in introductory public talks.
&#8226; Impact on the general public     Evidence shows that the research had an impact on the general public, who       attended project conferences and posted comments on interviews,       commentaries and debates featured in blogs such as http://www.crossroadsnetwork.co.uk/newsmf/index.php/topic,2670.0.html       and http://blogs.reading.ac.uk/spaces-of-television/.
As of 3 Oct 2013 the posting referred to had been read 2160 times, by       non-academic visitors to this forum, which is a site made by and for fans       of the Crossroads TV programme.
There are many appreciative comments for       the new insight provided by Smart's (Reading researcher) interview with       the TV director Darrol Blake.
The interview was conducted for the AHRC       "Spaces of TV" research project and impacts members of the public who       engage with Reading research and gain new knowledge about historic TV       programmes they are interested in.
&#8226; Impacts on business     1) Thanks to the insights acquired through the research, in 2010-12       Bignell acted as an expert witness in a legal dispute about the       interpretation of a television contract.
A TV drama scheduled for       broadcast was removed from the TV schedule until this dispute was       resolved, and this depended on crucial wording about the types of TV       production technologies used for making drama &#8212; a major area of the       University of Reading's research.
Bignell wrote a 12-page report to the       court about the uses of different kinds of TV production technologies and       this had a significant impact.
A partner in the law firm concerned wrote:       "As a result of your report, our barrister has prepared a defence to       [deleted party's name] claim, which needs to be filed at [the High] Court       next Monday.
Much of the Defence incorporates the information, history,       and conclusions contained in your report to refute the claim" (email to       Bignell, 22 November 2011).
The settlement of the case and the subsequent       division of revenues for broadcast, DVD release and overseas exploitation       of the TV programme were profoundly influenced by Bignell's report.
2) In 2012, Bignell worked for the TalkTalk telecoms company via its PR       agency Good Relations, to plan and provide expert content on historically       significant TV moments for the launch of TalkTalk's new YouView TV       service.
The launch featured the restaging of the moments selected by       Bignell for a press audience, gaining extensive coverage for the product.
Good Relations staff wrote: "The client was delighted with the launch and       you may have seen some of the photos of Joanna [Lumley] re-enacting the       moments as set up by us.
...
Your input was really incredibly helpful and       we'd love to work out a way of continuing to work with you in a tv       capacity if possible" (email to Bignell, 8 October 2012).
