     CPI research into the integration of migrant workers has influenced       policy, practice and a wide range of stakeholders in both "sending" and       "receiving" communities.
A model of global citizenship, facilitated by       university engagement and student volunteers, has proved a key element in       empowering Chinese migrant workers and has been described by Merlene       Emerson, co-founder of the Chinese Liberal Democrats, as a model for       similar schemes nationwide.
The effectiveness of the model was first demonstrated following Wu's       initial study of workers in Veneto's textile, garment and leather       industries.
In 2006 just six Chinese migrants had registered with the       Health Service of Padova's "Spazio Ascolto" programme.
By 2008 this figure       had risen by at least 1,400 per cent as a result of a project involving       student volunteers and local health officials.
Professor Valter Zanin, of       Padova University, has since noted "a marked transformation in the way the       Chinese community regards and engages with local facilities and       resources".
[a]     The success of this project was instrumental in a decision by the       International Labour Organisation (ILO) and the University of Nottingham       (UoN) to co-host a high-profile round-table workshop in Nottingham in       October 2009 [b].
The event attracted 80 participants, including       representatives of the International Organisation for Migration, UK       government agencies (Home Office, UK Border Agency, UK Human Trafficking       Centre, Gangmasters' Licensing Authority), the Chinese Embassy, NGOs,       Chinese entrepreneurs and community organisations, academics and student       delegates.
This directly resulted in the development of a number of       initiatives to encourage the greater integration of the Chinese community       in Nottingham, chief among them the establishment of a student volunteer       support network [c].
Operating under a variety of names (Nottingham Student Network for       Chinese Migrants, Nowe Community International and Nottingham Chinese       Support Network), the network incorporates a training programme that       between 2011 and 2012 alone instructed more than 300 UoN students, both       Chinese and non-Chinese, in practising global citizenship in collaboration       with local stakeholders.
Merlene Emerson has remarked: "There is often a       divide between the local community and the student body, and where foreign       students are involved the gap is even wider.
Dr Wu's programme has not       only succeeded in bridging that gap but has also managed to tap into the       student body to be an added resource for the local community."
[d]     Alongside the network, the workshop also led to the founding of the       Nottingham Chinese Forum, a regular round-table meeting between three       local councils (Nottingham City, Nottinghamshire County and Broxtowe       Borough), NGOs (Voluntary Action Broxtowe), Chinese community       representatives, university staff and student volunteers.
The       contributions made by both the network and the forum have been widely       acknowledged by local stakeholders.
Broxtowe Borough Council, for example, has described the initiatives       resulting from Wu's research as "essential in developing both policy and       service provision for the council and its partners".
The authority has       drawn on the network and the forum to help the borough's large Chinese       community with issues such as citizens' rights, access to health and       education services, community safety and business advice.
Richard Lea, the       council's Communities Team Leader, has observed: "We have gained a better       understanding of the community and now know why some of our earlier       attempts to engage were not successful."
[e]     Nottingham City Homes (NCH), which manages around 10,000 council       properties, has used the network's student volunteers to give       presentations on Chinese culture to residents and to support its own       Universal Roots project, which aims to raise cultural awareness generally.
V. Bryce, NCH's Equality and Diversity Manager, has described the project       as "of great value" and a significant factor in NCH achieving its equality       and diversity objectives.
[f] Student volunteers also regularly visit       Nottingham Chinese School, whose headmaster, Dr Xuezhong Sun, has praised       the initiative as "of enormous benefit" and for giving "fresh and       substantial impetus to efforts to bring together the disparate elements of       communities for the purpose of development and integration".
[g]     Wu's work has also been used in China.
In April 2010 the International       Organisation for Migration (IOM) invited Wu to Shenyang to give a lecture       to more than 200 government migrant management officials.
In 2010 and 2011       Wu also addressed local and national branches of the State Council's       Overseas Chinese Affairs Office and central government, including the       Ministers of Personnel and Science and Technology.
Kieran Gorman-Best,       Project Manager for IOM's EU- China Capacity-Building for Migrant       Management (CCBM) programme, has credited Wu with "greatly enhancing"       Chinese officials' appreciation of migrant workers' problems and for       improving IOM's own ability to "respond to these issues in an ever more       sympathetic, productive and effective manner".
[h] Wu also facilitated a       meeting between IOM and senior Overseas Chinese Affairs Office officials,       resulting in the latter's key involvement in the CCBM programme.
In       addition, his research has featured in the Chinese media [i].
