     The SCCS has greatly enhanced the understanding of China's post-reform       rise beyond academia.
Its academics have repeatedly helped influence       policy in China underpinning the country's continuing economic       transformation.
Song's work in in the field of urban-rural integration and urban poverty       has helped China's Ministry of Human Resources and Social Security to       formulate policy, including the establishing of new migrant training       programmes.
Following the publication of a report in 2010 in which Song       proposed a scholarship system to fund young migrant workers, training       programmes were established and are currently being trialled in Tianjin,       one of the four "Special Municipalities" that enjoy super-provincial       status [a].
In 2011 Song was also asked to assess the Sichuan government's       public employment services.
Her recommendations, centred on migrant       workers and economic stimulus in rural regions and drawing on her work on       migrant workers and economic stimulus in rural region, have since been put       into effect, as has a training programme for officials.
Liu Danhua,       Director General of the Ministry's Department of Employment Promotion, has       acknowledged Song's "in-depth understanding of... [the] issues concerning       us most in the policymaking process" and her "highly valued... innovative       suggestions" [a].
Yao's research on inter-regional inequalities and housing has       significantly influenced the work of China's National Bureau of Statistics       (NBS).
Since 2007 and throughout the impact period a key element of NBS's       Urban Household Survey has been Yao's recommendation to include in its       data rural migrant households that have lived in cities for more than six       months, so offering a more accurate picture of the true urban situation.
In August 2010 NBS Commissioner Ma Jiantang and a team of senior officials       visited Nottingham to seek Yao's views on how to calculate and publish       various coefficients related to inequalities, as a result of which it was       agreed to implement his recommendations for at least a decade.
Wang       Youjuan, Deputy Director General of NBS's Department of Household Surveys,       has acknowledged Yao's "direct and powerful impact on the decision-making       process in China", with his ideas used "to write our policy reviews for       the Chinese Government" [b].
In September 2011, in recognition of his work on China's economic growth       and banking sector, Yao was invited to meet Vice Premier Wang Qishan,       People's Bank of China governor Zhou Xiaochuang and various ministers       responsible for economic affairs.
Although confidentiality considerations       mean full details of the meeting cannot be disclosed, the then Chinese       Consul General in Manchester, Ni Jian, who facilitated the meeting, has       confirmed Yao's views on exchange-rate policy and its potential role in       continued economic growth were "taken seriously by Chinese leaders and the       People's Bank"[c].
From 2008 to 2011 Yao also gave twice-yearly lectures       to Ni's staff.
Ni, now China's Ambassador to Iraq, has confirmed he has       subsequently "adopted some of his [Yao's] ideas when we [the Chinese       government] deal with investment and trade issues between China and the UK       and between China and the Middle East" [c].
Yao has also contributed to policy debates via his collaborations with       the Institute of Science and Technological Information of China (ISTIC).
Attached to the Ministry of Science and Technology, ISTIC has drawn on his       work in areas including economic growth, trade and investments and income       distribution.
Zhao Zhiyun, ISTIC's Vice-President and also Secretary       General of the Association of Soft Science of China (ASSC), has observed:       "[Yao's] work has helped the efficiency of Chinese public policy, senior       management... and other key stakeholders across China."
In 2012 ASSC       appointed Yao an Honorary Special Adviser [d].
SCCS has also helped develop China's next generation of policymakers.
Since 2009 more than 50 mid-ranking officials from the Communist Youth       League have received training as part of the CPI's annual Chevening       Training Programme led by Yao.
Han Liqun, Vice-President of the All- China       Youth Federation of Hebei Province, who led one of the teams trained at       the School, acknowledged that the programme had "critically changed our       thinking and decision-making", particularly in poverty alleviation &#8212; drawn       from Song's work &#8212; and also in energy efficiency and pollution reduction       in Hebei [e].
SCCS's expertise on economic development is now being employed in other       countries.
In December 2012 the UK's Department for International       Development (DFID) asked Song to apply her methodologies and insights to       Africa with a view to filling "significant gaps in our understanding of       the role of policy to stimulate growth in low-income countries".
This       resulted in Song designing a number of dedicated projects to determine the       lessons Africa might learn from the successes and failures of China's       development policies [f].
In May 2011 both Song and Yao were also       appointed Key Experts for the EU-China Research and Academic Network, a       &#8364;2.5m European External Action Service project whose input is regularly       referenced in the EU's China-related policies [g].
An outreach campaign has communicated SCCS's economic research to a       broader audience.
Yao's blog [h], first launched in April 2010 by       Beijing-based finance and economics publication Caijing, has now attracted       more than a million hits and has been joined by blogs for mainstream       websites such as Sohu, Sina, Ifeng and NetEase.
Feedback shows how these       efforts have informed grass-roots perceptions.
According to Han Yao's blog       has "helped many people understand the current challenges, constraints and       opportunities faced by China for its social and economic development" [e].
