     CPI has become a highly valued source of analysis and advice for those       tasked with shaping       policy and opinion in relation to China.
Its academics are regularly asked       to share their insights at       senior levels, with the increasing frequency of such engagement reflecting       recognition of CPI's       expertise.
Tsang has played a key role in determining how some of the world's most       respected diplomats       and statesmen approach China &#8212; as illustrated, for example, by his       briefing of a May 2013 board       meeting of The Elders, an independent group of global leaders originally       assembled by Nelson       Mandela to campaign for peace and human rights.
At the time the group,       whose members include       Kofi Annan, Jimmy Carter and Desmond Tutu, was preparing to send a       delegation to China in       recognition of the country's growing global significance.
Drawing on his       work on China's relations       with its near neighbours and foreign powers, Tsang helped revise The       Elders' tactical approach in       terms of political engagement and other strategic concerns.
Lesley-Anne       Knight, The Elders' Chief       Executive Officer, has confirmed his insights were "invaluable", adding:       "The Elders... took       [Tsang's] advice to heart when weighing up the options for engagement with       the new Chinese       leadership, notably on issues linked with regional security and       international peace building.
[Tsang       was] instrumental in helping redefine the modalities of engagement with       Chinese officials in a way       that is sensitive, strategic and systematic."
[a]     Tsang's insights into relations between China, Taiwan and the West have       also helped facilitate       rare engagement between Taiwan's Ministry of Defence and UK security       experts, including MoD       officials.
In September 2012 he arranged and took part in a closed-door       seminar with Andrew Nien       Dzu Yang, Taiwan's Deputy Defence Minister, and the Whitehall Defence       Group at London's Royal       United Services Institute (RUSI).
Although confidentiality considerations       mean full details cannot       be revealed, both sides have acknowledged the benefits in terms of       strengthening ties and       exchanging information.
Dr Jonathan Eyal, RUSI's Director of International       Security Studies, noted:       "RUSI's relationship with the Taiwanese Ministry of Defence is currently       the only avenue for       defence diplomacy between the two countries, and, as such, both sides       place great importance on       these bilateral exchanges."
[b] Yang, who also met with Tsang and other       CPI representatives in       Nottingham in March 2012 and read Tsang's article on the US's military       commitment to Taiwan,       has described CPI's input as "highly valuable", adding: "They have       illuminated matters for me...       and tested out hypotheses that we have been exploring as we deliberate on       policy matters."
[c]     In the last five years the CPI has regularly advised the Foreign and       Commonwealth Office on       Chinese domestic and foreign policy, economics, social issues and Taiwan,       as well as providing       training under the Foreign Secretary's Diplomatic Excellence initiative       for staff new to working on       China.
Dr Ian Seckington, Head of the FCO's Asia Pacific Research Group,       has described CPI's       contributions as "important in supporting our efforts to improve       understanding of China issues       across Whitehall as we ramp up our engagement and try to build a China       `cadre' across       government".
[d] He also acknowledged that "Professor Tsang gave       particularly timely advice on       Bo Xilai which was extremely useful in helping us shape our approach to       what was a sensitive       issue involving the death of a British national."
[d] Dr David Ellis,       Political Counsellor at the Beijing       Embassy, has highlighted how Tsang worked with the Embassy "to identify       and cultivate thought       leaders in China" and by creating a special Chevening Visiting Fellowship       at the CPI helped the       FCO "to shape views within the [Communist] Party".
[e]     CPI has also helped inform the EU's thinking on China.
In June 2012 Lai       attended a European       Parliament workshop where he drew on his work on "pro-growth       authoritarianism".
He stressed the       value of Europe better appreciating China's perspective on major issues &#8212;       including inequality,       climate change and energy &#8212; to help China tackle such concerns more       effectively.
The workshop       was organised for the Committee on Foreign Affairs and was co-chaired by       Andrey Kovatchev,       Vice-Chair of the European Parliament's Committee of Foreign Affairs, and       Crescenzio Rivellini,       Chair of the EU delegation to China in Brussels.
The aim was to inform its       own-initiative Report on       EU-China Relations, which was subsequently published in December 2012.
Reflecting Lai's       remarks, the report noted the Committee's "conviction that an enhanced and       highly developed       partnership will be mutually beneficial to both the EU and China" but       called for a "strengthening of       dialogues in the fields of human rights, the environment and energy".
[f]     CPI's influence in policymaking circles has been supported by concerted       efforts to reach a       range of audiences.
For instance, since 2008 Wang has presented his       research at more than 30       symposia, colloquia, and workshops, many of them in China, including at       the Zhou Enlai School of       Government (Tianjin, April 2008), the International Conference on       Legitimacy and Governance       (Shanghai, July 2010) and the Chinese Views of the EU Conference (Beijing,       October 2011).
The media's understanding about Chinese political culture has been       enhanced through CPI's       intense programme of awareness-raising.
Tsang, Lai, Wang have been       regularly quoted in the       media, with expert comment featuring in newspapers or on TV and radio more       than 350 times from       November 2011 (when a record of such appearances was first kept) until the       end of July 2013,       including comment pieces for the likes of China Daily (Lai, August 2011       [g]), the Wall Street       Journal (Tsang, September 2011 [h]), and the Guardian (Tsang, March 2012).
Tania Branigan, The       Guardian's China correspondent, has described CPI's contributions as       "extremely helpful to us in       understanding and explaining events and their context... given the general       lack of knowledge in the       West about Chinese political culture".
[i] Branigan has noted that Tsang's       work "proved extremely       helpful throughout in enhancing our understanding of the situation",       particularly the "gradual       decision-making process by senior leaders" and other complexities that       "helped us to understand       the full range of factors behind" the eventful changes in China.
[g]     Tsang also played a key advisory role in the production of Chinese Murder       Mysteries, Channel       4's Dispatches special on the fall of Bo Xilai, which was screened on       November 12 2012.
Programme producer Cathy Scott-Clark has remarked that Tsang not only       provided "insight into       the character of Bo Xilai and senior colleagues [and] what impact this had       on the party and the       people" but also served as "an invaluable sounding board on a       fast-changing and complicated       story" and made "many good suggestions on who else we should contact to       gain insight".
[j]
