     Impacts on health and welfare     The PROMPT programme has improved outcomes in other units across the       world as well as the       UK.
For example, a pilot of PROMPT in the state of Victoria in Australia       demonstrated a reduction       in low Apgar scores as well as fewer babies born with signs of hypoxia.
[e]       The Royal Australian       and New Zealand College of Obstetricians and Gynaecologists (RANZCOG) is       now rolling out the       training programme to all obstetric units in those two countries.[f].
These improvements have been       matched in the other pilot site, Kansas University Medical Center in the       US.
Since the introduction of PROMPT in 2008, there has been a 50% reduction       in infants born with       hypoxia, a drop of over 90% in infants born with a permanent brachial       plexus injury and a decrease       in the caesarean section rate from 32% to 24%.
A stepped wedge design study has now been funded by the Scottish       government to roll out the       training across all the obstetric units in Scotland with a parallel       process evaluation.
[g]     Commercial impact     PROMPT is now being used in 85% of maternity units in the UK, and also in       many other countries       around the world including Australia, New Zealand, Hong Kong, China, the       US, Egypt, Mongolia       and Singapore.
Once trained, individual units, institutions and countries       purchase a licence to roll       out PROMPT training, to ensure that quality and intellectual property       rights are maintained.
The first edition of the PROMPT course manual was the biggest-selling       text ever published by the       Royal College of Obstetricians and Gynaecologists (RCOG) Press, with over       15,000 copies sold       worldwide.
The recently-published second edition is also listed as the       fastest-selling book ever       published by the RCOG Press.
The manuals are now published by Cambridge       University Press       and there are region specific versions for the US, China, Australia and       New Zealand.
Versions for       India and the Gulf states are being developed.
Furthermore, research at the University of Bristol has enabled       collaboration with industry to design       innovative training products - for example, the PROMPT Birthing Mannequin       (Limbs &amp; Things), the       world's best-selling birth simulator, with more than 5,000 units sold at       over &#163;3,000 each.
The       University is also the main clinical developer of the SimMOM full-body       Simulator with Laerdal       Medical.
Impacts on practitioners and services     The University of Bristol team's research on defining the effective       components of obstetric       emergencies training has directly informed guidance on staff training       nationally and internationally.
The RCOG has commissioned members of the research team to write three       national guidelines for       the management of shoulder dystocia, cord prolapse and stillbirth.
[d]       Finally, both the RCOG and       the NHS Litigation Authority have also used Bristol data to recommend       annual, multi-professional       skills training (PROMPT) for all maternity staff nationally.
PROMPT training has transformed the way that healthcare professionals are       trained worldwide,       improving the implementation of best practice and outcomes for mothers and       babies.
The NHS Litigation Authority has specifically recommended PROMPT training       in its most recent       report (`Ten Years of Maternity Claims' &#8212; Oct 2012).
The RCOG has also       updated its training       curriculum to include attendance at a local PROMPT course as an essential       competency for       obstetric trainees.
Impacts on the economy     The University of Bristol's multi-professional obstetric-emergencies       training package has been       associated with savings in litigation costs as a result of improved       outcomes: comparing five years'       pre- and ten years' post-training data, there has been a 91% reduction in       mean annual payouts by       the NHS Litigation Authority for Southmead Hospital (pre-training       &#163;2,998,587 per annum to       &#163;256,820 per annum post-training).
The US and Australian pilots have       demonstrated similar       reductions in claims costs.
The team could therefore potentially save the NHS &#163;42 million a year in       preventable maternity       damages in its network area and at least &#163;280 million a year across       England if all units achieved       the same results as Southmead.
Impacts on international development     PROMPT is a low-resource training intervention ideal for supporting       clinical improvements and       staff development in resource-poor settings.
In partnership with diaspora       from Zimbabwe, and with       the support of the Department for International Development and the       Tropical Health Education       Trust, a pilot project to roll out PROMPT training was set up in the       second-largest maternity unit in       Zimbabwe.
Since the introduction of PROMPT in early 2011, local trainers       have trained over 130       staff members and improved communication between doctors and midwifery       staff.
Interim data       have demonstrated a 19% reduction in maternal deaths following the       implementation of PROMPT.
The WHO has expressed interest in developing this work to make it       available in other low-resource       settings.
As a result of the successful implementation of PROMPT in       Bulawayo, the Deputy Prime       Minister of Zimbabwe is working with the PROMPT team to develop a roll-out       strategy for the       whole country.
PROMPT training and research centres are also being developed in       Bangalore, India and       Chengdu, China following approaches to the Bristol research team from       national obstetrics and       gynaecology organisations wanting to implement PROMPT training.
