     A 30-year-old woman was hospitalised in March 2008 with acute shortness       of breath due to       marked stenosis of the left main bronchus, rendering her unable to carry       out simple domestic       duties or care for her children.
The only conventional option remaining       was removal of her left lung,       with an attendant risk of complications and a high mortality rate.
Based       on successful laboratory       work previously performed by the team, and given the urgency of the       situation, it was proposed       that the lower trachea and the left bronchus should be replaced with a       bioengineered airway based       on the scaffold of a decellularised cadaver human trachea.
Stem cells were       obtained from the       recipient's own bone marrow, grown into a large population in Bristol, and       matured into       chondrocytes (cartilage cells) using an adapted method originally devised       by Professor Anthony       Hollander for treating osteoarthritis.
The donor trachea was then seeded       with chondrocytes on the       outside surface.
In order to replicate the inside lining of the trachea,       epithelial cells, grown in Bristol       by Professor Martin Birchall, were seeded onto the luminal surface.
Four       days after seeding, the       graft was used to replace the patient's left main bronchus.
The patient       remains alive and healthy       with no need for immunosuppression or other health care.
4.1 Impact on the patient, Claudia Castillo     Without this intervention, the young mother would either have remained       seriously ill with very poor       life quality and life-long immune-suppression or, more likely, would have       died.
Instead, she is alive,       not under health care and earning a salary.
She commented: "It really is a       miracle.
The problem       has gone...
I can go to the park and I can play with my children...
I now       have a future to look       forward to."
(source [a])     4.2 Impact on the field of stem cell research and regenerative         medicine     4.2.1 This was the first example of a tissue-engineered,       three-dimensional organ being created       using autologous stem cells and implanted successfully.
While the project       concerned one patient       and a rare disease, it acted as a proof of concept and an exemplar more       generally of the possibility       of extending this technology to other damaged hollow organs such as the       bladder, larynx, intestine       and oesophagus.
This case also exemplifies the possibility of personalised       medicine.
While the       shape of the implanted organ was provided by a donated cadaveric tracheal       segment, the risk of       immune rejection was removed by replacement of the donor cells with the       patient's own.
The Barcelona hospital that had been treating the patient before the       operation has made savings       by no longer having to admit Castillo to intensive care twice a week at a       cost of &#163;3,000 a day, as it       had been doing for the previous three years (source [b]).
4.2.2 It is clear that the use of this technology in similar operations       has the potential to generate       huge cost savings.
Since the original operation a further 14 patients have       been transplanted with a       bioengineered trachea as discussed in a critical review in "Science"       (source [c]).
The impact on the       wider field of Regenerative Medicine has been summed up by Professor Dame       Julia Polak       (Imperial College) who has stated to us: "This work has had a truly       galvanizing effect on the field,       showing that even very serious diseases can be treated using regenerative       medicine approaches       and I have been excited by this advance both as a scientist and as a       transplant recipient."
4.3 Impact on national policy     4.3.1 In April 2012 the UK MRC published a strategic document "A strategy       for UK Regenerative       Medicine" that formed the basis of subsequent planning for the development       of this new branch of       medicine.
This document refers to "bone marrow stem cells applied to       denuded donated trachea       for airway replacement" as a key example of a therapy using the patient's       own cells (source [d]).
4.3.2 In 2012 the House of Lords Science and Technology Committee       published a call for evidence       for their enquiry into Regenerative Medicine.
In this call it is stated       that "Examples of such       treatments are the transplantation of a new trachea grown using the       patient's own stem cells",       directly referring to the tracheal transplant case (source [e]) and       Professor Anthony Hollander was       called to give evidence to the enquiry (source [f]).
4.4 Impact on the public perception of stem cell biology and         regenerative medicine     This case caught the imagination of the public, as reflected in the       worldwide coverage in both       electronic and print news media.
It has been seen as the first fruit to be       borne from the investment       in stem cell research.
It has also shown how regenerative medicine does       not just treat symptoms       but can remove a disease from the patient's life altogether.
4.4.1 The story received worldwide coverage in newspapers, on television       and radio, and on the       internet.
It was the subject of an article in The New Scientist on       19 November 2008 (source [g]),       and was picked up across the mainstream media including the BBC (source h)       and the Guardian       (source [i]).
4.4.2 The operation was included in a permanent exhibition entitled "Who       am I?"
at the Science       Museum, forming part of a display demonstrating how new technology, from       stem cells to gene       therapy, can help to repair damage caused by serious illness, with       life-changing results (source [j]).
The museum receives almost 3 million visitors each year (source [k]), many       of whom will have       viewed the exhibit.
