     The UoL research has directly led to national screening programmes for DR       in the UK and       overseas which are being increasingly implemented since 2008.
The National       Screening       Committee (Chair J Muir Gray [20]) commissioned reviews and an economic       analysis between       1999 and 2001 which references the UoL work and supported the introduction       of screening [10-       12].The UoL team was heavily involved in the design of the national       screening programme which       launched in 2006.
After initial pilot work the English programme started roll-out in 2006       gradually expanding over       subsequent years to cover the target population nearing full capacity       after 2008.
Most recent       figures from the English Diabetic Eye Screening Programme (DESP) give       estimates for 2012-13       that 1.9 million people with diabetes have been screened [17].
Significant impact for these people includes the detection of 100,800       (7.6%) cases of sight       threatening maculopathy and 22,800 (1.2%) of sight threatening retinopathy       with referral for       management in the hospital eye service.
Also in 2012-13 an estimated       14,000 (0.74%) people       were referred for urgent laser therapy for proliferative retinopathy and       between 21,250 and 42,500       for treatment of clinically significant macular oedema.
This would not       have occurred if the DESP       had not been established; as a result these patients received timely and       appropriate treatment.
The Clinical Director of the Diabetic Eye Screening Programme (England)       confirms that, "The         introduction of screening has had a significant impact reducing the risk         of visual loss for large         numbers of people" and "The Liverpool evidence contributed         significantly to the case for the         establishment of a National Risk Reduction Programme."
[17]     Scotland's DR Screening Programme launched in 2007 and gradually expanded       post 2008 to a       current annual rate of 240,388; approx.
7,000 of these are referred for       assessment/treatment       [13,14].
The Director of Scottish Grading Programme said "At all         stages, from the initial SIGN         guidelines, the Health Technology Board for Scotland's Health Technology         Assessment, to the         Scottish Government's Diabetic Retinopathy Screening Services in         Scotland implementation         report, evidence from the University of Liverpool has played a pivotal         role in shaping Scotland's         Retinal Screening Programme."
and "The Liverpool Diabetic Eye Study,         using mobile fundus         cameras, played a pivotal role in making the case for retinal screening         in Scotland and throughout         the United Kingdom.
"[18]     The English DESP has provided training and employment for retinal       screeners who have been       employed specifically to support the DESP.
1,600 technicians have       completed the National Level       3 Retinal Screener qualification (DM Broadbent developed course and       certificate); 831 were       actively studying [17].
Since 2005, UoL research has been used by policy makers from Europe and       around the world to       set screening models and implement DR services including screening.
Dissemination has been       through published research and the initiative, "Screening for Diabetic       Retinopathy in Europe"       (www.drscreening.eu) with       international conferences in 2008 [15] and 2011 [16] including       WHO,       European Commission and International Diabetes Foundation engagement.
The       Liverpool team       (Harding, Broadbent) established this initiative in 2005 producing The       Liverpool Declaration which       set targets on screening for DR in Europe and shared experience of       implementation of evidence       based service changes.
Nationally identified policy makers from over 20       countries in Europe have       joined the initiative.
This has proven to be highly influential as the       second and subsequent       meetings have shown that countries have adopted the screening approaches.
National       representatives have requested continuation of the initiative.
An example of this is from Sweden where Liverpool's pivotal work extended       screen intervals to       three years in 2010 for people with no DR reducing the cost of screening       and the burden of       attendance for an estimated 356,000 people.
A past Director of the Swedish       Diabetic Retinopathy       Screening Programme said, "In 2009, thanks to the Liverpool work, we         found it both safe and cost         effective to revise our national guidelines and since then extension of         retinal examination intervals         from two to three years in type 2 diabetic subjects without retinopathy         are recommended since         2010.
The recommendation was based on previous estimates of the low risk         for progression from         no to sight-threatening retinopathy in this particular group in         Liverpool (Younis et al.
Lancet 2003)."
[19].
For England, this output has triggered debate on the safety of       introducing extended screen       intervals across the much larger and diverse target population of 3       million people leading to the       aforementioned two NIHR grants.
Other examples of the effect of the "Screening for Diabetic Retinopathy       in Europe" initiative       reported in 2011 [11] include10% decrease in the incidence of blindness       due to DR in the Czech       Republic; a significant improvement in vision loss in Iceland; Denmark,       The Netherlands and Spain       introduced national screening programmes; Poland and Romania have patchy       screening which is       slowly widening; Greece and Portugal have introduced local screening       programmes; Italy saw a       big improvement in the quality of DR diagnosis and treatment; Albania has       used the initiative to       improve access to lasers.
In 2012 Eire introduced a national screening       programme [21].
UoL work [3-6,8] has been widely referred to in the 2012 RCOphth       Guidelines on Diabetic       Retinopathy in statements on disease definitions,[8] epidemiology [4,5,6]       and screening [8].
Accessed at http://www.rcophth.ac.uk/page.asp?section=451&#167;ionTitle=Clinical+Guidelines.
This case study demonstrates major impacts on health and welfare, public       policy and services,       practitioners and services and international development.
The       beneficiaries have been the       diabetic patients in the UK and elsewhere who have seen a reduction in the       rates of visual       impairment and laser therapy since the introduction of screening.
Without       the Liverpool work on       cost-effectiveness and methodology the introduction of systematic       screening would not have been       possible or would have been delayed, nor would the St. Vincent declaration       have been revised and       implemented internationally.
Outcomes for patients and the public health       have improved, a new       clinical intervention and technology has been developed and adopted with       improved disease       prevention and detection, and new guidelines have been developed.
The NHS       has adopted new       technology and new jobs have been created.
The cost effectiveness and       access to a public       service have been improved and international agencies and policy have been       influenced.
