     4.1 Establishment of methods/early studies     By the early 1990s it was apparent that the gene rearrangements present       in the originating clones sometimes underwent further changes that might       invalidate MRD detection.
Steward et al [5] were the first to publish a       series investigating this in detail, showing that the problem could be       overcome by tracking multiple rearrangements detected at diagnosis; this       approach still underpins MRD analysis to the present day.
Collaboration       was established with three other European groups in order to develop       uniform systems; this led to the formation of the European Study Group on       MRD detection in ALL (ESG-MRD-ALL, now EuroMRD; Hancock, Goulden and       Moppett were founder members) and to the development of agreed testing       systems in Europe.
Euro-MRD now embraces 43 laboratories in Europe,       Australia, the US, Japan and Israel.
4.2 Underpinning Modern Clinical Trials in Paediatric and Adult ALL     Studies of patients in the UK being treated on standard MRC leukaemia       protocols showed that patients with isolated extramedullary relapses of       ALL almost invariably had bone marrow disease [1] and that slow early       clearance of disease was strongly correlated with subsequent relapse ([2]       and output [a]).
The research to demonstrate this had been part-funded by       the Leukaemia Research Fund (LRF, now Leukaemia &amp; Lymphoma Research)       and led to the LRF establishing ongoing support of MRD studies in all UK       trials of ALL therapy.
A network of national laboratories was established       to perform this work on a regional basis, managed and funded via the       central laboratory in Bristol.
In 2007 routine MRD testing was transferred       to the NHS Pathology Laboratories at Southmead Hospital, Bristol (where it       is coordinated by Hancock and Moppett), thereby taking the technology to       fully validated clinical testing.
MRD assessment is now widely regarded as the most sensitive and specific       predictor of relapse risk in children with ALL during remission.
All       children and young adults treated in the UK since 2003 for either de         novo or relapsed ALL have had their MRD measured and used in the       entry criteria and/or randomisation procedures of the following trials:       ALL 2003, UKALL R3 (relapsed and refractory ALL, open until 31/12/13,       output [b]) and Interfant-06 (infant ALL, open until 30/6/14).
The MRC ALL 2003 trial, which ran from 2003 to 2011 and involved 3207       patients, reported in 2013 ([6] and output [c]); 521 children and young       adult patients assessed as being at low risk on the basis of MRD assays       were assigned to receive either one or two delayed intensification (DI)       chemotherapy courses.
There was no significant difference in outcome.
The       importance of this is highlighted by the fact that there were 74 episodes       of grade 3-4 toxicity affecting 45 patients (17% of the whole cohort) in       those who received two DI courses.
The future use of a single       intensification course for MRD low-risk patients will therefore avoid much       unnecessary toxicity and hence patient suffering and cost (output [d]).
The current ALL trial, UKALL 2011, is built on this finding and again       utilises MRD as the critical determinant of stratification/randomisation       (output [e]).
4.3 Rationalising use of haematopoietic stem cell transplantation         (HSCT)     HSCT has conventionally been applied to those with high-risk features of       their leukaemia at presentation or with relapsed disease.
However, these       procedures carry high transplant related mortality (20-30%) and an average       cost of &#163;100-150k per procedure.
MRD researchers at Bristol were the first       to highlight the strong correlation between persistent high level MRD       going into transplant or re-emergence of MRD soon after transplantation       with post-transplant relapse.
[3,4] In all of the clinical trials mentioned       above, MRD is used to determine which patients would go onto       haematopoietic stem cell transplantation.
Bader (Frankfurt) learned       methods of MRD assessment in the Bristol laboratory and subsequently       conducted a prospective trial using PCR MRD techniques via the European       ALL-REZ BFM Study Group.
In 2009 this study confirmed the strong       correlation between pre-transplant MRD and outcome in mainland European       patients treated on BFM protocols (output [f]).
Bader and colleagues are       now giving additional donor T-cells to patients with re-emergent MRD after       transplantation and have reported successful reversion of incipient       relapse (output [g]).
Many groups around the world have since studied       peri-transplant MRD and the Bristol research is widely cited (examples       shown in outputs [a] and [h]).
4.4 Establishment of national leukaemia cell banking     Residual DNA samples from UKALL 2003 MRD studies were used to establish       the LLR/CCLG Childhood Leukaemia Cell Bank, now being centralised at the       UK Biobank in Manchester.
Since inception over 18,090 samples from 3,175       leukaemic patients have been collected, comprising DNA and viable cells       from patients on the ALL2003, ALLR3, ALL97 and ALL2011 interim protocols.
This collection will play a pivotal role in future UK leukaemia research.
