     Annually, over 1 million people worldwide undergo arthroplasty.
The use       of metal-on-metal bearing surfaces increased rapidly until 2008/2009, when       it represented about 35% of hip replacements in the US and 20% of hip       replacements in the UK.
Research from the University of Bristol first       raised concerns about the biological effects of these implants in 1994 and       went on to identify potential local and systemic problems culminating in       the largest epidemiological studies of these implants ever published,       which showed unequivocally that these implants fail at an unacceptably       high rate.
These two Lancet publications drew the public's as well as the       regulatory bodies' attention to the problem, resulting in extensive       worldwide media coverage in print, radio and television, including BBC       national news, the cover of the Lancet and Radio 4's Today programme.
The       University of Bristol research has led to the issuing of guidance from a       number of sources worldwide regarding the choice of implants for total hip       replacement and the follow-up regime of patients with implants at high       risk of failure in situ.
The dramatic decrease in use of these prostheses,       consequent on our work, will save countless patients from unnecessary       suffering, complex revision surgery and vast cost in healthcare resources       and societal impact.
Chief Medical Officer guidance     On the 12 March 2012, in direct response to and quoting our Lancet       publication, the Chief Medical Officer and the Medical Director for NHS       England wrote to all Chief Executives of NHS Trusts, Strategic Health       Authorities and independent hospitals advising them on implant choice[a]       This advice, empowered by the research of the University of Bristol, has       contributed to a worldwide decline in the use of metal-on-metal hip       replacements and they now make up less than 1% of hip replacements       performed in England and Wales.
[b] The worldwide trend followed the UK       lead in the use of these implants and the advice given by the Chief       Medical Officer directly cited the research of the University of Bristol.
Regulatory Body and Learned Society Advice: UK     Various bodies in the UK have issued advice regarding the long-term       systemic risks of exposure to metal wear products from Orthopaedic       implants and the risk of the early need for revision in metal-on-metal       bearings.
Partly as a result of research from the University of Bristol,       the MHRA issued updated advice to surgeons that patients with       metal-on-metal hip replacements should be monitored annually for the life       of the hip replacement.
[c,d] Similar guidance has been issued by both the       British Hip Society [e] and the British Orthopaedic Association.[f].
Accordingly, long-term annual follow-up, with monitoring of metal ion       levels and cross-sectional imaging as dictated by symptoms and individual       patient risk, is now standard practice in the UK.
NICE has recently       circulated draft recommendations based on our publications.
These       recommend against using metal-on-metal bearings.
The definitive guidance       is due in 2014.
European Commission     The European Commission has asked the Scientific Committee on Emerging       and Newly Identified Health Risks (SCENIHR) to assess the safety of       metal-on-metal joint replacements with a particular focus on hip implants.
Dr Case is an expert adviser.
In the light of the above considerations,       SCENIHR is requested to provide a scientific opinion on the safety of       metal-on-metal joint replacements with a particular focus on hip       implants.
[g] The Joint Research Centre scientific and policy report for       the European commission on hip replacements wrote in their conclusion       "Long term effects are still not fully assessed especially in terms of       carcinogenicity, genotoxicity and reproductive toxicity".
[h] They quoted       210 papers, of which six were from the University of Bristol (the most       quoted research group).
US Food and Drug Administration     The FDA has issued guidance to patients who have received a       metal-on-metal implant.
The advice and guidance issued in the UK as well       as similar guidance in Canada and Australia is cited in the report.
The       FDA recommend follow-up every 1 to 2 years to check on the status of the       hip replacement and if any symptoms develop, the use of joint aspiration,       cross-sectional imaging and blood metal ion level testing to evaluate the       function of the joint.
They further note that implants may have an effect       on general health, including hypersensitivity reactions, cardiomyopathy,       neurological and psychological changes, and renal and thyroid function       impairment.
[i]     Other International Regulatory Bodies     Citing the research from the University of Bristol regarding the risk of       cancer following metal-on-metal joint replacement,[8] as well as the       guidance issued by the MHRA, the Therapeutic Goods Administration (TGA) of       Australia has recommended a follow-up regime for patients with       metal-on-metal joint replacements that includes annual or more frequent       follow ups, the use of cross sectional imaging as well as plain       radiography and the measurement of blood metal ion levels routinely as       part of follow-up.
[j] The TGA recommends revision surgery if there are any       symptoms, imaging abnormalities or where metal ion levels are rising.
Health Canada issued guidance in May 2012 advising annual follow-up of       patients and the use of cross-sectional imaging and blood metal ion level       analysis where there are any symptoms or physical examination       abnormalities.
[k]
