     During the 1990s rationing of surgery for visually impairing cataract was       common with contract limits placed on secondary care providers.
2nd       eye surgery was particularly targeted for access restrictions and NHS       waiting times for surgery were typically a year or more.
For older people,       for example, the implications of long waits and poor vision were       substantial, leading to potentially reduced confidence and higher       functional dependence.
Following publication of our Randomised Controlled       Trial of 2nd eye cataract surgery in the Lancet in 1998[2], the       DH `Action on Cataracts' policy document released in 2000 recommended 2nd       eye surgery as uncontroversially good practice[a].
Our Lancet paper was       referred to as 1 of just 7 references in the policy document.
The clear       benefits, both in terms of visual function and self reported symptoms       which our research demonstrated, informed a firm and strong policy       recommendation in favour of 2nd eye surgery across the NHS.
During the early and mid 1990s, prior to the publication of our research       report, 2nd eye surgery comprised around 25% of operations[b].
Data from the National Ophthalmology Database (NOD &#8212; 30 contributing NHS       trusts) for the years 2004-2010 show a steady increase each year of 2nd       eye surgery from 24.2% in 2004 to 34.9% in 2010 based on around 232,000       operations[c], with our own published analysis of over 55,000 operations       (12 trusts) in the mid to late 2000s indicating 41.5% of operations being       on 2nd eyes[d] reflecting widespread acceptance within the NHS       of the benefits gained from 2nd eye surgery for bilateral       cataract.
Similarly the European Registry of Quality Outcomes for Cataract       and Refractive Surgery (EUREQUO) reported that based on 318,000 operations       from 2009 to August 2011, 40.6% of cataract surgery was for 2nd       eyes [e].
The findings of our RCT have since been corroborated through studies in       which the benefits of 1st and 2nd eye surgery have       been found to be either similar or, as in the Swedish National Cataract       Register data, greater from 2nd eye surgery for certain       subgroups compared with 1st eyes[f].
Our research report on the population requirements for both 1st       and 2nd eye cataract surgery[7] provided a robust estimate of       the cataract surgical backlog facing the NHS.
Our estimate of around half       a million additional operations needed to clear the backlog was based on       sound applied epidemiological and ophthalmological methodology and       provided an empirically evidenced and considerably more accurate estimate       of unmet need for surgery than earlier inflated estimates.
During the       decade following publication of our research an uplift of just over half a       million operations cleared the backlog (HES data), confirming the accuracy       of our estimate.
The 2000 DH `Action on Cataracts' document referred to our randomised       trial and recommended 2nd eye cataract surgery along with       process and commissioning changes to increase efficiency, delivery and       access for cataract surgery [a].
This document was reinforced by the       subsequent NHS Institute for Innovation and Improvement publication,       `Focus on Cataracts' [g], and sequential updates of the Royal College of       Ophthalmologists Cataract Surgery Guidelines in 2010[h] which directly       cited our research.
Internationally our RCT on 2nd eye cataract       surgery has been referred to in the previous and the current American       Academy of Ophthalmology Preferred Practice Pattern: Cataract in the Adult       Eye, 2011 [i] and in Guidelines based on data in the European Registry of       Quality Outcomes for Cataract[e], with the International Centre for Eye       Health [j] having recommend the Royal College 2010 Guidelines which       directly cite our research.
In the NHS, with achievable numbers [7] and the strong policy impetus       provided by the DH significant inroads were made into the unmet need for       cataract surgery.
A 65% increase in the frequency of cataract surgery       resulted across England, from 201,682 operations in 1998-1999 to 332,625       in 2009-2010.
During the 1990s long waiting times for cataract surgery       patients were routine, typically around a year.
As a consequence of the       policy adjustments informed by our research, this increase in cataract       surgery reduced waiting times in England to below 18 weeks from referral       to surgery for well over 90% of NHS patients.
In addition to the direct benefits to vision [d] and QoL [f] provided by       cataract surgery, there are downstream benefits to health such as a       reduction in falls for people with improved vision.
These benefits are       difficult to quantify but include prevention of falls and associated       mortality and morbidity among elderly people.
Recent austerity-driven       reductions in numbers of cataract operations has attracted professional       and media interest.
Giving evidence to a hearing of the public accounts       committee in January 2013 the Medical Director of the NHS, Sir Bruce Keogh       said: "We do know that about 50 per cent of PCTs have restricted access to       cataract surgery, and we do know that the bulk of policies used by PCTs       actually haven't used the best evidence that's available in order to       ration that care."
The Royal National Institute for Blind people (RNIB) has cited our RCT[2]       in its collaborative report with the RCOphth `Don't turn back the clock:       Cataract surgery- the need for patient-centred care', June 2011[k].
The       RNIB is investigating the variation in cataract surgery across England and       has done a FOI request to each PCT with regards to their commissioning       policies on 2nd eye surgery.
The RNIB Assistant Policy and       Campaigns Officer (Eye Health) has indicated that the UoB research       evidence would be used to `interact with commissioners and highlight       evidence as to why their restrictive 2nd eye policy is harmful       to patients' and that `some PCTs have decided to review their policies in       light of our [RNIB] concerns'.
NHS Atlas of Variation in Healthcare (Nov       2010) discusses standardising cataract surgery.
It mentions `added value       of 2nd eye surgery' and cites our RCT.
Our RCT is cited first       in The European Registry of Quality Outcomes for Cataract and Refractive       Surgery (EUREQUO) project publication `Evidence-based guidelines for       cataract surgery: Guidelines based on data in the European Registry of       Quality Outcomes for Cataract and Refractive Surgery database', 2012 [e].
The Technology Scoping Report No.8 from Healthcare Improvement Scotland       (August 2012) cites our RCT.
In summary, UoB research has been instrumental in informing and changing       cataract surgical policy to the visual and quality of life benefit of       hundreds of thousands of older people with cataract in the UK and beyond.
We demonstrated the visual and QoL benefits of 2nd eye cataract       surgery following successful 1st eye surgery, corroborated by       subsequent observational research, and we quantified the population       requirements for 1st and 2nd eye cataract surgery       and the unmet need for NHS surgery, our estimates being borne out by the       numbers of operations subsequently required to bring down the surgical       backlog.
In the current climate of austerity our research is again of       direct relevant to policy decisions as illustrated by the recent RNIB FOI       survey of PCTs and the ongoing citations of UoB cataract research in both       academic and the policy setting arenas.
