     UoB research findings have influenced local, national and international       policymakers and health organisations, including the WHO, and have       resulted in the implementation of public health measures to restrict       access to specific suicide methods, as well as in curtailing news       reporting of these methods.
Implementation of these approaches has       resulted in significant reductions in suicides.
Local research and its wider impact       UoB research led to the construction of effective barriers on the Clifton       Suspension Bridge, Bristol.
Evaluation of the impact of these barriers on       suicide in Bristol indicates that they have prevented over 60 suicides by       jumping (1998-2012): deaths from the bridge declined from eight per year       (1994-98) to four per year (1998-2003) [6], with further reductions to       three per year in (2008-11).
An estimated 30 fewer suicides occurred in       2008-13 as a result of the barriers [a].
This research has been used to       inform the planned introduction of prevention barriers at the Golden Gate       Bridge, USA (a process that has included consultation with Gunnell in 2006       during the planning of the barriers), and at other sites [b,c].
The       Department of Health (England) used the research findings in their Impact       assessment of the National Suicide Prevention Strategy [d].
The Bristol       research on preventing suicides by jumping has also been used to inform       position statements from important NGOs on this issue, e.g.
the National       Suicide Prevention Lifeline (USA) statement on preventing suicide from       bridges.
Paracetamol and Co-proxamol in the UK       The pain killers paracetamol and co-proxamol accounted for almost half of       all the UK's overdose suicide deaths in the 1990s.
UoB work on method       restriction [1] and the relationship between paracetamol availability,       pack size and mortality following paracetamol overdose [4] has contributed       to policies to restrict paracetamol pack size.
Subsequent evaluative       research (with Oxford (lead) and Manchester) showed that restrictions in       the UK led to reductions in paracetamol deaths and liver transplantation       (estimated 765 fewer deaths in 1999-2009; this equated to 400 fewer in       2008-13[e]).
Similarly, UoB's collaborative work with Oxford (lead) and       Manchester on the impact of co-proxamol withdrawal [7] demonstrated that       there have been 600 fewer co-proxamol suicides since its withdrawal       (2005-10).
Impact on countries' national policies       UoB research has materially influenced recommendations in national policy       documents.
For example: The 2012 National Suicide Prevention Strategy for       England Preventing Suicide in England: a cross-government outcomes         strategy to save lives includes citations concerning prevention of       suicide by hanging and bridge jumping [f]; Ireland's 2000 Strategy Reach         Out (hanging), the 2012 USA National Strategy for Suicide         Prevention (pesticide poisoning) [g]; and the Canadian Institute of       Health Economics report Means Restriction for Suicide Prevention       (pesticides, paracetamol and coproxamol).
Global impact       UoB-led research on pesticide poisoning has been used widely by the WHO to       inform priorities for prevention in both global and regional (Western       Pacific) suicide prevention documents [h,i].
The research, including that       carried out in collaboration with colleagues in the South Asian Clinical       Toxicology Research Collaboration (SACTRC), encouraged the WHO to respond       to the global problem of pesticide suicides.
Gunnell was a member of the       WHO advisory group and wrote an editorial to disseminate the work jointly       with the WHO leads for the strategy.
Since the publication of these       documents, the Registrar of Pesticides in Sri Lanka has banned paraquat,       one of the most toxic pesticides ingested by humans; and China, where       pesticides account for two thirds of all suicides in rural areas, has       banned over 20 highly toxic pesticides (see: http://www.reach24h.com/en/news-a-events/item/439-production-ban-on-22-highly-toxic-pesticides.html).
Bans have also been introduced in Korea, Europe and India.
Bristol researchers'       evaluation of bans on the most toxic pesticides in Sri Lanka indicated       that they resulted in 19,769 fewer suicides in 1996-2005 as compared with       1986-95 [2].
Based on these estimates, recent bans will have resulted in       many thousands of fewer suicides globally, as there are an estimated       370,000 pesticide suicides worldwide every year [3].
UoB researchers       worked with the company Syngenta to evaluate the impact of an improved       formulation of paraquat on case-fatality.
It was shown that such new       formulations failed to substantially reduce case-fatality and imports of       paraquat were subsequently restricted in Sri Lanka [8].
Working with the mass media       UoB's work on suicide has informed the revised media guidelines produced       by the Samaritans (2013) and was used in briefings given to major national       news and media organisations (including ITV and the BBC).
Gunnell met with       national newspaper editors in Parliament (organised by Madeleine Moon MP,       30 Jun 2009), the Press Complaints Commission (London, 20 Jan 2011), the       Evening Post (Bristol, 21 Dec 2011) and BBC, S4C and ITV and other news       agencies in Wales (Cardiff, 4 Dec 2012) to discuss their reporting of       suicide methods and to urge caution in describing suicide methods,       particularly those that are novel, highly lethal and readily accessible       such as those that have led to rises in suicide in some countries in East       Asia.
The Samaritans used our research on the impact of their proactive       approach to advise the press on how to report (and when not to report)       novel methods of suicide in their submission to the Leveson Inquiry [j]     Additional benefits to society, the economy, and the police and health         services       It is estimated that for every suicide, six people are seriously affected,       so the overall fall in suicide rates reduces the emotional toll on friends       and family, who may require bereavement and counseling services and time       off work due to the bereavement (which also carries a cost to the       economy).
The reduced toxicity of drugs / poisons taken in overdose will       also result in cost savings through reduced use of intensive care beds and       shortened hospital admissions.
These are real and substantial benefits but       the actual cost saving is difficult to quantify.
