     800 people develop CML each year in the UK and there are currently over       6,000 patients with the disease.
The estimated cost to the NHS is &#163;290m pa       and rising.
Due to his work on imatinib resistance and on nilotinib and dasatinib,       Prof Clark became one of two experts co-opted by the National Institute of       Clinical Excellence (NICE) to appraise these drugs, on behalf of the Royal       College of Pathologists and the British Society for Haematology.
Based on       the data of nilotinib superiority over imatinib in ENESTnd, on which Clark       was the UK Chief Investigator, and also the parallel study of dasatinib,       NICE considered the use of second line nilotinib and dasatinib in a       multitechnology appraisal from 2009-2011, resulting in approval for       nilotinib but not dasatinib in January 2012 [9].
NICE similarly involved       Prof Clark in a second Technology Appraisal in 2012 that recommended that       nilotinib should also be approved for first line treatment of       chronic phase CML [10].
Clark and the UoL's studies over the past few       years have been key to this shift of the standard of care for newly       diagnosed CML patients from imatinib to nilotinib.
A similar change from       imatinib to nilotinib is also happening in most other Western countries,       where their current clinical trials offer only nilotinib (with or without       other treatments) to newly diagnosed CML patients.
Nilotinib (trade name Tasigna       ) is licensed as first line therapy for newly diagnosed CML patients       throughout the EU, Switzerland, Japan and the US, and as a second line       treatment in over 100 countries for patients resistant or intolerant to       existing treatments [11].
The change to nilotinib as the treatment of choice [12] is underlined by       the &#163;21.9m industry funded SPIRIT 3 trial that will soon be underway in       the UK (as of November 2013, applications for ethical and MHRA approval       are currently under consideration but see next paragraph).
This randomised       phase III trial intends to recruit 1,000 newly diagnosed chronic phase CML       patients.
It will examine whether nilotinib remains a superior treatment       to imatinib if patients who have inadequate early molecular responses are       offered an early switch of treatment.
The trial will also examine whether       treatment de- escalation and then cessation can be achieved in patients       with excellent and sustained treatment responses for some years, in case       these patients are functionally cured [13].
This de-escalation and       stopping strategy is being piloted in a phase II trial called DESTINY, led       from Liverpool and for which Clark is the Chief Investigator (supported by       Leukaemia &amp; Lymphoma Research) which is opening in November 2013.
However, during 2013 several reports have emerged on a small apparent       excess of cardiovascular events on nilotinib than imatinib.
It is not       possible to be certain on this as ENESTnd and smaller studies were not       designed to test this.
In addition, on October 8th 2013, the US       Food &amp; Drugs Administration unexpectedly announced an investigation       into cardiovascular events in patients receiving ponatinib, a 3rd       generation TKI that is part of the `early switch' strategy in the UK       SPIRIT3 trial.
Interest in nilotinib (and ponatinib) has therefore evolved       to determining whether cardiovascular events are a genuine and clinically       relevant unwanted effect, and also on the underlying mechanism.
Finally, the UoL group's scientific observations have also had clinical       impact, partly in relation to the switch from imatinib to nilotinib.
The       UoL's demonstration of HLA-associated expression of BCR-ABL fusion       peptides [6] led directly to several studies of peptide vaccination in CML       and other leukaemias [14].
There is also much interest in biomarkers in       CML, to predict a poor clinical outcome (transformation to acute       leukaemia), and the UoL's identification of CIP2A [7] has evolved into a       more thorough study of this protein in many other cancers (exemplified by       30 further reports on CIP2A in the 2 years since publication).
The most       recent data in Liverpool indicate that while CML patients with high CIP2A       expression have a high probability of disease progression to blast crisis       if treated with imatinib, this is not true if receiving nilotinib, and       that this may be due to differential effects of the two drugs on various       ancillary proteins involved in CIP2A regulation (data presented at the       European School of Haematology 2013 and manuscript submitted to a high       impact journal in November 2013 [15]).
These laboratory observations       support the case that high CIP2A expressing patients should preferentially       receive nilotinib from original diagnosis.
