     Background     IRIS is a landmark trial [4] in the field of domestic violence research,       testing a training and support programme, including a referral pathway,       designed to improve the response of general practice to women experiencing       domestic violence.
Dissemination     The findings were disseminated via presentation at 28 non-academic       conferences or meetings to July 2013 (total audience ~ 1200), 9       non-academic publications, and provision of information to national health       policy fora, notably the 2009/10 taskforce on health aspects of violence       against women and children.
The trial findings and cost effectiveness       analysis [5], supported through a case study [a] and web-based publicity       [b] were presented to meetings of local health care commissioners in       conjunction with local third sector organisations     Programme Implementation     Maximising impact was an integral part of the IRIS research programme.
Following the success of this trial, `IRIS &#8212; strengthening impact'       (IRISimp), an implementation vehicle to mainstream the IRIS model into       practices across the country, was created.
This two-year programme of work       was undertaken in conjunction with and, funded by, the Health Foundation.
Beginning in June 2010, it facilitates the commissioning of the IRIS model       by primary care trusts and provides advocate educator training.
UoB       researchers then secured a Department of Health Innovation, Excellence and       Strategic Development Grant to fund further implementation of IRIS in       England.
A key part of the implementation programme was the translation of       the findings of the trial into a commissioning document designed to enable       and support the commissioning of the programme by CCGs and local       authorities in England [c].
Up to July 2013, 12 localities have commissioned the programme, and 122       practices in 7 localities have received training and started to use the       IRIS referral pathway.
[d]     Benefits to women     Currently 683 women are being referred annually to IRIS domestic violence       advocates in the areas that have implemented the programme.
[c] This is       estimated to be at least six times the number of referrals occurring in       the absence of IRIS.
We know from our previous systematic reviews of       advocacy interventions [1] [3] that this will result in a reduction of       recurrence of domestic violence, improved quality of life and probably       improved mental health of these women.
The other benefit for patients is a       safer and more appropriate response of clinicians to disclosure of       domestic violence, a core feature of the IRIS intervention.
We have       evidence for this impact from interviews with patients who disclosed abuse       to their GPs and were referred to an IRIS advocate educator.
For example, here is the account of a woman who spoke to her GP about       abuse after seeing an IRIS poster in the waiting room: "I had been       experiencing verbal, emotional and financial abuse from my husband for       over 26 years.
I felt sad, low and unable to cope.
The doctor referred me       to someone who could help...
I don't need to go to the doctor's as much       now and have cut down on the tablets I take for depression and       sleeplessness.
I have slowly got my freedom back and am so happy to be       making my own decisions and planning my own way in life.
This is not just       for me, it's for my children and women like me out there.
I feel       empowered.
I feel proud of me."
The patient narratives, as referenced in       the corroborative sources, provide further evidence.
[e]     Benefits to NHS staff     Intermediate beneficiaries from the widespread implementation of IRIS       have been the doctors, nurses and other members of the practice teams in       the 122 IRIS practices nationally (Bristol, Hackney, Lambeth, Manchester,       Nottingham, Portsmouth, Southampton).
IRIS has been commissioned in an       additional four areas (South Gloucestershire, Berkshire West, Enfield and       Nottingham) and practice training will be delivered in Autumn 2013.
From       our nested qualitative study [6] we know that the participating clinicians       think that the training and support from IRIS allows them to engage with       the difficult challenge of domestic violence.
The clinician narratives, as       referenced in the corroborative sources, provide further evidence.
[e]     Impact on national policy     The trial findings were made available pre-publication to the Department       of Health taskforce on the health aspects of violence against women and       children [f] and they were a key source of evidence on training of health       care professionals.
The IRIS model was cited as an exemplar alongside the       recommendation about training of staff (recommendation 3, p. 31) and was       highlighted as a case example in the commissioning guidance, [g] (p.58)       based on the report.
Draft NICE guidelines have a specific training and       support recommendation for primary care based explicitly on IRIS (p.21).
[h] The 2012 Welsh Assembly Government White Paper [i] specifies IRIS as       an effective primary care training model (pp.48-49) and this will be the       basis of implementation of IRIS in Wales.
Twelve IRIS advocate educators       have been trained in Scotland.
They are delivering the IRIS practice       training and referral pathway in three Health Boards.
[j] IRIS       implementation has been part of the recommendations of Home Office       Domestic Homicide Reviews [k].
Impact on international policy     The landmark 2013 WHO publication `Responding to intimate partner       violence and sexual violence against women: WHO clinical and policy       guidelines' drew heavily on the research of the UoB team in framing their       approach and in making recommendations about the training of healthcare       providers with specific citation of the IRIS model (p.33).
[l]     Economic impact     With the current number of IRIS practices, the annual societal cost       saving is estimated to be greater than &#163;1m annually.
This estimate is       based upon the results of the cost-effectiveness model developed from the       trial outcomes [5].
This modelling indicated that implementation of the       IRIS programme is cost-effective as judged by NICE criteria, generates       societal cost savings and is likely to reduce NHS costs.
Impact on national DV screening policy     Broader UK government policy on domestic violence has been deeply       influenced by the outputs of the UoB domestic violence research programme.
In particular the systematic reviews that underpinned the IRIS study       helped forestall the implementation of ineffective domestic violence       screening/routine enquiry in health care settings in England, as reflected       in the DH taskforce report [d] and in the UK national screening committee       recommendations.
[m] The National Screening Committee has adopted the       definition of domestic violence developed by Feder.
