     The CSAG committee prepared a report (Section 3, ref [1]) based on the       evidence collected by the research team (co-led by Jonathan Sandy).
The       recommendations of this report were accepted by Ministers (Health Services       Circular [HSC] 1998/002) and the Department of Health announced the       establishment of the cleft implementation group (CIG) in HSC 1998/087.
This was the first time that a CSAG report had been followed by a formal       process of implementation and included the development and maintenance of       a national database (CRANE) to record the births of children with a cleft       as well as key audit points with established care indicators [a].
There       were several reasons for this besides the strength and scientific       robustness of the evidence collected.
These included the fact that there       was unanimous clinical support for service rationalisation and that the       proposed changes were supported by an active and well informed       user/clinician group (Cleft Lip and Palate Association, CLAPA).
The speed       of centralisation varied with the earliest of the nine regions       reconfiguring services in 2001 and the last in 2008.
The process of       centralisation has continued through 2008 &#8212; 13 as centres have recruited       recommended specialist staff, developed team working and set up       multicentre audits.
Most of the CSAG recommendations have now been       implemented and care across the UK is now provided through       multidisciplinary teams [b].
For the individual, this means better care       resulting in improvements in facial appearance, speech and ultimately       psychological adjustment.
The number of surgeons responsible for repairs       reduced from 98 before centralisation to 26 in 2008.
Furthermore 92% of       cleft units operate on at least 40 patients a year compared to an average       of 6 per year before CSAG centralisation [c].
The extensive research also       identified areas of care that lacked provision within the service.
These       deficiencies were highlighted in the CSAG report and as centralisation       moved forward, strong arguments have been made to improve staff and       capital resources in the newly designated centres.
The nature and extent       of the impact is becoming apparent with preliminary evidence that       outcomes, collected through audits set up as part of the implementation of       the CSAG report, have improved.
Success rates for upper jaw bone grafting       were 85% in 2010 compared to 58% pre- CSAG [d].
In addition, less than 20%       of children have poor upper and lower jaw relations when treated within a       centralised service compared to 40% pre-CSAG 40% [e].
Several       geographically proximate regions have come together to run regular       tri-centre audits to review outcomes.
This demonstrates a commitment to       review the outcomes and evaluate the service through continued audit.
Early nursing input at diagnosis before or after birth has improved       immeasurably post centralisation as has outreach nursing and feeding       support [f].
User awareness of the impact of CSAG       In 2006 CLAPA surveyed parents of children born with a cleft between 2002       and 2005.
This was similar to the survey carried out pre-CSAG in 1996.
The       2007 report recognised that the changes in cleft care over the last five       years mean that the needs of families and children born with clefts are       better catered for than ever before.
Ten years ago it was still largely       other parents, under the umbrella of CLAPA, who guided and advised on some       of the early care, especially around feeding.
Specialist cleft nurses now       provide that early care and tried and tested surgical protocols are in       place meaning that babies receive surgery to a high standard, provided by       a surgeon who has well documented expertise and experience [g].
A further       survey of members by CLAPA in 2010 suggested that there had been further       improvements in care.
The survey reported that there was now a closer       relationship with teams enabling patient representatives to be part of the       team.
Furthermore, CLAPA had helped draft the new National Service       Specification as well as engaging media on issues such as late diagnosis       of cleft palate [h].
Impact on service commissioning and specification in the UK       The NHS commissioning board in issuing the 2012/13 NHS standard contract       (service specification D7) for Cleft Lip and Palate Services uses the 1998       CSAG report to summarise the key issues and challenges to be addressed by       providers and commissioners [i].
The specification builds on the       recommendations and does not replicate or supersede the original CSAG       report.
This formally recognises the importance of the CSAG research and       its central role in policy formation.
The USA national medical policy       (2011) uses CSAG data to inform service configuration [j].
These latter       policies are based upon a review of the available clinical information       including clinical outcome studies in the peer-reviewed published medical       literature and evidence-based guidelines of governmental bodies.
Global impact       The CSAG study was widely recognised as an important step in the       evaluation of cleft care services including the WHO in their documentation       of global strategies to reduce the health-care burden of craniofacial       anomalies (2001).
After CSAG, other countries became interested in       conducting similar surveys.
The Americleft study has produced results from       one centre that are worse than any of the pre-CSAG UK centres.
There is       now an inevitable process of centralisation with care being moved towards       University Hospitals [k].
The data from CSAG provided a basis and logic       for centralisation which a number of countries used without gathering the       same level of information.
There is evidence in Europe that the influence       of the original CSAG has led to the creation of centres of excellence in       France (2013) which has been driven by the Ministry of Health (http://www.fente-labio-palatine.fr/).
In Bulgaria and Romania similar service recommendations have been made       with single high volume units, specialist speech therapists and national       registers (2012).
These decisions used the CSAG data to inform their       decisions.
