     `It is clear that this research has had a commercial impact already, and       will likely have continuing       implications for future applications of this technology in consumer       products.
We also see this as       an example where by publishing their evaluation of the efficacy of       commercialised food       technologies, including `negative' data, academics can play a role in the       protection of the       consumers.'
[a] Unilever Senior Scientist, commenting on the impact of       this research.
Evidence proving no efficacy leads to commercial decision to abandon         Fabuless and         opinions of misleading advertising       In 2000, Unilever acquired diet foods and drinks manufacturer Slim-Fast       for $2.4billion [b].
In the       early 2000s Unilever made plans to use Fabuless as a food ingredient,       including in new products       for the Slim-Fast range.
As a direct result of the research carried out by       Rogers, Unilever       abandoned its plans to use Fabuless in 2009.
This will have led to a       significant decrease in       projected sales of Fabuless and its value to its owner and manufacturer       DSM (Dutch State Mines,       a leading global manufacturer of food ingredients).
The concerns raised by the research over Fabuless resulted in a dispute       between Unilever and       DSM.
Attempts to resolve this dispute lead to a high level meeting between       Unilever and DSM in       Geneva, Switzerland in 2008 at which the disputed efficacy of Fabuless was       discussed.
Both       Rogers and Appleton were called as `expert witnesses' to that meeting.
Three of the outcomes       from the meeting were an agreement that the results of the research,       including the meta-analysis       of studies, should be submitted for publication, the later final decision       by Unilever not to use       Fabuless, and subsequently pressure from Unilever on other companies that       they should not use       this ingredient with satiety claims.
Although Fabuless is still used in some products for appetite and weight       control by other       manufacturers, its use is likely far less widespread than it would have       been without the Bristol       research bringing into question its efficacy.
It is clearly challenging to       provide evidence of products       that would have otherwise used Fabuless, however, the fate of some       products that were using it       are evidence that the research impacted commercial use of the product.
For       example, in 2008,       Candia launched its Silhouette Active slimming milk product with Fabuless       as its active ingredient.
In 2012, the District Court of Paris made the decision that the company's       advertising of the product       was misleading consumers following a complaint by the National Association       for the Defence of       Consumers and Users (CLCV) [c].
Candia did not appeal the decision as they       had effectively       stopped marketing Silhouette Active in France after sales       plummeted and it had lost its health       claims following an opinion by the French food safety agency (AFSSA) [c].
DSM sought to secure a ruling from the European Food Safety Authority       (EFSA) in support of their       claim for efficacy of Fabuless, but this was found to be unsubstantiated       and the claim has been       disallowed in the EU since December 2012 [d].
Since this ruling, the       Bristol research has been       published in the public domain, and has been independently confirmed (Chan       et al., 2012,       Physiology and Behavior 105, 742-748).
The most recent clinical findings referred to in the DSM website [e] are       from 2002 and recent       consumer-style reports are conspicuously absent from the DSM site and from       the other domains       globally.
Together, this strongly indicates that Fabuless sales are       reducing, presumably as a       consequence of loss of sales to Unilever and the EFSA ruling, both of       which rest largely on the       Bristol research.
It is difficult to quantify exactly the commercial consequences of not       using a product of this kind.
It       is certain, however, that Unilever has not invested any more in developing       products containing       Fabuless; has not assigned a marketing budget for the projects and has not       purchased Fabuless to       add to products.
This has clearly resulted in a reduced demand for       Fabuless and a cost saving for       Unilever.
Unilever had planned to use Fabuless in their Slim-Fast range       that has a major market       share (US Slim-Fast sales are currently almost $200 million p.a.
and in       the UK Slim-Fast remains       the dominant meal replacement product with a 71% share of the &#163;59 million       p.a.
market [f and g])       so their cost-saving is substantial.
It is likely that their abandonment       of plans to adopt Fabuless will       lead to similar actions from other producers of slimming products.
Unilever and many of its       competitors are multinational corporations and therefore the reach of this       impact is significant.
Consumers protected from purchasing and consuming ineffective product       As a result of this change of policy based on the Bristol research,       consumers are protected from       purchasing and consuming an ineffective product, which otherwise would       have been strongly       marketed by major global companies in a sector that is worth $13billion       globally [f].
Although the       ingredient is not harmful to consumers, it was proven ineffective, so the       impact of the research       does have considerable reach, ostensibly in Europe, covered by the EFSA       decision, but also       globally.
It is clear that availability of Fabuless has decreased       worldwide.
