     Matthew's research has had significant impact with respect to:     1) the well being of people who suffer from sensitive dentine (Health       Impact)     2) the worldwide sales by GSK and Colgate of newer desensitizing       toothpastes (Economic Impact)     New generation of desensitising toothpastes underpinned by Bristol         research     Matthews' revelation of the mechanism behind dentine sensitivity has led       to a new generation of desensitising dentifrices that contain compounds to       form plugs that block the dentinal tubules, stopping movement of fluid       through the tubules and preventing activation of the pulpal nerves.
In       2009, results of a breakthrough technology that incorporated arginine and       calcium carbonate into a daily-use toothpaste were published in a special       issue of The Journal of Clinical Dentistry.
This new generation of       toothpastes worked by plugging and sealing dentin tubules [a, cites       Matthews and Vongsavan (1994) Arch Oral Biol 39 (Suppl):87S-95S].
Improved well being for people who suffer from sensitive teeth     Hypersensitive, exposed dentine at the neck of a tooth is a very common       cause of pain.
Studies have estimated that "dentine hypersensitivity         affects up to 57% of dental patients of different lifestyles and         cultures, and appears to peak between the ages of 20 and 40 years"       [b] .
Colgate Sensitive Pro-Relief (also marketed as elmex Sensitive       Professional) contains 8.0% arginine, calcium carbonate and 1450 ppm       fluoride and has been shown through numerous clinical trials to provide       significant reductions in dentine hypersensitivity both immediately after       application and over long-term use, with one study showing a 266%       improvement over baseline values after four weeks [c, cites 5].
Industry benefits from global sales of new desensitising toothpastes     In 2011, Colgate's share of the global toothpaste market was 44.7% [d].
It's line of sensitive toothpastes were credited for an improved market       share in North America, continued leadership in oral care in Latin America       and expansion into European, South Pacific, Greater Asia and African       markets [d].
Colgate incorporates Matthews' research indirectly in its       public information regarding the mode of action of Sensitive Pro-Relief       [e].
Matthews acted as a scientific consultant to GlaxoSmithKline (GSK) on       mechanisms and treatment of dentine hypersensitivity in 2003, prior to       them buying Sensodyne, and again in 2009, when they sought scientific       justification for the inclusion of potassium chloride or nitrate in       toothpastes as a desensitising agent.
Matthews shared his experimental       evidence that the potassium ions [4-5] included in Sensodyne toothpastes,       did not reduce sensitivity.
In 2010, GSK launched Sensodyne Rapid Relief       with the active ingredient strontium acetate, which provides a physical       plug for the dentinal tubules.
In 2013, GSK overtook Colgate in the       sensitivity segment [f] and won product of the year for its latest       desensitising product, Sensodyne Repair &amp; Protect [g].
