     Compounds developed by Watkins and Jane are in high demand from academic       and industrial scientists worldwide, to use as tools to probe the function       of glutamate receptors in health and disease.
A number of companies that       provide neurochemicals sell compounds developed at Bristol and in recent       years, compounds from Bristol have been given a UBP code to show that they       originate from the University of Bristol Pharmacology       department.
Commercial impact through the creation of viable spinout companies      In 1989, Watkins founded the company, Tocris Neuramin, to sell compounds       he developed to the scientific community.
In 2005, the Tocris Bioscience       brand was launched and in 2006 the company was sold for &#163;14 million [a],       at which point Watkins retired as director.
The company is a leading       supplier of high performance life science reagents and peptides, with       customers in virtually all of the world's major pharmaceutical companies,       universities and research institutes.
Their reputation as a source of       state of the art compounds for scientific research was based in large part       on their access to novel glutamate receptor ligands, developed in Bristol;       42% of the glutamate receptor chemical probes in the Tocris Bioscience       catalogue in 2008 came from Bristol.
Three postdoctoral researchers from       Bristol have been employed by Tocris and the company has sponsored the       work of two PhD students (Helen Troop and Nigel Dolman) through industrial       CASE awards from the MRC and BBSRC.
They currently have 32 Bristol       glutamate receptor compounds in their catalogue.
Tocris Bioscience has a       strong track record of profitability, with revenues in 2010 of       approximately &#163;11.7 million [b].
In 2011, Tocris Bioscience was acquired       by Techne Corporation for &#163;75 million [b].
In 2005, ex-employees of Tocris Bioscience, including Jane's ex-PhD       student Heong Wai Tse, founded Ascent Scientific.
Ascent rapidly made its       reputation by selling pharmacological tools for glutamate receptors       developed in Bristol.
They currently sell 20 glutamate receptor compounds.
Ascent was acquired by Abcam to form Abcam Biochemicals for &#163;10M in       September 2011 [c].Three postdoctoral researchers from Bristol have been       employed by Ascent/Abcam.
Jane acts as a consultant for Ascent/Abcam       (2008-present).
Iain Sanderson, Head of Chemistry at Abcam Biochemicals       and founder member of Ascent Scientific, has stated that Jane made an       important contribution to the development of the company: "Prof. David       Jane has been an invaluable source of knowledge and resource for Ascent       Scientific both before and after acquisition and subsequent rebranding to       Abcam Biochemicals.
During the early stages of Ascent Scientific.
Prof.       Jane's guidance and advice was a contributory factor in enabling Ascent       Scientific to grow quickly, particularly with its range of glutamate       products.
Many of these were originally developed in Prof. Jane's       group..."[d]     Chemical suppliers benefit from sale of compounds developed at Bristol       The compounds developed at Bristol [1-7] are sold through at least 7       chemical suppliers (Sigma-Aldrich, Glixx Laboratories, Santa Cruz       Biotechnologies, Biotrend, Fluorochem, Abcam and Tocris).
Sigma-Aldrich,       for example, carries 8 compounds in their catalogue that were developed at       Bristol.
Although the financial value of these compounds can't be teased       out of overall sales revenues, the research chemicals segment of       Sigma-Aldrich's sales portfolio is "its biggest top-line contributor" [d]       with the company reporting revenues of $675 million in the 1st       quarter of 2013 [e].
Collaborations with industry lead to significant investment in           research of drug development     An estimated 110 Bristol compounds have been sourced to Eli Lilly (UK)       through collaborative agreements.
Some have been found to be potent       compounds which Eli Lilly have taken on to pursue for their own research.
2012-present: Development of group III metabotropic glutamate receptor         agonists and antagonists.
In an on-going collaboration, six compounds synthesised at Bristol have       been sent to Eli Lilly for evaluation on mGlu1-8 as part of a project to       develop mGlu8 selective agonists and antagonists [material transfer       agreement available upon request].
A derivative of the mGlu2 receptor       agonist, LY354740, which was developed by Eli Lilly under the Bristol       patent license, went to Phase III trials.
Though the trial was ended in       2012, the estimated investment by industry to bring a drug from Phase I to       Phase III clinical trials is around US$215-220 million (in 2011 USD) [f] .
2008-2011: Development of GluN2A selective competitive NMDAR         antagonists.
In collaboration with the Eli Lilly Centre for       Cognitive Neuroscience (CCN) (of which Jane has been a member since 2007)       GluN2A selective competitive NMDAR antagonists have been developed.
Eli       Lilly has invested &#163;30,000 in this project to support a postdoctoral       researcher [g].
Jane's input into the CCN was to provide expertise in       NMDAR medicinal chemistry and computer-aided design, to jointly supervise       a postdoctoral chemist working under the direction of a chemist at Lilly       and to supervise the pharmacological characterisation of new compounds on       NMDAR subtypes.
2008-2010: Development of kainate receptor (KAR) antagonists       Twenty compounds designed and synthesised by the Bristol group were sent       to Eli Lilly for evaluation on GluK1 and GluK3 containing KARs to aid in       structure-activity relationship studies for the development of selective       antagonists for these receptor subtypes.
2008: Industry invests in Bristol expertise       As Jane has expertise in the medicinal chemistry and computer-aided drug       design of KAR antagonists he acted as a consultant for Eli Lilly in their       drug discovery programme centred on developing GluK1 selective KAR       antagonists [h].
KAR antagonists are in development for the treatment of       chronic pain and migraine.
