     Until now, research into the effect of plain packaging on smoking has       been dominated by qualitative research, but Bristol's experimental       approach has quickly gained traction because of its scientific       credibility.
This has been particularly important among policy-makers       interested in the evidence supporting the implementation of standardised       packaging.
Experts estimate that standardised packaging might reduce adult       smoking by 1%, and it could reduce the numbers of children trying smoking       by 3% &#8212; the equivalent of 500,000 adults and 400,000 children in the UK       (Pechey et al., BMC Public Health, 2013, 13(1):18).
These       estimates represent what could be resounding benefits to public health.
Early indications from Australia, where standardised packaging has       recently been introduced, are that this is associated with lower smoking       appeal, more support for the policy and more urgency to quit among adult       smokers (Wakefield et al., BMJ Open, 2013, 3:e003175).
Guiding expert opinion in defence of global tobacco control policy     In December 2012, Australia set an international precedent by becoming       the first country in the world to implement standardised packaging of       tobacco products.
Initially, the tobacco industry took aggressive legal       actions against the legislation, but eventually Australia's High Court       dismissed these constitutional challenges in August 2012.
The Australian       Government set up an Advisory Group of leading experts in tobacco control       to advise on the issue, and one expert stated that the Bristol-based       research was reviewed in the court cases and:     "has helped to guide expert opinion.
The laboratory-based methodology and       physiological measures used by Ms Maynard and Professor Munaf&#242; represents       a particularly important contribution to the evidence base" [a].
The outcomes of these court cases were watched closely by other countries       including New Zealand and Ireland, who have since announced plans to       introduce standardised packaging, and the UK, Norway, Canada, India and       Turkey who are reported to be considering the legislation as well.
The       Australia India Institute Taskforce on Tobacco Control used the research       by Munaf&#242; and his colleagues to support their position that India could       also introduce plain packaging legislation [b, cites 1].
The Taskforce       presented the report to the New Delhi Parliament in 2012.
In response, the       joint secretary in the Ministry of Health stated that "plain packaging,       particularly the Australian case study, can be an example for India" [c].
The research has also been used to inform tobacco policy in Europe.
The       European Commission Tobacco Products Directive (TPD) oversees the laws,       regulations and administrative provisions concerning the manufacture,       presentation and sale of tobacco products in Member States of the European       Union.
The European Commission released a revision of the TPD in December       2012 [d].
One of the five policy areas the revision focuses on is       packaging and labelling, and both of the eye-tracking studies conducted       here at Bristol are discussed as evidence in support of proposals for       cigarette packaging regulation.
The TPD will be influential in informing       policy makers across Europe about tobacco control and will also set a       precedent for international tobacco control policies for the next decade.
Informing UK consultation on tobacco control policy     The UK government conducted a public consultation on standardised tobacco       packaging between April and August 2012.
The research cited above [1-2]       played an important role during the consultation period, in informing       ministers and the public about the effectiveness of standardised packaging       legislation.
Prior to the consultation, Munaf&#242; met with the Cabinet Office       Behavioural Insights Team to inform their response to the consultation,       and Maynard and Munaf&#242; were invited to present their research results to       members of the Tobacco Policy Team within the UK Department of Health.
As       part of the consultation process, the Department of Health and the Public       Health Research Consortium commissioned a systematic review of the       evidence for standardised tobacco packaging, which was published in April       2012 [e].
The review used the research conducted with adults [1] as       evidence that standardised packaging increases the salience of health       warnings on cigarette packs.
In response to the government consultation, Action on Smoking and Health       (ASH), a campaigning public health charity, produced a template with       evidence-based responses that organisations and individuals could use and       adapt for their own responses [f].
This template referred to the work       conducted in both underpinning studies [1-2 as cited in e].
This ASH       document was supplied to over 190 health organisations, with very positive       feedback [g] and was used by notable organisations such as the UK Faculty       of Public Health of the Royal Colleges of Physicians of the United Kingdom       [h].
The research was also cited directly in consultation responses by a       number of organisations including ASH UK [i] and ASH Scotland [j] and the       Tobacco Control Research Group at Bath University.
In May 2013, Maynard and Munaf&#242; presented their research to key       policy-makers at a Parliamentary Office Science and Technology workshop at       the Houses of Parliament.
These activities continue to keep the issue of       standardised packaging at the forefront of government debate.
Impact on UK public opinion of standardised packaging legislation     Critical to the government consultation on standardised packaging of       cigarettes were the opinions and engagement of the public.
Towards the end       of the government consultation period, in August 2012, the research       attracted considerable media interest following a press release associated       with the publication of the most recent study [2].
The research was       featured on the Six O'clock News on BBC 1, and Maynard was invited to       conduct a number of radio interviews on local and international radio       stations.
These media activities were important in presenting the evidence       to members of the public across the UK, enabling them to make informed       contributions to the consultation.
In June 2013, upon the recommendation of the MP for Bristol West, Stephen       Williams, also Chair of the Parliamentary Cross-Party Smoking and Health       Group, the researchers were invited to discuss their findings on BBC       Points West News (audience of ~276,000) and the BBC Sunday Politics       programmes.
On July 12, 2013, the UK government announced that it will delay its       decision on standardised packaging to wait until the emerging impact of       the decision in Australia can be measured.
This decision elicited some       strong responses that referred to overwhelming evidence (including the       underpinning research) that there are "simple ways to make [smoking] less       appealing" and that the government's shelving of the proposed legislation       was "not because of a lack of evidence that plain packaging works" [k].
