     Initiated by Michael Faraday, the Christmas Lectures were first held by       the Royal Institution in       1825.
Ever since, lecturers have sought to present scientific subjects to       a general audience &#8212;       particularly young people &#8212; in an informative and entertaining manner.
Since 1966, the BBC has       broadcast the annual lectures nationally as a three-part series of 1 hour       programmes.
Some of the       more notable lecturers have included Sir David Attenborough, Richard       Dawkins, Carl Sagan and       the psychologists Sir Frederick Bartlett and Richard Gregory.
In 2011, Hood delivered the Royal Institution Christmas Lectures in a       series titled, "Meet Your         Brain".
The first lecture, "What's inside your head?
",       introduced the audience to the structure and       functions of the brain.
The second lecture, "Who's in control anyway?
",       examined the issue of       executive control, including inhibitory control, and attention during       tasks such as navigation.
The       third and final lecture, "Are you thinking what I'm thinking?
",       investigated social brain mechanisms,       including social cueing.
The content of these lectures drew directly on       work carried out at the       BCDC and included demonstrations of navigation, eye-tracking of faces,       inhibitory failure, and       automatic social cueing of gaze.
Reaching a large UK audience     The BBC4 broadcast of the first lecture of "Meet Your Brain" was       on Dec 27th at 8pm and was seen       by 1.06 million people with the subsequent two lectures reaching over 700       and 800 thousand       people respectively [a].
Independent polling analyses carried out for the       BBC revealed an audience       appreciation index (AI) average of 89% [a].
For comparison, BBC1's premier       series "Dr Who"       averages 86% AI.
As a result of the phenomenal success of this BBC4       screening, "Meet Your         Brain" was re-broadcast on BBC2 between January 24th and       27th, 2011 &#8212; a first for the Christmas       Lectures.
The "Meet Your Brain" lecture series is permanently available on the     Royal Institution Channel [b],     and as of June 3rd 2013, the lectures have attracted over 57,000     views in total [c].
With over     27,000 views, Lecture 1 of Hood's series is ranked as the most popular video     on the RI site [c],     Reaching an international audience     In July 2012, at the request and support of the British Council, Hood       travelled to Japan and       Singapore to present live versions of the lectures, which were then also       broadcast on national       television in these countries.
It is estimated that an additional 1       million people, in Asia alone,       viewed these broadcasts [d].
Hood's Asian tour was so successful that in       April 2013 the British       Council again invited him to deliver a "Smart Talks" lecture in China       (Beijing, Qingdao &amp;       Guangzhou) and South Korea (Seoul).
These lectures were also broadcast on       national television.
The British Council estimates that 1,700 students attended this lecture       tour in China, and that the       associated media reached approximately 6 million people [d].
Improving understanding among youth     On April 25th 2012, Hood delivered the live version lectures       to teenagers as part of Bristol       University's widening participation scheme, which provides opportunities       for potential applicants to       find out more about the University of Bristol and higher education in       general.
Participants ranged       in age from 9 to 14 years, with a mean age of 12; there were 42 boys and       64 girls.
In order to       formally assess the impact of the lecture, children were tested on their       knowledge about the brain       with specific questions that would be covered in the lecture.
This was       done at four time points:       before the lecture; immediately after the lecture; 2 weeks after the       lecture; and 2 months after the       lecture.
They were also asked whether they had discussed with others about       what they had       learned in the lecture.
Mean correct responses for the group for all       questions prior to the lecture       were 40% and after the lecture 75%.
Overall retention of knowledge was 73%       at two months.
To       put this in perspective, studies have shown that after only 24 hours, the       average retention rate of       material presented in a lecture is 5% [e].
Furthermore, there was evidence that children had been motivated by the       lecture.
Immediately       after the lecture, 61% had discussed some of the demonstrations with       others, but this rose to 82%       after two months, indicating that the lecture had left a lasting impact.
This quantitative evaluation of       the impact of the results has now been published in a peer reviewed       journal article [f].
Developing educational tools and resources     Following the evaluation in 2012, "The Brain Bank", an on-line       teaching and learning resource, was       launched as a direct compendium to "Meet Your Brain".
The website       (thebrainbank.org.uk) is       designed for the use of teachers and science-centre staff who would like       to incorporate       demonstrations and activities into their presentations to help students       understand concepts about       the brain.
The Brain Bank re-presents content from the Christmas Lectures       including video clips,       demonstrations, discussion points, exercises and Key Stage learning       objectives for teachers to       download.
The Brain Bank has been endorsed by the Royal Institution and       the Society of Biology,       which is the professional body who advise the Government, influence       policy, advance education       and professional development and engage and encourage public interest in       the life sciences.
The       Brain Bank was featured in the professional magazine of the Association       for Psychological       Research [g]- the largest body of psychologists with 20,000 members       worldwide and distributed       through the UK Association for Science Centres.
Since its launch in Jan       2013, the Brain Bank has       had 22,230 visits as of June 3rd 2013.
