     An estimated 1 to 4 births/1000 in the UK results in HIE (i.e.
approximately 1625 of the 650,000 births/year).
Before the introduction of       therapeutic hypothermia, a quarter of affected newborn babies were likely       to die, while the 75% that survived were at risk of severe handicap.
Other       impacts include lower cognitive scores and poorer scholastic achievement;       these children often require additional educational support.
This medical,       emotional and financial impact places a major burden on the individuals       affected, their families and society as a whole.
Saving infants from death or disability: improved patient outcomes     In 2010, Thoresen and Whitelaw co-authored a meta-analysis of clinical       studies of moderate cooling for prevention of HIE in newborn babies.
The       meta-analysis included the two largest, Bristol-led, trials (see above)       and confirmed the substantial benefits of hypothermia in HIE [a].
The       meta-analysis showed that at 18 months of age after having received       therapeutic hypothermia, there was:            a significant reduction in mortality,       increased survival with normal neurological function,       and reduced disability (including cerebral palsy).
Since 2011, therapeutic hypothermia has been provided by tertiary       neonatal intensive care units in all regions of the UK.
In the UK,       approximately 400 children are saved annually from disability or death       (the published trial data and audit of the Bristol results indicate       improved outcome in 20-30% of those treated) and as the treatment is now       used across the developed world, the global estimate of children saved       annually is several thousand.
Impacting UK and international treatment guidelines     In May 2010, the UK's National Institute of Clinical Excellence (NICE)       issued new guidance stating that there was sufficient evidence on the       safety and efficacy of therapeutic hypothermia "to support the use of this       procedure in carefully selected neonates..."([b], which refers to       meta-analysis by Thoresen and her colleagues [a]).
The guidance is       supported by an overview of the research compiled by NICE including the       opinions of Specialist Advisers, including Thoresen and Whitelaw [c, cites       3,4].
In July 2010, the British Association of Perinatal Medicine published a       position statement recommending that "babies presenting with moderate to       severe neonatal encephalopathy within the first few hours after delivery       should undergo therapeutic cooling" [d, cites 4, 5 &amp; a].
That same year, the International Liaison Committee on Resuscitation       (ILCOR) produced the 2010 International Consensus on Cardiopulmonary       Resuscitation and Emergency Cardiovascular Care Science.
One of the major       new recommendations in the 2010 consensus was that "Therapeutic       hypothermia should be considered for infants born at term or near-term"       with "moderate to severe hypoxic-ischemic encephalopathy" [e, cites 4, 5       &amp; a].
Training of neonatal medical and nursing staff     Thoresen and Whitelaw have been running courses on therapeutic       hypothermia for neonatal medical and nursing staff since 2008 in the UK       and abroad &#8212; 12 to date in UK, with an average of 40 applicants/course,       and courses in San Francisco (2007) Tampa (Florida) 2008, Vienna (2008)       Tel Aviv (2009), Kuwait (2008), Lisbon (2009) Amsterdam (2010) and Orlando       (2011).
The courses are practical, interactive and hands-on, recognising       the critical importance of practical skills as well as knowledge in using       cooling safely and effectively.
Saving resources     An independent analysis of the cost effectiveness of therapeutic       hypothermia showed that within the first 18 months after birth, the mean       health service cost was &#163;22,324 in the cooled group versus &#163;18,537 in the       noncooled group, but that these increased costs offered "good value for       money" due to the effectiveness of the procedure in reducing mortality and       severe disability [f].
The average compensation award made in cases of cerebral palsy after       perinatal asphyxia in the UK is &#163;3 million if negligence is proven.
This       is reckoned to be the life-time cost of care and lost earnings for       cerebral palsy.
Thus one can conclude that the introduction of therapeutic       hypothermia is saving the UK (NHS and families) about &#163;200 million       annually.
