     Context: Future agriculture must deliver more food to a growing       global population, but with fewer resources and greater awareness of       environmental impact, as well as changing political and economic paradigms       and a more unpredictable climate.
Parasites and disease represent a major       constraint on future production, animal welfare and food security.
Parasites cause debilitating and destructive clinical diseases of       livestock, causing major problems and losses.
Research at Bristol into       many of these disease-causing parasites has helped in the development of       targeted controls, and shown how control methods can be adapted to cope       with a changing climate.
Novartis Animal Health incorporates blowfly strike research into           their product advice to farmers: In 2011, Novartis       Animal Health, an international pharmaceutical company specialising in the       prevention and treatment of various widespread animal diseases and       parasite infestations, incorporated Wall's blowfly research into the       advice they provide to farmers regarding the use of some of their products       (B).
Wall's research demonstrated the need for early protection of sheep       due to increased strike risk as a result of a lengthening blowfly season.
"Prof Wall's recent findings highlighted not only the importance of       blowfly protection at this time of year," said Helen Langham (C), Brand       Manager at Novartis Animal Health UK Ltd, "but also helped facilitate a       practical solution to the farmer by demonstrating the benefit of a control       strategy using a Novartis product introduced to the market in 2011,       CLikZiN&#174;.
Consequently, this work has enabled increased       awareness of the need for early season protection, and together with Prof.       Wall's previous research, will help in the advancement of education within       the industry."
Also in 2011, Novartis Animal Health sponsored a continuing professional       development course for animal medicines advisers (D), entitled Blowfly         Strike &#8212; Early Treatment Best, which is based on Wall's research.
As       of 29th October 2012, 375 professionals had completed this       training module (E).
Novartis Animal Health has directly benefited from the research conducted       at the University of Bristol as it has provided evidence to support the       best use of their blowfly strike prevention product, CLikZiN&#174;,       which is ideally suited to early treatment due to its particularly short       withdrawal period.
The research has formed the basis for Novartis'       educational material aimed at animal health professionals.
CLikZiN&#174;       is used by farmers worldwide, demonstrating the international       applicability of this research.
Sheep and sheep farmers benefit from this research as it not only shows       the efficacy of early treatment with CLikZiN&#174; but also provides       evidence that small changes in husbandry practices can help reduce the       incidence of strike and cut costs.
This information has been made       available through numerous mainstream media outlets, such as Farm         Animal Health and Farmers Guardian, farmer meetings and       National Sheep Association events.
Better control of this disease will       result in less economic loss for farmers and improved welfare of the       animals.
Composite FEC test reduces monitoring costs for farmers and is           incorporated into national recommendations for targeted worm control           strategies of sheep: The composite FEC test, developed by       Morgan in collaboration with AHVLA, has been offered to farmers in the       AHVLA regional veterinary laboratories since 2006.
Over 2,000 tests have       been conducted since its introduction (1,563 since 2008) (F).
Analyzing       these samples using single tests would have cost farmers &#163;193,812 (based       on the 2012 AHVLA price list), but the composite test cost them only       &#163;52,439 &#8212; a 74% saving.
As well as this direct reduction in monitoring       costs, farmers save in terms of treatment costs as FEC monitoring can lead       to a decrease of as much as 75% in the number of treatments given to lambs       (G, pg 9).
Targeted treatment is a key part of the Sustainable Control of       Parasites in Sheep (SCOPS) initiative of Defra, the National Sheep       Association and Eblex, and is expected to prolong the efficacy of existing       and novel anthelmintic drug classes.
Both the composite FEC (H, pgs.
35       &amp; 44; I, recommendation 6) and the risk of autumn nematodirosis (H,       pgs.
5 &amp; 14), based on research at Bristol, are now included in       official recommendations to veterinarians and farmers through SCOPS.
SCOPS       published four case studies on farms that adopted the SCOPS principles       between 2007 and 2011, including composite FEC monitoring.
All cases       demonstrated the value of FEC monitoring in targeted parasite treatment       (J).
In addition, all four farms realized significant improvements in       flock performance after four years of putting all SCOPS recommendations       into practice (J).
Surveys of farmers at Sheep South West Meetings in three separate years       indicate that the uptake of FEC monitoring and the awareness of SCOPS       recommendations are slowly increasing within the industry.
Morgan surveyed       232 farmers in 2007, 2009 and 2011.
Farmer knowledge of using FEC as a       strategy to slow the development of anthelmintic resistance went from 0%       in 2007 to 1% in 2009 and 13% in 2011 (unpublished data).
Knowledge of       SCOPS recommendations, which came out in 2007, improved from 39% in 2009       to 59% in 2011 (unpublished data).
Research at Bristol has also improved disease forecasts, which are       produced by the National Animal Disease Information Service (NADIS) and       distributed by EBLEX to approximately 5,000 (K) producers monthly.
Specifically, Morgan's work on seasonal changes in Nematodirus battus       risk due to climate change has improved spring and autumn disease       forecasts.
His work showing the influence of temperature on free-living       stages of N. battus has helped link spring disease more tightly to       temperatures, further improving disease forecasts.
Process leading to impact: Professor Wall and Morgan work actively       to disseminate their research findings to animal health professionals and       ultimately to farmers.
Their research is disseminated through: i)       peer-reviewed publications and trade journals; ii) presentations at       meetings with farmers and veterinarians; iii) presentations and attendance       at events such as Sheep South West and National Sheep Association events;       iv) annual SCOPS meetings where Morgan has been invited as an expert; v)       invited talks at the Sheep Veterinary Society; and vi) conferences and       meetings such as the British Association of Veterinary Parasitology.
Both       Wall and Morgan work directly with industry and are active invited members       of the advisory boards of international pharmaceutical companies such as       Merial, Bayer, Pfizer and Novartis Animal Health.
Wall and Morgan also       work directly with industry and policymakers and have been invited onto       international expert panels to aid policy development in support of       sustainable parasite control and enhanced global food security (L).
International recognition     In 2013, Wall was awarded the prestigious international WAAVP/Bayer prize       for research excellence, the citation stating that "Professor Richard Wall       has delivered an outstanding and significant contribution to research in       the field of veterinary parasitology."
