     Research on clinically important red blood cell membrane proteins has       helped avoid unnecessary treatment of Rhesus negative pregnant women and       enabled the early diagnosis of a rare kidney disease.
Research on Rhesus proteins reduces unnecessary treatment of Rh         negative mothers     The research conducted at Bristol [1] enabled the Rh blood group of a       foetus to be determined from foetal DNA in the mother's blood.
This       facilitated non-invasive screening techniques to avoid the unnecessary       treatment of mothers carrying an Rh negative foetus [a].
This PCR Rhesus       genotyping technique was developed in Bristol by Prof. Neil Avent       (currently at Plymouth University), alongside Dr Geoff Daniels and       colleagues from NHSBT and IGBRL.
Traditionally, Rh negative mothers, who       have not previously been sensitised to RhD antigen, are treated with a       routine antenatal anti-D prophylaxis (RAADP).
However, anti-D treatment is       only necessary in cases where the foetus is RhD positive, which means that       about 40% of Rh negative mothers receive anti-D unnecessarily [b].
In       England and Wales, this translates to just over &#163;1.3 million in       unnecessary spending based on the estimated annual cost for antenatal       treatment of &#163;3.37 million [c].
Denmark and the Netherlands both       implemented a national screening program, in January 2010 and July 2011       respectively, which uses the foetal DNA to determine the Rh blood group       early in pregnancy.
Within the first six months of implementation in       Denmark, the unnecessary treatment of RhD negative women was avoided in       862 (37.3%) pregnancies [d].
Results are not yet available for The       Netherlands.
Nationwide screening has not been introduced in the UK, but       the service of predicting foetal Rh D blood group was introduced in May       2001 [e].
Since its introduction, the International Blood Group Reference       Laboratory (IBGRL) has tested 5,000 UK women [a].
Though the number of       women carrying Rh negative foetuses is unavailable, there has been a       steady reduction in referrals to IBGRL for foetal D blood grouping using       invasively derived foetal material, such as amniocentesis [b].
The cost savings estimate of avoiding unnecessary treatment in pregnant       women are incredibly complex as it is dependent on many factors including       the sensitivity of the screening, royalty fees, cost of the anti-RhD       treatments, and whether one or two anti-RhD injections were avoided.
Estimates have ranged from being cost neutral to annual savings of more       than &#163;500K annually [c].
Other benefits, however, include: i) a reduction       in the number of invasive procedures, such as amniocentesis, which carries       a risk of miscarriage, ii) reduced risk of infection (e.g.
hepatitis C)       associated with anti-RhD as it is a blood product, and iii) reduced use of       anti-RhD with the ethical benefit of reducing the need to hyperimmunise       male volunteers to provide source serum for its production [c].
Identification of mutations in the band 3/AE1 gene improves diagnosis         and clinical treatment of patients with rare kidney disease     Bristol's identification of mutations in the band 3/AE1 gene and their       understanding of the molecular basis for dRTA [3-6] has been of paramount       importance to clinicians as it provides them with a specific diagnosis and       treatment plan for their patients.
Once diagnosed this disease can be       easily and cheaply treated using oral bicarbonate.
The Bristol-based       research has also led to the adoption of new diagnostic tests for       suspected dRTA patients.
A nationally approved test became available in       June 2011, which screens for common AE1 mutation sites and full genetic       analysis is now provided for NHS clinicians to confirm or identify       specific AE1 gene mutations [f].
Furthermore, there are individuals studied by the Bristol team [5-6], who       have had their clinical treatment regimen altered as a result of the       research findings, leading to improved outcomes for these patients.
French       clinicians studying rare haemolytic anaemias were drawn to the deleterious       effects of a homozygous mutation in the anion transporter, identified by       Toye [6].
This enabled them to make an early diagnosis of dRTA, which has       a worse prognosis than the original haemolytic anaemia being investigated       [g].
The patient was treated with an alkaline diet as a result.
In another       case, a heterozygous mutation was discovered in the glucose transporter-1,       which led clinicians to suggest the use of a ketogenic diet to prevent the       neurological disorders that accompany the haematological manifestations       [g].
In another case, Dr Toye facilitated the diagnostic work up on a family       with dRTA who were tested for mutations in the AE1 gene and this was later       confirmed by genetic analysis at Addenbrooke's Hospital.
The younger       siblings confirmed to have the R589H gene mutation were treated with       bicarbonate supplementation [h].
Toye's novel research on glomerular       expression of AE1, also motivated testing of the affected members of this       family for proteinuria, and these patients are being followed closely to       determine whether there are additional affects on the kidneys that have       not yet been realised [h].
