     The diatom-based tools for rivers (DARES) and lakes (DALES) were       developed by Yallop and her colleagues for use by the regulatory agencies       in England, Northern Ireland, Scotland and Wales [a, b], and have       subsequently been adopted by Ireland's Environmental Protection Agency [c,       p.18].
These statutory agencies have benefited from the development of       these tools as previous assessment methods for freshwater bodies did not       meet the standards of the EU WFD, which was put into UK law in 2003.
"Bristol staff made a major contribution to the development of the       models," said the consultant who coordinated the project on behalf of the       UK's statutory environment agencies [d], "via data analysis and       development of the conceptual model, as well as helping to define the       expected state for UK freshwaters.
The tools are being used by the EA,       SEPA, and NIEA, as well as the Republic of Ireland's Environment       Protection Agency and are playing a major role in the regulation of       freshwater quality and determining investment patterns for the water       industry across the UK and Ireland."
The research leading to the development of the diatom tools was       disseminated through agency publications [1] and operational instructions,       peer-reviewed literature [2-6] and through participation of agency staff       in the research programme.
Agency staff were trained to use the tools and       by 2009 all lakes and rivers in the UK and Ireland within their remit had       been assessed using these diatom- based tools.
In England and Wales, 27%       of water bodies achieved good ecological status or above; River Basin       Management Plans have been drafted for those water bodies that failed to       reach good ecological status [e].
The Department for Environment, Food and       Rural Affairs (Defra) and the Welsh Assembly Government have estimated       that the cost of bringing these water bodies up to good ecological status       will be in the region of &#163;194 million (2008 values) [e, pg 2].
These costs       will largely fall on the water industry, financed through increased water       charges for consumers [e, p.2].
The benefit, however, is a general       improvement to water status, estimated to result in a &#163;200 million (2008       values) benefit to English and Welsh residents over a 43 year period.
Benefits include increased resilience of the aquatic environment, improved       habitats for commercial fish species and efficiency through better water       management, among others [e, p.8].
"The impact of this should not be       underestimated," said the Head of Ecology at SEPA [f], "the standards play       a very significant role in determining capital infrastructure spend for       the water industry."
Subtle differences (e.g., climatic, geological, etc.)
within each country       mean that the toolkit has to be country-specific.
However, other countries       have developed similar indices based on the body of work by Yallop and her       colleagues.
Examples include the Eastern Canadian Diatom Index [g, cites       5] and an index for the western United States [h, cites 2].
"The work also       has wider significance in Europe where it was evaluated alongside methods       developed by other Member States in order to evolve a `common view' of       ecological status."
[d] The results of this intercalibration process are       legally binding in the Member States [d].
The diatom-based tool is now       being applied to give guidance on UK phosphorus regulatory standards [i,       p. 21&amp;29], which will lead to further impact in the future.
A large number of collaborative projects are now underway, working with       individual landowners and farmers across the UK with a view to improving       water quality in areas failing to meet new WFD requirements on water       quality based on the new status assessments.
One such collaborative       project currently in progress, the Axe and Exe River Improvement Project       [j], illustrates the ecosystem benefits that will result from       catchment-scale improvements in water quality.
