     The process through which the research led to the impact       Since 2000, this University of Liverpool programme led by Capewell has       provided innovative and       robust analyses consistently showing that upward or downward trends in       death rates from heart       disease and stroke mainly reflect changes in powerful cardiovascular risk       factors, particularly       smoking and diet.
The contributions from specific medical treatments have       also been consistently       quantified.
This and subsequent work enabled Capewell and Liverpool       colleagues to widely       disseminate evidence-base key messages on strategies for the prevention of       cardiovascular       disease and non-communicable diseases.
Notably, that population-wide         preventive policies         can be powerful, rapid, equitable and cost saving.
This cutting edge IMPACT CHD Policy research has influenced public policy       debate in the UK and       internationally.
It has provided scientific evidence endorsing UK policies       on tobacco control and       healthy diet.
It has informed the evaluation of the subsequent       interventions in Europe and beyond.
Furthermore, Professor Capewell has shared his findings with policy makers       in numerous countries       developing CVD prevention strategies, including Sweden, Tunisia, China and       the USA.
The principal beneficiaries have been policy makers and the general       public through improved       public health polices and information that reduces CVD and improves       health.
Capewell's seminal       work has been widely cited.
He has also received invitations to talk to       politicians and policy       makers in London, the European Parliament in Brussels and the World Health       Organisation       (details below), plus presentations to lecture in prestigious academic       settings in the UK, Europe,       the USA (Harvard, Yale etc), and Australia (Sydney &amp; Melbourne       universities).
Proof of contribution       Capewell's research has been seen as a key contributor to CVD prevention       policy for well over a       decade.
Capewell and colleagues have extensively disseminated their       findings internationally       including to policy makers and politicians.
This led in 2008 to an       invitation to Capewell from NICE       (The National Institute of Health and Clinical Excellence) to write a       specification for a full guidance       review on Cardiovascular disease prevention at the population level.
[7].
This was subsequently       supported by the NICE Topic Review Group, and then approved by ministers.
This then led to the       formation of the NICE Programme Development Group (PDG) in 2009.
Capewell       was appointed       as PDG Vice Chair.
He also served as a topic expert, authoring three NICE       evidence papers which       were subsequently cited as evidence in the final NICE publication in 2010       [8].
The NICE Guidance was published in June 2010 [8].
Fully implemented, the       recommendations       could prevent up to 40,000 premature cardiovascular deaths each year.
The       NICE Guidance       received extensive positive media coverage including the Telegraph (front       page), The Times, BBC,       ITV etc.
Altogether totaling over 150 separate news items, plus invited       editorials for Capewell in       the New Scientist, JAMA, European Heart J and Heart (all 2010), thus       influencing the wider clinical       community.
The 2010 NICE guidance has now been endorsed and extended in the 2012       NICE Commissioning       Guide on CVD prevention [9].
This has informed Primary Health Care Trusts       and Clinical       Commissioning Groups and Wellbeing Boards.
Thus, directly influencing NHS       and local authority CVD       budgets which exceed &#163;10 billion per year.
The NICE Report has also been endorsed by the European Society of       Cardiology [10].
We also reinforced the nutrition messages in a BMJ editorial [11], which       then fed into recent       American Heart Association Guidelines on CVD prevention [12].
These publications also increased the weight of scientific evidence and       political pressure acting on       the policy makers and officials planning the UN High Level Meeting on       Non-communicable Disease       Prevention and Control in Sept 2011.
That specifically recommended       reductions in dietary salt and       tobacco which were subsequently actioned by the World Health Organisation       [11, 12].
Capewell's research has also translated into UK Faculty of Public         Health Position papers.
These are used as authoritative guidance by public health practitioners       across the UK.
Capewell       has been notably active in co-authoring and advocating improvements in       food policy, specifically       around European subsidies from the Common Agricultural Policy, and front       of pack Traffic Light       Labelling to better inform consumers [13, 14].
Capewell was also invited as the sole public health expert on the Academy       of Medical Royal       Colleges Obesity Review [15].
He was thus able to advise on the most       effective and cost-effective       interventions.
As well as dissemination to the AoMRC membership of over       200,000 doctors, the       report, Measuring Up: the medical profession's prescription for the         nation's obesity crisis received       extensive positive media coverage, raising public awareness, and       influencing policy makers and       politicians.
The recommendations highlighted the crucial need for       effective policy interventions to       prevent obesity (and subsequent chronic diseases), notably protecting       children from the       aggressive marketing of junk food and sugary drinks, putting a duty on       sugary drinks, and ensuring       that healthy food was routinely provided in ALL UK schools [15].
