     In August 2010, a consortium funded by BBSRC and led by the research team       at the University of Bristol released genomic sequences covering 95% of       the wheat genome through the EMBL/GenBank and CerealsDB [5] websites.
This       empowered wheat breeders to carry out wheat genotyping: they could begin       to sequence genes of interest, such as those related to growth or disease       resistance, by analysing target DNA sequences against the database       supplied by the University of Bristol [b, c].
These data have been       extensively accessed, with the CerealsDB website (http://www.cerealsdb.uk.net/)       receiving the following numbers of visits between 2009 and 2012:                                           2009           2010           2011           2012            2013             (to 31/05)                             Total           45,511           67,269           199,139           196,303           112,946                          Evidence that the sequences available on CerealsDB have international       impact can be found by examining the locations of those accessing the       site's content:      Figure 1: Summary of the locations of the users of CerealsDB (during 2012)      Research leads to new commercial genotyping service for KBioscience       For sequence information to be useful to wheat breeders, a cost-effective       method of analysis and a large number of SNP markers were needed.
To       achieve this, the Bristol group developed novel procedures to deal with       the complex DNA of wheat [2,3,4] and then collaborated with the genetic       screening company, KBioscience, which had developed the KASPar assay       [6].This collaboration enabled KBioscience to offer a new commercial       genotyping service to the global wheat community.
Though the number of       screenings carried out using the wheat SNPs is commercially sensitive, the       Principal Scientist at KBioscience said: "The markers are used extensively       by the global wheat community and they constitute a significant part of       the KBioscience portfolio" [d].
The commercial success of this new service       "continues to provide benefits to the UK economy in terms of the       genotyping services that KBioscience offer and via the employment of high       quality technicians and scientists based on our ability to offer this       service" [d].
Genotyping tools lead to decreased production costs and increased         productivity for the wheat-breeding industry       The UK wheat-seed business is worth &#163;16 million per annum, with each ton       of seed having a profit value of &#163;56-80 depending on the variety.
One ton       of wheat seed can plant ~7 hectares.
Globally, the wheat-seed business is       worth over &#163;1.8 billion a year.
The farm-gate value of wheat is &#163;180 per       ton, or &#163;2.9 billion for the whole of the UK.
The new genotyping tools       generated by Bristol have had a major impact on how the wheat community       carries out its genotyping, resulting in decreased costs and increased       productivity for a multi-billion pound industry [b,c,e,f].
Limagrain is the largest plant breeder and seed-development company in       Europe and the fifth-largest field-seed producer in the world.
Field-seed       sales are one of their three main activities and represent 38% of their       global sales (over &#8364;1.5 billion in 2011) [g, pg.
9].
Prior to the research       developments at Bristol, Limagrain was severely hampered in its objective       of switching over to using SNPs, despite knowing they were the more       efficient molecular marker for use in plant breeding.
The research at       Bristol enabled Limagrain to change from Simple Sequence Repeat (SSR)       markers to SNP markers, allowing a 10-fold reduction in the cost per         data point, from &#8364;0.50 to &#8364;0.05, due to increased automation,       reduction in reagent use and improved accuracy and ease of interpretation       [c].
The switch to SNP genotyping also significantly improved efficiency.
The Head of Research &#8212; Cereals at Limagrain stated that "the throughput         of the Limagrain Laboratory was increased ten-fold" as work that       took three months using SSRs took just three days using the SNP markers       [c].
RAGT Seeds is another one of Europe's leading seeds businesses, with       wheat being one of their key crops.
The advances made by Bristol have       become "embedded in [RAGT's] systems" and are considered "indispensable         tools" [e].
They have led to a five-fold increase in efficiency         in the RAGT laboratory, which in turn has resulted in a doubling of       the rate of genetic gain for traits such as yield, disease resistance and       quality [e].
KWS, one of the leading cereal breeders in the European Union, has also       benefited from this research, realising a ten-fold increase in         marker-screening capability and recently expanding their development         team by two people in their cereals division [f].
Reaching beyond the UK       All of the companies that have benefited from these advances in wheat       genotyping have operations that extend beyond the UK.
For example, KWS       operates in 70 countries worldwide, while the Limagrain group is the fifth-largest 	  plant breeder and seeds company in the world, employing over       6,000 people and turning over more than &#163;1.1 billion annually.
Professor Edwards and Dr Barker and their team have consciously       coordinated their research efforts with other international and UK       programmes.
Specifically, the SNPs identified within the project have made       a significant contribution to international efforts to develop chip       platforms, which offer commercial breeders an alternative assay platform       for establishing large-scale patterns (F).
Significance of the impact       The wheat-breeding industry has benefited from this research since 2010,       helping it to realise considerable improvements in productivity and       reductions in costs.
These commercial benefits have already stimulated       further international investment in projects that aim to improve our       knowledge and consequently our ability to exploit the genetic diversity of       wheat to improve yields in the face of a growing global population and       environmental change.
For example, BREEDWHEAT is an international       consortium of 26 partners, including industry partners such as Limagrain,       with a &#8364;39 million investment programme over nine years [g, pg 23].
In       2011, BBSRC awarded a &#163;7 million grant to a consortium of researchers,       including Edwards, that aims to identify new and useful genetic traits       that will improve modern wheat-breeding efforts.
This collaborative work       is being undertaken around the globe to try and address concerns over food       security.
Though considerable work remains in bringing the genomic       sequencing of wheat up to the level of information that is currently       available for crops such as rice, maize and soybeans, the contributions       made by the researchers at Bristol represent significant advances, the       impacts of which will continue to grow as new varieties of wheat are       developed.
Universities and Science Minister David Willetts said that the work       conducted at the University of Bristol was "... an outstanding world class       contribution by the UK to the global effort to completely map the wheat       genome.
By using gene sequencing technology developed in the UK we now       have the capability to improve the crops of the future by simply       accelerating the natural breeding process to select varieties that can       thrive in challenging conditions."
[h]
