     Research findings from Bristol on dairy cattle lameness have been adopted       by dairy industries in UK, Europe and New Zealand.
The implementation of       this research in the UK has been primarily due to the active involvement       of DairyCo, which is the levy-funded, not-for-profit organisation working       on behalf of Britain's dairy farmers.
The organisation has an annual       budget of over &#163;4 million for research and knowledge transfer to address       'market failure' issues in the dairy industry (i.e.
to tackle issues not       currently being dealt with adequately to meet the needs of the industry).
DairyCo's animal-health knowledge-transfer programme had previously       focused on nutrition, genetics and mastitis programmes.
However, in 2010       an industry collaboration led by the National Farmers Union published a       Dairy Cow Welfare strategy [a] that listed `improvement in the       recognition, treatment, prevention and control of lameness' as a key       industry priority.
This specific priority was reviewed in September 2011       by the Cattle Health and Welfare Group, which is responsible for       implementing Defra's GB Animal Health and Welfare Strategy.
They reported       that `DairyCo has undertaken to progress the valuable work initially         completed by Bristol University Veterinary Faculty and funded by the         Tubney Charitable Trust on dairy cow mobility' [b].
The DairyCo       dissemination materials have since been adopted by European dairy       companies and the New Zealand dairy industry.
The Bristol research has had       impact in the following two main areas; Standardised Lameness Scores and       Husbandry Advisory Tools.
a) In 2008, DairyCo launched the DairyCo Mobility Score, which was based       on Bristol's Standardised Lameness Score [c].
This was followed by       a proactive DairyCo knowledge-transfer programme, aimed at farmers and       their advisors, which has included the distribution of 7,000       professionally produced DVDs, SLS scoring pads and laminated scoring cards       and 5,000 lesion-recognition cards.
The SLS scoring system has been widely       adopted as a management tool on UK dairy farms.
In a recent consultation       exercise undertaken by the industry's Red Tractor Assurance Scheme, 39% of       farmers reported that they carried out SLS scoring at least every three       months [d].
An important driver has been the involvement of major       retailers: in 2011, Farmers Weekly [e] reported that the scoring       system was being used by Tesco, McDonald's, Sainsbury's, Morrisons, Asda       and Waitrose.
An important developing impact has been the inclusion of the DairyCo       Mobility Score within the Red Tractor Dairy Assurance Scheme from 2013       [f].
The scheme, which is supported by the major retailers, certifies over       90% of UK dairy production.
The pilot testing of this work was supported       by the AssureWel project (www.assurewel.org)       a collaboration between Bristol University, the RSPCA and the Soil       Association.
The inclusion of the SLS scoring system within this assurance       scheme means that the industry can now prioritise support for those farms       that have the highest levels of lameness.
This provides a powerful new       mechanism for improving the welfare of the approximately two million dairy       cattle in the UK.
The scoring system also features in Danone's Dairy Animal Welfare         Programme [g].
Danone (Europe's largest dairy company) is promoting       use of this animal welfare programme to over 27,000 farms via its Sourcing       and Supplier Development department.
The scoring system has also been       adapted for use in New Zealand which is a major dairy producer with over       11,000 farms and 4.5 million cows.
The DairyNZ Healthy Hoof Lameness         Scoring [h] is now being actively promoted to all New Zealand dairy       producers.
b) Bristol research on Husbandry Advisory Tools has also had a       major impact on husbandry practices on farms.
Between 2005 and 2009, the       first large-scale application of the approach was an intervention project,       the Healthy Feet Project [6], led by Bristol and involving over       200 farms.
This demonstrated that implementation of the husbandry advice       within the programme reduced lameness in 73% of farms over the three-year       monitoring period, and that 52% of farms reduced lameness by more than       10%.
Subsequently, an EU-supported Rural Development Programme in England       (RDPE) supported the roll-out of this lameness advice to the South West       [i].
The &#163;5 million fund to support ruminant health and welfare in the       region has involved 13 veterinary practices and, as of April 2013, 383       herds had been recruited onto the programme.
Of the initial 38 herds       completing all stages of the support package, 28 had a mean 6.2% reduction       in lame animals.
Other regions have also now adopted the approach with       lameness-related RDPE support.
The support for the DairyCo Healthy Feet       Programme in the North West region is being evaluated.
Initial findings       are very positive [j], showing that the programme has stimulated farmers       to undertake twice as many interventions to reduce lameness as farmers not       enrolled in the programme (7.9 vs 3.8 interventions per farm).
At a national level, the DairyCo Healthy Feet Programme [k] was launched       in 2011.
In its 2012 annual report, DairyCo [l] described the programme as       follows: "Based on proven research, the DairyCo Healthy Feet Programme         brings together the skills of vets, farmers and advisors, in a         structured approach to identify and tackle lameness on-farm, supported         by a comprehensive range of technical materials including foot care and         foot health recognition guides.
Trained `mobility mentors' create and         deliver customised programmes culminating in a `mobility contract',         which sets out a timescale and actions to reduce the risk of lameness in         the participating herd."
This has led to a national roll-out with a       network of approximately 100 trained `mobility mentors', including       veterinarians and members of the National Association of Cattle Foot       Trimmers, who are available to provide support to UK dairy farmers.
Bristol's influential role has been recognised within the veterinary       community: e.g.
the University hosted the International Conference in       Lameness in Ruminants in August 2013.
In conclusion, Bristol's research has had a major impact on lameness         in dairy cattle in the UK and internationally.
In addition to the direct         welfare benefits to the cows, reducing lameness also has positive       effects of the profitability of dairy farms.
In a review of the financial         impact of lameness on the UK dairy industry in 2009 [m] the       estimated annual cost of the lameness to the typical herd was found to be       &#163;7,500, and &#163;125 million to the industry.
There is therefore a significant       opportunity to increase profitability and welfare for those farms that       adopt the University of Bristol research.
This is the critical       justification for the pro-active support for the knowledge transfer       programme provided by DairyCo, the National Dairy Levy Board.
