     Accurate diagnosis of infectious and genetic diseases is important for       the treatment and       management of cats by vets, as well as to inform breeding policy to reduce       the prevalence of       inherited genetic diseases.
The infectious agents for which qPCR assays       have been developed       result in serious and welfare-compromising clinical signs in cats, which       can be fatal if these agents       are not detected and thus not treated appropriately.
Upper respiratory       tract disease associated with       feline herpes virus, feline calcivirus, C. felis and B.         bronchiseptica cause ocular and nasal       discharge, pyrexia and anorexia, whilst haemoplasmas cause haemolytic       anaemia.
The       retroviruses FIV and FeLV are immunosuppressive agents that are associated       with secondary       infections and neoplasia.
The pioneering PCR assays described in the       underpinning research       section have led to significant commercial activity within Langford       Veterinary Services (LVS, a       wholly owned subsidiary of the University of Bristol), in excess of &#163;1.7M       to date, and the following       clinical benefits for affected cats:     An increase in the number of PCR tests         performed leading to specific treatments     The PCR assays are offered to vets and cat breeders       troughout the UK and Europe [a].
By the end of       2013, more than 53,000 PCR tests will have been       performed on over 40,000 cats since testing began in       2002.
We have seen a significant increase in the       number of PCR tests run, from ~4000 per annum in       2005-2008 to over 8000 per annum in 2013 [b]       (Figure 1).
Accurate detection of feline infectious       agents leads to correct treatment protocols (e.g.
doxycycline for C. felis, antivirals for FHV infection,       marbofloxacin for haemoplasmas) and significantly       improves health outcomes for infected cats.
It also allows for appropriate       management (e.g.
isolation of cats, barrier nursing, keeping cats indoors, vaccination of       in-contact cats) to prevent       disease transmission [j].
Reduction in the prevalence of inherited genetic         diseases     By genetic testing and selective breeding the       prevalence of inherited genetic disorders can be       reduced.
Figure 2 shows the prevalence of the PKD       mutation in 4085 breeding cats, from 735 breeders,       tested between 2005 and 2013 [b].
There has been       a 90% reduction in the number of cats testing       positive for the PKD mutation over the 8 years       Bristol has been running the genetic test, such that       less than 5% of submitted cat samples were PKD       positive in 2013.
This indicates that fewer cats will       develop chronic kidney disease due to PKD and       results in a positive impact on feline health and welfare [k].
As a result of the Bristol genetic testing service for cat breeders, Dr       Chris Helps has been asked by       the Governing Council of the Cat Fancy (GCCF), the main registration body       for pedigree cats in the       UK, to collaborate on developing breed group genetic disease test panels       [c].
These will form part       of the GCCF Breeder Scheme, which aims to promote responsible cat breeding       and reduce the       prevalence of inherited genetic diseases in pedigree cats.
Number of vets and breeders using the PCR testing service     Since 2009, 705 veterinary practices and 30 referral and University       diagnostic laboratories, both in       the UK and Europe [d], have submitted samples for feline infectious       disease qPCR testing,       showing that a significant proportion (735 out of 4562 (16%, as of 2011))       of UK veterinary practices       use these diagnostic tests.
In addition, since 2005 over 1900 [e] cat       breeders across Europe have       submitted samples for genetic disease PCR testing and have used the       results to inform their       breeding policy, with the ultimate aim of reducing or eliminating       inherited genetic diseases in their       breeding lines and increasing feline health.
The increase in the number of       infectious disease       samples submitted clearly shows that vets are using these assays, and       hence value the results for       diagnosing and treating cats.
Worldwide Guidelines, which include this       Bristol research, are now       available for vets to use to direct therapy and management on the basis of       qPCR results [l,m].
Advice calls and dissemination of information     An audit of advice calls and emails undertaken over a typical week in       November 2012 showed that       32 vets and 10 cat breeders contacted the Diagnostic Laboratory and Feline       Centre regarding       feline infectious and genetic disease PCR testing [f].
This equates to over         2000 advice calls per         year and shows that a significant number of vets and breeders are       aware of and/or use the PCR       assays, value the results they obtain and benefit from talking to       clinicians and geneticists who can       help them interpret the results.
National and international interest in the infectious and genetic PCRs     Figure 3 shows unique page views for feline infectious     and genetic disease PCRs taken from the Langford     Veterinary Services website.
Between April 2009 and     November 2012 there were over 26,000 unique page       views on 15 webpages, with the average number of     views increasing from ~3500 in 2009 to ~10,000 in     2012; a 285% increase in 3 years [g].
Looking at the     source of these unique page views shows that 41%     originated outside of the UK, with visits from 126     countries being logged [g].
This level of interest in     feline infectious and genetic disease PCRs shows     both the national and international impact of this work.
Through sharing reagents derived from the PCR assay development, a number       of other       international laboratories are now offering infectious disease testing by       PCR assays e.g.
Iran,       Israel, New Zealand, Portugal, Sweden, Thailand, Turkey, Indonesia,       France, Australia, The West       Indies and USA, enabling cats worldwide to be tested for infectious agents       [h,i].
In conclusion, thanks to Bristol research, qPCR tests for feline       infectious and genetic diseases are       now widely used to benefit feline health and welfare both in the UK and       internationally.
Clinical       guidance targeted at veterinary surgeons working in the UK and       internationally now also includes       recommendations to utilise these testing procedures as part of standard       practice [l,m] and the       GCCF is introducing breed-panel genetic testing in collaboration with       Bristol [c].
