     The content and implementation of European directive 1999/74/EC       in January 2012 [a] which prohibits the use of conventional battery cages       for laying hens and introduces replacement, enriched cages, has had a major         impact on chicken welfare, and was significantly influenced by       Bristol University research.
Cages, which previously only required 450 cm2       per bird, now require 750 cm2 per bird, with specific provision       for nest, litter and perches.
A critical milestone, necessary for the implementation of this directive,       was the formal decision by the European Commission in 2008 to go ahead       with the battery-cage ban [b].
This decision was also influenced by       Bristol research, and was made despite significant resistance from the       poultry industry and national governments across Europe.
Following this       decision, and in anticipation of the directive implementation, producers       changed how they house their laying hens.
Prior to 2008 enriched cages       were extremely unusual.
The directive led to a rapid change between 2010       and 2012 (see figure).
The number of hens in the EU reported to be in       traditional cages was 165 million birds in 2010 (32% of EU production).
However, after the traditional cage was banned the number of hens in         enriched cages was reported to be 210 million birds in 2012 (42% of EU         production).
University of Bristol research directly contributed to       this major impact on production systems and animal welfare.
The original       European directive, 1999/74/EC, was drafted following the publication of       the 1996 Opinion of the EC Scientific Veterinary Committee [d].
The report       cited the role of Bristol in developing enriched cages in research       published after 1993 [1,2].
This research was critical in demonstrating       the potential welfare benefits of enriched cages.
However, some uncertainty remained about these welfare benefits.
The       Commission was required to undertake a review of the implementation of the       directive, taking into account the "pathological, zootechnical,       physiological, and ethological aspects of the various systems and of their       health and environmental impact".
The review which was completed in 2008,       was regarded by many as an opportunity to delay or even prevent       implementation of the proposed ban on traditional cages.
Even though welfare charities continued to argue that all types of cage       should be banned [e], previous scientific uncertainty about the welfare       benefits and optimum design of the enriched / modified cage was       highlighted by the industry.
In particular the industry suggested that       mortality would be higher if space allowances were increased and that the       complex modified cage would reduce productivity and egg quality.
The       industry standpoint in most EU countries was that insufficient evidence       was available for an acceptable alternative to the conventional cage.
A       consortium representing egg producers throughout Europe presented a paper       to the Commission in 2007 seeking to extend the phase-out deadline from       2012 to 2017 [f].
Hence the research on the welfare impact of enriched cages was crucial to       inform the Commission Review.
The scientific evidence was collated in two       critical reports.
Firstly EFSA (European Food Safety Authority) considered       the relevant evidence [g], including 13 publications from Bristol.
Professor Nicol was one of the 10 members from the EU to sit on the       scientific advisory group.
Secondly, an EU-funded collaborative project       (LayWel) involving eight institutions, also including Bristol, examined       the welfare implications of different husbandry systems [h].
In 2008, after reviewing the scientific evidence within the EFSA opinion       and the LayWel report, the European Commission was satisfied that the         science did justify the proposed ban on the conventional cage.
The       report from the Commission stated that "Enriched cages improve the         welfare of the animals in comparison with unenriched cage systems and         further optimisation seems possible in the future.
In contrast, the         unenriched cages cause several animal welfare problems that are inherent         to the systems".
[b]     Hence Bristol research on the welfare of laying hens contributed both to       the content of the original directive and to the decision taken by the       Commission in 2008 to implement that directive.
This led directly to a dramatic         change in the husbandry standards for millions of laying hens as       described in the opening paragraph.
In April 2013, the European Enforcement Network of animal welfare lawyers       and commissioners reported that all countries except Italy and Greece have       complied with the requirements for enriched cages [i].
The change in       requirements for cages and the increase in consumer awareness of       laying-hen welfare standards have also led to a reduction in the overall       proportion of hens reared in any cage (reduction from 74% to 65% in 2010).
Bristol research on enriched cages has, therefore, had a major impact         on the welfare of laying hens throughout Europe.
It is clear that       this research has also had a major international influence.
Professor Nicol was funded by the New Zealand Egg Producers' Association       in 2009 to give a lecture tour explaining the reasoning and process behind       the EU ban.
She also acted as a consultant in the only commercial trial of       enriched cages in New Zealand.
From 2012, no new conventional cages can be       installed in New Zealand, but enriched cages will be permitted, as in       Europe [j].
Perhaps most surprisingly, despite very limited existing US       federal animal welfare law, legislation is currently being drafted based       on an historic agreement between producer organisation United Egg       Producers and The Humane Society of the United States [k].
The scientific       justification for this agreement was based on a review of which Nicol was       a co-author and a report from the HSUS which also makes extensive       reference to University of Bristol plus the EFSA and Laywel reports.
The       state of California has decided to ban cages from 2015 [l].
Tasmania was       the first Australian state to declare phase-out, with no new battery cages       allowed from 2012 in Australia [m].
