     The team not only conducted high quality research on misoprostol, but       have also provided practitioners worldwide with high-quality,       evidence-based guidelines to ensure effective and safe misoprostol use in       pregnancy.
National and International Guidelines     The `Bellagio guidelines' that came out of the UoL led expert reviews in       2007 were the first international guidelines to address the appropriate       dosages of misoprostol in pregnancy.
A recognition of their importance led       to their adoption by the International Federation of Gynecology and       Obstetrics (FIGO) in 2009.
This is the only organisation that brings       together professional societies of obstetricians and gynaecologists on a       global basis.
The adopted guidelines were disseminated at the 2009 FIGO       World Congress in South Africa at a special session chaired by Prof Weeks.
The congress was attended by 6,400 delegates from 158 countries, and       misoprostol dosage packs, produced for the event, were placed in the       delegates' conference bags.
Each of the 10,000 packs contained a       gestational calendar, credit card sized memory aid and an A4 sticker [9]       with the FIGO misoprostol doses printed on them.
Those remaining were       distributed to regional conferences in Africa and South Asia.
Although       funded by FIGO, the summary graph on misoprostol dosage and marketing       packs was designed by Prof Weeks and produced by a local printer in       Liverpool.
The FIGO misoprostol dosage guidelines were subsequently       updated and presented at a special session at the FIGO World Congress in       Rome in 2012 (8,000 delegates from 170 countries).
This time 13,000       updated marketing packs in English, French and Spanish were produced for       distribution in delegate packs.
Those remaining were distributed at       regional conferences.
These findings have also been used by many       international organisations including Gynuity Health Projects (www.gynuity.org),       the Postabortion Care Consortium (www.pac-         consortium.org), and PATH (www.path.org).
The UoL team has also used their expertise on misoprostol to impact on       national and international guideline development groups.
Prof Alfirevic       was on the expert group that developed the 2008 NICE Guidelines for         Induction of Labour [10] (and his work referenced in the final       report), Prof Weeks was on the committee that developed the WHO         recommendations for induction of labour [11] (3 of his publications       are referenced in the final report), and Prof Neilson chaired the expert       group that developed the WHO Recommendations for the prevention of         postpartum haemorrhage (WHO 2006, updated in 2012 [12]).
The team's       work has also been heavily cited in the successful application to place       misoprostol on the core list of the 18th WHO Model List of       Essential Medicines for use in postpartum haemorrhage.
Profs Weeks or       Alfirevic were cited 4 times in the original application [13], and 6 times       in the formal safety review commissioned by WHO [14].
Website     In 2002 Prof Weeks set up a website (www.misoprostol.org)       to disseminate information related to misoprostol in pregnancy.
The       University of Liverpool has subsequently funded multiple revisions and       updates.
It now contains 169 documents and 58 pages and includes the FIGO       guidelines, an extensive bibliography of over 1800 references, and       information on availability, dangers and protocols.
Dosage posters are       also available for download and the main pages are translated into Dutch,       Spanish and Russian.
The website is used extensively throughout the world.
It currently       receives around 16,500 visits per month (an increase of 45% from 2011) and       tops the Google search for misoprostol.
Visitors to the site come from all       over the world: for example in September 2013 the top 15 countries were       India, Mexico, Australia, Brazil, Germany, Canada, UK, South Africa, Czech       Republic, Turkey, Indonesia, United Arab Emirates, Poland, Columbia and       Kenya.
Most visitors are directed from search engines, but 10% directly       type `www.misoprostol.org'.
74% of the visits are to the home page or main       dosage page.
The website is also referenced in guidelines including the       Royal College of Obstetricians and Gynaecologists guideline on Late       Intrauterine Fetal Death and Stillbirth [15].
Leading opinion change amongst practitioners     The guidelines have also been spread to practitioners through the       production of highly cited articles.
Prof Weeks has authored important BMJ       editorials on the topic of misoprostol use (Elati &amp; Weeks BMJ       2011;342:d2877; Aflaifel &amp; Weeks BMJ 2012;345:e4546; together       accessed from www.bmj.com 22,031 times)       and has written influential reviews on the subject.
His review in BJOG was       one of the 10 most downloaded articles of 2009 (Elati &amp; Weeks BJOG       2009;116(supp1):61).
The team's work on misoprostol is frequently       referenced in textbooks including the Oxford Handbook of Clinical       Specialities [16], Williams Obstetrics (22nd edition),       Dewhurst's Textbook of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, Obstetrics: Normal and       Problem Pregnancies, Protocols for High- Risk Pregnancies, and Oxford Desk       Reference: Obstetrics and Gynaecology.
