     Monitoring of atmospheric concentrations of gases is important in       assessing the impact of       international policies related to the atmospheric environment and sources       (Section 5) are indicated       in brackets.
The work carried out at Bristol provides, for the first time,       an independent scientific       verification of UK emissions (a) submitted by Parties to the       Convention reporting under the       UNFCCC and its Kyoto Protocol.
A verification section written by O'Doherty       is included in the       UNFCCC documentation (b).
The UK, Australia and Switzerland are the       only countries to provide       such verification.
This type of research was identified as an area of       importance at the UNFCCC,       Conference of the Parties (COP15), the Copenhagen Accord, where parties       were urged to "ensure         sustained long-term operation of essential in situ networks through         provision of necessary         resources".
Long-term monitoring of this kind is similarly important in assessing the       impact of international       policies related to control measures on chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs), halons       and       hydrochlorofluorocarbons (HCFCs) introduced under the Montreal Protocol of       Substances that       Deplete the Ozone Layer.
The effect of worldwide CFC controls can be seen       by decreases in the       long-term concentrations.
Continued monitoring is required to assess the       overall success of the       Protocol leading to the recovery of the ozone layer, and the implications       for atmospheric levels of       replacement compounds such as HFCs (c).
The UK and international GHG reduction commitments, of which the       Bristol-led measurements       provide independent verification, translate into sector and company level       obligations which impact       across all regions of the UK.
For example, there are a number of GHG       reporting schemes       applicable to businesses operating in the UK, such as the EU Emissions       Trading System and the       CRC Energy Efficiency Scheme (a).
The atmospheric observations have helped DECC prioritise research to       improve the GHG       inventory.
For example, emissions derived from measurements of N2O       have resulted in a large       research programme in Defra to better understand agricultural emissions       that result from the       application of man-made fertilizers.
This gas is a potent GHG, with the       fourth largest climate effect       after CO2, CH4 and CFC-12 (d).
The information derived from this research will continue to inform       governments responsible for       formulating policies on climate change mitigation and adaption.
In       addition, a much wider range of       organisations that are responsible for planning climate-sensitive       activities and investments will       benefit.
For example, NERC recently funded an &#163;8.1m programme, "Greenhouse       gas emissions       and feedbacks" (O'Doherty and Rigby are co-investigators of       this multi-University consortium), to       increase the UK's ability to measure and predict sources and sinks of the       major anthropogenic       greenhouse gases.
The DECC Network forms a central part of this national       consortium (e).
Identification by AGAGE, of new ozone-depleting or global-warming       substances of potential policy       interest have been provided to DECC/Defra.
For example, the analysis of       unregulated compound       NF3 (a powerful GHG showing a steady growth in the atmosphere)       was used by DECC as an       evidence base for international negotiations.
NF3 was       subsequently included in the list of possible       new Kyoto Protocol gases due to its rapidly rising concentration and high       global-warming potential.
The Mace Head measurements have been used in a large number of       publications.
This is widely       regarded as the `Gold Standard' dataset of European measurements.
As such,       it has been central       to many European Union projects on verification of GHG emissions, such as       CarboEurope,       NitroEurope, Geomon, Eurohydros, ICOS, ACTRIS and InGOS.
The work detailed       in this       document continues to play a key role in the WMO Assessments of Ozone       Depletion for which       O'Doherty served as a lead author in the 2010 report and O'Doherty       and Rigby will serve as       contributing authors in 2014.
The University of Bristol also plays a key       role in IPCC Assessment       Reports with O'Doherty being a contributor to the 2007 report       Working Group 1, Chapter 2 and       Rigby being a contributor to the 2013 report.
Of the first nine       figures and tables in Chapter 2 of the       2007 report, seven showed, or were in part based on, AGAGE data (f).
The Bristol researchers are continuing to communicate the importance of       global and regional GHG       emissions verification to policymakers at the highest level.
The work of O'Doherty       and the ACRG       featured prominently in a recent Parliamentary Office of Science and       Technology POSTNote, to be       read by members of parliament, entitled "Reporting Greenhouse Gas       Emissions" (g).
