     Since 1 Jan 2008, MLwiN has been purchased by 613 non-academic individual       users and 75 organisations (67 site licenses for 50 users, and 8 for 250       users).
It has also been downloaded for free by 3,846 UK academics, and       purchased by 5,518 overseas academics.
The Bristol Centre for Multilevel       Modelling website is widely acknowledged as the premier resource for       research and training in multilevel modelling, with around 1,100       page-loads and 360 unique visitors per day (65% of whom are from outside       the UK).
The on-line Learning Environment for Multilevel Modelling       (LEMMA), launched in April 2008 as part of the Economic and Social       Research Council National Centre for Research Methods, now has around       10,600 registered users, of which 70% are international and 14% are       non-academic.
The sheer number of users demonstrates the reach and       significance of the underpinning research [1-3].
Non-academic users of       Centre software, and hence the underlying research, include the World       Health Organisation, Statistics Canada, Statistics Norway, Netherlands       Central Bureau of Statistics, the UK Departments for Education, Health,       and Work and Pensions, the Scottish Executive, the Office for National       Statistics and the Higher Education Funding Council for England.
Analyses       by these bodies, and others, as well as by the academic users of the       software, have significant impact on society; we focus on three specific       areas.
A.
Impact on UK and international policy and public awareness         relating to measuring educational effectiveness and school performance     Improved school evaluation policies: In the UK, Goldstein's       multilevel modelling framework (including, for example, [4-6]) has       provided the statistical toolkit which has provided evidence to inform and       influence key national policies related to school evaluation such as: the       utility of school self-evaluation, national pupil databases,       contextualised value-added (CVA) measures of school performance, and       separate value-added measures for different student groups (introduced by       the Department for Education (DfE) 2011).
The research has also promoted       the use and understanding of a wider range of outcomes and measures by       DfE, the Department for Children, School and Families, the Office for       Standards in Education, Children's Services and Skills (Ofsted) and the       Learning and Skills Council [a].
MLwiN is currently used within DfE to       calculate published measures of CVA school performance, an integral part       of the Ofsted school inspection process, and also to construct the       Learning Achievement Tracker, a new tool for schools and further education       colleges to appreciate progress made by students since the end of       compulsory schooling [b].
In particular "MLwiN allows ... complex       cross-classified multilevel structures, and these, using, in the main,       MCMC methods, were used to inform the DfE about the variations in pupil       performance associated statistically with their social background and       school attended," [b] which demonstrates that research items [1,2,5] are       having significant impact in this area.
Public understanding of league tables: The statistical research       carried out by [6] demonstrates the limitations of using the government's       school league tables to inform school choice.
This has promoted public       understanding of the problems of league tables through widespread       communication to non-academics via popular articles and other media,       including interviews for the BBC Radio 4 programmes `Analysis' and `The       Learning Curve' and articles in the Financial Times, Daily Telegraph and       Times Educational Supplement [c].
This work demonstrates impact in terms       of both reach and significance, given that it has been incorporated into       policy documents by numerous governments and non-governmental       organisations, both overseas (including the OECD) and UK (including the       National Union of Teachers and the Institute for Government), to influence       public thinking and new policy development on educational accountability       and improvement issues [d].
Improved understanding of rural educational issues: A further       example of the importance of strong statistical research [4] with       associated software [3] for educational research resulting in societal       benefit is a recent Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs       report [e] in which the new sophisticated methods were used to investigate       whether higher attainment of rural school pupils was symptomatic of a       better educational environment or simply a by-product of generally higher       social position in rural areas.
Missing data, and multilevel structure,       are endemic in such a study, and [3] was necessary since "the use of       multiple imputation in this study should provide more accurate [analyses]       than a complete case analysis [throwing out records with missing data],       and should also increase the power of the analyses so that small       differences between settlement types can be more easily distinguished"       [e].
B.
Admissions to UK universities     The Schwartz Report on Fair Admission (2004) was instigated to review       "options which English institutions providing higher education should       consider in assessing the merit of applicants for their courses."
Consequently, the Supporting Professionalism in Admissions programme was       set up to support higher education institutions to develop admissions       policies ensuring fair access.
The programme has recently carried out a       major investigation into the use of so-called contextual data to inform       admissions decisions, publishing a 2012 report [f].
The data supporting       the review was multilevel in nature, and extensive (between 0.4 and 1.6       million individual school records).
"With such a sensitive issue, it was       important to fit a statistical model that would be robust to criticism"       [g].
A recent version of MLwiN, which incorporates the latest MCMC module       [1] incorporating the advanced MCMC techniques developed by [2] "was       necessary to achieve satisfactory results with such a high volume of data       and highly correlated variables of interest" (type of school and       educational attainment being two key candidate explanatory variables for       degree performance) [g].
The report concludes that the type of school is       an important predictor of degree performance.
The recommendation to HEIs       is therefore to incorporate such contextual information in their       admissions decisions, thus having an impact across the UK in terms of       accessibility of higher education.
C. Equality and diversity policy for REF2014 submissions     Analysis of RAE2008 data was carried out by the Higher Education Funding       Council for England using MLwiN.
One aspect of this was a multilevel       analysis over 30,000 records with a binary response to indicate whether an       individual was included in the RAE2008 submission.
"To carry out such a       large multilevel analysis with binary response data required the use of       the recent optimised MCMC components of MLwiN" [1], based on the research       of [2] [g].
A key finding was of selection biases against certain ethnic       groups that were not explained by controlling for other factors [h].
In       response, significantly improved rules on equality and diversity have been       introduced for REF2014 (http://www.ref.ac.uk/equality/),       thus having a significant impact on UK Higher Education.
