     The UK Climate Impacts Programme (UKCIP) is a government-funded       organisation which provides       climate projections for the UK, for the purposes of adaptation to climate       change.
The current       report is the fifth in the sequence, denoted UKCP09 (2009) and summarised       in [c].
Users of the       previous report (UKCIP02, 2002) requested more information about       uncertainties: "The uncertainty       aspects of [the UKCP09] were seen as instrumental in better preparing the       UK to address the       challenges of climate change" [b].
The UK Met Office (UKMO) was asked by       the UKCIP to       implement new methods to meet this demand, which included: modelling       uncertainty, uncertainty       associated with statistical processing, and use of observations to weight       projections [d, p1].
Rougier's statistical framework [1] was "chosen [by the UKMO] to provide       the statistical core of the       UKCP09 projections" [a], and thus represents a key innovation in climate       change impact       assessment.
Additionally, Rougier's research on climate model emulators [2,3] was       crucial in the practical       implementation of the methods:     "Dr Rougier's guidance was instrumental in helping [UKMO] understand how       to find       appropriate transformations of variables, build emulator regression       relationships, and       evaluate emulator performance in validation tests.
His use of emulators to       identify the       individual and combined effects of key parameters on the climate       sensitivity to doubled       carbon dioxide [3] provided a clear demonstration of the importance of       ruling out unrealistic       parts of parameter space through the calculation of relative likelihood.
[UKMO] was later able       to cite this as a key justification in its estimation of relative weights       for different model       variants."
[a]     Rougier was retained as an External Expert by the UKMO for the UKCP09       (2007-2009, &#163;10K       honorarium):     "More generally, Dr Rougier provided expert steer and advice on the       implementation of his       Bayesian methodology as a whole.
His advice also provided key insights       into the strengths,       limitations and principles behind alternative methods for the       quantification of uncertainties in       climate projections, helping [UKMO] to justify and communicate its       approach in an area       inevitably subject to a variety of potential techniques and choices."
[a]       In delivering the UKCP09,     "the UKMO team with Dr Rougier [have] put the UK at the leading edge of       the science and       service aspects of providing climate information for users" [b].
The UKCP09 has been critical in helping the UK Government to meet its       obligations under the       Climate Change Act (2008).
This act made the UK the first country in the       world to have a national,       legally binding, long-term framework to cut carbon emissions.
The UKCP09       formed the basis for       the first UK Climate Change Risk Assessment (CCRA, 2012), and Rougier's       contribution to the       uncertainty assessment in the UKCP09 played a crucial role:     "The assessment of future climate risks needs to take account of a wide       range of outcomes...
The CCRA considered a range of potential changes in       climate, informed by the [UKCP09],       to provide an indication of these uncertainties" [e, p11].
"The risk assessment used UKCP09 climate projections, where possible, to       assess future       changes to sector risks.
Some risks were analysed using single climate       variables, for       example temperature.
Others, including flood risks, considered the       combined effects of many       climate variables and sea level rise."
[f, piii]     Statement [a] notes that a powerful feature of Rougier's statistical       framework is its ability to handle       multiple climate variables in a consistent manner.
This is crucial for       planning, where impact       typically arises from a combination of climate variables (such as       temperature and precipitation) or a       sequence of weather states (such as a drought).
The CCRA has in turn       formed the basis for the       recommendations in the UK's first National Adaptation Programme (NAP,       2013).
The CCRA and       the NAP were laid before Parliament (in 2012 and 2013, respectively) as       part of the Government's       obligations under the Climate Change Act.
The CCRA monetised 100 of the direct risks of climate change, suggesting       that the net costs of       climate change are of the order of tens of billions of pounds per year in       the 2050s for the 50th       percentile outcome under the Medium emissions scenario.
But, as noted by       source [g], this does       not fully capture the risk for several different reasons, including that       some outcomes with non-       negligible probabilities are substantially worse.
To give one example, for       tidal flooding the       UKCP09 50th percentile outcome is 550 thousand properties       affected; but the 90th percentile is 620       thousand properties, and the more extreme H++ scenario is 1.25 million       properties [g, p27].
The       wide range of possible losses in this example illustrates the importance       of uncertainty       quantification in a full assessment of risk, and the impact of the UKCP09       on the UK's risk       assessment for climate change.
The UKCP09 is being used by a wide       range of organisations to assess and       manage the impact of climate change       (about 7,000 downloads [a]).
Case       studies on the UKCIP website include       Agencies and NGOs (Environment       Agency, Macaulay Institute, South West       Tourism), utilities companies (Severn       Trent Water), consultancies (JBA       consulting, Royal Haskoning, United       Sustainable Energy Agency), and County       Councils and Local Authorities.
Many of       these users have incorporated the       UKCP09 uncertainty assessment into their       decision support tools.
As an illustration, the figure to the right       shows an output from the Wetland Toolkit       for Climate Change created for the Environment Agency.
This illustrates       the type of decision       support tool that can be developed once a probabilistic uncertainty       assessment for future weather       is provided.
In this case, impact thresholds for different regions are       determined from ecological       considerations, and represented by the grey dashed lines (the current       level is indicated by the solid       blue line).
A probabilistic ensemble for future weather, based on the       UKCP09, is used to assign       probabilities for the three different levels of impact, which can then be       used to screen regions in       order to identify those most at risk.
