     The paragraphs below describe in brief a wide range of non-academic       applications of Reversible jump MCMC, all starting or continuing after       2008.
Each of these is corroborated by personal communications held on       file, and in some cases also by internal or published documents citing [1]       (and sometimes [2] or [3]).
A.
Applications in Geophysical sciences     1.
Geophysical source reconstruction.
At Defence Research and         Development, Canada, key concepts enunciated in [1] have been used       to design an innovative Bayesian inference methodology to address the       problem of source reconstruction for the difficult case of multiple       sources when even the number of sources is unknown a priori.
This effort       has had an impact within the realm of public safety and security as it       addresses a critical capability gap in current emergency and retrospective       management efforts, which involve the covert release of chemical,       biological, or radiological agents into the atmosphere.
2.
Geophysical electrical resistivity.
The US Geological         Survey is using methodology built on [1] to explore the space of       subsurface electrical resistivity models that are consistent with airborne       geophysical data.
Data is acquired using airborne geophysical instruments       that are sensitive to the spatial distribution of electrical resistivity       below ground to depths of ~100m that, in turn, can be interpreted in terms       of geologic or hydrologic properties.
"There is real-world impact to this       work- we are using this algorithm to characterize important groundwater       aquifer systems and permafrost in various areas of the U.S." [a]     3.
Ground flow models.
The Belgian Nuclear Research Centre       (SCKCEN) has developed an MCMC simulation of a highly parameterized       groundwater flow model, based on [1], for uncertainty quantification of       subsurface transport in the context of the Belgian nuclear waste disposal       program.
4.
Air pollution, greenhouse gases, remote sensing.
Shell         Research uses Bayesian inference, exploiting MCMC techniques       including [1], to estimate the characteristics of sources of airborne       species (gases, particulate matter, etc.)
[b].
The main value of inference       from remote sensing of airborne species to Shell, and to society in       general, is to be able to quantify contributions to greenhouse gas       emissions from specific human activities over time.
The technology is also       generally useful in detecting unknown or unanticipated sources (`leaks')       of species carried on the wind, and can lead to discovery of (e.g.)
new       hydrocarbon reserves.
A key general ingredient of useful statistical       solutions to real-world problems is the flexibility and scalability of       Bayesian inference using MCMC, e.g.
allowing characterisation of       parameters previously consigned to the `too difficult to measure or       estimate' box.
Reversible jump MCMC extends this flexibility considerably       by allowing dimension-jumping.
5.
Air pollution, change point models.
Cox Associates       have used [1] "in advocating (to risk analysts and regulators, in various       forums) the importance and practicality of applying better statistical       methods for causal analysis of health effects of key regulations, such as       air pollution regulations in the U.S".
They have testified on the       importance and practicality of using better methods of causal analysis in       air pollution health effects research before the Subcommittee on Energy       and Power of the House Energy and Commerce Committee of Congress on health       effects of air pollutants (2012) http://energycommerce.house.gov/hearings/hearingdetail.aspx?NewsID=9594.
[c]     6.
Climate and land models.
The Geophysical Fluid Dynamics         Laboratory (GFDL) of the US National Oceanic and Atmospheric         Administration (NOAA) uses [1] in development of land components for       climate and Earth System models.
These models are needed to make climate       projections (e.g.
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change and national       assessments) and seasonal climate predictions.
This approach has been used       to estimate parameters of the phenology module which is incorporated into       a new land model.
Furthermore, this new parameterization has been       incorporated into a new model of forest dynamics for forest management (a       collaborative project with the US Forest Service).
B.
Applications in Ecology and the Environment     1.
Phylogenetics and biodiversity.
Modern molecular phylogenetic       inference is of central importance to monitoring species diversity within       changing environments.
Several projects within Agriculture and         Agri-Food Canada aim to monitor and understand general features of       biodiversity, and therefore rely heavily and phylogenetic inference.
Such       inference, when conducted probabilistically, rests on explicit models of       molecular evolution, and the approach in [1] helps choose the most       appropriate one, or allow phylogenies to be based on a weighted-averaging       over all possible models of a given class.
Algorithms based on [1] are       implemented in several phylogenetic inference packages and continue to       stimulate applied research in their labs.
2.
Phylogenetics and biodiversity.
The Morton Arboretum       in Lisle, Illinois, uses [1] to characterize shifts in chromosome number       evolution as a way of understanding biodiversity shifts in sedges       Chromosome number evolves independently of genome size in a clade with       non-localized centromeres, as well as understanding macroevolutionary       shifts in decomposition rates on the tree of life.
A lead scientist at       Morton Arboretum comments that "Both of these have profound implications       for management and conservation of biodiversity as well as ecosystem       processes".
3.
Animal abundance.
NOAA uses [1] to allow uncertainty       in the number of individuals when estimating the abundance of organisms in       line transect surveys with imperfect detection.
It is "currently using       this type of analysis is to estimate the number of seals in the Bering       Sea".
4.
Wildlife ecology.
At the US Geological Survey Patuxent       Wildlife Research Center, [1] has been applied "to analyses of the North       American Breeding Bird Survey, to toxicological studies, to basic       ecological work on life histories, and in demographic analyses".
5.
Ecology of salmon.
The US Fish and Wildlife Service       uses [1] in comparing models aimed at assessing the effect of transporting       (exporting) water from the Sacramento &#8212; San Joaquin Rivers Delta on the       survival of juvenile salmon as the salmon were out-migrating from       freshwater to the ocean.
Water is exported from the Delta for       agricultural, municipal, and personal needs and is thought to directly       affect over 25 million people in California.
Coincident with the increase       in water exports over the last 50 years or so, there have been sizable       declines in the abundance of several fish species in the Sacramento and       San Joaquin river systems.
Conflicts have arisen between various       stakeholders and interest groups regarding how the water is used and       divided up.
There have been many lawsuits and court cases.
This work was       discussed at length in the US Federal District Court (Fresno, California)       in April 2010.
6.
Ecology, conservation, environment.
For Land Care Research         NZ, [1] "plays an important role on analysing data that has a       downstream effect on evolution, ecology and conservation biology" &#8212; and       hence environment protection.
C. Agricultural applications     Quantitative Trait Loci (QTLs) in agriculture.
At the national         agricultural research centre of Japan (AFFRC), "in our ... genome       analysis of livestock and crops, some useful QTLs affecting traits of       agronomical importance were detected with the developed methods       implementing RJ-MCMC.
A project to produce new cultivars of crop (tomato)       or breeds of pig with high genetic performance using the information from       the detected QTLs is now in progress".
[d]     D. Medical applications     Protein-DNA interactions and medical implications.
Projects at the       UC Denver Medical School utilizing techniques based on [1] include       (i) predicting which human variations or mutations are likely to impact       protein structure and function, thereby causing human disease.
This is       particularly important in rare childhood developmental and neurological       diseases; (ii) understanding the relationships among humans in order to       improve interpretation of genome-wide association studies, finding genes       that are components of quantitative disease; (iii) understanding the role       of the interaction of T-cell receptors and major histocompatibility       complex (MHC molecules) on defending disease, and also on causing       autoimmune disease when things go wrong; (iv) using these methods to       understand and predict transcription factor binding mutations, which also       can lead to disease and disease or drug interaction modifiers; (v)       understanding the biology of transposable elements, which are often       heavily implicated in novel diseases, particularly neurological disease,       and can also be useful for predicting gene regions that are likely       disease-causing mutations.
E. Social and commercial applications     Exchange reserves and Criminology in India.
(i) Models quantifying       sufficiency of foreign exchange reserves: the Reserve Bank of India       uses [1] for variable selection within a quantile regression model       framework for studying adequacy of foreign exchange reserves to meet US$       demand in India under stressful market conditions.
Due to the in-house       nature of these models, these are not published or shared.
(ii) Models for studying crime rates in different states of India: a       project at the Reserve Bank is attempting to determine relevance of       socio-economic variables in determining level of crimes in Indian states.
"Understanding the relevance of various factors in determining crime rate       is very important in controlling crime rate.
For instance, lack of toilet       and drinking water facilities require women in India to go away from her       house/hutment, which increase rape rate.
Thus, a positive association       between crime against women and lack of toilet/drinking water facilities       demand public policy in developing these basic necessities.
Probabilistic       models [based on [1] are] likely to throw light on such aspects of crimes       in India".
F. Applied image analysis and computer vision     1.
Computer vision &#8212; object tracking.
At SORMEA, a French       company specializing in measurements and surveys, studies and modelling,       Geographic Information Systems, acoustics and product development to       improve road safety, an automatic vision-based multi-vehicle tracking       system for measuring vehicle flows on crossroads &amp; roundabouts,       yielding provenance &amp; destination statistics, has been constructed       using [1].
These statistics are requested by local communities in order to       decide whether or not to create, extend or modify crossroads &amp;       roundabouts.
The system currently is commercially exploited:       http://www.sormea.fr/fr/r-d-innovation-anacomda/anacomda-o-d.html     2.
Imaging of geosynchronous orbits, managing space debris.
The       Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory of the US Department of Energy       conducted a project to understand how conventional astronomical facilities       might aid in determining the distribution of space debris in       geosynchronous orbit.
The principal application of this work is to protect       valuable space assets from collisions with debris.
[1] was applied "to       select different possible pairings of orbital tracks seen in optical       telescopes in a Monte Carlo framework".
[e]     G. Implementations of RJMCMC in Software     1.
Mr Bayes: [1] is used as one of several standard techniques in       the software MrBayes [f].
The use of reversible jump MCMC was recently       expanded to integration over nucleotide substitution models, and this is       quickly becoming a standard procedure in analyses using the software.
The       software is widely used across the life sciences for comparative genetics       and genomics studies, and more generally for studies in evolutionary       biology.
The software has attracted more than 16,000 citations to date.
It       is used widely in research but also in a number of applied contexts.
One       applied context concerns the identification of strains of disease       organisms.
Another focuses on phylogenetic studies (inference of       evolutionary trees).
Among other things, the evolutionary trees form the       basis for classifications used in natural history museums around the world       and in a wide range of applications related to the environment.
2.
WinBugs: The WinBugs system [g] is respected software for       Bayesian analysis, widely used by applied statisticians in both the       private and public sectors, and its scope has been recently extended to       support fitting of a wide range of trans-dimensional models, including       variable selections, automatic curve-fitting using splines, Bayesian       Multivariate adaptive regression splines (MARS) and Classification and       regression trees (CART), normal mixture analysis, spatial epidemiology       clustering models and variable-order Markov chains.
All of these       additional functions are based on [1].
3.
LIS: NASA's Land Information System (LIS) [h] is a software       framework for high performance land surface modelling and data       assimilation.
LIS is led by the Hydrological Sciences Branch at NASA's       Goddard Space Flight Center.
LIS software tools are used to develop       customized Land Data Assimilation Systems at NASA's Goddard Space Flight       Centre, NOAA's National Centres for Environmental Prediction and the Air       Force Weather Agency.
MCMC methods including [1] are currently being       implemented and incorporated into the system.
