     The blueprint for LISFLOOD-FP has been placed in the public domain       through the publications       listed in section 3.
This has allowed code developers, both academic and       commercial, to produce       their own versions of LISFLOOD-FP (in effect clones) or implement the       equations and algorithms       developed at Bristol within their own models.
The major beneficiaries have       been the flood risk       management industry, which operates within the UK as well as overseas,       flood risk decision       makers and the UK general public.
The benefits have been three-fold:     i) LISFLOOD-FP served as a proof of concept for industry:       "Our original 2D floodplain model, JFlow, was closely related to the       LISFLOOD-FP model," said Dr       Rob Lamb [A], Chief Scientist at the engineering consultancy and risk       management company JBA       Group.
"The LISFLOOD-FP research established a proof of concept for the       robust use of relatively       simple hydraulic concepts to model flows dynamically on a digital terrain       model grid."
ii) It saved developer time:       "The LISFLOOD documentation and published scientific papers have helped       RMS to speed up our       own 2D flood model development," said Dr Dag Lohmann [B], Vice President       of Model       Development at RMS Ltd, a risk management consultancy.
iii) It advanced the predictive power of commercial models:       "Based on our analysis to date, we believe, among other things, the       implementation of the       LISFLOOD-FP algorithm within the flood inundation component of the       (England and Wales)       national flood risk assessment method will offer a major step change in       improvement in the quality       of the results of the national flood risk assessment and hence improved       decision making," said Dr       Ben Gouldby [C], Principal Scientist for the Flood Management Group at HR       Wallingford, an       engineering and environmental hydraulics consultancy.
Between 2008 and 2013, clones of LISFLOOD-FP have been used by a number       of commercial       organisations, including:     JBA Group, a leading UK-based engineering consultancy with UK and       international markets.
JBA       have used their clone, JFLOW, to enhance flood risk management globally       by:            developing the world's first national surface water flood risk map         (for England and Wales) in         2008 [A];       developing national reservoir inundation maps (for England and Wales)         in 2009 [A];       conducting regional culvert flood risk assessments (for England and         Wales) in 2011 [A];       producing a flood map of Thailand in 2011 and the first flood map of         India in 2012 [A];       continuing to provide flood risk information through the UK national         Flood Map.
In 2002, JBA         used the original version of their JFLOW model to produce the extreme         flood outline on the         national Flood Map for England and Wales on behalf of the Environment         Agency (EA) [A].
This         flood map, hosted on the EA website, continues to be the main official         source of flood risk         information available to the general public and is used as part of every         homebuyer property         search and planning decision in England and Wales.
Between June 2010 and         May 2012, this         website averaged nearly 300,000 hits from over 50,000 unique browsers         each month [D], a         statistic which does not include data requests by phone.
RMS Ltd leads the global catastrophe risk modelling market and       sets the standard for quantifying       risk [B].
They have used their version of LISFLOOD-FP to develop river       flood models for the UK       and China, which are industry standards in the insurance industry for       underwriting and portfolio       management [B] and used in the pricing of the majority of re-insurance       contracts in these       territories.
In 2008, RMS used their model to estimate that one in four       British homes were at risk of       flooding and &#163;600 billion in residential property value was exposed to       flood risk [E] in their       response to Sir Michael Pitt's review of flood risk in the UK [F].
Ambiental Ltd is a specialised modelling firm providing flood risk       and other mapping information to       the insurance industry.
Ambiental developed their own proprietary code       FlowRoute&#8482;, which       incorporates some of the LISFLOOD-FP algorithms [G].
"The published       material relating to       LISFLOOD has assisted my company to enhance the performance of our own       FlowRoute&#8482;       software and this has had an important impact on our business growth and       penetration into new       markets," said Justin Butler [G], Managing Director at Ambiental.
In 2010, Ambiental developed flood models for South America that were       used by the global       reinsurance company, Willis Re, to provide detailed flood risk estimates       for Latin America, which       helped insurance and reinsurance firms optimise their portfolios in these       areas and manage for       flood risk [H].
In 2011, they used FlowRoute&#8482; to help Chubb Insurance       Company of Europe SE       assess the severity of flood risk faced by properties in the UK [I].
A shareware version of the LISFLOOD-FP model, user manual and set of       example files were made       available to non-commercial institutions and collaborators in December       2010.
As of September       2013, the shareware had received 312 unique downloads from 54 different       countries.
The       shareware is being used in diverse ways, and has potentially saved each       these researchers from       purchasing commercial software that can cost anywhere from a few hundred       to tens of thousands       of dollars.
As a result of these activities, and specifically for the paper [6]       describing the simplified formulation       of the shallow water equations used for model version 5.0, Lloyd's of       London awarded Paul Bates       and co-authors their 2012 Science of Risk Prize for Natural Hazards.
In       the award citation [J], the       CEO of Lloyd's, Richard Ward, stated: "The judges praised the theoretical       basis of the paper and       appreciated that the research can be practically applied.
They were       impressed with the open       nature of the research and the fact it had already been used in practice."
