     Background:     Policy and international relations with respect to Antarctica are       regulated by the Antarctic Treaty System, and new policies are agreed by       the 50 signatory nations at the Antarctic Treaty Consultative Meetings       (ATCM).
Matters relating to science are recommended to the ATCM by the       Scientific Committee on Antarctic Research (SCAR).
Antarctic subglacial aquatic environments are continent-wide features       beneath thick ice sheets that are of significant scientific interest and       will likely be a major focus for international exploration and study for       decades to come.
To advance knowledge of these environments, it is       necessary to carry out direct measurement and sampling.
This must be done       in a manner that does not adversely affect these pristine and ancient       systems.
Prior to 2011, access to subglacial environments had been       achieved by using either hot-water drilling or ice coring.
In those       experiments little consideration was given to subglacial lakes as unspoilt       environments and viable but fragile ecosystems (Evidence source [a]).
The       research conducted by Siegert and his colleagues furthered scientific       understanding of subglacial systems in Antarctica and demonstrated the       need for a code of conduct when exploring them.
Nature of the impact:     Siegert's research demonstrated that subglacial lakes are viable habitats       for microbial life [1, 2], that they are widespread across the Antarctic       continent [3] and that they can be connected hydrologically across large       distances in even the most stable parts of the central East Antarctic ice       sheet [4].
In combination, the work reveals a large, complex, dynamic,       living subglacial environment.
"These papers were crucial in improving our understanding of the       sub-glacial system of Antarctica as a pristine, potentially fragile       ecosystem that required formalised protection during direct measurement       and sampling," said Dr Michael Sparrow [a], Executive Director of SCAR.
The US National Academy of Sciences (US-NAS) undertook an independent       assessment of the exploration of subglacial aquatic environments with the       intention of defining a set of standards for responsible exploration of       these ecosystems.
The report, published in 2007, cites Siegert's research       heavily (13 papers by Siegert were referenced in the text 57 times) [b].
It even uses a figure from Siegert et al.
[3] as its cover page.
However, despite the scientific influence of this report, it was not       initially a major influence on policy decisions [a].
As a result of the US-NAS report, SCAR convened an Action Group (which       consulted with subglacial aquatic environment specialists from around the       globe and from a wide range of disciplines) to develop a formal code of       conduct for SCAR members, but also for use by members of the Antarctic       Treaty.
The code of conduct was heavily influenced by the US-NAS report as       well as by reports from the SCAR Subglacial Antarctic Lake Environments       Scientific Research Program [c, pg 3], of which Siegert is a contributing       member.
"Again, Siegert's work was instrumental in forming SCAR's judgement on       how and why subglacial environments can be protected," said Sparrow [a].
In June 2011, at the XXXIV ATCM in Buenos Aires, a Code of Conduct on the       exploration and research of subglacial aquatic environments was formally       adopted [a, c], binding Antarctic Treaty members to undertaking such work       in a clearly defined and responsible manner.
In December 2012, Siegert led a NERC-funded* UK team to undertake the       first direct measurement and sampling of a subglacial lake &#8212; Lake       Ellsworth in West Antarctica.
The work was fully compliant with the code       of conduct, and the research plan was commented on favourably by the ATCM       and published in the peer-reviewed literature (Siegert et al., Clean       access, measurement and sampling of Ellsworth Subglacial Lake.
Reviews of       Geophysics, 50, RG1003, doi:10.1029/2011RG000361, 2012).
While the       fieldwork was unsuccessful this time, plans are currently underway to       undertake a second attempt in full accordance with the Code of Conduct.
For his innovative research on Antarctic subglacial lakes, and       recognition of the impact it has had, Siegert was awarded the 2013 Martha       T. Muse Prize by the Tinker Foundation (http://www.museprize.org/news.html).
*Direct measurement and sampling of Subglacial Lake Ellsworth: a         multidisciplinary investigation of life in extreme environments and ice         sheet history.
Funded by the NERC (1 October 2009 for 5 years).
A         consortium Grant, involving the University of Bristol, the British         Antarctic Survey, the National Oceanography Centre, Durham University,         the University of Edinburgh and Aberdeen University.
Total award:         &#163;7,925,275 (&#163;6,244,620 FEC).
PI: Martin Siegert.
