     The key impacts of this research are the development of new professional       standards, guidelines and training in order to support The Football       Association's Safeguarding and Respect agendas; the introduction of a new       educational pathway for professional and aspirant referees; the delivery       of new forms of outreach in the local community and the development of new       funded programmes as part of the FA's National Game Strategy.
The research (2004, 2005) and associated contract work on the FA's Goal       Child Protection Strategy led to the development of resources for the FA's       Safeguarding Course, which has been accessed by an estimated 150,000       people in the period from 2008 to 2013.2 It also contributed to       the development of Safeguarding Policies and Codes of Conduct at the       55,000 youth football clubs in England.
Continued collaboration with       Brackenridge at Brunel University led to further academic outputs and the       invitation to contract further significant research for the FA.
The 2008       and 2009 evaluations of the Respect cultural change programme       stimulated adaptations to the Football Association's core interventions,       which focused on new codes of conduct; communications and relations       between team captains, players and match officials; and Respect `barriers'       or `technical areas'.
In total, 850 football leagues across England are       now committed to Respect and all associated policies and       practices.
Data from the Goal and Respect projects was       used in order to help shape The Football Association's Respect Parent       Module,3 an online educational resource that is now optional       for parents who follow their children through the sport, but compulsory       for all coaches.
An estimated 30,000 coaches access the module each year       as part of their professional development.
The Respect programme       now has a global reach.
Both Holland and the USA have consulted with The       FA on the development of their own behaviour management initiatives; UEFA       have taken both the `brand' and significant elements into the       international arena and the Japanese FA have taken and copied the       programme wholesale.4     In the UK, the Respect recommendations were considered by the key       stakeholders in professional football including The FA Premier League, the       Professional Footballers Association (PFA) and the League Managers       Association (LMA).
This led, in turn, to a report by the LMA in 2009       calling for the accreditation and professionalization of referee education       and training.
Pitchford has subsequently worked with both The FA       and the Professional Game Match Officials Ltd (PGMOL) to develop a new       educational pathway for elite referees, which builds on both the Respect       data and the 2004 Training Needs Analysis.
The new pathway was launched by       the PGMOL in 2012 and is delivered by the University of Gloucestershire.5     Pitchford's interest in the structures and format of the sport was       fuelled by research participants who consistently spoke about the       intrinsic, rather than the extrinsic, benefits of playing.
They sought a       more playful, less pressurised version of the sport.
In order to bring       this to reality, Pitchford made a successful bid to The Football       Foundation for &#163;160,000 to fund a five year football development programme       in deprived neighbourhoods in Gloucestershire.
The project, called Onside,       used flexible, adapted versions of football to raise participation amongst       disengaged young people in challenging environments.
Onside has       connected with over 6,000 young people during 2008 to 2013, and acts as a       source of data and experimentation for University staff and students       looking to explore this realm.
In 2009, Pitchford helped to support the establishment of a       pressure group, The National Children's Football Alliance (NCFA), which       aims to work with the sport's delivery organisations in order to improve       the experiences of children.
The NCFA now has a reach of 200,000.
6       This work brought him into further contact with The Football Association       and he was then commissioned to produce the Drop Out in Youth Football       study.
This work was widely utilised within The FA in order to stimulate       debate about the traditional structures and format of youth football and       was used to support the introduction of the national `Vauxhall Mash-Up'       programme, which aims to recruit and retain 14-18 year olds.
The FA have       recruited eight regional coaches who work full time on the programme, and       have secured long term support from Vauxhall for the initiative.7     `Mash-up' is now a core element of the FA's 2011-2015 National Game       Strategy.
The Strategy aims to make major changes to the experience of the       700,000 young people who currently participate in the sport, and to create       safer and more respectful environments for players, spectators and       volunteers.
The research has contributed directly to this strategy through       the stimulation of practitioner debate over a sustained period, through       the introduction of new codes of conduct and professional standards, and       through the development of educational and training resources for players,       coaches, parents, spectators, officials and club administrators.
