     In October 2009, Eric Pickles, then Conservative Party Chairman, informed       a small group of experts (including Johnston) that should it win power in       2010 the party intended to legislate to reduce the number of MPs and both       speed up and increase the frequency of Boundary Commission reviews.
The       experts provided detailed advice about the proposed Rules for       Redistribution and their implementation, plus public consultation       procedures.
Johnston's role in the next two years leading to enactment of       the 2011 Parliamentary Voting System and Constituencies Act, 2011,       involved advice to all three British political parties based on detailed       studies of the entire process during the three previous redistributions;       he led in providing evidence in Parliament, including interpreting       amendments, as well as communicating with politicians and party officials,       the media and other organisations.
His research findings were disseminated       through books, peer-reviewed journal articles, commissioned reports,       conferences, private consultations, invited advice to the Conservative       Party and the coalition government, oral evidence to the House of Commons       Political and Constitutional Reform Committee and presentations to The       Constitution Unit and the HS Chapman Society; his evidence was heavily       cited in Parliamentary debates.
In 2010, when it was clear that the Conservatives would proceed with the       proposed legislation, Johnston was invited to co-author a monograph for       the British Academy Policy Centre setting the proposals in context and       critiquing the Bill when it was published; for this he chaired a British       Academy Forum attended by a wide range of interested parties including the       civil servants overseeing drafting of the legislation.
The Bill was       published in July 2010 and the monograph [5], for which he was the main       author, in September; it was widely cited in the House of Commons and,       especially, Lords debates, as was the evidence presented in Johnston's two       appearances before the House of Commons Select Committee on Political and       Constitutional Reform.
Johnston also wrote an article on British       redistributions on the ACE Electoral Knowledge Network website [B], which       is aimed at election administrators and system designers.
Johnston's research and advice over the period 2009-2013 has had three       types of impact:     I.
It was influential in the crafting of the legislation.
A Conservative party advisor said that "...those of us within the       Conservative Party who were involved in this process, regarded [Johnston]       as one of the key touchstones for advice and views in relation to       achieving our objectives" [C].
As an example of his influence, Johnston       advocated that the party look to the comparable Australian and New Zealand       systems: "This had a marked influence on what we did, both in terms of me       pursuing discussions with the Australian High Commission and New Zealand       High Commission, and in the preparation of material so that I entered       these discussions with authoritative analyses to support me" [C].
Though the legislation was prepared by Parliamentary draftsmen, the       adviser crafted the outline and detail of what the Party wanted to achieve       and "...material [Johnston] authored or co-authored and [his] oral       contributions were useful in the preparation of the legislation itself,"       [C].
II.
It shaped and informed political debate.
Johnston's research, particularly the British Academy publication [5],       helped inform MPs and peers.
One peer stated that this research enabled       him to grasp what was going on and led him to put down several amendments       that were effectively accepted by government:       "This is a rare case of meticulous factual research strongly affecting a       crucial national decision: I should also add that the willingness of Ron       and his colleagues to make themselves available to advise added greatly to       the effect of their work on this debate" [D].
Johnston gave oral evidence to the House of Commons Political and       Constitutional Reform Committee in July 2010 [E] and February 2011 [F].
During the five months it was before Parliament, he was frequently       consulted about aspects of the Bill and the wording of potential       amendments proposed by both Conservative party advisers involved with the       Bill's progress and peers from both of the other main parties; his advice       was non-partisan regarding the changed rules' likely impact.
His published       work was referred to and given as evidence in debates in both the House of       Lords [G-H] and the House of Commons [I].
III.
It improved public understanding of the changes being debated.
Johnston gave a number of media interviews regarding the Bill, helping to       improve public understanding of the changes being debated in Parliament,       and provided clarity in several political blogs, including those of The       London School of Economics and Political Science and the University of       Nottingham School of Politics and International Affairs.
His interviews       included BBC Radio 4's PM, The World This Weekend and The         Westminster Hour program, and BBC Points West.
The Secretary of the Boundary Commission for England stated that       Johnston's work "filled the void of experts" and "turned speculation to       fact" in what was a complex process;[J] he `helped the process along by       providing an impartial point of view" that helped to stress the       impartiality of the Commission's work.
[J].
In November 2011, Johnston received the Political Studies Association's       `Politics/Political Studies Communicator' Award.
The jury of distinguished       academics and journalists stated that his work with on boundary changes       had made "a considerable contribution not only to political studies, but       has also helped shape the future of British Politics".
They stated further       that Johnston "stands out as a clear communicator who has the capacity to       communicate complex issues in an accessible manner" [K].
Together, this material influenced debates regarding the operation of the       UK's electoral system, especially the biased electoral outcomes post-1992,       and was a stimulus to change.
The understanding of how constituency maps       are drawn influenced discussions among those who wanted change; the       principles underlying and the ordering of the 2010 revised set of `Rules       for redistributions' reflects his important input.
Once the proposals       became public, his expertise was frequently called on to inform those       debating their enactment, and influenced several of the agreed amendments.
That system for defining constituencies is thus based to a significant       extent on his long programme of research into this aspect of British       electoral politics.
The Review initiated by the 2011 Act was delayed for five years in early       2013.
Johnston and his colleagues interpreted this decision &#8212; and its       likely consequences &#8212; in a range of media and other contributions [L].
He       has since been consulted by political parties preparing material for their       2015 general election manifestos regarding possible further amendments to       the legislation.
In 2013 Johnston joined the advisory committee for a four-year major Law       Commission project aimed at rationalising, simplifying and modernising the       UK's complex set of electoral laws [M].
He has also acted as an expert       adviser on electoral systems to the governments of Bermuda, Jersey, New       Zealand, and Portugal.
