     The Liverpool team has used their research findings to create significant       economic benefits for the       UK's cattle industry by collaborating directly with AHVLA and       Myhealthyherd to design herd health       schemes to reduce the economic impact of N. caninum.
The main       beneficiaries of the research are       UK dairy farmers, who now have access to information, which enables them       to control the disease       in their herds and mitigate the massive economic and emotional impact of       an outbreak of       neosporosis.
Research conducted by the Liverpool team has led to a better       understanding of the       immunopathogenesis, life cycle and transmission of the parasite together       with improved,       commercially available diagnostics.
As a consequence, as key participants       in AHVLA working       groups, Williams and Trees were involved in designing herd health schemes       to improve control of       disease.
In 2008/9, two schemes were launched, one a commercial scheme,       Myhealthyherd, and       the other, AHVLA's Herdsure scheme [7], both based on advice on reducing       transmission built on       research done at University of Liverpool.
A series of roadshows, delivered       by Professor Trees in       2008-9 was used to publicise these accreditation schemes.
To ensure the       widest possible reach,       these DEFRA funded roadshows targeted hundreds of veterinarians each of       whom were asked to       hold multiple farmer meetings.
These schemes focus on identifying infected       animals within a herd       and strategically managing breeding programmes and heifer replacement       regimes to reduce the       number of infected cows entering the milking herd.
Within these       programmes, regular nationwide       surveillance using bulk tank milk antibody tests are used to monitor       levels of N. caninum infection       within herds typically through NMR/NML.
Biosecurity measures including       quarantine testing,       control of dogs on the farm and covering feed stores to reduce risk of       contamination are       recommended to control the spread of infection.
There has been widespread       publicity and it has       even featured on the popular BBC 4 soap opera, the Archers.
The team's research into abortion storms and quantifying the risk of       post-natal exposure to       infection have led to an increase in our understanding of frequency of       different routes of       transmission of Neospora.
In addition, advisory meetings were held       with AHVLA in 2008 to assist       in developing its herd health farm assurance scheme prior to its launch in       2009/10.
Information       about these two schemes are disseminated to dairy farmers through the       farming press, advisory       information sent out by AHVLA and through a private scheme with a       dedicated website.
The       Herdsure Neospora protocol has also been accepted under the CHeCS scheme       (Cattle Health       Certification Standards; an organisation owned by the BCVA, National       Cattle Association (dairy),       the National Beef Association and Holstein UK [8].
Beneficiaries of these health schemes are dairy farmers in UK.
Effective       measures to reduce       levels of infection within the herd, to protect cows from introduction of       N. caninum into the herd,       through biosecurity measures and to reduce the potential of spread within       the herd via dogs, the       definitive host for the parasite, all contribute to reducing abortion       rates and other costs, such as       reduced fertility, associated with neosporosis.
By obtaining herd health       accreditation or joining       `myhealthyherd,' farmers can create their own herd health plans in       conjunction with their vets,       manage infectious disease, work out profit opportunities and obtain a       Health Visa or herdhealth       accreditation, to maximise the sale value of stock.
To date, over 5,000       farms now use       "Myhealthyherd" in England and Wales - to provide context there are c       14,500 dairy farms in the       UK.
The knowledge gained from UoL research, together with outputs from       other groups, has had       an impact on control of neosporosis worldwide.
