     The main pathways to impact were through Grout's central involvement in       Ofgem's key decisions and through his advisory role to various government       agencies.
4.1 Impact through Ofgem     Amongst many other activities, Ofgem sets the prices (allowed revenues)       that electricity and gas transmission companies (e.g., National Grid), and       the gas and electricity network operators can charge.
Professor Grout's       research into private delivery of public services, including his research       into the interaction of regulation and the cost of capital of regulated       companies, impacts directly on the appropriate allowed revenues of       regulated companies.
This research and his analysis of optimal structures       of delivery by the public sector led him to be appointed as the sole       special advisor of the key regulatory committees of the Ofgem Board (since       2008), and to the Board of Ofgem in 2012.
The UK approach to the provision of offshore transmission (i.e., the       transmission of electricity from offshore wind farms) is akin to a       traditional PPP model, and Grout's research into the assessment of when       PPPs are the appropriate model of delivery, when they can provide value       for money, and the appropriate rates of discount for a meaningful       public/private comparison, led to him being appointed as Chair of Ofgem's       Offshore Committee (which deals with offshore transmission and       international interconnection) in January 2013.
In addition, he has       chaired the key regulatory committees in the absence of the chairman of       the board and has chaired settlement committees that impose `fines' on       energy companies for failing to meet the legal obligations in their       licence.
In December 2012 alone the board and these committees, in a series of       decisions, granted over &#163;50bn of approved revenues for regulated       transmission and distribution companies.
The fines on energy companies run       into millions of pounds.
These decisions impact directly on almost every       individual and organisation in the UK.
In addition to the impact on       household bills, energy prices affect UK business costs and profits which       impact on consumer prices both in the UK and around the world.
They thus       also affect UK competitiveness and government tax revenues.
In recognition of his key contributions public officials have stated:       Professor Grout's `knowledge drawn from his research into the cost of       capital of regulated companies and how they are affected by the political       environment and large `one-off' events and his research into the decision       making processes of the Competition Commission have moulded final       decisions we have taken in these price reviews', (Chief Executive, Ofgem       [a]).
Professor Grout's `voice has been significant, incisive and       important' ... `contributing a wealth of economic knowledge and       experience' (Chairman of the Board of Ofgem [b]).
Grout was also cited in       the introduction to the 2012 Ofgem Annual Report for bringing his       considerable expertise in economics to help Ofgem.
(i) The RIIO Committees     The Board of Ofgem is the body that regulates and oversees the energy       markets in the UK.
It has RIIO, E-Serve, Offshore, Remuneration and Audit       sub-committees.
Since 2008 Grout has been special advisor to all of the       RIIO (Revenue equals Incentives + Innovation + Outputs) sub-committees       and since 2012 has also been a full board member.
The RIIO committees       determine all allowed transmission and distribution charges in England,       Wales and Scotland.
These network charges account for 21% of total       electricity bills and 18% of total gas bills.
The typical dual fuel bill       (i.e.
gas and electricity) for a UK household is &#163;1,340pa (Nov 2013).
In December 2012 RIIO-GD1 (Gas Distribution 1) approved total allowed       revenues for the gas distribution companies between 1/4/13 to 31/3/21 of       &#163;24.8bn (in 2009/10 prices) [c], RIIO-T1 (Transmission 1) approved total       allowed revenues in nominal prices for the electricity transmission over       the same period of &#163;22.7bn ([d] and [e]) and RIIO-T1 also approved total       allowed revenues in nominal prices for the gas transmission for a similar       period of &#163;6.9bn [d].
When allowing these network charges Ofgem determines, amongst other       things, the cost of capital, approved revenues, and incentive schemes.
These are all intimately related to Professor Grout's research and       expertise (e.g., [1], [2] and [6]).
Grout's research, for example, into       how the relevant cost of capital of regulated utilities is affected by       political and large shocks to markets (informing whether claims of       particular impact on regulated companies during the financial crisis was       consistent with empirical evidence) fed into this decision process.
The       impact of Ofgem's choice of appropriate cost of capital is material.
For       example, had Ofgem adopted a 1% higher cost of capital for transmission       and gas distribution companies in 2012 then the direct additional impact       would have been approximately &#163;3.3bn, or approximately an &#163;11pa direct       increase for each household, with a significant indirect effect through       higher energy costs in the corporate sector [f].
Companies are able to appeal against Ofgem's price controls and these       appeals are heard by the UK Competition Commission.
Professor Grout's       research into the determinants of the decisions taken by the Competition       Commission [3] has fed directly into Ofgem's balancing between regulated       prices and avoidance of unnecessary appeals, which delay implementation of       price controls and as a result can be damaging to consumers and industry.
(ii) The Offshore Committee     Grout chairs Ofgem's Offshore Committee.
This is a sub-committee of the       board that oversees all offshore investment and in particular the       tendering processes for offshore transmission.
The UK approach to offshore       transmission is one of competitive tendering, and has many features that       resemble private finance initiative (PFI) and PPP projects.
The National       Audit Office (NAO) estimates there will be potentially around &#163;8bn of       tenders for offshore transmission to be delivered between now and 2020       enabling approximately &#163;52bn of offshore investment.
Grout's research into       PFI provides the platform for him to chair the Offshore Committee and       inform final decisions ([4], [6]).
For example, feedback from the NAO and       the Public Accounts Committee [g] on the offshore tendering process and       policy has led to reconsideration of aspects of licence policy and current       changes to licence policy.
Professor Grout's research into PFI models       contributed to amendments, which are currently under public consultation.
4.2 Impact through parliamentary committee and government agencies     i) Grout was the expert advisor (2008-10) to the House of Lords Economic       Affairs Committee for its review and report on `Private finance projects       and off balance sheet debt' [h].
The objective of the review was to assess       the current state of private finance projects and off balance sheet debt       and make recommendations to government for improvements.
The expert       advisor has important influence (although no vote) on which witnesses are       brought to the committee, the questions and themes of each hearing, on the       decision making process leading to the report and its recommendations.
Professor Grout's input was heavily influenced by his research on PPPs       (e.g., [4] and [6]).
In the Government's response [i] it accepted the       Review's concerns about data and stated that `it had already taken a       number of steps in this area to improve the availability of data on PFI       projects', and noted the suggestion that risk spreading could be expanded       and suggested that `HM Treasury will consider options for such expansion       with departments on a case by case basis'.
ii) Grout was a member of the advisory panel to the National Audit Office       (2006-2007) on their procurement report on PFI, `Improving the PFI       Tendering Process'.
He also provided evidence on PPPs to the Scottish       Parliament.
Both were based significantly on Professor Grout's research       [6].
iii) Grout was an advisor (2007-2008) on the Department for Business,       Economics and Regulatory Reform (BERR) Report on the Public Services       Industry Review [j] and provided commissioned work on the efficacy of       various public service models.
Professor Grout's contribution was based       significantly on his research.
Indeed, the definition of public services       used in this report to inform the scope of the review is taken from his       work [5].
The foreword to the Report points out that Professor Grout was       `of great help in unearthing the data and critiquing the evidence base of       the PSI'.
The Report made eight high-level recommendations, which were a       major input into BERR's `Supporting Innovation in Services', August 2008.
