     The Coalition government established an ambitious programme of       health-sector reform in England in 2010.
An integral component was the use       of competition and choice as a means of delivering better health       care for patients.
To ensure better health care though choice and       competition the government had to establish a structure of market       regulation which set the `rules of the game', including price regulation       and merger behaviour.
Government policies on these matters directly affect       patients, through the quality of care delivered, and taxpayers, through       the costs associated with implementing the policies.
Officials testify that Propper's body of research has had a major impact       on decisions made throughout the process of developing a structure of       market regulation.
A Department of Health director stated: "In 2006 the       Department of Health commissioned a flagship Health Reform Evaluation       Programme [...] Of the research projects commissioned within the       programme, the work by Professor Carol Propper had the most practical       impact.
It was cited and used during the passage of the Health and Social       Care Bill [2011], was quoted in the national media, was considered       carefully by Ministers and in particular the then Secretary of State for       Health, the Rt Hon Andrew Lansley CBE.
The quality of the research and the       clarity of its conclusions directly led to Government amendments, to what       is now the Health and Social Care Act, ruling out the possibility of price       competition.
In my 20 years' experience in Government it is most unusual       for even the best research work to have such influence as that on       competition undertaken by Professor Propper" [a].
Examples where Propper's research was used to develop/change policy       include:     i.
The decision to use choice and competition as a means of delivering         better health care in England     Propper's research was part of the underpinning for the overall (highly       controversial) policy on the use of choice and competition contained in       the Health and Social Care Bill of 2012 [a] [b].
The research has been       used to decide who should be allowed to compete with NHS providers: "[3]       was used as evidence in the review of the Operation of Any Willing       Provider for the Provision of Routine Elective Care [...] The Department       of Health accepted the key recommendations of this review" [b].
"[4] has       been used to demonstrate that there is an incentive for providers to       improve quality" [b].
To achieve this impact, Propper disseminated the       work widely and gave a large number of presentations and individual       briefings to policymakers.
Media coverage of the first set of research       findings into the 1990s internal market included The Guardian in January       2011 (http://www.guardian.co.uk/commentisfree/2011/jan/17/free-market-bill-blow-nhs-apart).
Her research was quoted several times in Tim Harford's `Undercover       Economist' blog (www.timharford.com),       e.g.
`A healthy dose of competition will help the NHS pull through' (3       July 2010).
She had one-to-one meetings with the Secretary of State for       Health (Andrew Lansley, June 2011) and the Number 10 policy advisor on       health (Paul Bate, July 2011); presented research findings at the UK       Department of Health, the Prime Minister's Strategy Unit, the Treasury and       the Cabinet Office (May 2012); and was a member of the expert panel for       the Office of Fair Trading 2011 review of competition in private medical       care and for the Office of Health Economics Commission on Competition       (2012).
ii.
Decision on the use of centrally-regulated prices in the NHS     Initial Coalition plans envisaged allowing hospitals to negotiate prices       freely.
The Financial Times, 7 January 2011, quoted Propper as warning       against allowing price competition: "By taking this step, Andrew Lansley       is ignoring all the evidence on       the impact of price competition in the hospital sector" [e].
In March       2011, the Secretary of State for Health changed course when he announced       that initial plans to scrap price regulation in the Health and Social Care       Bill had been abandoned.
Propper's work was integral to this decision [b].
"Propper's research [3] and [1] were used as evidence in internal       presentations, alongside similar papers, to set out the empirical support       for the theory that, by fixing a national price, and allowing providers to       compete only on non-price factors, competition can lead to better quality       outcomes for patients.
Propper's papers were seen as especially valuable       since they set out the effects that occurred within the English NHS under       two distinct policy periods" [b].
Reports by the health care regulator,       Monitor, regularly acknowledge or quote Propper's work (e.g., [d]).
Media       reports also credit Propper's research as leading to the policy reversal &#8212;       e.g., Financial Times 4 March 2011[f].
iii.
Writing of rules for mergers in the NHS     Merger policy is integral to balancing potential patient and taxpayer       gains and losses from hospital consolidation.
Propper's research has been       used to inform decisions on health-care mergers.
"[3] and [6] have been       used as evidence in eight advisory reports of the Co-operation and       Competition Panel (CCP) to the Secretary of State for Health (and Monitor)       on whether proposed hospital mergers were consistent with quality" [b].
"[6] has been used in evidence in internal presentations [...] to provide       a general context on the tendency of hospital mergers to fail to achieve       efficiencies or to improve quality for patients.
This is particularly       important, given the claimed efficiencies and clinical advantages that       merger parties have put to the CCP as the rationale for their proposed       merger.
The panel has therefore had to form judgements on the       deliverability of those claims and this paper has helped inform those       judgements" [b] [c].
Pathways to impact have included briefings to policy officials (Propper       gave briefings on research on mergers to Monitor (December 2010) and       Department of Health economists (November 2011)) and media coverage &#8212; for       instance, The Guardian (12 January 2012) quoted Propper as warning of the       potential negative consequences of hospital mergers brought about to solve       funding or capacity issues [g].
Impact has also been achieved through       presentations to the wider community.
For example, Propper presented at       the Inaugural Festival of Economics in Bristol, attended by over 1,000       people (November 2012), and to economics and business students at Clifton       College (March 2013).
