     a.
Broad and sustained influence on national and international policy     Simon Burgess has had a broad and sustained influence on policy for the       schools market in the UK, of which the two specific cases on school       accountability are leading examples.
Carole Willis, Director of Research       and Analysis at the Department for Education writes [a]: "Simon Burgess's       work on school accountability has had a major impact on thinking in the       Department on this issue over a number of years.
His research was cited in       the "Importance of Teaching" White Paper, and has fundamentally changed       Ofsted's risk assessments of which schools to inspect."
This influence is ongoing.
Tim Leunig, Special Advisor to Secretary of       State Michael Gove, writes in September 2013 [b] "On the basis of his       research leadership in this field, we asked Simon Burgess to contribute to       the development of the new pupil progress measure, and the school floor       targets that will form the basis for interventions in schools".
Burgess       was also asked to talk at the Permanent Secretary's Seminar on school       markets in May 2013.
Strengthening school accountability is also a key       policy issue in many other countries and Burgess was asked to present his       results to the Spanish Minister for Education and Secretary of State for       Education [c].
In addition to school accountability, Burgess's wider research on       education has also influenced the thinking in the Department for Education       on key policy issues including teacher effectiveness, school choice,       school financial decisions and teacher performance information through       briefings, seminars, presentations and reports.
b.
Impact of the research on the abolition of performance tables in         Wales     Publication of [1] was the lead item in the main evening news on BBC       Wales, 2 November 2010.
The next day, questions on the research were put       to the First Minister of Wales on the floor of the Assembly.
The findings       were described as a "slap in the face with good data" by the Senior Policy       Advisor to the Welsh Assembly, Professor David Reynolds [d].
The research       was further reported in other news and documentary programmes for BBC       radio and television, in the Financial Times and in The Economist (twice).
In February 2011, the Welsh Minister for Education announced a major       change of policy, to reverse the decade-long policy of not publishing       performance information [e].
The new system was introduced on 8 December       2011.
Burgess's research was influential in this decision as David Reynolds       confirms [f]: "I can testify to the major impact that the research of       Simon Burgess and colleagues had on our educational thinking in general       and specific policies in particular.
The Minister Leighton Andrews found       the research chimed with much of his own thinking about the need for       transparency on school performance and there was much internal discussion       within WG after the publication of the particular paper in October 2010.
The research helped to prepare for the introduction of the Banding system       we launched in 2012 which of course involved the publication of school       results.
It was for us quite seminal research."
Burgess's research suggests that this policy reversal will have a major       impact on pupil attainment and life chances in Wales.
For pupils on the       margin of achieving 5 good passes, the reform will raise them above this       crucial threshold, bringing them an estimated 25% earnings increase.
The       policy change will also reduce educational inequality in Wales.
The       research showed that the greatest fall in attainment following the removal       of league tables was for low-attaining pupils in deprived areas; hence the       reinstatement is likely to show the greatest benefit there too, leading to       greater earnings gains at the lower end of the distribution.
c. Impact of the research on the design of school performance tables     Initial discussions between Burgess and Allen and officials at the       Department took place in February 2010 on reforming school league tables.
Graham Stuart MP, Chair of the House of Commons Education Select       Committee, requested a meeting with Burgess and Allen in November 2011.
In November 2011 new league tables were released that adopted key       components of their proposal.
Carole Willis states [a]: "Specifically, his       work with Rebecca Allen of IOE was very influential in the re-casting of       the school performance tables from 2011.
Their findings on contextual       value added (CVA) led directly to the Government withdrawing CVA from the       tables and the wider school accountability framework.
Their thinking also       contributed to new measures of GCSE performance for pupils of different       levels of prior attainment alongside other expert views"     The new tables included a measure showing the GCSE performance of       students with differing levels of initial ability.
For each school the new       tables report the percentage of pupils attaining at least five A* to C       grades separately for low-attaining pupils, high attainers and a middle       group.
This change improves pupil attainment directly and indirectly.
The new       form of tables will allow parents to make a better-informed decision on       where to send their child to school.
Better matching between child and       school will raise attainment.
The new measure also gives schools more of       an incentive to focus across the ability distribution, which benefits       students at the top and bottom of the ability distribution as well as       those near the crucial threshold, who were the focus of the previous       accountability system.
Higher attainment will lead to higher incomes and       better life chances for individuals, and at a macro level will raise the       skill base of the economy.
