 Ellwood's work has impacted on government policy on accounting throughout the NHS; been discussed in UK parliamentary committees on the audit regime for local public bodies; and fed into discussions with regulatory bodies on financial arrangements to facilitate improved healthcare services.
Financial reporting policy in local public bodies Ellwood's early work on accounting for public bodies [1] led to her invitation to be academic commentator on the UK Accounting Standards Board's panel on reinterpreting the UK Statement of Principles for Financial Reporting for Public Benefit Entities and her later appointment to the HM Treasury Panel on the financial reporting of the NHS (a) and its linked charities (2010-11).
The panel's report was issued by the government's Financial Reporting Advisory Board (b) and the panel's recommendations were incorporated into the accounting manuals and guidance issued to NHS trusts and foundation trusts.
Ellwood was the only academic member, she was appointed to the panel alongside senior financial representatives from Treasury, Charity Commission, the Department of Health and the devolved administrations (Wales, Northern Ireland and Scotland).
Since 2012, the Panel's recommendations have been put into effect in the Annual Reports &amp; Financial Statements of hundreds of NHS organisations that have been extended to include all healthcare bodies within NHS control.
Policy on audit of local public bodies The research work of Ellwood and Basioudis on audit arrangements of NHS trusts [2] showed the Audit Commission to be operating effectively in controlling total auditor remuneration.
However, Ellwood's study with Garcia-Lacalle [6] of the audit arrangements of Foundation Trusts (where FTs were given the freedom to appoint their own auditor i.e.
not overseen by the Audit Commission), showed evidence of premium fees paid to private firms, particularly large (Big4) firms.
Ellwood's work with Basioudis [2] and with Garcia-Lacalle [6] was used in evidence to parliamentary committees investigating the effect of the Audit Commission following its announced abolition in August 2010 by Eric Pickles (Secretary of State for Communities and Local Government).
Ellwood and Basioudis [2] was cited in the Communities and Local Government Select Committee 7th February 2011(c); Ellwood and Garcia-Lacalle [6] was used by Professor David Heald, (Aberdeen University and former academic member of the Government's Financial Reporting Advisory Board `FRAB') when presenting evidence to the meeting of the Public Accounts Committee, December 2012(d).
Although the work of the Audit Commission's in-house auditors was awarded to private sector auditors in 2012, the Audit Commission is now likely to continue in a reduced role for at least another five years.
Policy on costing/ pricing of healthcare The NIHR research project [7] with Professors Llewellyn and Chambers from Manchester University continues Ellwood's long standing work in NHS costing and pricing.
Ellwood's early work on NHS costing and pricing was widely disseminated in accounting and medical journals and published as three research monographs by the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants (cost-based pricing, costing for healthcare contracts and GP fund-holding).
In line with Ellwood's findings, the NHS later introduced NHS costing standards and produced comparative `Reference costs' from 2007 which were used to inform the NHS tariff (prices) for healthcare under the Payments by Results system (phased in from 2004).
Under the NIHR project 2012-15 [7] she examines the benefits of sophisticated patient costing systems for hospitals but also considers how financial arrangements may need to change to facilitate greater integration of hospital, community and social services.
As part of this work, she is lead researcher with South Warwickshire FT, and is investigating how the FT and other health and social care providers can integrate the care of frail older people.
She is working with Monitor, the independent regulator for Foundation Trusts, on how to form new financial arrangements for the care of older people that facilitate integrated care and enhanced community services.
This will require changes to the current national tariff (pricing/ commissioning arrangements) to encourage improved patient care in appropriate settings.
Ellwood's work has also informed government financial management and accounting internationally.
Her earlier research visits to USA, Australia, New Zealand and Brazil were sponsored by health authorities and professional accounting bodies.
Impact in China is now starting to occur.
The Chinese Ministry of Finance translated and published a paper presented by her and Andy Wynne from the Association of Certified Chartered Accountants in 2009 (e).
