     The initial DWP report [c] was described by the 2006 HM       Treasury's report "The Annuities Market" [g] as "the most       comprehensive ever UK annuities pricing survey" (paragraph 2.6), resulting       in HM Treasury reiterating that compulsory annuitisation was appropriate       (paragraphs 6.1-6.2) given that annuities were fairly priced (explicitly       referring to the report in paragraphs 5.1-5.2).
Despite this, there was continued pressure from the press and some MPs to       scrap compulsory annuitisation, stoked by Fitzgerald's Brunel Business       School Discussion Paper of October 2006 "Can `Compulsory' Annuities       Provide a Fair Pension?"
which suggested a large drop in the value of       annuities in 2006.
Cannon and Tonks's analysis for the DWP in 2009 showed       that Fitzgerald had over-estimated the fall in the value of annuities.
The       period 2005-2008 was particularly problematic for annuity measurement due       to large revisions in mortality rates from the Institute of Actuaries and       consequent uncertainty in quantifying the risk that this entailed for       annuity providers (at a time when banks were accused of being careless of       risk management).
The DWP confirmed to us [i] that the research had been used:            As part of briefing prepared for DWP Ministers in preparation for         their appearance in front of the 2009 Work and Pensions Select Committee         Inquiry into Pensioner Poverty;       To help inform the policy debate on the abolition of the requirement         to secure a pension income by age 75;       As part of internal briefing for DWP Ministers and senior managers on         the annuity market;       As part of the evidence base drawn on in the DWP's strategy on DC         pensions, where the research has helped to improve the Department's         understanding of and thinking about annuity markets.
Both the Conservative and Liberal Democrat 2010 election manifestos       promised abolition of compulsory annuitisation, albeit with a caveat that       this should not result in higher state spending.
The June 2010 emergency       budget announced a consultation on removing compulsory annuitisation and       led to a HM Treasury consultative document in July 2010.
This explicitly       cited Cannon and Tonks noting that:     "The primary reasons for these falls [in annuity rates] are declining       interest rates (which fell from 8% to 5% ...) and increasing longevity.
A       study by Cannon &amp; Tonks concluded that the money's worth of annuities       ... remained at around 90%.
This represents good value in comparison with       other insurance products ... annuities remain an effective form of       insurance against the risk of outliving life expectancy."
(paragraphs       4.4-4.5).
In anticipation of this consultation, Cannon and Tonks wrote a letter to       the Times newspaper with David Blake (Professor of Pension       Economics, Cass Business School) and were then invited by the Prudential       (one of the major providers of annuities) to investigate the issue of       removing the annuitisation requirement, resulting in two reports published       by the Pensions Institute [e] written by Blake, Cannon and Tonks.
These reports discussed reasons for retaining the compulsory purchase       requirement drawing on our previous research.
More importantly they also       discussed the appropriate level for the Minimum Income Requirement.
The       second report [e] suggested that for an index-linked annuity the       minimum income should be &#163;14,100 for an individual and &#163;20,000 for a       couple.
The government's response to the consultation process was published in       "Removing the requirement to annuitise by age 75: A summary of the       consultation responses and the Government's response" (December 2010)       which cited the MIR calculations by Blake, Cannon and Tonks [h         paragraph 3.45].
Their methodology was based on working out the       appropriate annuity to ensure that a pensioner (or couple) received no       means-tested state benefits before the age of 100.
This was based on the       observation that the probability of a male aged 65 surviving this long was       8% and that to be sure that a pensioner never received state benefits       regardless of how long they lived, would set the MIR too high.
This       methodology was accepted by HM Treasury and they used the same algorithm       to calculate the MIR in the Appendix to the response document.
The final       calculations were reached after an e-mail correspondence between Cannon       and Jonathan Deakin of HM Treasury [j].
Following the consultation, Trevor Gosney of the Prudential wrote to       Blake, Cannon and Tonks [k] saying that "In the Prudential's       subsequent conversations with Treasury officials they described this paper       [i.e.
reference 8] as the best and most thorough assessment received       during the consultation process.
As such it has played a significant role       in guiding policy decisions on this issue".
In addition to the impact on government policy, the data Cannon and Tonks       collected for [a] have been used by several sources in policy       making and the private sector (e.g.
National Association of Pension Funds       [l], Aviva Investors [m]).
