     The HRIC provides an international focus for developing expertise, advice       and scholarship on the       role of national, regional and global institutions in the implementation       of human rights.
The specific       impact of Murray and Evans' research can be seen clearly in the direct       impact on the work of the       African Commission (Strand A) and of the UN Office of the High       Commissioner for Human Rights       (OHCHR) (Strand B).
Strand A: Direct impact on the work of the African Commission       The research and resulting outputs [4], conducted under the AHRC award [6]       has directly impacted       on developments at the African Commission.
The impact has been achieved       through reports on       events, production of policy papers and direct advice to key stakeholders       [a][b].
For example,       drawing upon their research in this area (in particular [1]-[4]) and       connections with key       stakeholders, in November 2011, the research team organised a high-level       seminar attended by       representatives from governments, the African Union, the African       Commission, UN treaty bodies       and civil society organisations.
The event examined the way in which cases       decided by the African       Commission could be implemented domestically in the state concerned       because of a lack of       information about the outcomes (drawing on [1] and [3]).
The event and       resulting report resulted in       national human rights institutions, such as Kenya [f], adapting their       strategy; and in a change of       policy by the African Commission itself, including the need to revisit its       Memoranda of       Understanding and engagement with other actors [d].
It also led to Amnesty       International working       with INTERIGHTS to promote effective implementation of the Commission's       decisions on       Botswana and Sudan, and the Commission is now following up on their       intervention.
Amnesty also       took up Murray's advice to join an amicus brief in support of a request       (by a Nigerian NGO, Socio-       Economic Rights and Accountability Project) for an advisory opinion before       the Court [h].
Key recommendations from the research team's paper [4], originally       published as a policy paper,       on what role the African Commission's Committee on the Prevention of       Torture in Africa (CPTA)       should play with respect to implementation of the Robben Island Guidelines       (RIG) have been used       by the Commission and others to direct their further approach.
In       particular, the principal       recommendation of that research concerning the development of guidance       notes and/or authoritative       statements was picked up and replicated in the Commission's Johannesburg       Declaration.
That       Declaration states that `The CPTA should issue authoritative comments         on specific provisions of the         RIG and provide legal guidance and interpretation to facilitate the         effective national implementation of         RIG by all stakeholders' - a direct echo of the HRIC's advice [c].
Until then, the CPTA had not adopted       authoritative guidance on the RIG.
The Declaration is the first of its       sort and is now used by the       Commission and other actors to direct the work of the CPTA [c, h].
Strand B: Direct impact on UN OHCHR       A high-level event, held in September 2011 under the AHRC grant [6] and       informed by [5] (by that       stage accepted for publication), brought together members of UN human       rights treaty bodies,       representatives of the OHCHR and members of governments, NHRIs and NGOs to       discuss the       implementation of treaty body concluding observations.
The report of this       event written by Murray       and drawing upon the research insights of Murray and Evans was fed into       the broader reform       agenda of the UN human rights system and is now cited directly on the       OHCHR website.
Only a       few, select events have informed this agenda; only two citations on the UN       website are from       academic institutions as having been key in policy formation [a].
A number       of the recommendations       and conclusions were used in the resulting report from the UN High       Commissioner on Human       Rights [d].
Very unusually, this refers directly to the Bristol event.
For       example, over the last few       years, there has been a proliferation in the number of recommendations       flowing from the       examination of state reports, which has made the reports problematic to       implement.
The Bristol       event report recommended that there was a need to `reduce the number of         concluding         observations being produced' ([a], p.7), and this is then repeated       in the High Commissioner's       recommendation in her June 2012 report to `reduce the number of         recommendations made to         states parties in the concluding observations' ([d], p.55).
The       process of treaty strengthening       reform is a highly political one, and as with many things at the UN, the       direct attribution of changes       in policy to particular actors, whether these be states, or academic       institutions, is unlikely.
The       Report by the High Commissioner has been immensely significant,       determining the path and       content of future negotiations.
At the level of the UN, it is unusual to       find research findings within a       report of this nature.
The research recommendation supports the production       of focused, prioritised       and deliverable outcomes through the state reporting process.
The       Commissioner's report has       been used by states, other UN bodies and regional organisations to direct       the process of       strengthening of the UN treaty bodies [d].
The impact of this event is further corroborated by the Director of the       Human Rights Treaty Division       at the OHCHR [f].
This notes that `my colleagues and I have benefitted         from these two days of rich         discussions among a group of different stakeholders....the ideas         generated during the meeting will         certainly contribute towards the many different proposals made to date'.
This personalised       recognition by a high-level member of the UN secretariat of the role of an       academic institution in       influencing discussions at the UN is (again) unusual.
The terminology used       `will certainly       contribute' is evidence of more than mere engagement and that the event       has had an impact on       the policy of the UN.
At a national level, the Foreign and Commonwealth       Office [i] have noted that       Evans' advice was "invaluable" on the UN treaty body consultations       and through the UK       consultations which helped inform the UK policy.
Further, it was noted       that the advice Evans       "...provided to the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights' consultation         process was also         important in kick-starting serious discussion about how to support the         treaty body system".
Subsequent to the adoption of this report, Evans, as vice-Chair (May       2013) and incoming Chair of       the Meeting of Chairs of Treaty Bodies (the influential body which steers       the direction of all UN       human rights treaty bodies), has played and will continue to play a       leading in taking forward this       agenda at the UN.
Evans was elected to this role by fellow chairs,       enabling him to implement the       research recommendations further.
