 Novel research by Proudman and colleagues at the UoL has significantly improved the way a potentially devastating equine health risk is diagnosed, managed and treated.
This research into equine colic has resulted in impacts both domestically and internationally and includes (i) improvements to animal health by way of diagnostic testing, updated healthcare guidelines, and public and industry awareness activities promoting the benefits of anthelmintic use, and (ii) generation of an increased income stream for the animal health industry and pharmaceutical companies by proving the clear benefits of using anti-tapeworm drugs for a major equine problem.
Beneficiaries are horses and their owners through improved welfare; veterinarians and testing laboratories through an increased range of services for tapeworm infection detection; and treatment and pharmaceutical companies through additional products and sales.
UoL research linking equine colic to tapeworm exposure has led to the widespread use of anti- tapeworm therapies to treat the two described forms of colic.
This has primarily manifested as worldwide changes to recommended protocols for treating equine colic effectively.
As a result, Proudman's research findings and conclusions have been incorporated (2010 - 2012) into equine healthcare guidelines and widely adopted in the UK and internationally.
Diagnosis and preventative treatment The development by the UoL of a serological test for tapeworm infection has given veterinary surgeons and researchers a risk assessment tool and which has become a key diagnostic assay that is in routine use in equine medicine.
The University of Liverpool operates a commercial diagnostic service for the test (branded as "Diagnosteq").
This service is widely used by vets in the UK and Europe.
During the period 2008 to 2012, the service tested 19,887 samples for clinicians to guide worm control programmes.
The serological test for equine tapeworm infection is unique to this laboratory.
The 'Diagnosteq' service has also undertaken serological testing for epidemiological research purposes on samples from 15 different countries, including the USA, Canada, Australia, Japan, France, Germany, Sweden, Norway, The Netherlands and Italy.
Proudman's research showed a clear reduction in colic risk when anti-tapeworm anthelmintics were used.
The launch of anti-tapeworm anthelmintics has been accompanied by extensive public engagement activities, including websites [e.g.
14] and CPD courses for equine surgeons [15] to raise public and industry awareness of the value of their usage to prevent life threatening colic in horses.
Awareness raising The importance of equine tapeworm control is now embedded in undergraduate veterinary curricula, CPD programmes for practising veterinary surgeons and training of lay prescribers of anthelmintic drugs (Suitably Qualified Persons) [8] and sources of professional information [9].
Increased awareness of intestinal tapeworms as a risk to horse health, plus the knowledge and products to implement effective tapeworm control is now widely available to the general public of horse owners [e.g.
7,10,11,12].
Equine anthelmintic market Recognising the significance of Proudman's research to equine healthcare programmes, several international animal health pharmaceutical companies have applied for marketing authorisation and launched anti-tapeworm anthelmintics for use in horses citing the UoL research as indicating a need for tapeworm control in horses.
Veterinary sales clearly indicate significant growth in the anti- tapeworm sector of the equine anthelmintic market.
During the impact qualifying period (2008 - 2012), five pharmaceutical companies (Elanco, Intervet, Merial, Pfizer and Virbac) were marketing between 15 - 17 anti-tapeworm products with &#163;9.7m sales in 2010.
This compares to a market of 5 products produced by 2 companies and annual sales of just &#163;3.9m in 2001; a 250% increase in sales.
Veterinary practise sales represent only 15-20% of total veterinary anthelmintic sales, the remainder being sold directly to horse-owners.
Some companies use serological testing for risk screening [13].
