     The impact being described in this case study relates to the influence of       Gainsborough's research &#8212; and specifically his reconceptualising of reform       in Vietnam &#8212; on the thinking and subsequent design of governance       programmes in Vietnam by the international donor community.
This section       of the case study is divided into three parts: pathways to impact, impact       during 2008-13 on thinking and on design of governance programmes, and the       reach and significance of the impact.
Pathways to impact     In 2005-06 Gainsborough was seconded to the UNDP in Hanoi as Senior       Technical Advisor to the Doi Moi Review, a $1.5 million project seeking to       learn lessons from twenty years of reform.
During this time, Gainsborough       had extensive exposure to both the Vietnamese government and the       international donor community, allowing him to develop formal and informal       ties with a wide range of donors in addition to UNDP.
As a member of the       donor community, Gainsborough attended official meetings and was able to       bring his expertise to bear in a wide range of fora, notably in relation       to debates on corruption.
Key dialogue partners at this time were the       World Bank, the UK's Department for International Development (DfID),       AusAID and the Swedish International Development Agency (SIDA).
Gainsborough's role in this review gave him an excellent opportunity to       show the relevance of his academic work to donors.
This led to him being       commissioned to do specific pieces of policy-oriented research.
Contact       with other organisations such as Irish Aid and Danish International       Development Agency within the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Denmark came       later, largely through members of the donor community sharing       Gainsborough's research with each other.
In 2005 Gainsborough formed the       Bristol-Mekong Project, a research and consultancy arm at the University       of Bristol designed to make the insights of academic research on Vietnam       available to practitioners (www.bristol.ac.uk/spais/research/bristol-mekong/).
In 2006 Gainsborough was commissioned by Transparency International to       write its National Integrity Systems report on Vietnam.
In 2007       Gainsborough produced a report for DfID on governance reform options for       Vietnam to 2020, addressing, amongst other things, donor engagement with       civil society.
Gainsborough is in regular demand as a consultant for the       international donor community in Vietnam.
Donors cite his work and say       that his work has been influential in their thinking and practice.
In 2008       Gainsborough was commissioned by UNDP to lead a research team looking at       corruption, public administration reform and development in Vietnam.
Again, all this activity contributed to Gainsborough's research [1] [2]       being picked up by the donor community, contributing to the impact       indicated below.
Impact 2008 &#8212; end July 2013     The impact of Gainsborough's research can be divided into two types:       changes to donor thinking and changes to the design of governance       programmes.
(a) Changes to thinking: During 2008-13 Gainsborough's research       has been an important influence on the way in which the international       donor community thinks about reform in Vietnam, and specifically the       political context in which it is operating.
The UNDP has said that       Gainsborough's work `provides clues on what issues to look at' when       discussing issues with policy makers [4] [b].
AusAid and UNDP have       highlighted how Gainsborough's work on corruption has been helpful in       understanding the Vietnamese political system on its own terms [f] [b].
Irish Aid has been influenced by the work Gainsborough conducted for DfID       on civil society.
Specifically, Gainsborough's research has had an impact       on Irish Aid's understanding of the links between the state and economic       private sector type activity in Vietnam.
In particular, Gainsborough       provided guidance in 2009 concerning how to engage the Communist Party.
Reports by Gainsborough based on his research [1] [2] [3] were cited by       the World Bank in its Modern Institutions, in its joint donor       analysis on Vietnam published in 2009 [a] and he was one of the four peer       reviewers of the document.
These changes in thinking have also occurred in the news media coverage       of these issues, attributed directly to the work of Gainsborough [4].
In       2010, Ben Bland, Indonesia Correspondent of the Financial Times,       set out his assessment of the importance of Gainsborough's research [4]:     Wandering through central Hanoi, where banners bearing Communist Party       slogans stretch over streets full of jewelry stores, designer clothes       outlets and fancy restaurants, it's all too easy to buy into the received       wisdom about how Vietnam got where it is today.
This view, which is shared       by the Communist Party and many international scholars alike, holds that       in 1986 the government launched a wide-ranging program of market-based       reforms ... Vietnam was thus turned from an isolated, poverty-stricken       nation into a bustling, middle-income country.
Or so the argument goes.
However, a new and important addition to the rather limited literature on       modern Vietnam seeks to explode this cozy consensus.
In his iconoclastic Vietnam:         Rethinking the State, Martin Gainsborough, a politics lecturer at       the University of Bristol, in England, argues that any attempt to examine       Vietnamese politics through the lens of "reform" is fundamentally flawed       [g].
In 2011, David Brown, a retired US diplomat wrote in Asia Times         Online and was similarly laudatory about the research [4] and its       significance:     Shortly before a party congress, documents that have been prepared for it       &#8212; in particular a political report and a 10-year socioeconomic strategy &#8212;       are redrafted, ostensibly to reflect the trend of all the opinions       expressed up to that point.
Academics and diplomats scrutinize them for       evidence of policy shifts but this is an exercise of dubious utility, as       Bristol University scholar Martin Gainsborough points out in his       remarkable new book Vietnam: Rethinking the State.
Like party       platforms in democracies, the political report and the strategy aim to       appeal to all and offend none &#8212; thus they become thoroughly homogenized in       the process of drafting by what is, in effect, a committee of the entire       political elite.
[h]     Gainsborough continues to be a key resource for journalists trying to       understand events in Vietnam, as can be seen from him being quoted in a       March 2013 article in The Atlantic that was shared on Facebook 174       times and on Twitter 195 times [j].
(b) Changes to the design of governance programmes: Changes to       donor thinking about Vietnam's politics in light of Gainsborough's       research have in turn influenced the way donors have designed their       governance programmes.
In 2007-09, AusAID moved from standalone aid       projects to greater reliance on Vietnamese government systems to deliver       their programmes (an approach which continues to this day).
Gainsborough's       research, AusAID said, was very helpful in thinking through the risks       associated with the changes and how they could be managed [f].
AusAID       described how Gainsborough's work, alongside other influences, `helped to       reshape the way in which Australia undertakes development in Vietnam and       this has endured today' [f].
In its 2007-10 country strategy for Vietnam,       Irish Aid introduced a `decentralised civil society fund' and moved to       `mainstream' governance considerations throughout their programme [d].
According to Irish Aid, Gainsborough's work was important in shaping and       justifying this approach.
It provided the `robust arguments' needed to       make the case for a new approach involving `separate financing direct to       government and the establishment of a decentralised fund which would       support civil society organisations' [e].
In addition, Gainsborough's       research on civil society and governance has informed Irish Aid's civil       society strategy for the period 2011-2015.
In 2011, UNDP described       Gainsborough's work on corruption and public administration reform as       having had a `positive policy impact' on its work, notably the emphasis it       now places on transparency in its discussions with the Vietnamese       government [b].
Furthermore, UNDP highlighted how Gainsborough's insights       on the enforceability of anti-corruption efforts in Vietnam [4] [5] [6]       currently inform UNDP's discussions on the amendment of the country's       anti-corruption laws [b].
Gainsborough's work on Vietnamese institutions,       especially the importance he places on understanding how institutions are       perceived at the local level [2], has influenced the way in which the       World Bank designs its policy interventions.
Freedom House described how       Gainsborough's 2010 Vietnam country report for its Countries at the         Crossroads publication (http://www.freedomhouse.org/report/freedom-world/2010/vietnam)       had been `disseminated among many of the top policy makers and academics       who shape development and foreign policy related to Vietnam' [c].
See also       its 2012 report [i] and its reference to his research [1].
Freedom House       explained that the report had informed the World Bank's Worldwide         Governance Indicators (http://info.worldbank.org/governance/wgi/index.aspx#home).
The indicators cover six areas which capture the quality of a given       country's governance (voice and accountability, political stability and       absence of violence, government effectiveness, regulatory quality, rule of       law, and control of corruption).
Gainsborough's report included both a       qualitative analysis and quantitative scores covering these areas, which       alongside other data was used to inform the indicators.
The indicators are       widely used by governments, civil society, and the private sector.
The reach and significance of the impact     The reach of the impact described in this case study is mainly focused on       Vietnam and the work of the international donor community in that country.
It has also fed into wider Freedom House and World Bank analysis and some       of the people Gainsborough has worked with have gone on to hold senior       posts elsewhere in the aid system.
Vietnam is the thirteenth most populous       country in the world with a population of 90 million.
Redesign of donor       support for Vietnam's governance has been rolled out across the country.
In terms of the research's significance, Gainsborough's research is one of       a number of influences on donor thinking and practice.
However, his       research has been acknowledged by donors as having been made a major       contribution to their understanding of the context in which they are       operating and their subsequent policy design.
The research has also had a       continuing impact of news media coverage of these issues.
