     Foundations     Duffield's impact since 2008 has its foundations in his directly relevant       and considerable       experience in the field.
From 1985-1989, he was Oxfam's Country       Representative in Sudan,       responsible for managing under challenging conditions what was, at the       time, its largest overseas       humanitarian and development programme.
In 1991 Duffield was commissioned       to write an       internal agency report, Oxfam's Emergency Response to the Gulf War.
In 1993 Norwegian       Church Aid appointed Duffield PI on a project investigating humanitarian       intervention in Ethiopia       and Eritrea.
In 1994 he produced a report for the United Nations       Children's Fund on Complex         Political Emergencies in Angola and Bosnia.
In 1994-95 Duffield was       appointed Team Leader by       the Catholic Association for Development to evaluate the Sudan         Emergency Operations         Consortium.
In 1995-96 he was commissioned by the United Nations       Department of Humanitarian       Affairs to coordinate the Evaluation of the UN's Operation Lifeline         Sudan.
In 1996 the Swedish       International Development Co-operation Agency employed Duffield to work on       its Evaluation of         Social Reconstruction in Croatia and Bosnia.
In 1998 DfID appointed       him to lead an evaluation       team on the DfID Contribution to Poverty Reduction in Mozambique.
In 1999-2000 he was Team       Leader (North Sudan) on the Evaluation of European Commission         Humanitarian Office         Assistance to Sudan.
In 2001 he led a research team to evaluate the       UN's Strategic Framework       for Afghanistan.
Thus, over nearly two decades Duffield had extensive       exposure to humanitarian       and aid agencies and donor governments, allowing him to develop formal and       informal ties with a       wide range of key actors.
This close, sustained involvement with diverse       agencies, issues and       crises brought the merging of development and security to his attention.
Impact 2008-13     The thinking developed in Duffield's research [1] was brought to bear on       two UN-funded       missions [7] [8] at the start of this period which in turn led to a       further research output [2].
In 2007-08       he headed a research team examining how development agencies operate in       the `difficult       environment' of Myanmar and in 2008 he ran the evaluation of UNHCR's       reintegration       programme in South Sudan and Blue Nile State.
Through these engagements       two new themes of       his work came into focus &#8212; implausible self-reliance and aid       bunkerisation.
This led directly to       Duffield's 2010-13 ESRC-DfID project [9] on achieving aid policy coherence       in challenging       environments.
It was conducted in conjunction with the Overseas       Development Institute (ODI)'s       Humanitarian Practice Network (HPN) which has members in over 130       countries.
It also had an       International Reference Group (IRG) throughout as a platform for two-way       learning.
The IRG was       exceptionally high level and wide-ranging including the following and       their representatives: UN       Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs; European Inter-agency       Security Forum       Coordinator; WFP; US Agency for International Development Senior Adviser       on Business       Transformation and Bureau of Policy Planning and Learning; Senior Advisor,       Emergencies,       Danish Church Aid; Humanitarian Director, Oxfam; Policy Development and       Evaluation Service,       UNHCR; US Social Science Research Council; Director, Humanitarian Policy;       Save the Children       Fund, Somalia; Director, Humanitarian Practice Group, ODI; DfID       Stabilisation Unit; Director,       Humanitarian Accountability Partnership International; Head of       Humanitarian Section, Danish       Ministry of Foreign Affairs; Interpeace; Peace Training and Research       Organisation, Afghanistan.
This degree of buy-in is indicative of the attention paid by top       practitioners to his research.
The ESRC-DfID project has brought to the attention of practitioners       Duffield's two latest       themes &#8212; the problems for resilience posed by pervasive risk [5] and the       difficulties faced by       attempts at the remote management of aid as a response to the risks faced       by aid workers [6].
They and others are trying to think through its implications.
Duffield       spoke in March 2010 at a       Wilton Park conference supported by the Australian Agency for       International Development, Royal       Norwegian Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Swedish International Development       Cooperation Agency       and Foreign Office with senior figures from the International Security       Assistance Force in Kabul,       DfID, the UN Mission in Afghanistan and the US Department of Defence.
These issues, including       explicit reference to Duffield's work, formed part of the discussion of       the High Level Expert Forum       on Food Security in Protracted Crises at the headquarters of the Food and       Agricultural       Organisation in Rome on 13-14 September 2012 [j].
In May 2013, Duffield       presented at the       Danish Institute for International Studies on the rise of humanitarian       remote management and the       respondent was the Secretary General of the Danish Red Cross       (http://subweb.diis.dk/sw128386.asp).
Policymakers and aid workers of many kinds report that Duffield's       research has had a       major impact on their thinking and practices.
An independent consultant       advising DfID on conflict       analysis and formerly of Oxfam has described how Duffield's groundbreaking       work made       practitioners aware that aid was being managed from a security       perspective.
The consultant       highlighted how specialists in the field refer to Duffield's work since he       is considered one of a       small number of key worldwide experts on the relationship between aid and       security, and the       politicisation of aid more generally [b].
The WFP has highlighted the       importance and relevance of       Duffield's work on issues related to humanitarian space, in particular the       politicisation of aid and       the bunkering of the aid industry, and its impact on access and the       relationship between aid       workers and beneficiaries.
The WFP concurs with Duffield's position that       practitioners are not as       close to the community as they need to be in order to understand       beneficiaries' needs.
Furthermore, the WFP anticipates that Duffield's research on the       security/development nexus and       the containment of populations will likely inform future work undertaken       by WFP on the complexity       of forced migration [b].
Independent Diplomat's Representative in Juba,       South Sudan, has       highlighted the importance of Duffield's work [4], which he valued enough       to disseminate widely to       contacts in the aid community and to Government of South Sudan officials.
The Juba       Representative stated that he delivered a lecture recently at the Danish       Defence Academy in       which he had cited Duffield extensively [e].
The co-founder of the Enough       Project on ending       genocide and crimes against humanity in Africa has said that Duffield's       work has been central to       the NGO's understandings of conflict dynamics.
Duffield's search for       answers that go beyond       conventional explanations has influenced Enough in its endeavour to seek       answers to structural       causes, rather than simply proximate reasons for conflict [c].
According       to the Research Director       at M&#233;decins sans Fronti&#232;res (MSF) `Mark Duffield is one of the most       stimulating academics       writing on humanitarian practices.
His work has been very influential       within MSF especially to       understand the evolution of our operational environment and the policies       we are dealing with ...       one can legitimately claim [that] Mark Duffield is among the key thinkers       that helped MSF to       autonomise itself from the liberal peace agenda' [d].
Duffield is frequently interviewed by journalists, including radio and TV       programme       researchers.
In 2011 Duffield's insights were featured extensively in The         Guardian's Global       Development Poverty Matters blog, generating 27 comments.
The article       included this point: `It is       not hard to see why it is becoming ever more difficult for aid-workers to       do what they got into the       industry to do.
How can they, Duffield challenges us to consider, in a       world where they are taught       in countless security training courses: "If you see an accident, don't       stop, think carjack!"'
Duffield       helped in the production of a two-hour television documentary `The Trouble       With Aid' that was       broadcast by BBC Four on 9 December 2012 (http://www.bbc.co.uk/programmes/b01p8tkm).
In sum, as a 2012 report from the Feinstein International Centre put it:       `The terminology of       "the securitization of aid" and much of its intellectual underpinning has       been provided by       Professor Mark Duffield' [j] (p. 9 n. 3).
