     Awareness-raising     The Government directly responded to the first research findings [1] by       commissioning a &#163;1.8 million public awareness media campaign on the issue       of teenage partner violence.
Barter and Berridge acted as expert       consultants on the campaign, which ran in February 2010.
It included a       commissioned short film on teenage relationship abuse which was shown on       all major terrestrial and cable TV channels and in cinemas.
Awareness-raising advertisements were also placed in a range of teenage       magazines and posted in public toilets and schools.
A website &#8212; `this is       abuse' &#8212; was launched, aimed at raising awareness of this issue for 13 to       19 year-olds.
The current Government repeated the campaign (&#163;1.5 million)       in 2011-2012 and commissioned a new awareness campaign on teenage sexual       violence which ran in 2012 and 2013.
The total governmental financial       commitment to raising awareness around this issue is &#163;4.5 million to date.
Barter has acted as an expert consultant on all the campaigns.
A quote       from the Home Office lead in this area directly acknowledges the research       findings' impact:     "In 2009 Home Office Communication and Violent Crime Unit colleagues were       working together to consider the need for a Domestic Violence campaign.
The NSPCC research `Teen partner violence' published in 2009 backed up the       Home Office findings but also found that the attitudes of teenagers were       shockingly tolerant of violence in relationships but that many of them had       also experienced violence themselves.
It was these revealing findings         that influenced the Home Office to target teenagers about relationship         abuse with the intention of challenging these attitudes and to       engage and educate teens before controlling, violent or coercive       behaviours became entrenched.
The Home Office contacted Dr Christine       Barter from Bristol University... to agree to work together to develop a       longer term X-Government campaign strategy to this end.
The campaign has       now been running for 4 years and a Teen Rape prevention campaign was also       developed alongside.
Dr Barter has consulted with the Home Office on these       two campaigns since 2009 and continues to do so" [a].
The Home Office evaluation [b] of the first `this is abuse' campaign in       2011 showed it reached 2.9 million young people &#8212; equating to 60% of the       13 to 19 year-old target group.
The online advertisements were displayed       120 million times and over 397,000 young people clicked on the online       adverts to access information.
Click-through to campaign content from       online ads was very high at 33%.
The parents' advertisements reached 10.2       million people, 47% of the target audience.
Over 90% of young people       polled felt the campaign had made them think about the issue and/or       encouraged them to challenge abuse in their own or friends' relationships.
The domestic violence charity Refuge noticed an increase in the number of       calls from young women from the time the campaign started (increasing from       an average of 46 per week pre-campaign to 71 per week in the period 15       February to 31 March 2010).
Anecdotally, during this time the number of       calls to the charity Respect rose and Women's Aid reported a substantial       increase in traffic on their `Hideout' message board aimed at young       people.
The Home Office evaluation of the second campaign [c] showed that 540,000       web users accessed further information or help during the 2012 activity,       providing evidence that &#8212; according to the Home Office assessment &#8212; `the       campaign has been effective in delivering intermediate behavioural       change'.
The website had more hits than any other domestic violence       campaign.
In 2012, Yahoo had 1,286 question threads relating to the       campaign and associated issues.
Policy     The previous Government's review on the sexualisation of girls and women       [d] drew heavily on the research.
A section was included specifically on       teenage partner violence (chapter 7) and highlighted the research findings       and their importance.
Barter, who gave evidence to the review, was       directly quoted in the report.
A statement from the Home Office lead       explains the direct impact of the research findings: "In 2009, I was the       Home Office policy lead on the Sexualisation of Young People Review,       conducted by Dr Linda Papadopoulos.
As part of the research for this       review I became aware of the research that the NSPCC (Barter et al 2009)       had commissioned on the impact of teenage relationship abuse.
Following       evidence hearing sessions to discuss this research, a recommendation       was...included in the government strategy, Together we can end         violence against women and girls (2009).
The recommendation was to       run a campaign aimed at challenging the attitudes and perceptions that       lead to violence within teenage relationships as the first phase in a       broader cross-government communications strategy/campaign" [e].
In response, the Department for Children, Schools and Families Violence       against Women and Girls Advisory Group Recommendations and Strategy [f]       and Response [g] clearly identified teenage relationship violence as a       priority.
Keir Starmer QC [h], Director of Public Prosecutions, in a speech on the       Crown Prosecution Service and domestic violence, quoted the research to       highlight the importance of recognising the problem of intimate violence       in young people's relationships.
In 2012, the age at which domestic       violence can be officially recorded by the Police was reduced from 18 to       16 years old.
The research findings were widely referenced in the       accompanying consultation [i].
Practice     The Scottish Government commissioned the film Crush in response       to the research findings.
The film has been shown in schools in Scotland       since January 2011, targeting 16 to 18 year-olds.
Since August 2011       Domestic Abuse Resources and Training for Schools in Scotland (DARTSS) has       been including the film in a teaching pack as part of an educational       programme for all Scottish schools.
Shona Bruce from the Scottish       Government, who oversaw all aspects of the programme, stated:     "In the Reduce Abuse Project we have used both research reports [1, 3],       to influence practice.
We carry out work with staff and young people to       challenge attitudes and address violence against women, to improve       outcomes for local children and young people.
We have built the research       findings into training of teachers and multi-agency staff on teen       relationship abuse, and were recently delivering training to staff in the       Looked After and Accommodated Children's (LAAC) field, and were able to       use findings from 'Standing on my own two feet' [3] to raise       awareness of issues specific to disadvantaged young people."
[j]     A wide range of regional initiatives have been developed in response to       the research.
For example, in Bristol the Personal, Social and Health       Education (PSHE) curriculum manual has been rewritten in the light of the       research projects and the Domestic Violence Strategy has identified       violence in teenage relationships as a policy and practice priority.
Barter has worked alongside a number of young people's organisations to       develop resources on the issue.
Media     The research findings have generated significant media interest.
The       initial findings (1/9/2009-3/09/2009) were widely reported.
There were       articles in five tabloids (average coverage 365 words) and four       broadsheets (average coverage 455 words) &#8212; the total number of `first'       readerships for the national news outlets was 6,850,000.
36 national and       international media websites ran the story, and BBC Online News reported       it as the `most read' story.
Four international news agencies covered the       story.
Six national television channels aired it, with a total of 18       repeated news items/bulletins.
12 national radio stations broadcast a       total of 42 related news bulletins.
In addition, there was regional       coverage by 47 local radio stations and 79 local newspapers.
Barter has       undertaken a wide range of radio interviews, including three BBC Radio 4       half-hour interviews aimed at raising awareness of the issue for parents       and professionals.
There has been substantial additional media coverage following the second       report, and the research has been quoted in more than ten subsequent       national press stories.
In terms of the wider media impact, Barter acted as a consultant for the       BBC series Casualty &#8212; which included a four-episode story on a       teenage girl's abusive relationship with her boyfriend &#8212; and for a BBC3       and BBC Education training pack on teenage partner violence in 2012 aimed       at young people.
She is currently advising on a one-hour film for the BBC       aimed at raising young people's awareness of the problem.
She is also       acting as a consultant for the Home Office awareness unit, which is       currently preparing new resources to accompany the next campaign planned       for 2013.
This work includes developing a storyline for the TV soap opera       Hollyoaks.
