     Following the high profile murder of Victoria Climbi&#233; by her carers in       Haringey, London, the Government commissioned the Laming Report.
Laming       concluded that "The suffering and death of Victoria was a gross failure of       the system and was inexcusable".
As part of the solution, he asserted       that:     "Multi-agency training is important in helping professionals understand       the respective roles and responsibilities and the procedures of each       agency involved in child protection, in developing a joint understanding       of assessment and decision making practices...However, the scale and       quality of multi-agency training needs to be substantially improved..."       (5.18).
As part of the Government's response to Laming, the departments       responsible for health and education jointly commissioned the Safeguarding       Children Research Initiative.
This programme of research studies was       intended to provide a stronger evidence base for the development of policy       and practice aimed at improving the protection of children in England.
John Carpenter in Bristol's School for Policy Studies proposed an       evaluation of the organisation, outcomes and costs of existing       safeguarding training.
He pointed out that the evidence to support       Laming's assertions about the value of inter-agency training, its scale       and quality was entirely lacking.
The proposal was successful and from the beginning generated significant       interest from policymakers in both departments.
This was reinforced by       presentations at a series of seminars for policymakers held as part of the       research initiative.
There was praise from policy makers for the extent       and quality of the study and the encouraging nature of the findings.
Within weeks of the report [1] being submitted, presentations of the       findings were requested at the annual conference of the Association for       Directors of Children's Services, the Children's Workforce Development       Council and a major conference in Westminster on the Government's response       to Laming's One Year On report [a].
The Government's (2010) revision of Working Together [b] made       explicit reference to the research in chapter 4 on training, which has the       status of statutory guidance.
As quoted above in Sec.
3, the Government       was able, for the first time, to cite research about the outcomes of       inter-agency training and emphasise its importance.
This section of the       guidance draws very heavily on the research.
Other key findings which are       referenced include the effectiveness of LSCB-managed training and the       strengths and vulnerabilities in the system.
The findings on the       effectiveness on inter-agency training have been taken up by LSCBs and       have been used in the revision of LSCB's annual plans and promotion of       inter-agency training locally, for example by London LSCB [c].
A survey of       training coordinators (n = 42) in the North and Midlands (August 2013)       showed that all were aware of the research and 98% had cited it in their       training strategies and funding plans (report available).
The Royal College of Paediatrics and Child Health on behalf of the other       Royal Colleges of Medicine and Nursing (2010) reviewed the roles and       competences of health care staff, citing the research report as a primary       source for England [d].
Among the findings of the research was the fact       that GPs were under-represented in inter-agency training; this is a matter       of great concern given their key role in the child protection system.
This       message was emphasised by the Department for Education (2011) in a       research briefing [e]:     "Attendance at LSCB inter-agency training events is effective in making       links and encouraging a better understanding of shared roles and       responsibilities between professionals.
GPs, in particular, need to       prioritise attendance at these events and collectively shape and       contribute to an effective and efficient local training programme."
In the survey of training coordinators, 80% were aware of this finding       and, of these, 96% had made efforts to increase participation, with       notable success.
For example, a review of Northumberland LSCB's training       strategy, which refers to the research, reported that their efforts had       resulted in a 30% increase in GPs participating in inter-agency training       (Recommendation 6) [f].
The Munro Review of Child Protection commissioned by the coalition       Government (2011) reiterated the findings of the research on effectiveness       (Sec.
4.15) and went further to warn &#8212; as the research had &#8212; about the       threat to inter-agency training posed by cuts to LSCB budgets [g].
The       survey found that 79% of training budget levels had been maintained in       spite of cuts to partner agency budgets and that extensive programmes were       being provided: 62% of LSCBs had actually increased their provision and       only two had reduced it.
Picking up another recommendation from the findings, Munro also stressed       that training should be evaluated (Sec.
4.16).
With the encouragement of       Piat (the organisation of inter-agency trainers in child protection) and       the technical support of the NSPCC, the research team developed an       interactive evaluation toolkit [h].
This contains everything necessary for       conducting a rigorous evaluation, including letters to participants, a set       of scales which were designed and validated for the research and       downloadable Excel spread-sheets for data entry which automatically       generate charts showing the results and enable comparison with the       findings from the research.
Fifteen LSCBs in the survey had used this       resource as part of their training strategy &#8212; for example, in North       Yorkshire and Coventry [i].
In addition to the Department for Education's promotion of the findings       [a], the research was one of four studies chosen to feature in a seminar       for policymakers, researchers and representatives of professional bodies       in 2011.
This seminar launched the overview of the outcomes of the whole       Safeguarding Children research initiative in the Department's highly       influential Messages from Research series [j] in which the       findings of this "high quality" study are summarised and discussed.
Summary       The beneficiaries from this research are policymakers in government       departments and across England in the LSCBs which are providing and       promoting inter-agency training.
The research has provided the missing       evidence for its effectiveness and of the necessary organisational       arrangements.
Through this training, which is currently being delivered to       an estimated 100,000 participants annually, professionals from health,       social services and education are learning how to work together more       effectively.
The researchers would not claim that training alone is       sufficient to prevent child deaths, but this initiative can hope to reduce       the number of gross system failures identified by Lord Laming as       contributing to the death of Victoria Climbi&#233;.
