     Impact on policing       In evidence collected during a Knowledge Transfer Partnership (KTP)       project [see source [a], section 5], interviews with stakeholders and       criminal justice staff in the North East indicated that while the       Northumbria police were initially concerned that the attrition study       findings were critical of their response to domestic abuse incidents, they       were in fact receptive to those findings.
The findings were said to       contribute to a raised awareness within Northumbria of inconsistency in       the charges made against alleged perpetrators of domestic violence       incidents and contributed to the re-examination of the police response to       such incidents.
The attrition study has subsequently influenced policing and police       responses to domestic violence across Europe, since it was used       extensively as a source of evidence in a report in 2012 entitled Overcoming         attrition in domestic violence cases [b].
This report was       commissioned by the Cyprus Police as the background and guiding paper to a       wider project on domestic violence which has subsequently resulted in a       European Police Handbook on Good Practice on Overcoming Attrition in       Domestic Violence within the framework of the Cyprus Presidency of the       Council of the European Union.
The editor of the report has described       Hester's research as "influential and guiding ... [as] is evident in the       report" [c].
Hester's research provides much of the evidence base for the       report and specifically informs the report's recommendations that domestic       violence interventions should have a multi-agency approach at their       foundation, that interventions should be conducted according to a victim       safety-centred approach, and that where victims have dropped out of legal       proceedings "Victimless" investigations should be pursued where possible.
Hester contributed to the drafting of the European Police Handbook, when       it was presented at a workshop drawing the CEPOL Presidency Conference in       July 2012.
The handbook received final approval by the European Commission       in November 2012.
[c]     Impact on policy       There are many examples of how the studies have been used to inform UK       criminal justice policy and guidance since 2008.
The attrition study was       referenced numerous times in the Home Affairs Select Committee Report on       domestic violence in 2008 [d].
For example, Hester's work was cited as       evidence that only a quarter of domestic violence cases which are reported       result in arrest.
As a result of this report, the Home Office commissioned       a review from the Association of Chief Police Officers (ACPO) in 2008       entitled "Tackling perpetrators of violence against women and girls" [e],       which specifically cites the Select Committee Report.
The review attests,       "Professor Marianne Hester and her team at the University of Bristol were       commissioned to compile the research and related evidence for the Review."
All three of the research studies described above were used as evidence       for the review, but the perpetrator study [2] was particularly influential       in informing the following recommendation, "This Review recommends that       the law be changed to permit the registration and `tracking' of serial       perpetrators of violence against women and girls".
[e, p11 and 34]     The ACPO review then formed the basis of the Domestic Violence Disclosure       Scheme Consultation and Pilot Scheme, popularly known as "Clare's Law".
[f] The consultation exercise asked for views on three options:            continue current arrangements under existing law       a "right to ask" national disclosure scheme       a "right to know" national disclosure scheme          On the basis of the results of the consultation exercise a one-year pilot       commenced in the summer of 2012 to test out a domestic violence disclosure       scheme in the police force areas of Greater Manchester, Gwent,       Nottinghamshire and Wiltshire.
The pilot is testing a process for enabling       the police to disclose to the public information about previous violent       offending by a new or existing partner where this may help protect them       from further violent offending.
The pilot is testing two types of process       for disclosing this information.
The first would be triggered by a request       by a member of the public ("right to ask").
The second would be triggered       by the police where they make a proactive decision to disclose the       information in order to protect a potential victim ("right to know").
Both       processes can be implemented within existing legal powers.
The impact of this research into domestic violence has also extended       beyond the UK.
Interview data collected during the KTP reveals that the       attrition study findings were used as evidence in the passage of the       aggravated domestic violence bill by the New York State Assembly (June       2011).
This legislation establishes the felony crime of aggravated family       offence for cases in which an offender is repeatedly convicted of abuse       against a family member.
The interviewee, explained, "a lot of the       argument was drawn from the attrition study that showed that multiple       offences were treated no differently than the initial offences."
[a]     The attrition study was cited in a report commissioned by Her Majesty's       Prison Cardiff on restorative justice and domestic violence with the aim       of increasing the effectiveness of their programmes with domestic violence       perpetrators [g].
Interview data from the attrition study was used as part       of a review commissioned by Her Majesty's Inspectorate of Constabulary and       Her Majesty's Crown Prosecution Inspectorate to inform their joint       thematic inspection of the investigation and prosecution of domestic       violence cases [h].
In addition, the studies were included in a literature       review commissioned by the Crown Prosecution Service and the Department of       Constitutional Affairs to help the criminal and civil justice government       agencies judge the effectiveness of specialist courts and to inform the       government policy debate on specialist courts [i].
Impact on professionals and practitioners       The perpetrator study [2] has been used widely within the national       organisation RESPECT (the UK membership association for domestic violence       perpetrator programmes and associated support services) to inform their       work with professionals and practitioners, for example in training       materials and presentations delivered to a wide range of professionals and       practitioners [j].
The findings on men seeking help and approaching their       GPs was included in ten training events about perpetrators delivered       during 2011 to NHS staff, social workers, drug and alcohol workers, mental       health teams and council staff across London and East Sussex.
The gender       of perpetrator study [3 &amp; 4] has been placed on the list of required       reading for Domestic Homicide Review panels by the Home Office Reader as       part of the quality assurance process.
In September 2012 Marianne Hester was awarded an OBE for her contribution       to the prevention of domestic violence.
