     The impact since 2008 of Modood's research has taken the following main       forms:     Operation of legislation on religious discrimination and incitement to         hatred     The continuing operation since 2008 of legislation on religious       discrimination and incitement to hatred has its origins in part in       Modood's work.
The introduction of a religion question in the 2001 Census       and of monitoring and targeting of Pakistanis and Bangladeshis per se       (as distinct from `ethnic minorities') in relation to disadvantage in       schools and labour markets was encouraged by his research [1].
The primary       mode of impact in relation to law and policies was the take-up of Modood's       research and ideas [1] [2] by Muslim and multiculturalist proponents of       change.
These included the Muslim Council of Britain (MCB) [c], who       effectively lobbied for action with their allies in the New Labour       government, and the Commission on Multi-Ethnic Britain (1998-2000),       chaired by Lord Bhikhu Parekh, to which Modood was the adviser [d].
Modood's data and arguments [1] were one of the key sources that led to       the outlawing of religious discrimination.
Initially this related only to       employment (2003), but the provisions were extended in 2007 and scaled up       to match all other equality strands in the Equalities Act of 2010 [i].
In       addition, Modood's work [1] helped in the creation of the offence of       incitement to religious hatred in 2006, the ongoing significance of which       is reflected in the statistics: the number of claims accepted by       employment tribunals in relation to religious belief discrimination is       currently averaging over 1,000 a year.
The fact that opinion on matters       such as incitement to religious hatred has swung in Modood's direction is       evident from British newspapers' decision in 2005 not to reproduce the       Danish Muhammad cartoons, in contrast to their counterparts in France and       Germany (and to their own earlier lack of sympathy for Muslim protests       against The Satanic Verses).
In public discourse and government       policy, Muslims have remained the most prominent minority group.
The       Secretary General of the MCB attests that Modood's work [1] on the       incitement to hatred and religious discrimination debate `shaped the       Muslim community's discourse and campaigning efforts eventually leading to       changes in legislation and greater equity in society'.
He also notes that       Modood's research [1, 2] has "introduced a rich set of concepts and       notions that has enabled community organisations to participate in       national conversations in an informed and effective way" [c].
The Census       data on religion is being used not just to analyse diversity and       inequality but more widely to discuss the place of religion in British       society.
Operation of racial equality policies in higher education     Modood's report with Carter and Fenton [5] on ethnicity and employment in       higher education was widely reported at the time in 2000, including two       pages in the Times Higher Education Supplement and was explicitly       adopted as the basis for action by the Department for Education, Committee       of Vice Chancellors and Principals, Association of University Teachers       (AUT), National Association of Teachers in Further and Higher Education       (NATFHE) and others.
Hence it was foundational in the introduction and       development of racial equality employment policies.
The policies initiated       in the sector as a result of this publication continue to be significant       post-2008 with the HEFCE Equality Challenge Unit having created new `Race       Charter Marks' in 2013 and Operation Black Vote - a collaboration between       Charter 88 and the 1990 Trust - referring directly in April 2013 to       Modood's research [5] on racial inequality in Higher Education (www.obv.org.uk/news-blogs/black-british-academics)       [g].
The work (with M. Shiner) [4] on ethnic differentials in student       admission rates was picked up by the 2004 Schwartz Review on Fair         Admissions to Higher Education: Recommendations for Good Practice       (2004) and in 2005 HEFCE replicated the Shiner and Modood analysis.
The       debate is being continued by a new analysis by Shiner and Modood currently       under review with a journal.
Modood's research [1] [4] (with that of       Khattab) was fed into the ten-member National Equality Panel, on which he       served.
The panel's report in January 2010 received extensive publicity       and has been welcomed by policymakers and practitioners at all levels of       government and civil society across many policy areas.
Deputy Prime       Minister Harriet Harman described the National Equality Panel report as       `important work done to the highest standard of professionalism ...       [which] will underpin the response by all strategic authorities to Clause       One of the Equality Bill which places a new legal duty on key public       bodies to consider, in all the important decisions they make and all       important actions they take, how they can tackle socio-economic       inequality' [a].
Modood had laid some of the groundwork on these issues at       the Prime Ministerial Seminar on Equality, Fairness and Responsibility in       the Post-Crisis Society at Chequers in October 2009 [j].
Acceptance of moderate secularism as a resource for the accommodation         of Muslims     Many Muslims and others have been persuaded since 2008 by Modood's view       that the moderate secularism of Britain should be seen as a valuable       resource for the accommodation of Muslims [3].
On the need to rethink       secularism, Modood contributed to a seminar organised by the Islamic       Foundation's Policy Research Centre and a related book [e].
His chapter of       the book published in 2010 is responded to by the key social policy       advisers Ted Cantle (a leading proponent of the policy concept of       `community cohesion' in the New Labour government) and Sunder Katwala       (Director, Fabian Society), to whom he replies.
The book - British         Secularism and Religion - endorses Modood's idea that the moderate       secularism of Britain has been misunderstood by its critics and proponents       and is a resource for the accommodation of Muslims in a multicultural way       as well as a key vehicle for discussion amongst Muslims and between       Muslims and others.
Modood is a Commissioner and Steering Group member of       the new Commission on Multi-Faith Britain, chaired by Baroness Elisabeth       Butler-Schloss, established in September 2013, with a brief to report in       two years on the policy and national identity implications of the evolving       place of religion and religious diversity in Britain [i].
Creation and enhancement of mechanisms of Muslim participation in         governance     The primary focus of Modood's current research-based impact interventions       has been on enhancing online and face to face mechanisms of Muslim       participation in contemporary governance.
The assessors of the proposal       for Modood's AHRC-funded work (with O'Toole, Sociology, Bristol) on this       topic [9] awarded it the highest score of `6' and judged it to be       `outstanding' and `world-leading'.
The project was awarded AHRC Follow-on       Funding [10] to create an online knowledge exchange forum, Public Spirit (http://www.publicspirit.org.uk/),       on the subject of religion and public policy, for researchers,       policymakers, politicians and practitioners.
Launched in June 2013,       participants include personnel from the All-Party Parliamentary Group on       Faith and Society and FaithAction, the national network of faith-based       organisations.
Modood and O'Toole run a related ESRC-funded Connected       Communities project on Muslim political participation in Bristol, Building       the Bridge (http://www.allmosquestogether.org/building-the-bridge/)       which in August 2013 [11] extended work begun in 2009.
The focus is on       preventing violent extremism: it responds to the Government's Prevent       Strategy through Muslim participation in local governance.
Its activities       include regular meetings between stakeholder such as the Council of       Bristol Mosques and the Muslim Women's Network.
Awareness raising and agenda setting through public engagement     During 2008-2013, Modood has presented his views on Muslims and       multiculturalism in a number of fora and through the national media,       including BBC2 Newsnight and BBC Radio 4's The World Tonight, Start The       Week, Thinking Allowed and The Moral Maze.
He averages six presentations       at policy/public events, plus five radio and two television interviews,       each year.
He also blogs and engages through Twitter and Facebook.
Modood       was described in 2011 as `One of the most prominent voices [in the       debate].
[He] has greatly influenced the way multiculturalism is       understood both normatively and practically in contemporary Europe' [f].
In 2013 another scholar cited him as an example of how `political       theorists generate impact [on] our thinking about politics', specifically,       `helping to clarify and reconfigure our understanding about ... the       foundations of our multiple identities and issues pertaining to ...       religious toleration as well as reasonable difference' [h].
Continuing adherence to multiculturalism among Muslim and government         actors     Lord Bhikhu Parekh summarised the impact since 2008 of Modood's research       on the debate on secularism, the widespread discussion of Britishness, and       the development of a sophisticated and politically meaningful form of       multiculturalism, as follows:     In all three areas his writings represent decisive interventions in the       onging debate.
They have questioned the traditional ways of formulating       the debate, problematized what has often been taken for granted, offerred       a new conceptual language, and put novel questions on the agenda.
In so       doing they have subtly altered the nature and content of much of the       dominant discourse in these areas, a truly remarkable achievement ...
Many       liberal Muslims have also been influenced by his way of thinking and have       found in his writings powerful ammunition to counter their militant fellow       Muslims.
Modood's impact thus has been both on those who make policies and       those who demand and are affected by it.
[d]     See also [c].
A recent example of Modood's contribution to policy and       national thinking on these issues was through the Labour Party 'One       Nation' Policy Review of late 2012 to January 2013 [b].
