     The research conducted by Washbrook and colleagues was a key influence on       the Independent       Review on Poverty and Life Chances commissioned by the Prime Minister and       conducted by Frank       Field MP in 2010[a].
The impact of this work is illustrated by the fact       the Review team approached       Washbrook in autumn 2010 in order to commission further analyses       specifically to inform and       support the recommendations of the Review [2].
The remit was to test the       extent to which the key       drivers identified from previous work (including [1][[4][5]) explained the       gap in children's outcomes       between those from low income households and the average at age five; and       to model the extent to       which varying the key drivers narrowed these gaps.
The results showed that       each of the factors had       a small but cumulative role in explaining the gap, and that in total they       could account for virtually all       the gaps between low-income children and average children.
The importance       of a broad range of       parental behaviours and home investments was again confirmed.
The       significance of research       impact is demonstrated by the Review concluding with three major       recommendations: that       parenting education be provided in schools to ensure that society       consistently develops knowledge       on the importance of the early years of life; that indicators be       constructed to measure the life       chances of children based on what the evidence says drives good outcomes       in the early years;       and, that the `Foundation Years' be established to coordinate all services       for the under 5s - ranging       from midwifery to pre-school services.
Field has commented on "how       important [Washbrook's]       analysis of the correlation between the indicators and the income based       gap at age five was to the       work of the Review" [h].
The conclusions of the Review itself, as well as Washbrook's earlier       research, have figured       prominently in a range of government strategy documents relating to Social       Justice, Child Poverty,       the Foundation Years and Social Mobility, while the notion that the       `Foundation Years' (a term       coined by the Field Review) are a critical period in the emergence of       social inequality has been       widely accepted in government [b][c][d][e][i].
The Deputy Prime Minister,       author of the Social       Mobility Strategy cited work by Washbrook and Waldfogel as among the       "evidence for the impact of       pre-school learning on life chances [that] has become unanswerable" [f].
In 2012, Washbrook gave       one of three invited presentations at a seminar for Elizabeth Truss MP at       the Palace of       Westminster, hosted by the Foundation Years Action Group.
Elizabeth Truss       has responsibility for       childcare and early learning within the Department for Education.
Also       attending were the Director       of the Early Years and Special Needs Group, and the DfE's Chief Research       Officer.
Frank Field,       who chairs the Group, has since noted the "very high quality of [that]       presentation" and has used it       in lobbying conversations with the Education Minister [h].
The research impact has outstanding reach in UK, but also very strong       potential for future       international impact, given one identifiable area of impact relates       closely to global priorities and lies       in the development of indicators of early child development that can be       used to evaluate the       effectiveness of interventions, monitor progress in this area and hold the       government accountable.
The Foundation Trust, which Field chairs, has commissioned academics at       the Centre for Family       Studies to operationalize the factors identified by Washbrook's research       [2] as driving good       outcomes in early childhood via a set of indicators measured at ages 0, 3       and 5.
Trials of the       indicators will take place in Autumn 2013 in Birkenhead schools and will       be used to evaluate the       Springboard parenting project (see below) and other initiatives designed       to narrow the attainment       gap between poor and richer children [g].
In 2011 the Social Mobility       Strategy developed by the       Deputy Prime Minister accepted the recommendation that key life chances       indicators be collected       by government and used to assess the impact of policy [e].
It set out       plans to develop a measure of       school readiness and development up to age 5 that would form one of seven       official key lifetime       indicators.
An update on the Social Mobility Strategy published one year       later gave details of three       selected indicators relating to the Foundation Years, two of which were in       operation by that date       [i].The crucial importance of monitoring outcomes was also recognised in       the 2012 Social Justice       Strategy, which cited the Field Review as motivation for policy to       strengthen the evidence base on       the costs and benefits of early interventions.
In this strategy the       Secretary of State for Work and       Pensions set out plans to establish an Early Intervention Foundation that       will collate evidence on       early intervention, provide an overview of "what works" to local       authorities and commissioners,       signpost them to the best sources of evidence, and act as a hub for       existing expertise and services       in the field, commissioning work to fill gaps in knowledge [c].
Evidence on the importance of parenting, picked up in the Field review       recommendations, has led       to a host of new initiatives.
The findings of the research in [6], for       example, are cited in the 2011       Child Poverty Strategy as motivation for the "Government's drive to make       our society more family-friendly"       and the development of strategies to "enhance relationship and parenting       support" [b].
As       one example, the Foundation Trust commissioned the Springboard project in       Birkenhead, which       aims to develop a blueprint model of how to support parents with children       under five [g].
As part of a       two-year pilot, Springboard is currently recruiting and training       volunteers to work with 130 families,       with the aims of improving their parenting capacity, guiding parents       through the range of services       available to them, and monitoring the forms of support parents receive.
Also building on the       Review, a curriculum of lesson plans and project days has been developed,       aimed at educating       teenagers on the roles of parents.
The curriculum is being piloted in       fifteen schools around the       country, with the plan to roll out the programme in 2014.
At the national       level, parenting initiatives       developed as part of the Social Mobility Strategy include: the provision       of &#163;11 million of funding for       national online and telephone helpline guidance and intensive support on a       wide range of topics;       the launch of a new digital NHS information service for parents; the       trialling of free parenting       classes in three local areas to test ways of establishing a market for       universal parenting classes;       the provision of a single point of access for information to support       families with children under the       age of five via the Families in the Foundation Years website; and the       dedication of &#163;30 million       funding available for relationship support over the Spending Review       period, including encouraging       parents to take up support as a preventative measure and providing support       to parents who are       experiencing difficulties in their relationship [i].
Reforms to funding       structures designed to address       the priorities laid out in the Field Review include the establishment of       the Fairness Premium (&#163;7.2       billion directed towards disadvantaged children at key life stages       including age 2) and the Early       Intervention Grant, which brings together the funding for early       intervention and preventative       services for the most vulnerable children, young people and families [b].
Investments in free early       education and childcare for disadvantaged two-year-olds will total &#163;760       million per year by 2014-15       which will benefit up to 260,000 two-year-olds [i].
The need to promote       early language development       in disadvantaged children highlighted by Washbrook and Waldfogel in [6]       was linked to the role of       health visitors in the Foundation Years Strategy [d].
Commitments to       increase the health visitor       workforce and the capacity of the Family Nurse Partnership (FNP) programme       have since led to a       tripling of the number of health visitors beginning training and an       additional 3000 FNP places [i].
