     The impact of this research on a wide range of beneficiaries (policy,       practitioner, NGO, public)       worldwide has reach and is significant in two ways since 2008.
First, it       informed and       underpinned new policy and, practice.
Second, it has generated       methodological developments in       key areas.
Each of these is outlined below.
Impact on UK and international policy and government thinking relating         to measuring         educational effectiveness and school performance       In the UK, Goldstein and Thomas' research [1][3][4][5] has contributed       evidence to inform and       influence key national policies such as the utility of school       self-evaluation, national pupil       databases (eg the Pupil Level Annual Schools Census (PLASC)),       contextualised value-added       measures of school performance (introduced by the DCSF in 2006 and almost       identical to       measures used in Lancashire LEA, 1993-2006) and separate value-added       measures for different       student groups (introduced by the DfE in 2011).
The research has also       promoted the use of a       wider range of outcomes and measures by the DfE/DCSF/OFSTED/LSC [a][b].
Goldstein's       research was referenced as underpinning evidence in a 2012 Northern       Ireland Assembly       Research and Information Service Research Paper, "Providing information on       pupil and school       performance".
He was also a member of the UK government select committee       invited seminar       to advise on Accountability and League Tables (2013).
In addition,       Goldstein co-directs the       PLASC Users Group, set up in 2006 with support from the DfE.
Since then       regular meetings       have been held with 40-plus participants, involving researchers who have       used, or are interested       in using the PLASC/NPD datasets.
Civil servants from the DfE also attended       and frequently       returned to report on current developments and participate in discussions       [c].
Advice on evaluating educational quality has also been frequently sought       by policymakers       internationally, which demonstrates the reach and significance of this       work.
This has resulted in       citations in OECD publications that provide guidance to member states [a],       as well as invitations       to speak in many international contexts, often introducing new ideas on       school evaluation to non-academics 	  for the first time and elucidating the input, process and       context factors associated       with school effectiveness (eg Goldstein (2011) Queensland University of       Technology [attended       by Australian Government officials]; Thomas (2010) Chilean Ministry of       Education; Thomas       (2008) EU education conference for the French Presidency).
Impact on UK and international educational and school practices and         public         understanding relating to evaluating educational quality, improving         school effectiveness         and best practice in school self-evaluation and use of data       Leckie and Goldstein's research [3] demonstrates the limitations of using       the government's       school league tables to inform school choice.
Since 2008 this has promoted       stakeholders' and       the public's understanding of the problems with league tables through       widespread national and       international communication to non-academics via popular articles and       other media, including       interviews for the BBC Radio 4 programmes "Analysis" and "The Learning       Curve", and articles in       the Financial Times, the Daily Telegraph and the Times Education       Supplement.
Goldstein,       Leckie and Thomas' work on critiquing school performance measures       demonstrates impact in       terms of both reach and significance.
It has been cited by numerous UK       NGOs (eg NUT, RSA,       RSS, the Institute for Government) and overseas NGOs and governments       seeking to evidence       the complexity, dangers and limitations of school performance measures;       thereby influencing       public thinking and new policy development on educational accountability       and improvement       initiatives [e][f][g].
Pilot school evaluation studies using value-added techniques have been       conducted in UK       and several countries worldwide (eg China, Africa) [3][4][5][6] and this       has raised the awareness       of policymakers and teachers and resulted in new evaluation practices by       schools [d].
Professor       Xiaoman Zhu, President of the National Institute of Education Sciences       (NIES) until 2010,       Ministry of Education, Beijing, has emphasised the contribution of the       IEEQC research [6] and       collaboration between the University of Bristol and NIES to better       understanding the concept of       educational quality and evaluation methods in the Chinese context, as well       as to capacity-building 	  for NIES researchers [h].
Mr Xiaoqiang Ma, NIES and IEEQC project       researcher has       gone on to publish a 2012 book, "Value added evaluation: a new         perspective on school         evaluation".
The head teacher of a Chinese senior secondary school       participating in the IEEQC       project stated that "This approach [value added method] is particularly         good.
From next year         [2009], we will use this approach to evaluate our key schools.
That is,         taking account of the         intake of senior high school year 1 when comparing schools with college         entrance examination         results.
We [as a school] particularly welcome the method" [i].
Thomas has also applied methods       to evaluate schools' performance alongside other key elements in creating       and sustaining       English schools as professional learning communities (PLCs), resulting in       new tools used by       school leaders to develop their schools as PLCs.
Expansion of use of quantitative methods in educational research and         social sciences         more broadly, which in turn shapes research that influences policy and         practice       The impact of new statistical methodology [1][2] has been achieved through       further development       of the user-friendly MLwiN software, the REALCOM-Impute software for       multiple imputation and       through dissemination and training events.
Since 2008 the MLwiN software       (available free to UK       academics), together with extensive user guides, has been downloaded by       3,846 new users and       it has been purchased by 5,518 overseas academics and 613 non-academic       users.
Moreover,       67 organisations have purchased MLwiN site licences (50 users) since 2008;       of these 8       organisations hold extension licences (250 users).
The CMM website is widely acknowledged as the premier resource for       research and       training in multilevel modelling.
There are around 1,100 page-loads and       360 unique visitors per       day (65% from outside the UK).
The LEMMA Virtual Learning Environment       (launched in April       2008) has around 10,000 registered users, of whom 70% are international       and 14% are non-academic, 	  thereby demonstrating the reach and significance of the research       impact.
Some       training events are targeted at non-academics, eg a session on multilevel       modelling given at       Ofsted in 2008 (Steele).
UK non-academic beneficiaries and users include       the Departments of       Education, Health, and Work and Pensions, the Scottish Executive and the       Office for National       Statistics [b].
For example, Trevor Knight (consultant statistician to       DfE) reported in July 2010       that MLwiN was used by DfE statisticians to calculate Contextual Value       Added (CVA) and other       value-added school performance measures, employed as an integral part of       the OFSTED school       inspection process and used to construct the Learning Achievement Tracker       &#8212; a tool for schools       and FE colleges to appreciate progress made by students since the end of       compulsory       schooling.
MLwiN was also used in the National Evaluation of the Sure       Start Local Programmes       for the DfE [j], the NatCen (2009) report for the Department for       Environment, Food and Rural       Affairs on educational attainment in rural areas and by Higher Education       Funding Council for       England and others in conducting new analyses to support higher education       institutions in       developing "contextualised" admissions policies and equality and diversity       policy for REF2014       submissions.
Overseas non-academic MLwiN users include Statistics Canada,       Statistics       Norway, the Netherlands Bureau of Statistics, UNESCO and the World Health       Organisation.
