     The impact of this research and associated activities has changed       international policy priorities adopted and promoted by the 2009 CCEM and       throughout the Commonwealth.
The CCEM formulated policy on key development       issues and built consensus at the highest political level within the       Commonwealth.
This, in turn, shaped the related Commonwealth Secretariat       Education Strategic Plan from 2010, which then generated new international       support, funding streams, and practical assistance for ongoing work on the       distinctive educational priorities of small states worldwide.
This further       influenced UNESCO/IIEP, The World Bank, four regional groupings of small       states, and Commonwealth input for the new Global Post-2015 Development       Framework.
Impact at the global level:      	     Commonwealth Secretariat 	     The Head of the Education Section at the Commonwealth Secretariat, has       attested that this research was undertaken `in response to requests from       Commonwealth governments,' and `in order to inform policy making,' [g].
Initial findings [4] were reported, by invitation, and considered directly       by Ministers of Education and Senior Officials from Commonwealth small       states at the 17th CCEM held in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia in June 2009.
The       findings [4] were formally adopted by the Commonwealth Secretariat and       this directly influenced the nature and content of the Kuala Lumpur       Communiqu&#233; [a].
This established Commonwealth education priorities for the       next triennium, allocated and prioritised core funding for small member       states, and shaped the content of the Secretariat Education Strategic Plan       2010-2012 [b].
Both the KL Communiqu&#233; and the Strategic Plan revitalised       ongoing support for education in small states and returned it to the top       of the Commonwealth Secretariat's agenda, work plan and subsequent       practice: the first of 8 goals in the Communiqu&#233; is to `Advance education       in small states through a variety of capacity-building and research       initiatives,' [a]; the second of four `priority areas' demarcated in the       Strategic Plan is identified as `Small States', emphasising teacher       development, school leadership and higher education [b]; Crossley et al's       research [1, 4, 5] further `helped to frame the terms of reference for       further, more focussed studies on education issues in small states, in       particular, the study `Islands of Inspiration: Education for Sustainable       Development in Small Island Developing States' [g].
Impact on ESD policy and practice is especially notable following our       participation in the most recent CCEM held in the small state of       Mauritius.
The Head of the Education Section at the Commonwealth       Secretariat has further stated that as a result of the research [1] `The       importance of education in small states was recognised at the 18th CCEM       in August 2012, where ministers discussed at a dedicated roundtable on       education in small states.'
[g].
The research findings [1] and conclusions       were then shared and endorsed in discussions with and between Education       Ministers and Senior Advisors from 54 Commonwealth states during closed       Ministerial deliberation sessions.
In the light of this, the 18th CCEM       committed the Commonwealth to prioritising ESD in future policy and       practice for small states throughout the next triennium.
There has also been a direct high-level impact of the research [1, 3] upon     the Commonwealth Ministerial Working Group's recommendations for global Post     2015 Education (Millennium Development Goal (MDGs) and Education For All     (EFA)) deliberations.
Professor Crossley was invited to participate in the     Ministerial Working Group held at Marlborough House, London, in December     2012 and subsequently to contribute to on-going discussions via the     Commonwealth's online forum.
The result was a strengthened positioning of     small states educational priorities within the Commonwealth's     Recommendations for the Global Post 2015 Development Framework for     Education.
Ministers Recommendations state that the new Global Development     Framework should `ensure that systemic differences, especially those of     scale experienced by small states and developing countries are taken into     account.'
[e] This is a strategic macro level impact since Commonwealth     priorities are now being built into the new Global Post-2015 Development     Framework that will replace existing MDGs and EFA goals.
Council for Education in the Commonwealth (CEC) 	     The research [1, 5] has also impacted the scope of work of a second       Commonwealth body, the CEC, bringing educational priorities of small       states to the forefront of their broader educational work.
This is first       evidenced by the research team being invited to convene a CEC sponsored       Day Conference in October 2010 at the University of Bristol to engage an       international audience of 70 delegates including CEC members, High       Commissioners from Tonga and Namibia, 20 Commonwealth scholars working in       the UK, and University of Bristol participants [f].
Past and current CEC       Executive Chairs have stated that this event and the research `had       implications later in 2012 for the programme of the Stakeholder Forum,       associated with the 18th CCEM,' [h] and has helped the CEC `to       appreciate the significance of the contribution that the small states       would make in Mauritius (2012 CCEM) and in turn how the proceedings and       final communique would impact on their development, particularly their       educational development over the next three &#8212; five years.'
[h] 	       UNESCO and The World Bank 	     Project collaboration with UNESCO/IIEP (International Institute for       Educational Planning) generated wider impact and reach throughout UNESCO       member states.
Until 2009, IIEP had undertaken little recent activity on       education in small states.
As a result of our joint research and the       emphasis placed upon higher education needs in small states, UNESCO IIEP       convened the 2009 IIEP Education Policy Forum on the theme of Tertiary       Education in Small States.
This brought 50 senior educational planners       together from small states worldwide, to share tertiary education       experience and collectively `develop policies and strategies at the system       and institutional levels' [2 p 24].
Findings emerging from the research       [1, 2, 4] also fed directly into the Policy Forum as a Keynote Address       presented in Paris by the Governor General of St Lucia, on Tertiary       Education in Saint Lucia [2].
This demonstrates how our work on tertiary       education informed strategies to strengthen the tertiary sector and       contributed to local research capacity building in St Lucia.
The research       also then informed the Governor General's globally influential Opening       Address for the 2009 invitation only UNESCO World Conference on Higher       Education for Heads of State, Senior Diplomats and Advisers.
This       evidences the growth of UNESCO's engagement with the research findings and       the educational priorities of small states, and extended the impact of the       findings to the world stage at the highest political level.
This is       further evidenced by inclusion of a `Call to Action' within the World       Conference communique, calling Members States to `Empower Least Developed       Countries and Small Island Developing States to benefit from the       opportunities offered by globalisation and foster collaboration between       them,' [i].
The reach of impact was extended beyond the field of education in 2011       through an invitation to present key findings [1] to a joint World       Bank-Commonwealth Secretariat Meeting of Experts on `Growth and       Development in Small States' convened in Malta.
This meeting was designed       to `strongly influence the ways in which the Commonwealth, World Bank and       other international organisations assist small states in their growth and       development endeavours' [d].
The research team was one of only two       specialising in education invited for this influential meeting of 40       economists, political scientists and government representatives from small       states from around the globe.
Impact at Regional and National Levels and Beyond Small States          Following the 2009 CCEM, four Regional Commonwealth Consultation Meetings       (Caribbean, South Pacific, Mediterranean, Southern Africa) were held in       small states worldwide to provide practical and policy development support       for all 32 Commonwealth small states.
Sections from the research [4]       presented to the 2009 CCEM shaped the consultation briefing documentation       and helped to set the agenda for each of the four regional meetings which,       in turn, shaped the development of new national education plans in ways       that paid greater attention to distinctive small state needs and       priorities [c].
At the national policy level, the Governor General of Saint Lucia attests       [j] to the influence of our work [1,2,3,4,5] upon her own April 2013       Throne Speech, which determined the national government agenda and funding       priorities for the next 12 months.
In this speech to Parliament, she       `committed to promoting a better understanding of the plight of small       states, so that, globally, there can be acknowledgement and agreement that       such states require special treatment and delineation, given their       openness and vulnerability.'
[j]
