     This research has been instrumental in increasing children's outdoor play       on residential streets by:     1.
Underpinning new interventions to increase children's active         outdoor play     In 2007, a range of dissemination activities took place (including       stakeholder events and media briefings) to showcase research quantifying       the contribution that time spent outdoors can make to children's physical       activity [1] and demonstrating that children spend the majority of their       time on built surfaces rather than in green spaces [2].
In 2008-9, people       who attended these events in Bristol used this evidence as a basis for       developing a new intervention to open up their streets for children's       play.
The intervention involves simple signs and stewarding by local       residents to close selected residential streets to through-traffic after       school (from 3.30 to 5pm) so that children can play safely with minimal       disruption to cars.
After this was successfully piloted, the residents set       up a new social enterprise Community Interest Company called `Playing Out       CIC' (www.playingout.net).
Using       combined GPS and accelerometer data, Page and Cooper provided pilot data       to demonstrate that a measureable increase in physical activity of       approximately 10-15 minutes per day of moderate-to-vigorous physical       activity (MVPA) could be obtained during these street closure or `playing       out' events.
2.
Increasing awareness and building partnerships     This pilot data was used by Playing Out CIC in partnership with Active       Bristol to encourage a cross-department collaboration within Bristol City       Council (BCC: Health, Children &amp; Young People's Services,       Sustainability and Transport) which led to a change in policy and in the       legal interpretation of transport regulations.
This created a new       Temporary Street Play Order (TSPO) [a] which allowed regular street       closures on the basis of a single, annual application.
Previously,       closures were restricted to two or three times per year.
The wide support       for the `Playing Out' model from both the traditional and social media       brought the research to the attention of Play England who used the       research highlighting the importance of time outdoors to support the case       for outdoor play [b] and promote their national Love Outdoor Play       campaign.
3.
Increasing funding potential and sustainability for third-sector         agencies     The underpinning research [1-4] was used in evidence briefings for       Bristol City Council [c] which led to increased and longer-term public       health funding for Playing Out CIC to deliver street play in 2010.
The       evidence also helped enhance the funding potential of the play sector more       broadly by providing quantitative evidence which had been lacking.
As Cath       Prisk, Director Play England asserts: "There is very little         quantitative evidence to support the work of the play sector.
This is         why we've joined up with ENHS as their research has showed that children         spent up to 30% of their time outside engaged in 'moderate to vigorous         physical activity'.
If we could look to build up this kind of robust         evidence base it would give ourselves and community based organisations         access to further funding" [d, 2012].
4.
Influencing national policy     Page was invited to present a policy briefing on research findings       [1,2,4] to senior representatives of the Departments for Transport and       Health at two meetings in 2011 and 2012.
In response to this, a       partnership involving the University of Bristol, Play England and Playing       Out CIC was invited to submit a bid to the Department for Health's       Innovation, Enterprise and Strategic Development fund.
The bid was to roll       out the Playing Out model for street play nationally, alongside a national       campaign to promote street play and the provision of a web-based hub to       support residents in developing play opportunities in their communities.
The success of this bid [e], which is the largest single bid ever awarded       by the fund, confirms the acceptance of time spent outdoors as an       important public health target.
The underpinning evidence [1,3,4] was also       used in the press release [f] to launch the national Free Range Kids       campaign initiated by Sustrans in 2011.
This seeks to directly influence       policy and practice to encourage children to increase their independent       use of the environment.
Examples of the impact of the Free Range Kids       campaign include political impact via the Early Day Motion 1954 (signed by       161 MPs) [g] and instrumental impact by, for example, the provision of       over 25,000 packs for parents to help them increase their children's       outdoor play.
The importance of street play for children's physical       activity and health was recognised in the Annual Report of the Chief       Medical Officer 2012 [h].
This report includes the Bristol street play       model as a case study and cites ENHS research [5] to signal a shift in       national health policy highlighting street play as a significant source of       children's physical activity.
In summary, the impact from the underpinning research has significantly       benefited children by providing 304,200 new, regular outdoor play       opportunities.
This translates to an additional ten minutes of MVPA per       day.
To put this into context, a ten-minute per day change in weekday MVPA       increases the proportion of children meeting national health guidelines of       60 minutes per day of MVPA by 9% and children achieving guidelines are 35%       less likely to be in the top quartile for waist circumference.
Beyond       increased physical activity for children, wider benefits include the       provision of 1,020 street-play champions within UK communities.
They will       be supported by over 400 professionals from voluntary and public-sector       agencies who will receive new training in delivering street play [e].
The       reach of the impact continues to expand rapidly, with the underpinning       evidence increasingly highlighted to support policy and practice beyond       the UK.
For example, Quebec has cited outputs [1] and [7] in making the       case for outdoor play being essential to youth health and development,       while the `Healthy Children-Healthy Spaces' collaboration has showcased       the Bristol Playing Out model in its campaign to get children active in       Canada [i].
