     Beumers has developed this research base to explore technologies which       were ground-breaking for their time; they are, however, no longer usable       for adequate demonstration today as the projection technology is no longer       available.
These films (which have never been shown before) have therefore       been digitised and restored in order to display the original effects.
Thus, various other types and levels of impact can be measured:            the impact on audience expectations of animation and of special         effects       the impact on animators' quests to find new and more effective ways of         achieving special effects       the impact on a comparative evaluation of the effect achieved in         different technologies, for example at Aardman and Nukufilm.
This seems         particularly pertinent in the context of Aardman's announcement         (November 2011) concerning the outsourcing of stop-frame animation.
The impact created by this research is visible in two areas:            a two-day event at the film festival `Encounters 2012', which included         two film programmes, a workshop, and roundtable discussions.
the restoration and development of the technologies used as an         interactive museum Touch Table exhibit, also freely available as an iPad         app on Apple's App Store.
Encounters 2012     The internationally recognised film festival `Encounters' hosted the       screening of two programmes (both on 19 September 2012), some of which       would not have been restored and digitised without Beumers' work.
The       first showing consisted of 3D films, including a colour fragment from the       first stereoscopic film, and three animated films made in the       Oscar-awarded Stereo-70 system in the 1970s.
The second screening       presented five animated films created during the 1930s in a three-colour       technique developed by Pavel Mershin.
The screenings were held in the       largest and most prominent screen in the festival complex, and were       attended by 154 people in total (71 at the first screening and 83 at the       second) [a].
As well as providing the audience with the opportunity to see       the first ever screening of these films outside of Russia, the event       enhanced the audience's knowledge of the inter-cultural nature of film and       of how this has shaped the films we see today.
David Sproxton, Chairman of `Encounters', commented that `for many in the       audience the technical expertise and imagination of the story-telling came       as a wonderful surprise and reminded us all that films, especially       animated films, can transcend the perceived barriers of national culture       and contemporary trends' [b].
The screenings also paved the way for future       impact, as Beumers agreed with Gosfilmofond and Nukufilm (who own the       films' copyright) that she may propose the pro-gramme to other festivals,       thereby achieving a broader impact on audiences, animators and film       makers.
The films have since been shown at Orosz Animacios Filmnapok,       Budapest (March 2013) and the Flatpack Festival, Birmingham UK (March       2013).
The films were also programmed for the Abandon Normal Devices       Festival, Liverpool (3-5 October 2013) [c].
The screenings were followed by a workshop on film restoration (attended       by 22 people) and a roundtable on 3D in contemporary animation (attended       by 25 people), both held on 20 September 2012.
Informal discussions after       the two public debates were crucial to developing the future impact of       this project; first steps were made towards projects that will see the       restoration of kinopanorama and the inclusion of Estonian       animation in `Encounters' in 2013 with `Estonian Dreams', 6 films made       2008-12 and scheduled for showing on 21 September 2013 [d].
In recognition of this work Beumers was given an `Award for the       Popularization of Russian and Soviet Cinema' by Gosfilmofond on 1 February       2013 [e].
Developing new technologies     Alongside Julia Bracegirdle (Animation Department, UWE), Beumers has been       collaborating with Aerian Studios Ltd to develop further these animation       techniques and produce a Touch Table.
A prototype of this technology was       presented at the Research and Enterprise in the Arts and Creative       Technology (REACT) Showcase on 28 September 2012.
The Touch Table is on       permanent display at the Theatre Collection of Bristol University's       Department of Drama but has also been shown at the Museo del Precinema       in Padua (April-July 2013) [f], which specialises in early cinematic       techniques.
The research team have created a forward programme which       includes the Stummfilmtage in Bonn (August 2013) [g], the Watershed Arts       Centre, Bristol (September-October 2013) and the National Media Museum,       Bradford (November 2013).
The Touch Table enables visitors to the museums       to use this innovative technology to explore the functionality of early       optical devices, such as the zoetrope, phenakistoscope and kinora;       visitors can view films of their choice by spinning them, thus replicating       the tactile experience of the original device through digital       technologies.
The School of Modern Languages works closely with the       museums to ensure that the impact of the exhibit is measured through       qualitative questionnaires and by collecting visitor numbers.
In addition to attracting visitors to the museums and impacting on these       visitors, Aerian Studios have benefitted from the opportunity of learning       about and working with these new technologies, using this new expertise to       generate new Touch Table commissions from other museums, providing       significant new business revenue.
In Aerian's view, `the project helped       raise awareness of the skills and ambition of our company, as well as       acting as inspiration to staff and existing clients &#8212; pushing us further       into the innovation space' [h].
The software, design and content of the Touch Table have been adapted for       a free iPad application, `Walking Pictures', which was launched in July       2013.
The publicity which accompanies the application's release will       ensure that a wide range of people benefit from the technology.
