     The `Remembering Dictatorship' conference held in Bristol in summer 2011       was intended to expand the organisers' research interests beyond their       shared roots in GDR studies into memories of the Eastern Bloc, and to       provide a launch-pad for the further research and impact set out below.
Our research suggested that migrants to the UK from the post-socialist       sphere often feel that their voices are not heard or understood by their       new local community, which increases the difficulties they experience in       becoming integrated.
We applied the findings of our research in order to       further multi-cultural awareness in the face of considerable prejudice       against such migrants; prejudice exacerbated by significant economic       difficulty and sometimes linked to anxieties over British identities.
The       project has had, and continues to have, impact on three user-groups:     (1) The Participants     Forty-two Eastern European migrants, from eight different post-socialist       states, have participated in the project.
Initially, they were asked to       share their memories in written narratives, which were posted onto the       project website for others to view and comment on (January-February 2012).
They then attended two social events, the first focused on objects from       the past (March 2012) and the second on British perceptions of Eastern       Europe (July 2012).
The participants completed a questionnaire after each       event, describing their experiences of discussing their memories with       other Eastern Europeans.
Following the events, ten participants took part       in semi-structured interviews where they discussed their overall       experience of participating in the project and how they would like to its       outcomes to be disseminated (August-October 2012).
The impact within this group is visible in two ways; first, their       experiences of sharing their stories with others of a similar background,       and second, the chance for them to shape and take part in the       dissemination of their views to the wider public.
In their feedback,       participants typically commented that they had enjoyed discussing their       memories with a group who had similar experiences, and that this was a       rare opportunity in the UK.
One participant wrote, `exchanging experiences       and thoughts is important and gives the feeling of similar experiences in       different Eastern European countries', and another, `I love talking about       my life in East Germany because I am really worried that people are just       going to forget about it.
[...] I was just so happy that somebody is       interested and very, very happy to keep it alive'.
The majority of       participants claimed that they now felt better informed about other       Eastern European countries.
Typical comments included: `that's the       interesting part as some experiences were very similar to mine and some       completely different', a comment on new insights into the differences       between Eastern Bloc political cultures (`I thought they had the same       ideology'), reflections on differences in perspective that participants       had not previously been aware of, and `I could see something that we       couldn't see in Hungary because we didn't have much experience with other       Eastern Europeans'.
The participants' enthusiasm for helping to organise the public events       associated with the project reflects their keenness to air their stories       publicly.
As well as working alongside the researchers to design the       format of the public exhibition and schools workshops, they donated an       impressive number of objects to be displayed at the exhibition, and       frequently suggested other ways in which their stories could be shared.
When discussing the idea of producing a documentary, for example, one       participant stated: `I am sure there are plenty who would be willing to       talk about their story [...], and say, "okay, when I speak to my English       friends they avoid that topic, they always think that"...they'll all have       that English person saying I thought this, not that'.
(2) The local community     In May 2012, Pinfold and Hyland curated a public exhibition at the MShed,       the new museum of Bristol life.
This showcased the outcomes of the project       to date, a range of objects donated by the participants, and a selection       of findings from our individual research (Pinfold, for example, exhibited       a number of socialist children's books, each accompanied by a description       providing historical and social context).
This event was intended to       encourage people to think beyond media stereotypes about Eastern European       migrants by providing an insight into the ways in which the group       remembers their state socialist past and views Britain.
The one-day event       was visited by eighty-seven members of the public, who were able to view       the exhibits, participate in interactive activities (e.g.
a quiz testing       their knowledge of Eastern Europe), and talk to the researchers and       participants (at least one researcher and one participant were present       throughout the day).
Every visitor was asked to complete a questionnaire on the event.
The       feedback was over-whelmingly positive; the majority commented on how much       they had learned about Eastern Europe and migrant communities living in       Bristol, and how much they had enjoyed talking to someone with first-hand       experiences of state socialism.
Remarks about the educational aspect of       the event ranged from comments on specific details to more general       insights, such as, `it was interesting to find out about the positives in       communist societies, also interesting to see an "outside" view of       capitalist society' - or, conversely, the `opportunity to see how life was       in the former Eastern Bloc, not from the Western point of view, but from       the Eastern one!
', and `it was interesting to be made to think more about       engagement (or not) with official politics before 1989, and about mixed       attitudes pre-and post-1989 towards communism.
Also interesting to think       about Western attitudes'.
(3) Secondary schools     An important activity for delivering the project's impact of raising       awareness of Eastern European life are a series of workshops at local       secondary schools based on the material provided by the participants and       the underpinning research.
The first workshop was successfully piloted at       the University of Bristol's `Languages Day' in June 2012 in the `East       Meets West' session attended by sixteen A-level pupils.
The feedback       highlights the development of the students' knowledge of everyday life       under state socialism, and in particular, of the experiences and       perceptions of Eastern European migrants in Bristol.
The ideas students       took away from the session typically included, `contrasts between       socialist and capitalist societies', and, `first-hand opinions of people       who lived in Eastern European cultures' (cf.
letters of support).
In June 2013 Pinfold spoke about post-1990 representations of GDR       childhood at an event attended by 45 pupils taking A-level history at 5       local schools.
Participant narratives from the `East meets West' website       were used in interactive small group work following Pinfold's talk, in       order further to challenge the students' stereotypical preconceptions       about life in the former Eastern Bloc.
Feedback from both pupils and their       teachers was extremely positive.
A number of pupils referred to acquiring       `new' and `interesting' perspectives, with one noting that he was       surprised at 'how [...] normal daily life was under communism and how it       was better, in some respects, than western society.'
Several teachers also       requested further resources and information about future workshops for       their own schools.
On 9 July 2013 Pinfold and Allinson conducted a full day school workshop       for year 7 pupils at Bristol Metropolitan Academy.
The event was run in       collaboration with staff from the modern languages and humanities       departments and consisted of formal presentations, group discussion, and       role plays on everyday activities in both capitalist and socialist       societies, including shopping and voting, Feedback from staff and students       was highly enthuasiastic: comments on student questionnaires included `I       didn't know what communism was but now I do and how it was like'; `I       learned about the differences between socialism and capital that the       capital had more luxuries but some jobs were not paid well'; `we got to       see what it was like to shop in both capitalism + socialism.
It was the       best thing ever!
'; [I learned] `the East side was not so bad'; and `It was       fantastic!'
A series of secondary school resources for teachers of Personal, Social,       Health and Economic Education (PSHE), history, German and Eastern European       languages has been made available on the project's website.
The website       will provide statistics on the number of downloads, and teachers have been       asked to comment on the webpage to ensure a mix of quantitative and       qualitative evidence of impact arising from the resources created.
