     The impact of the research, which is expected to continue into 2014 and       beyond, forms two related strands, as set out below.
Dissemination and changing public perceptions of the subject     50 descendants of the 19th-century adventurers contacted Brown after       using his database in the course of tracing their ancestors in South       America.Some have located new memoirs which are in press as a result.
Brown was approached by Verso publishers to provide a new and accessible       translation and edition of the writings of Sim&#243;n Bol&#237;var.
This was       published in 2009 [= 3 above].The Venezuelan Embassy in London consulted       with Brown to select a group of memoirs written by British and Irish       mercenaries, to be translated into Spanish for the first time and       published in 2014 as part of the bicentenary of Venezuelan independence by       Monte Avila Editores in Caracas.
These popular editions will be widely       distributed to ensure maximum dissemination of these new perspectives on       the geopolitical context of independence, as part of the Venezuelan       government's own academic impact agenda [a].
Brown has given ten invited public lectures as part of the commemoration       of the bicentenaries of independence, for example in Medell&#237;n (2007 &amp;       2011), Salamanca (2009), London (2009, 2010, 2012), Paris (2010), Bogot&#225;       (2010) and Caracas (2011).
The lectures in Medell&#237;n were financed by the       Mayor of Medell&#237;n, while the lectures in Caracas were financed by the       British Council in Venezuela.
One event was hosted by the Venezuelan       Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and was the subject of a tweet in which the       Minister for Latin America, Temir Porras, drew the attention of his then       13,000 followers to the `shared history' of Britain and Venezuela, and was       considered valuable by the British Embassy in Caracas [b].
In April 2011,       Brown spoke at the Venezuelan Solidarity Campaign conference `Defending       the Majority, Not Punishing the Poorest' in London, discussing the history       of bilateral solidarity movements.
At the other end of the political       scale, in April 2012, Brown spoke at the Annual Meeting of the       Anglo-Venezuelan society, leading a discussion chaired by the head of       Diageo Latin America on how the historical relationship between the two       countries can be a basis for contemporary business relations.
A total of       700 people, from members of the general public and political activists to       diplomats and business leaders, have attended these talks.
This major       public engagement initiative has led to changing cultural perceptions of       independence and Britain's role in it.
Press reports and audience reaction       documenting this impact are available on the Bolivarian Times blog       [h], which was launched in October 2011 and as of 11 November 2013 had       received 10,529 hits.
Users accessing the blog (published in English and       Spanish) come from across the world, including Spanish America, the US and       Europe.
The blog has brought the research to the attention of new groups,       including French divers and archaeologists investigating the shipwreck of       the `Indian', which crashed off the coast near Brest in 1817, the       descendants of several volunteers from the 1810s, and an American family       who found an unpublished travel diary from 1819 and plan to transcribe and       publish it on the blog.
In September 2012, Brown organised `Britain and the Independence of the       Bolivarian Republics', a one-day event at Canning House in London.
One       hundred people attended, including (according to questionnaires)       economists, engineers, retired diplomats, teachers, academics, filmmakers,       FCO researchers, social workers and community organisers, with a 50/50 mix       of Britons and Latin Americans.
The first session featured papers from the       leading global academic researchers on the subject: Racine (Guelph,       Canada), Gutierrez (Externado, Colombia) and Mondolfi (Metropolitana,       Venezuela).
The second session was an open debate about Britain's links       with Colombia, Ecuador and Venezuela, led by public historians Quintero       (UCV, Caracas) and Sobrevilla (Kent) and by the serving ambassadors from       Venezuela and Colombia.
Every word spoken at the event was transcribed and       published on Bolivarian Times in both Spanish and English.
This       included a Public Letter agreed by the audience at the event and addressed       to the U.K. Minister for Latin America, Hugo Swire MP.
Audience members       stated that their preconceptions had been overturned.
Typical comments       from the audience questionnaires include [g]: `this has kindled my       interest both in the history and in the present' (retired teacher);       `plenty of stimulating ideas on how to strengthen relations and take this       forward' (serving FCO diplomat); `I was surprised by the influence on       emerging South American republics of English institutions and practices'       (retired engineer); `I enjoyed the excellence of historically-based       research [combined with] political insights' (Director-General, Canning       House); `Very interesting to see the extent of interest and the common       interest in finding a historical basis for promoting good international       relations today' (business person); `it was very interesting and has       inspired me to read more about the period [...].
I was surprised at how       many people were interested in Mary English (my great great great great       grandmother) and had read my grandmother's book about her.
Also I had not       heard before about the discovery of the wreck of the Indian' (legal       publishing editor).
In December 2012 Hugo Swire MP replied to the letter: `I would like to       congratulate you on your successful event on 5 September.
I know that a       number of officials from Americas Directorate at the FCO attended the       event and thought it was excellent.
There was an impressive and       distinguished turnout and a discussion of many useful themes.
We are       pleased that attendees wanted to see stronger relations between the UK and       Latin America'.
As a direct result of the success of this event, the FCO       supported Canning House in organising a series of ten historical lectures       on Latin America in 2013: Brown gave one of these, attended by 50 people       including the family of Thomas Cochrane, one of the mercenaries discussed       in the original research.
The Minister concluded his letter thanking the       event for its `suggestions on how we might further strengthen our       relations with Latin America' and promising to pass on ideas regarding       language and history plans to `forge modern, adaptive relationships in the       region' [d].
In late September 2012, Brown was interviewed by the BBC website on this       subject.
There were 427 comments, which led to a spike in hits on the       blog.
In November 2012, Brown was a major academic contributor to BBC Radio 4's       `The Invention of Spain' series on the independence of Latin America.
Other contributors were recorded by the BBC at the 5/19/12 Canning House       event.
The programme attracted 2 million listeners and attracted wide       enthusiasm across the UK and Spain, with typical online comments being       that `it should be required listening for anyone wanting to understand       Spanish and Latin American history'.
The success of this programme has led       to a role for Brown as a regular media commentator on Latin American       issues, e.g.
on the death of Hugo Ch&#225;vez (BBC World Service, BBC Bristol,       BBC News24, March 2013) and on social unrest in Brazil (BBC Scotland       Newsweek, June 2013).
In December 2012, Brown was invited to work with teachers of Spanish in       UK schools on this subject, specifically to help them incorporate coverage       of it into their teaching in order to revitalise students' interest in       Latin American history.
The seminar was organised and funded by the       Prince's Teaching Institute.
A London schoolteacher said in her feedback       that `[a]s someone with a very keen interest in Latin America I couldn't       have been more interested or inspired by your talk' [i].
British Policy towards Latin America     The era studied in this research project constitutes the last period of       clear British policy towards Latin America (which, in brief, was to       influence local politicians in order to secure preferential trade       relations, with a strict emphasis on the abolition of the slave trade and       establishing independence from all European imperial powers, especially       France).
Greater knowledge of the implementation of that policy in       Colombia and Venezuela has been drawn upon in recent reconfigurations of       British Latin America policy, and in diplomatic bilateral representations       more generally [e].
The effect of Brown's research can be seen in the       House of Lords debate on the subject (24 June 2010) [j].
At the annual conference of the Society for Latin American Studies,       hosted by the University of Bristol in April 2010, there was a       high-profile public debate sponsored by Santander Group.
Speakers included       the then Minister for Latin America, Chris Bryant MP, H.E.
Samuel Moncada,       the Venezuelan Ambassador to the UK, and representatives of the NGOs Oxfam       and Transform.
The subject was `British Policy in Latin America: Is there       one, and what should it be?'
This forum led to direct public policy       declarations from the minister regarding Latin America, specifically on       covert involvement in the Colombian violent conflict, which had never       happened before.
When he became Foreign Secretary after the 2010 election,       William Hague MP made a policy speech on Latin America (the first Foreign       Secretary to do so), the first page of which drew implicitly on Brown's       research on Britain in Latin America during the independence period [c].
The FCO has been one of the most enthusiastic promoters of Brown's       research.
In July 2011, Brown travelled to Caracas to give a week of talks       on the subject of this research as part of the British Embassy / British       Council events to commemorate independence.
In January 2012, he was       invited to speak to Latin-Americanist desk-officers at the FCO on the       subject.
The event at Canning House in September 2012 referred to above led to the       writing of an open letter to the new Secretary of State with       responsibility for Latin America, Hugo Swire, outlining how best Britain       could build on its historic relationship with Colombia, Venezuela and       Ecuador.
