     ILCT is based on an entirely novel approach to thinking about and       teaching critical theory and this approach has influenced the form and       content of such teaching at HEIs worldwide.
Instead of a traditional       `schools'-based approach (structuralism, post-structuralism,       post-colonialism, feminism, etc), the book offers brief but incisive       chapters on familiar critical concepts such as the author, narrative,       character, tragedy and so on alongside rather more surprising topics, such       as laughter, ghosts, animals, the mutant, and so on.
Each chapter seeks to       explore an individual critical word or `concept' by attending closely to       the nature of one or more literary text.
This enables students to       understand how critical and theoretical questions can be productively       applied to literary texts themselves: in effect, it transforms their       relationship with literary theory.
The book has led, in some cases, to       courses themselves being redesigned to allow for this more direct and       intuitive way of introducing students to what are often difficult and even       forbidding concepts and theories.
ILCT has had considerable reach, appearing in reading lists       internationally, at a number of levels and in a number of disciplines.
A       recent survey of university websites conducted by a researcher for the       Bristol School of Humanities found that ILCT was on the reading       lists for diploma, undergraduate and master's degree courses at over a       hundred HEIs across the world, including at the University of Oxford,       where it is compulsory for first-year English students.
The reach of ILCT       in teaching is apparent from the remarkable range of disciplines in which       it is used as a textbook (including English Literature, Classics, Modern       Languages and Cultural Studies).
[a]     Sales figures and geographic reach     The reach of ILCT is in part evidenced by the sales figures.
Worldwide sales of all editions total c.73,000 (as of June 2013) [b], and       the book has been translated into Chinese (Guangxi Normal University       Press, 2007) and is currently being translated into Polish; a chapter has       been reprinted in Gupta and Johnson, eds., A Twentieth-Century         Literature Reader (Routledge, 2005).
As of 2012, the Chinese       translation of ILCT had sold 4,067 copies [c].
An Indian edition       of the third edition was published in 2008 by Dorling Kindersley, and from       January 2011 to December 2011, 424 copies of the Indian version of ILCT       were sold [d].
The last three editions of ILCT have sold over       48,000 copies in 41 countries (not including the Chinese and Indian       editions, which are licensed separately) [d].
An assistant editor for       Pearson (the publisher of ILCT) characterised these sales figures       as `exceptional when it comes to sales figures of this sort' [d]; they       compare favourably with, for example, sales of Modern Criticism and         Theory: A Reader edited by David Lodge and Nigel Wood, another text       designed to introduce the reader to the key concepts of critical theory:       the three editions of the latter text totalled sales of 28,000 as of       September 2012.
[e]     Impact on teaching     A number of external critical reviews attest to the significance of ILCT       in terms of introducing students to critical theory in an accessible way.
For example, J. Hillis Miller describes the fourth edition of ILCT       as `by far the best introduction we have, bar none.
This unmatched book is       for everyone: from those beginning literary study, through advanced       students, and up to teachers; even those who, like me, have been       professing literature for years and years.'
[f]     The University of Bristol conducted a survey with academics in the UK and       abroad who posted reading lists online that included ILCT.
The       responses revealed that it is used as a set text by 78% of respondents and       that 29% of those who use it as a set text set the whole book.
One hundred       per cent of respondents to the survey would recommend its use in teaching       to others.
[a] Respondents to the survey indicated precisely how the book       had changed their teaching practice.
For example, a Professor of English       Literature based in the US noted, `This text provides the best and most       accessible introduction to literary criticism of any book on the market.
I've used it consistently over the past few years, and students always       respond well to it &#8212; I enjoy watching it turn on the light bulbs over       their heads.'
[a]     Other respondents indicated the extent to which ILCT made       challenging concepts readily accessible, and helped students to pursue       their own approach to the area of study.
A Teaching Fellow in English       Literature, working in Higher Education in New Zealand, commented, `We       previously used Critical Terms for Literary Study by Lentricchia       but found that the Bennett and Royle was far more `user-friendly', that       is, it didn't intimidate students to the point that they froze in its       presence.
Instead the Bennett and Royle asked the kinds of questions       they'd toyed with in their more relaxed moments of discussion but the text       posited the questions in such a way that they actually led somewhere.'
[a]     Respondents also commented on how the move away from the traditional       schools-based focus allowed students to engage with the subject matter.
For example, Associate Professor of English Literature working in Higher       Education in Australia noted: `I like the approach through conventional       and then more current topics rather than, or in advance of, `isms', the       abstractions which I find have a destructive effect on students'       confidence that what interests them is also interesting to the academy.
The book presents a very sophisticated account of key contemporary ideas,       but engages with students in ways which suggest that literary theory is       attempting to deal with the problems that they themselves ask.
It really       is an excellent high-level introduction to theoretical issues.'
[a]     This impact on teaching is also corroborated by student reviews and       feedback.
For example, a student review of ILCT noted: `The       authors make a conscious effort to refrain from `giving potted summaries       of isms', instead offering a number of concise essays that explore the key       theoretical methodologies in a manner both accessible and stimulating.'
[g]     Another student (based in the UK) wrote, `I just finished my first year       at university on an English Literature course and because of Bennett and       Royle's book I not only got to understand complex theories made       understandable, but the breath of the content allowed me to open up my own       ideas and arguments within my work.
This book both allows you to       understand and apply theory and helps you become a critic yourself,       creating an individual and original response.'
[h]
