     International media coverage     The impact of the project on the wider public is most evident from the       media coverage it has received.
Since 2007 there have been hundreds of       newspaper articles, as well as television and radio interviews, about the       ongoing research.
Jones' 2007 article [1] attracted considerable media       interest, particularly in Canada, with attention focusing on the nature of       the historical investigation, as well as on Ruddock's actions and claims.
For instance, the Canadian National Post published a series of       articles about the project on: 26 August 2009, 27 August 2009, 6 September       2009, 20 October 2010, 28 April 2012 and 8 July 2012, as the story       captured the public's imagination.
The second article published in August       2010 [2] resulted in heavy additional media coverage, with the BBC News       website, for instance, ranking the story in its `ten most read' items for       several hours [a].
The discovery that an Italian banking house funded Cabot's voyages [3]       also attracted much interest.
As before, the press stories, such as those       in the New York Times (June 2012) [b] and the Italian economic       magazine, II (October 2012), focused as much on the investigation       as on the findings.
The New York Times article [b] for instance,       characterises the research as `detective work', describes how the research       evolved and discusses how it challenges the accepted version of history.
Such stories help to change public perceptions that academic history is       dry and involves merely the retelling and reinterpretation of a corpus of       known facts.
The widespread interest in the Cabot Project's research and       its ability to attract a large audience, is perhaps most apparent from the       download statistics of the three academic articles mentioned above.
These       were all published in the international refereed journal, Historical         Research.
The journal agreed, from the outset, to make the articles       freely available online because it was anticipated that there would be       considerable public interest in the research.
All three articles rapidly       became, and have since remained, the journal's most read articles, being       its most downloaded articles in 2012 [c].
In 2012, Jones' first article       [1] received 2,195 downloads, Guidi-Bruscoli's article [3] received 1,379       downloads and Jones' second article [2] received 844 downloads.
The fourth       most read article received 588 downloads [c].
Although there is no way of       determining who all these readers were, it seems likely that most were       members of the public &#8212; the download figures being so far in excess of       what is typical for academic journal articles.
Popular history     Interest in the project's research is evident in the coverage it has       received in popular history books and magazines.
These include BBC         History Magazine (Sept 2009, circ.
70,000), Current Archaeology       (Nov 2009, circ.
18,000) and Canada's History (April, 2010, circ.
50,000) [d].
The last of these articles, by Douglas Hunter, focuses almost       entirely on Ruddock's claims and Jones' subsequent investigation.
These       matters also feature prominently in Hunter's subsequent book: The Race         to the New World: Christopher Columbus, John Cabot and a Lost History of         Discovery (Palgrave Macmillan, 2011), which received excellent       reviews by both the press and academics [e].
Interest in John Cabot is       further evident in the c.40,000 page views per month received by the `John       Cabot' Wikipedia page, which Jones largely re-wrote in 2009 [f].
A desire       to learn more about the Cabot Project's research is also apparent from the       c.200 page views his Project webpage receives each month.
Schools Group     In 2011 Dr Jones set up a `Schools Group' as part of the Cabot Project,       with the aim of using the project's research both to challenge children's       perceptions about what history is about and to encourage them to carry out       their own historical investigations.
The most ambitious of these       initiatives to date involved 15 Bristol History undergraduates acting as       research supervisors to c.50 Year 7/8 children from local secondary       schools.
The children conducted group research projects on Bristol's       maritime history of the 15th-16th centuries, before       giving presentations on their research at a conference at the University.
The teachers involved felt the pupils benefited enormously from this       exercise, which was particularly effective at challenging high-performing       pupils.
Chris Skidmore MP, a member of the Education Select Committee and       Vice Chair of the All Parliamentary Party Group on History and Archives       has endorsed the approach taken by the Cabot Project: 'The Department of       Education is looking to raise the participation in history in secondary       schools, with the subject having been placed in the EBacc.
The Cabot       Project helps schools to instil a passion for history amongst their pupils       at an early age.
Projects that ensure university engagement with local       schools are also vital for raising aspirations of school pupils,       particularly high-performing pupils whose need for additional challenge in       their progress has recently been highlighted by Ofsted.
The Cabot       Project's establishment of a schools group is a pioneering approach to       raising aspirations amongst pupils to achieve, and promoting greater       integrated working between universities and schools.
It is a model that       should be looked at by other universities as the benefit it provides is       both self-evident and extremely welcome.'
[g]     One of the state school teachers noted that, `this project was a       fantastic opportunity for these students to engage in some real historical       enquiry to the depth that we can never recreate in the classroom.
I would       wholeheartedly recommend the project to others and look forward to running       it again next year!'
and another that, 'I hoped that the students would       engage with an aspect of Bristol's history; gain experience of what it was       like to work as a 'proper' historian, using primary evidence to approach       enquiry questions...my expectations were met.'
[h].
The full responses to       the questionnaires issued to the school teachers were subsequently posted       on the project webpage in the hope of encouraging participation by other       schools [i].
That the project did stretch pupils in the way intended was       very apparent at the Schools' Conference (20 March 2013), where       presentations were graded using the criteria applied in the Department of       History to first-year undergraduate `Group Project' presentations.
On this       basis the best groups received higher 2.2 marks.
A schoolteacher and one       of the doctoral students involved (Harriett Webster) have recently had an       article about the exercise accepted for the pedagogic journal Teaching         History.
The three state schools that participated (Redland Green       School, Cotham High School and St Mary Redcliffe) intend to repeat the       exercise this year, with others planning to join them [i].
Heritage Industry     Cabot and his voyages have long played an important part in the       historical identity of Bristol, which included the construction of a       working `replica' of Cabot's ship, the Matthew of Bristol, for the       1997 celebration of his voyage.
This vessel plays an important part in the       city's heritage industry, receiving c. 80,000 visitors per year.
It has       also often been selected to represent the city.
The Matthew       features prominently, for instance, on the city's `Visit Bristol' posters       and the vessel was invited to represent Bristol at the Queen's Diamond       Jubilee `Thames Pageant' (June, 2012).
In 2011 Dr Jones was invited to be       a trustee of the newly-created `Matthew of Bristol Trust' and was       appointed as chair of the Education Committee, with aim of using his       expertise to shape the way information about the voyages is communicated       to the visiting public.
In the words of the Chairman of the Trust: `Dr       Jones has helped generate excitement in Bristol and beyond about Cabot's       voyages.
At the same time he has played a key role in informing our       volunteers, and through them the general public, about these famous       expeditions.'
[j]
