     Novel research at the University of Liverpool by Innes and colleagues has       made significant contributions to improving the way canine osteoarthritis       is diagnosed, monitored and managed, impacting not only on animal welfare,       but on veterinary practice, and a major pet food distributor.
A recent       systematic review on nutraceuticals for management of osteoarthritis in       dogs, cats and horses concluded that the evidence base for efficacy of       nutraceuticals in osteoarthritis was poor with the exception of omega-3       fatty acids in dogs which confirmed the significance of this UoL research       [6].
The use of a dietary additive has been shown to reduce the dose of       non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) required by dogs with       osteoarthritis, reducing the likelihood of adverse events associated with       long-term NSAID use.
The diet can considerably increase mobility [9].
The impact of the research since 2008 is best demonstrated by sales data       for Hill's Prescription Diet Canine j/d which has been sold by Hill's       (subsidiary of Colgate) throughout the developed world since 2003.
The       economic impact has increased steadily during the REF period (see table       below) through support from UoL researchers (lectures and published       reviews in North America and Europe, and research papers demonstrating the       efficacy of the product).
This product, which is based on the UoL       research, has been assessed by independent investigators in a randomized       clinical trial of dogs with naturally-occurring osteoarthritis.
This study       showed a significant increase (mean 5.6%) in peak vertical force (as       measured by a force platform) in the index limb in dogs receiving the j/d       diet compared to dogs receiving a standard control diet (mean 0.4%),       thereby confirming the clinical efficacy of Hill's Prescription Diet       Canine j/d for treatment of spontaneous canine osteoarthritis [7].
Sales of Hill's prescription diet Canine j/d are only through veterinary       practices.
As such, the product provides an income stream for both Hill's       Pet Nutrition, being their second best selling product) and the veterinary       profession in the developed world.
Net global sales (data supplied by       Hill's) 2008-2012 illustrate increasing economic impact, in the assessment       period, from.
2008           2009           2010           2011           2012                             Canine               j/d           Net Sales           $ 30,850,419           $ 43,515,310           $ 46,574,065           $ 54,617,154           $ 57,109,090                          In a fragmented industry such as small animal veterinary practice, it is     challenging to obtain corroboration from veterinary practitioners regarding     sales of Canine j/d.
However, the largest charitable provider of veterinary     services in UK, the PDSA, has confirmed that in 2012, 3% of their pet food     orders were for Hill's Prescription Diet Canine j/d [8].
As of 2013, Hill's     Prescription Diet Canine j/d had been distributed to over 20 countries, the     top five markets being United States, France, Canada, United Kingdom, and     Denmark.
The Liverpool research has translated, during the REF period, to a       similar impact in cats with osteoarthritis, again through provision of a       diet (Hill's Prescription Diet Feline j/d) specifically designed to       ameliorate this condition.
The manufacturers claim a 61% improvement in       cats with moderate or severe osteoarthritis [13].
In summary, the identification by the UoL of the potential of EPA as       canine dietary additive has improved welfare for dogs internationally,       reduced distress for owners, enabled veterinarians to extend their       services, and generated business for a pet food company.
To further improve the diagnosis of canine osteoarthritis and to provide       a standardised quantitative monitoring of the degree of osteoarthritis,       the LOAD instrument has been licensed on a global basis from q4 2012 to       Novartis Animal Health as a psychometrically-validated tool for       veterinarians and dog-owners to use in the identification, diagnosis,       staging and monitoring of canine osteoarthritis.
This is the first       validated CMI to be rolled out to the veterinary profession, the only one       that is (i) licensed to a pharmaceutical company, (ii) in electronic       format and (iii) available in five languages.
It has resulted in increased       awareness of this approach to improving canine welfare.
The instrument is       available in electronic and paper-based formats.
Recently, the instrument       has also been used in a clinical trial (sponsored by Pfizer Animal Health)       to compare two treatments for canine osteoarthritis [10] and thereby       demonstrated the field equivalency of a new, long-acting non-steroidal       anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) when compared to the UK market-leading       daily NSAID.
LOAD is also used, in modified form, by the British       Veterinary Orthopaedic Association's Canine Hip Registry (www.caninehipreplacement.org)       [11; established in Liverpool in 2011] and has demonstrated the efficacy       of surgical management of hip osteoarthritis in reducing LOAD scores of       treated patients (mean score reduced from 18/52 to 5/52) [12].
