     Reception is a major part of what Classicists do nowadays compared to       twenty years ago.
Bristol       has been a leading player in this trend from the start, in its research,       teaching and institutional       arrangements.
Throughout the REF period, and long before, it has been       standard practice in the       department to share our work with the public, principally through the       Bristol Institute of Greece,       Rome and the Classical Tradition [a] and its predecessor the       Centre for the Classical Tradition.
The Institute supports research into any aspect of Greco-Roman       civilisation, but places particular       emphasis on the links that bind the ancient and modern worlds.
9 of its 15       postdoctoral fellows       have done research on reception.
In the REF period it sponsored 45 events,       many of them       extending over several days ([b]).
Of these, 33 were on reception       topics.
The public is invited as a       matter of course but they are most in evidence at the two annual       showcases, the Blackwell-Bristol       Lectures (four lectures annually since 2008) and the annual Donors' Event.
The Lectures and the       Donors' Event consistently attract audiences of between 50 and 100 people       including many people       from outside the University.
At the Donors' Event, a public thank-you to       supporters, some aspect of       the Institute's current research is presented in a way that is accessible       yet without sacrificing       academic quality.
Three of the Donors' Events have highlighted the       research programmes       mentioned above: `Milton at 400', 12 November 2008, with papers from       Martindale and Hopkins of       Bristol, and S. Brown of Anglia Ruskin (former Bristol undergraduate and       postgraduate); `Greece       and Rome in Silent Cinema', 3 December 2011 (speakers Michelakis and Wyke,       featuring excerpts       from films and live, improvised piano accompaniment); `Constitutionalism:       Ancient, Modern and       American', 8 December 2012 (speaker P. Rahe, Hillsdale College, Michigan;       the lecture was part       of a meeting of the Legacy of Greek Political Thought network, hosted by       Morley in the context of       the Thucydides project).
All of these events contribute to the public       understanding of classical       reception, linking directly to longstanding core research of the Bristol       department.
Feedback from these events is consistently enthusiastic (and audiences       keep returning).
Comments are often heard, particularly from alumni, about the change in       Classics since their day       and about how reception studies have vastly expanded the subject's reach       and their own       appreciation of it.
Perhaps the most tangible and persuasive evidence of       impact is that people are       inspired to donate financially.
Operating costs of the Institute, which in       the REF period has raised       &#163;422,000, are met entirely from charitable donations from individuals and       corporations.
A typical       supporter writes that the work of the Institute has "broadened my       horizons" and "educated me in an       area of which I knew little...
I am sufficiently impressed with what has       been achieved and is       planned to be achieved to want to help fund the work, which I have just       done for this academic       year".
The Institute receives annual donations of approximately &#163;15,000       from individuals; we have       also had an individual gift of &#163;100,000 and another of &#163;50,000.
The A.G.       Leventis Foundation       acknowledges the Institute's distinctive approach and commitment to the       classical tradition as a       reason for its ongoing and substantial support.
The second aspect of impact in this case study is the way reception is       now embedded in the       curricula of classics departments.
A survey of teaching carried out by the       Classical Reception       Studies Network found that 18 of 23 departments in the country offered       reception-focused       undergraduate modules (41 between them) in 2008-09 and a further 45       modules that had a       significant element of reception.
5-10 students every year in these       departments write a final-year       dissertation on a reception theme.
One-third of departments see reception       as integral to the       curriculum, not an add-on ([c]).
This is a complete transformation       of the pedagogical landscape.
Bristol, being among the first to develop this approach, has been a leader       in effecting this change.
In the nature of things such indirect causal links are hard to prove, but       the close association of       Bristol Classics and reception is long-standing and acknowledged       nationally and internationally.
As       a concrete example we offer the impact of Martindale's Redeeming the         Text.
A special issue of the       Classical Receptions Journal (5.2, 2013) marked the 20th       anniversary of its publication and       includes a chapter on teaching in which the author, a scholar teaching in       Vassar College,       acknowledges Martindale's decisive influence ([d]).
Recent       testimonials from both sides of the       Atlantic assert that Martindale `led and did not simply contribute to the       trend of reception study'       ([e]); that Redeeming the Text is `one of the most       important and influential books in classical       reception studies' whose teaching would look `very different' without it ([f]);       that the book has been       `utterly formative' of the author's teaching ([g]); that the change       in classical pedagogy `is in no       small part due to the echo Martindale's work has had' [h]); that       it has `helped to reconfigure the       modern discipline of Classics', and is a `permanent fixture on the       critical bibliography of key works'       given to students [i].
This colleague also refers to a panel on       teaching classical receptions at the       2013 meeting of the American Philological Association, where Redeeming         the Text began the       discussion.
`It is no exaggeration to say,' this colleague concludes,       `that all my teaching in Classical       Reception Studies is in dialogue with RTT.'
Reception studies are inherently interdisciplinary, aiming to equip       students with a broad outlook       and the skills needed to pursue further work.
They also lead readily to an       engagement with the       world outside the academy and an enhanced awareness of the historical       environment.
Apart from       the purely academic rewards offered by reception studies, they have proven       a highly successful       response in educational terms to changing circumstances, refreshing our       curricula, forging links       with the whole range of arts and humanities, and underscoring the       continuing relevance of Classics       and Ancient History.
