     Dr O'Mahony's research has reached a wide audience through book sales,       media reports, school       activities, image blogs and public events.
It has sought to enhance and       enrich the public perception       and understanding of the visual culture of sport as part of the       much-vaunted Olympic `legacy'       agenda.
The research has had impact in the following areas: sport museums;       the media; school       activities; publicly staged events; and an interactive web project.
Sport Museums       Sport museums are a relatively recent phenomenon, with several such       institutions having been       founded in the last two decades across the globe.
Dr O'Mahony has       established close       relationships with the Directors of the National Football Museum in       Manchester, the World Rugby       Museum in Twickenham, and the wider umbrella organisation, the Sports       Heritage Network.
His       research insights and findings into the ways that the visual and material       traces of sport's history       have contributed towards shaping a wider understanding of sport and its       history have been       embraced within the sport museum environment as a means to enable and       enhance a wider       audience's engagement with this too often neglected history.
This has       enabled his research to       have an impact upon visitors to these public institutions.
i. Consultation on acquisition of works for the National Football         Museum       Dr O'Mahony was consulted by the Director of the National Football Museum       over the loan       acquisition of a work by Pablo Picasso entitled fooballeur and was       invited to the official unveiling to       talk to the press.
His research into this work was included in a press       release and media interviews       and was disseminated on several websites [a].
This was distributed to       museum and guide staff for       dissemination to the public.
Dr O'Mahony was further consulted over the       acquisition of a loan of a       work by Charles Cundell (A Chelsea Cup Tie, 1923).
His advice       contributed to the decision to       accept the loan and display the work in the collection.
The Deputy       Director has stated `Dr       O'Mahony's research into the visual in sport has been very useful and has       directly assisted the       museum in its public engagement activities'.
He has also stated that       collaboration with academic       colleagues, including Dr O'Mahony, has been a significant factor in the       recent award of Arts       Council Designated Status for the museum, making the National Football       Museum the first sport       museum, and the youngest ever museum, to achieve this distinction [b].
Between July 2012 (when       it re-opened in its newly located premises in Manchester) and September       2013, the National       Football Museum welcomed over 500,000 visitors, and surpassed its       ambitious first year visitor       target in just nine months.
ii.
Research on the History of the Calcutta Cup for the World Rugby         Museum       Dr O'Mahony also conducted research into the history of the trophy design       for the Calcutta Cup, in       collaboration with the World Rugby Museum, for a paper presented at the       2012 Design History       Society Conference.
The Museum's Director has stated, 'this research has       contributed to a wider       understanding of this unique item in the World Rugby Museum's collection',       and requested a copy       of the paper for the Museum library and to inform future       exhibition/display information [c].
The       World Rugby Museum currently welcomes, on average, more than 25,000       visitors per annum.
This       is expected to increase dramatically in 2015 when England hosts the Rugby       Union World Cup.
Media Activities       Dr O'Mahony's research into the visual culture of sport attracted media       attention in the run up to       the Olympic and Paralympic Games.
This resulted in the making of a short       programme for BBC       America/BBC World (Picture This series) that explored key moments       in the history of the Olympic       movement through the images that documented those moments.
This included       the expansion of       women's participation in the Games and the political hijacking of the       Olympics from the Berlin       Games of 1936 to the Munich massacre of 1972.
The programme was broadcast       worldwide and       posted on the BBC News Magazine website where it has received over 64,000       hits (June 2013)       [d].
Interviews were also conducted with Radio Bristol (17 June and 28       July 2012).
School Activities       As part of a Visual in Sport conference/workshop held at White       Hart Lane, Tottenham in 2009,       students from St Thomas More Catholic School, a mixed, independent academy       in Haringey, were       invited to work on an art project to produce a poster for the event.
This       resulted in the production of       images of sport in a variety of media.
The event was reported in the       school's newsletter: `Pupils       from the Art Department at St Thomas More Catholic School in London,       recently had the opportunity to       present examples of their art works at an academic conference co-organised       by Dr O'Mahony from       Bristol's History of Art department and Mike Huggins of the University of       Cumbria'.
Describing these       works he continued, `case studies are now being piloted to show the       positive impact sport is making on       academic attainment in art and design'.
Several of these works were       subsequently reproduced in the       School Newsletter [e].
`My Games'       Dr O'Mahony has also sought to have an impact upon the way that       contemporary sporting       practices are viewed and documented in visual terms.
Accordingly, his       research generated an       interactive image blog entitled My Games: The View from the South-West       (http://www.bris.ac.uk/my-games)       which sought the submission of photographs from the general       public documenting their own unique experiences of the 2012 London Olympic       Games.
The `My       Games' image blog project has attracted over 150 image submissions from       approximately 24       contributors.
These individuals range from fellow academics to sport       enthusiasts [f].
The project       has attracted the attention of the Sports Heritage Network, an umbrella       organisation founded in       2006 to build links between academic researchers and sport museums in       Britain, and is currently       being incorporated into The People's Record, an Arts Council       funded project established with the       objective `to record the impact of the Games, from 2010-2012, museums,       libraries and archives       around the UK supported community groups to collect and create material       related to the Games,       past and present'.
Dr O'Mahony intends to use this project as a template       for further public-facing       projects in the build-up to the Soccer World Cup in Brazil in 2014, the       Rugby Union World Cup in       England in 2015 and the Summer Olympic Games in Rio de Janeiro in 2016.
Other Events       A public Q&amp;A event organised by Watershed RELAYS (Regional Education       Legacy for Arts and       Youth Sport) in Bristol attracted an audience of 30 to discuss the history       and culture of the Games.
The event, organised under the title A Visual Guide to the Olympics,       featured a discussion       between three authors of books on the Games (David Goldblatt, Dr Martin       Polley and Dr       O'Mahony) and contributed towards informing public discourse and shaping       discussion of the       visual legacy of the Games.
A series of six weekly public lectures at the University of Bristol, and a       film screening at Arnolfini,       Bristol was also held under the theme Art and Sport in Autumn       2011.
The lectures were attended       by approximately 25-35 people each week.
