     The research described here has changed substantially the fundamental       understanding of the mode of action of artificial sweeteners used in       animal nutrition.
It is now understood that, rather than being a       non-specific `palatant', sweeteners such as SUCRAM at a small       concentration (0.015% w/w) are potent activators (600-fold&gt;glucose) of       the intestinal glucose (sweet) sensor.
This research, since 2008, has had       major impacts on the health and wellbeing of the animals concerned, as       well as having significant economic impacts on the pig production industry       and the animal feed company, Pancosma, with whom Prof Shirazi-Beechey       collaborates.
Economic Impacts     Post weaning mortality constitutes an on-going substantive financial loss       to the pig industry.
Shirazi-Beechey's research has demonstrated that       sweeteners contribute to health maintenance and increased growth mainly       due to optimization of feed utilization.
This has major economic benefits       for the animal industry as their return on investment is significantly       increased by the use of SUCRAM [9].
The novel mechanisms discovered have also enhanced customers'       understanding of the mode of action and benefits of artificial sweeteners       in piglet feed, thereby increasing the sale of SUCRAM.
Since the       implementation of Shirazi-Beechey's research in 2008, annual sales have       more than doubled from &#8364;5.9m in 2008 to &#8364;12m in 2012; the largest demand       is in China, Brazil, South Korea, Thailand, Philippines, Spain, Russia,       Netherlands, Mexico, Italy, Japan and Indonesia.
Shirazi- Beechey, in       collaboration with Pancosma, has been pivotal in promoting the benefits of       SUCRAM to potential international customers in the animal feed industry,       creating a demand responsible for the increased sales figures [11].
The       benefits to animal breeders will be many times this, as the net return on       investment has been shown to be 400% of expenditure on SUCRAM [9].
The       importance of the role of sweeteners on pig gut development has received       wide industry recognition with high profile articles in pig industry       journals [10].
Global animal feed companies such as Cargill, Purina and CP       Group are incorporating SUCRAM into their products [7,8,12,13].
The partnership between Shirazi-Beechey and Pancosma has had additional       economic benefits to the Company that go beyond sales figures.
Her       research has scientifically validated the Company's promotion of the       product; giving customer's the assurance that the decision to include       SUCRAM in their animal feed will have a quantifiable impact on their pig       production.
Her research has also allowed the Company to remain       competitive in the animal feed industry, by helping to realign the       Company's values to focus more on science and research, rather than just       on production and sales.
This is demonstrated in their updated motto,       "Customer driven, science minded", with a new Company focus on "gut       health" [11].
Their reputation as a world-leading, scientifically forward       Company has been significantly aided by Shirazi-Beechey's initiation and       organisation of annual meetings (Paris 2010; Paris 2011, Madrid 2012)       where topics relating to important research underpinning animal gut health       are presented and discussed.
Audience members include scientists,       individuals from animal feed industries, EU regulators, policy makers,       administrators and valued customers [11].
These benefits would not have been achieved without the fundamental       insights into the underpinning molecular mechanisms.
The global animal       feed company, Cargill, states that "this is an excellent example of how       relatively `deep' science can have a very close connection with, and       impact on, practical animal agriculture."
[7].
The knowledge that       artificial sweeteners trigger molecular pathways is leading to industrial       realisation that the research outputs are relevant to other major aspects       of agriculture, including the dairy industry [7,8].
Animal Welfare Benefits       Subsequent to research, a large number of field trials (involving more       than 4500 piglets) have indicated that the artificial sweetener, SUCRAM,       is effective, by over 90%, in reducing post weaning intestinal disorders,       leading to enhancement of growth and wellbeing of early weaned piglets.
