     1.
Impact on the Sam Wanamaker Playhouse.
The reconstruction of       the open-air Globe       playhouse was opened in 1997, and from its inception the plan was to       create an indoor playhouse       to stand alongside it, replicating the original Globe-Blackfriars venues       owned by Shakespeare's       company, the King's Men.
Although the shell of the indoor playhouse was       built, funding did not       allow completion of its interior at that time.
However, in 2009 the Globe       Trustees decided to       complete the indoor project and began to raise the necessary funding.
Research at the Globe is       led by the Architecture Research Group (ARG), which is made up of theatre       professionals, theatre       historians, experts in d&#233;cor and architects.
White has been a member of       this group for over a       decade, was its chair for some years, and in the past four years has been       in constant dialogue with       the Globe about the issues surrounding the lighting of the indoor       playhouse.
The question of the evidence on which to base the design was a crucial       first step.
When the       shell was built in 1997 it seemed certain that the Worcester College       drawings were by Inigo Jones,       could be dated around 1617-18 and identified with the Cockpit playhouse       built in that year in Drury       Lane.
During the following decade, however, the auspices, date and       identification were challenged,       and the drawings were believed by some scholars to be by John Webb (Jones'       pupil, whose       papers are also held at Worcester College) and potentially dated later in       the century.
The basis for       these arguments are explored on the DVD [2], in a discussion between       Martin White and the       leading drawings expert, Dr Gordon Higgott, filmed in the Worcester       College library.
Consequently,       White was a key participant in the decision that resulted in a       recommendation by the ARG to the       Globe's Trustees that they continue to use the drawings as the basic model       for the reconstruction,       given that they remain the only extant drawings of the interior of a       Jacobean playhouse, match       every known feature of those playhouses and, importantly, had been tested       in practice by White's       research project and by his productions on reconstructed stages over a       number of years.
The       Trustees accepted the ARG recommendation.
[a, b].
Attention now turned to the key issue of how to light the SWP.
A core       aspect of the Globe's       policy is to explore `original practices', but each theatrical decision       has to be underpinned by viable       research [4], and White's work has been fundamental in providing such       evidence.
It had been       generally assumed that it would be necessary to perform using electric       candles (as is the case at       the reconstructed Blackfriars indoor playhouse in Staunton, Virginia, USA)       as opposed to real       candle-light, on the grounds that it was very unlikely that permission       would be granted to perform       publicly using candles to light the theatre.
It became central to       White's work to overcome this       assumption.
On 21 June 2011, a group of 30 from the Globe, including the       CEO and Artistic       Director, architects, advisors, actors, designers, etc., travelled to       Bristol to work with White and the       Drama Department's reconstruction that was put up in the Wickham Theatre       for the occasion.
Three scenes were performed using three different kinds of lighting       (candles, artificial candles and       conventional stage-lighting) followed by detailed analysis of the results       which confirmed the       preference for real candles, and the Artistic Director asked White to       return to the question of the       number of candles used and the resulting light levels.
[b] As a result of       the workshop, the Globe       moved the Bristol reconstruction to London with the intention of erecting       it in the shell of the new       building to provide a template against which to test decision-making.
Clearly, live flame has a number of safety implications, and one of the       major ways in which       White has been able to make an impact is to emphasise the importance and       the unique experience       that candlelight represents, and to explain this view to the London Fire       Service and the Globe's       insurers.
[b,d,e] `There has been considerable work undertaken on this       subject by Professor Martin       White at the University of Bristol.
This includes the number and location       of candles, the type of wax       used in 16th century candle-making and how the candles were       operated by the stage assistants       and the actors on stage' (Fire Strategy Report, July 2012, p. 69).
[e] It       is reasonable to claim that       these presentations overcame initially held doubts and helped clear the       way for the playhouse to       operate as imagined.
[b, d, e] Subsequently, White's work and knowledge       has been constantly       drawn on as the fine detail of the lighting (equipment and operation) has       been finalised.
[a, b, e]       With no precedents to turn to, White has advised on the positioning of the       chandeliers above the       stage and, most crucially, the height at which they should be hung (which       challenges previously       held assumptions); the composition, size and number of candles (which       White's research has       completely rethought) and the crucial but often over-looked choice of       wicks; the range and nature       of hand-held lighting instruments; and related issues such as the effect       of the paint scheme on the       candlelight and vice versa, a key decision where only practical       investigation can verify ideas drawn       from contemporary references.
[c, e]     In November 2011 White was invited to visit the Court Theatre (an opera       house built in       1766 and now a World Heritage site) at Drottningholm, in Stockholm, to       work with a group of       international scholars and theatre practitioners on the question of       lighting this unique building.
In       November 2012 he spent time at the Baroque Theatre Institute based in the       eighteenth century       theatre in Cesky Krumlov in the Czech Republic to test out ideas related       to the Globe project.
Both       theatres are now lit by electric candles, but retain vital information       about their original candle       lighting in the form of documents, decoration and artefacts.
In July 2013       the Globe sent White and       the company's Production Manager on a further visit to Cesky Krumlov, and       the combination of       these visits and White's own research have further influenced specific       decisions at the SWP.
For       example, `candle torches' are frequently referred to in early modern       documents, but it was not until       White came across one at Cesky Krumlov that it has been possible to       reconstruct one for the       SWP, solving a previously puzzling problem of exactly what kind of torches       could be employed       indoors.
Other key areas that White's research there has helped solve       include the design of the       chandeliers, the auditorium lighting, the paint scheme, and possible       illumination of scenic       elements, [a, b, c, d] while his contacts have resulted in developing an       ongoing relationship       between himself, the Globe and Cesky Krumlov.
There is no doubt that the prospect of working with candlelight, and its       successful       employment at the SWP, has been entered into with a confidence derived       from White's research       work.
[a, b, c, d] But while the aesthetic impact of a candle lit theatre       is undeniable, Shakespeare's       Globe is a commercial organisation that receives no state funding       whatsoever, and the fact that all       available tickets for the SWP first season (opening January 2014) sold out       almost immediately is       clear evidence of the financial impact of the new playhouse and its       distinctive lighting.
2.
Impact on teaching in the UK and internationally.
White has       given many presentations to A-level       students in schools in Bristol on the importance of understanding the       nature of indoor playing       (not least lighting) when studying appropriate play texts.
The DVD too has       been influential: `This       extraordinary and innovative DVD .
.
.
is the closest we can come to the       intensity and subtlety of       the candlelit Jacobean playhouse.
Ingenious multiple-angle shooting allows       the viewer to       experience the intimacy of the theatre from a variety of viewpoints.
Martin White's gripping and       enthusiastic introduction and interviews with historians, costume and       makeup artists make this an       invaluable resource for A level and Undergraduate students of Literature       and Drama, and shows       the possibilities of recreation for making theatre new.'
[h].
The DVD       provides an `interactive and       vividly visual view of Jacobean indoor theatres.
.
.
.
A rich diachronic       dialogue between early       modern and twentieth-century performance practices .
.
.
is the sort of       work that White excels in, as       is .
.
.
evident from his Chamber of Demonstrations .
.
.
that       allows the viewer to see the lighting       conditions and staging possibilities'.
[g]     3.
Impact on audiences beyond academia.
Although it has sold to       university libraries around the       world and to individual lecturers and school teachers, the DVD is also       sold via non-academic       outlets including Amazon, French's Bookshop, the bookshops at       Shakespeare's Globe and the       National Theatre as well as via chamberofdemonstrations.com.
In all, some       750 copies have been       sold.
[i] It has also been disseminated to non-academic audiences through,       for example, its       inclusion in the exhibition, `Painted Pomp' at the Holburne Museum, Bath       (January-May 2013);       White's presentations to a general audience at the Globe's Annual Seminar       (February 2013) [f], the       Society for Theatre Research's `Annual Address' (May 2013) and the public       lecture at the Victoria       and Albert Museum [6] (July 2013), as part of the AHRC-funded       `Shakespearean London Theatres'       project (ShaLT): a video of White's lecture and a filmed interview on       indoor playing are available at       http://shalt.org.uk/downloads;       the interview is also available on YouTube.
