     Applied to the commercial world, the research recognizes highly important       factors in social and       economic activity, namely (a) the propensity to copy others and (b) how       well informed the deciders       are, in their ability to discriminate between available choices, such as       products in a category.
Without prior assumptions, the analysis extracts signatures of social       influence and transparency of       decision-making (1).
This serves as an effective focusing `lens' for       marketing efforts.
Marketing       something that is very socially visible and easy to discriminate, for       example, is quite different from       marketing something that is socially invisible or not discriminable from       similar alternatives.
By saving wasted marketing effort, the analysis has fundamentally steered       real marketing       strategies, often away from those mis-targeted at individual, `rational'       agents without social       influence.
Applying the analysis (section 2) to sales data, for instance,       often indicates that people       copy much more indiscriminately than often assumed, especially when       subjected to social media       influences.
When this is the case, the best strategy is to generate       critical mass for the product and       then position it as a more considered decision or purchase.
If, on the       other hand, if the analysis of       sales data reveals more well-directed social influence, then survey       methods can be used to identify       the characteristics of "Influential" individuals within the network as a       focus of dissemination efforts.
Volterra Consulting, LLP Bentley's academic collaboration with       Volterra co-Director Paul       Ormerod (e.g.
refs 5, 6, [f], sections 3, 5) has informed the actions of       this prominent and influential       economic consultancy in London.
Although Bentley has not worked directly       on Volterra's projects,       his Bristol-based research with Ormerod contributes to Volterra's approach       toward numerous       clients.
For example, Volterra's 2011 project revealing how social       networks account for the rise in       U.K. binge drinking (www.volterra.co.uk/publication-archive) was       influenced by collaboration of       Bentley with Ormerod and B. Tarbush at Volterra on "Network effects on       decisions among many       similar choices" (later presented by Bentley at `NetSci,' Northwestern       University, June 2012).
Sony Electronics Europe, 2012.
The framework of Bentley's research       was the basis for a       substantial change in Sony's marketing approach in Europe.
The 2012       project, with Mark Earls,       was done via Anomaly Communications, London, to which in 2009 Sony Europe       contracted its &#163;50       million advertising account.
Bentley's social-copying models lay at the       core of the analysis of the       sales dynamics of a range of portable electronics across a number of       different European       geographies.
Basically, the analysis revealed that certain segments of the       electronic camera       market was characterised by consumers looking toward `expert' opinion,       whereas in other       segments, fairly indiscriminate copying characterised consumer choices.
These segment region-specific       patterns allowed Sony and Anomaly to customise their marketing strategies       accordingly.
Geoff Gray, Partner at Anomaly, confirms this [m], and Giles Morrison (now       at Unilever U.K.) says:     As a senior marketer working in a complex organisation, across         categories and national         borders, I found the novel approach (from Alex Bentley and Mark Earls)         very useful.
Because it         used our own sales data, it allowed us to focus conversations about what         to do on the facts of         consumer behaviour rather than opinion and assumption.
Because it         focussed on patterning in         the data, it allowed us create consensus about similarities and         differences in our categories very         quickly and simply.
As a result of this, we found it much easier to         develop appropriate regional         creative solutions and communications mixes ... the immediate benefits         of this technique are         organisational &#8212; they help us make better decisions, faster and         together, something which is         incredibly valuable.
[n]     HERD consulting: In work similar to the Sony example above,       Bentley has partnered as       consultant at HERD consulting with Mark Earls, who has held senior posts       at Ogilvy &amp; Mather.
Earls and Bentley have done public presentations together at the Royal       Society of Arts (Nov 2011),       Oglivy "Big Data Debate" (June 2013), the Market Research Society (2012)       and The Royal Mail       (Sept 2012).
The feedback from these events (mostly online) testifies to       how is has helped       organisations strategise their communications strategies.
Earls and       Bentley are writing a new       follow up to their 2011 MIT book (ref.
[a]) and will continue to pursue       high-profile public speaking       engagements and consultancies with marketing divisions with which they       have worked already,       such as Royal Mail, Modernista!, Channel 4, Unilever, BrainJuicer, Oglivy       &amp; Mather and others.
Sanofi Pasteur Pharmaceuticals: In 2012, Sanofi Pasteur MSD       sponsored Professor Bentley to       visit their headquarters in Lyon, France (March 2012) to spend a day       discussing/presenting the       relevance of his research to this pharmaceutical industry.
Subsequently       Bentley was sponsored by       Sanofi Pasteur to present "An anthropologist's view on vaccination" to an       international audience of       hundreds of medical doctors at the European Society for Paediatric       Infectious Diseases (ESPID, 9       May 2012).
Bentley maintains his relationship with Sanofi Pasteur through       Dr. Rosybel Drury,       Senior Manager of Medical Affairs.
Relatedly, Bentley and Professor Adam       Finn (Bristol Clinical       Medicine, who also works with Sanofi Pasteur) led a session public       engagement concerning       vaccination and behaviour at the 2012 "Engage" event in Bristol       (coordinated by Sophie Duncan,       National Coordinating Centre for Public Engagement).
