     In describing the impact of the research since January 2008, the       following narrative makes passing reference to impacts occurring between       October 2005 and December 2007 in order to contextualise the claim of the       two pieces to `classic' status within the genre.
The Gaia Symphony was composed piecemeal over a period of more       than ten years, though the bulk of the work took place between 2001 and       2004.
All four movements were premi&#232;red separately by the NYBBW as part of       their summer courses, so the impact on young players (aged 13-18) was       in-built from the start.
The composer and conductor Philip Harper,       latterly Musical Director of the Cory Band, participated in some of the       early performances and considers the impact of the experience to have       played a key role in his decision to become a professional musician: `I       first discovered John Pickard's music aged 18 and playing with the Sun       Life Band in Bristol when we performed Men of Stone at the BBC       Festival of Brass.
Such multi-dimensional music had a profound impact on       my development, and I was fascinated to hear the textural and rhythmic       possibilities of the brass band, as demonstrated in this work.
My own       compositions began to develop as a result of further study of John's       music, and I'm glad now to be in a position as a professional freelance       conductor where I perform John's work regularly, and continue to benefit       from further study of the scores.'
[c]     Pickard's residency with the Cory Band made the music a central part of       their musical lives as they worked on sections of the piece while it was       being composed.
Separate movements have continued to be performed; for       example, Part Four, Men of Stone, was given by the Cory Band at       the 2011 Royal Northern College of Music Festival of Brass (one of the       world's premier brass festivals) and Part Two, Wildfire, was       played by the National Youth Band of Great Britain at the 2012 Proms       (though impact is not being claimed in this case, for reasons explained in       section 2).
Though the separate movements were not originally intended as       test pieces, Men of Stone was used for this purpose at the South       Australian Band Championships in 2002[d].
Because of its size and unusual       complexity as a complete work, the symphony requires extended and detailed       preparation to mount it in its entirety.
In September 2011,       Eikanger-Bj&#248;rsvik Band of Bergen, Norway, became the first non-UK band to       perform the complete work in public, an event covered in part of a       documentary about the band, Korpsfiksert, broadcast by NRK       Norwegian television [e].
The same ensemble repeated it in March 2013,       while preparing the work's second commercial CD recording.
The recording       took place on 14-16 June 2013 in Bergen with the major classical label BIS       Records.
A double impact was therefore achieved: the work gave the band an       opportunity to record with an internationally renowned label and BIS       Records extended its repertoire since, of the 2000-plus recordings it has       so far issued, this is the first to feature a brass band (as opposed to a       symphonic brass ensemble).
The project attracted funding of &#163;10,000 from       an anonymous benefactor, thereby bringing financial benefit to the band       and to the record company.
Since its premi&#232;re, Eden has received many performances and has       become a staple of the Championship Section of the brass band repertoire.
Paul Hindmarsh of the Brass Band Heritage Trust comments that `once the       work became more familiar, it became admired for the quality of the       invention, concept and execution.
Eden remains a very taxing piece       in the repertoire &#8212; especially in its rhythmic structure.
It has been used       as a contest piece on a number of occasions since 2005 and is recognised       as one of the modern Everests of the medium.'
[f] Eden has been       programmed as the compulsory test piece at the Danish National       Championship (2006), the Belgian National Championship (2009) and the       English National Championship (2010).
In the European Championship, it was       the `own choice' work of two bands in 2006 and one in 2009 and has been       played four times at the Norwegian National Championship (2006,'07, '08,       '10).
[g]     Eden has also had a vigorous performance life beyond the world of       the brass band contest and is regularly played in public concerts.
Following its inclusion in a retrospective of Pickard's music for brass       band at Royal Northern College of Music Festival of Brass a study day was       devoted to it at the University of Durham in 2007 as part of a       postgraduate course for brass band conductors.
In 2009 Pickard was invited       to give a day-long workshop on the piece in Brussels, prior to its       performance in the Belgian National Brass Band Championship.
The piece has       been issued commercially in five different CD recordings: by the Leyland       Band, Black Dyke Band, BTM Band, the Stavanger Band (Norway) and       Sandefjord Brass Symposium (Norway).
All recordings have been commercially       available since January 2008.
A sixth commercial recording of Eden       was made by the Cory Band in May 2013 and a seventh by the       Eikanger-Bj&#248;rsvik Band in June 2013 for inclusion with BIS Records' disc       of Gaia Symphony (see above).
Although new pieces for brass band are not uncommon, both the Gaia       Symphony and Eden have been praised for setting new standards of       artistic endeavour within the medium.
Consequently, they have received       unusually wide coverage within the brass band press and have managed to       spread beyond the narrow confines of the contesting circuit, penetrating       more mainstream musical events.
This particular impact is corroborated by       the conductor Dr Robert Childs, who described it as `a wonderful work [.
.
.]
I believe it represents a turning point in brass band composition.
John       Pickard has found sounds in the band that haven't been heard before and       this will be a revelation for the competition.'
[h]     Eden breaks new technical ground for the medium, through its use       of complex rhythmic devices that are more frequently encountered in works       for specialist contemporary music ensembles.
Musicians from both the Cory       and Eikanger-Bj&#248;rsvik bands attest to the positive effect these challenges       have had upon their musicianship: `Dr Pickard has written technically       challenging passages that have, even after 30 years playing at highest       level of brass banding, required me to extend my technique still further';       `[Eden] has made me more aware that sometimes you need to go beyond       the traditional techniques and think more outside the box'; `Eden has       developed my ability to understand and perform contemporary music.'
[i]     The musical challenges these innovations present are particularly       significant since the British brass band movement remains entirely amateur       and largely associated with some of the most socially and economically       deprived areas of the UK: the South Wales Valleys; industrial East       Lancashire; South Yorkshire; the North-East.
The educational element of       these challenges is therefore significant, since they expose amateur       musicians (some of them of school age) to musical innovation in a manner       that nevertheless respects the traditions of the brass band movement.
That       tradition is embodied in the `narrative' underpinning of Eden,       together with allusions to the classic works of the repertoire that are       familiar to all bandsmen and women.
Ray Farr, conductor of the Vardy Band       in Durham, attests not only to the work's impact on performers and       listeners, but to its contribution to developing the technique of       conductors: `The musical language, form, structure [of Eden] has       an engaging quality which is instantly appealing to musicians and       listeners.
This helps a great deal to overcome the technical challenges in       performance...My performance, from the Royal Albert Hall was video       recorded, and I have used it several times to demonstrate advanced       conducting techniques in my lectures....
Both pieces [Gaia and Eden]       are massively important as they take brass band repertory a step forward'       [j]     The technical complexities of Eden have been addressed in two       web-based instructional videos created by the Cory Band between January       and May 2013 and presented on their YouTube channel.
The videos       (complementing a third video featuring a complete performance) are       designed for use by ensembles that are in the process of preparing the       work.
[j] Impacts from this initiative are still in the early stages, but       the videos were viewed by members of the Eikanger-Bj&#248;rsvik Band in       preparation for their CD recording, one player commenting that `Seeing the       YouTube video of Cory was really helpful for preparing this       [recording].
'[k]     Eden has therefore benefited musicians outside the UK.
Luc       Vertommen, conductor of the Buizingen Band in Brussels, states that: `The       band playing Eden and John commenting on the playing and giving       insight in the construction and ideas behind the piece &#8212; very worthwhile       for us... Everybody involved in this workshop was extremely please[d] with       John's background information.... Gaia is a landmark in modern day       brass band writing mainly because it's length [sic] but also because of       its great musical quality.
The same can be said about Eden &#8212; a       modern classic in brass band repertoire' [l]     The standard brass band has 28 musicians, so 560 musicians worked almost       exclusively for several months to prepare the first 20 performances at the       Royal Albert Hall in 2005.
Anticipation of the event was considerable,       with British Bandsman (established in 1887 and the most respected       of the numerous brass band journals) devoting a four-page cover-article to       the composer and the work in the week of the contest.
In his analytical       article on the piece, Professor Philip Wilby commented that `it is vital       that the movement seeks to encourage new works from composers such as       Pickard.
They refresh our repertoire, build up our wider credibility and       keep us all in touch with new trends in contemporary music'.
[m] At the       premi&#232;re, the audience numbered approximately 4,000 and the winning       performances were broadcast nationally.
Though smaller in scale, a similar pattern pertains for the later       appearances of the work in contests.
The five commercial CD releases (with       a further two recorded for release outside the review period) have spread       the work's reputation worldwide and Eden continues to be performed       in contests and concerts in the UK and abroad.
In 2006 Eden was shortlisted in the British Composer Awards [n]       and the reputation of both works and its composer has also influenced       several current students in their choice of Bristol University as their       study destination for degrees ranging from BA to PhD.
