     Developing and refining techniques of fluid inclusion analysis and       embedding these into industry have been an underpinning theme of the       mineralogy group at Kingston.
Part of this has been through enhancing the       robustness of the primary analytical technique, and part has been through       developing new application strategies.
In particular, mapping the       distribution of different fluid chemistries within potentially mineralised       terranes through analysis of fluid inclusion chemistries has impacted on       the economics of mineral exploration in companies using these techniques.
End-user beneficiaries are companies working in the minerals and petroleum       exploration and mining sectors.
A specific beneficiary company, and the       focus of this case study, is Randgold Resources (a FTSE100 company).
Rankin's pioneering early work in the use of fluid inclusion mapping as a       tool in mineral exploration geology opened up the novel possibility that       exploration geologists can collect quartz veins in the field and map their       fluid chemistries.
These fluid chemistries can now be embedded into       Geographical Information Systems, thus developing a grid of mineralisation       potential.
This has proved to be a powerful exploration tool, and has been       developed in collaboration with Randgold Resources through a long-term       collaboration aimed at knowledge transfer.
During this collaboration,       Treloar and Rankin further developed the technique of cracking open fluid       inclusions so that daughter minerals and their chemistry can be identified       using SEM analysis.
These data can also be embedded into GIS maps and       serve to reinforce the picture painted by the fluid inclusion chemistries.
Using this tool, Randgold Resources and Kingston University researchers       have mapped different fluid types over a wide region in West Africa (west       Mali and east Senegal, 2010-2011), and the success of this has enabled the       company to move away from a traditional empirical exploration philosophy       towards one with a more scientific base built around routine fluid       inclusion work.
This work is supported by detailed mineral chemistry using a combination       of electron microprobe, LA-ICP-MS, and portable XRF analysis, which       provides the minerals industry with critical metallurgical detail for ore       processing.
As a result of this engagement (see cited reports in section       3) with Kingston University, Randgold Resources has fundamentally changed       its systems: the company now prefers to identify minerals by electron       microscopy and microanalysis rather than by reflected light microscopy,       and uses microanalysis to identify potential metallurgical problems in the       initial stages of exploration.
The resulting data has allowed the company       to assess gold deportment and issues of gold liberation as well as       environmental toxicity issues which might arise from mine waste storage at       an earlier stage of resource evaluation.
This analysis will lead to a long       term reduction of the environmental impact of Randgold Resources' mining       operations.
The Kingston University research has enabled this company to benefit from       a more targeted approach in its exploration and mining activities, thus       reducing costs and increasing profitability.
Randgold has stated (April       2013) that "fluid inclusion mapping to constrain potential prospectivity       ... has enabled a map of the distribution of different fluids to be       developed"; and "detailed electron microscopy and micro-analytical       analysis of ore minerals and the phases associated with them" has enabled       "the company ... to seek to embed these techniques in its exploration and       metallurgical testing strategies".
