     The impact of the underpinning research has been a change of policy by       the US government and, consequently, by the United Nations.
The report Measuring the Costs of Statelessness: A Livelihoods         Analysis in Four Countries, containing the results of the       underpinning research described in Section 2, was submitted to the US       State Department Bureau for Population, Refugees and Migration in       September 2011.
A subsequent briefing was organised in Washington, DC,       where the co-author Maureen Lynch presented the findings to staff from the       US State Department.
On 25 October 2011 the Under Secretary of State for Global Affairs, Maria       Otero, deputising for and delivering a speech on behalf of Secretary of       State Hillary Clinton at the US Institute of Peace in Washington, D.C.,       quoted from the report at length and acknowledged the research by Kingston       University.
She went on to say that Secretary Clinton has identified       women's nationality rights as an important area of work for the State       Department and that the US government is "advocating on behalf of       stateless people with foreign governments and civil society organizations.
US diplomats around the world are working to generate local political will       to reform discriminatory nationality laws."
Otero then announced the US       government's intention to use the strength of its public diplomacy to       increase global awareness of women's nationality rights, as recommended in       Blitz's report [1].
On 7 December 2011, Secretary of State Hillary Clinton announced US       government policy and pledges based on the research, saying "The United       States has launched an initiative to build global awareness about these       issues and support efforts to end or amend such discriminatory laws.
We       want to work to persuade governments &#8212; not only officials but members of       parliament &#8212; to change nationality laws that carry this discrimination to       ensure universal birth registration and establish procedures and systems       to facilitate the acquisition of citizenship for stateless people."
Secretary Clinton borrowed the wording from Blitz and Lynch's book about       the ways in which the denial of citizenship deprives people access to       basic rights, and the sequencing of examples is almost exactly as in the       text.
She introduced a series of "commemoration pledges", one of which is       on statelessness and maps onto the recommendations included in Blitz and       Lynch's 2011 book and Blitz's 2009 report on the benefits of citizenship.
[2]     Also in 2011, Clinton pledged that the US government would "Focus U.S.       diplomacy on preventing and resolving statelessness among women and       children, including efforts to raise global awareness about discrimination       against women in nationality laws and to mobilize governments to repeal       nationality laws that discriminate against women."
[3]     In July 2012, the US government drafted a resolution on the theme       announced by Clinton which was introduced to the UN Human Rights Council       on 5 July 2012 [4].
This resolution was passed by consensus on the same       date [5].
It is too early to quantify the number of women and children benefitting       from the implementation of US and UN humanitarian policy instruments: the       impact so far is on the policies of the US and UN.
However, the       significance of this policy change can be demonstrated by the UN Refugee       Agency (UNHCR)'s estimates that there are 12 million stateless people       globally.
The underpinning research identified the following numbers:       300,000 stateless people in 2003 in Sri Lanka (now supposedly having the       right to citizenship); 20,000 - 30,000 stateless Nubians in Kenya; 250,000       stateless Bihari in Bangladesh; and 25,671 were 'erased' and are       effectively stateless in Slovenia.
