     Gavin's Sewell research has considerably raised public awareness       nationally and internationally of this canonical writer's life and work,       impacting on literary tourists and reading groups and aiding the       preservation of British literary heritage.
The volume was reviewed widely       by national and regional press and media on publication.
Since the       publication of the biography Gavin has delivered 16 talks or papers on       Sewell, seven of which were by invitation, and has given 20 media       interviews on Sewell and Black Beauty.
Professor John Carey wrote       in the Sunday Times in 2004: `By the time [Gavin] is       through, it seems inevitable Anna should have written just the book she       did....Gavin's biography makes [Black Beauty] seem an even finer       book than before, which is what all literary biographies should do.'
The       impact and its reach have been extended by Gavin's critical edition of       Sewell's Black Beauty, published by the public-facing Oxford       World's Classics in 2012.
Impact is evidenced by sales of 3,000 copies for       Dark Horse and 1,198 by June 2013 for Black Beauty.
Public       lending rights statistics attest to Dark Horse's continued       interest to users of public libraries being borrowed 2,486 times from 1       July 2007 - 30 June 2012.
The biography also featured as the April 2009       Book of the Month at the Well Read Women's Book Club in Knoxville,       Tennessee, USA to whom Gavin gave an invited talk to 20 members, the club       organizer commenting that Sewell's `story touched us even more after       having you speak with us about her.
Your research was also very helpful to       me personally in determining the origins of my copy of Black Beauty,       which I had taken to several appraisers with no luck.
I can't thank you       enough for your insight and willingness to share with us your knowledge.'
The biography's depiction of Sewell's life has elicited often emotional       responses from individual readers including children, creative writers,       and senior citizens who have used the biography to widen their       understanding of literary and equine history, a common effect on them       being that they then go on to read or re-read Black Beauty.
A       correspondent from Cleveland, Ohio, for example, writes: `After perusing       your wonderful Life of Anna Sewell, we re-read Black Beauty.
A       half century's distance has done nothing, except recall the charm and the       anger of its author.
Your biography allows us to know and speak directly       with Anna Sewell' (2012).
The reach of its impact is indicated, too, by       its citation on public websites run by users as various as genealogical       societies, local history groups, and creators of horse-related or popular       literature websites and blogs.
The Sole Society's genealogical journal and       website drew on it for an article on `Anna Sewell in Lancing' in 2011.
On       local history website OldCatton.com it forms the basis of a section on       `Anna Sewell, Black Beauty and Old Catton,' whose author comments: `Our       article has attempted to focus on Anna's life in and around Old Catton.
But [Dark Horse] offers a much more detailed and formative view       [of] Anna's whole life and we would heartily recommend it to anyone who       has found this article of interest and would like to learn much more about       Anna, her family and her life.'
Coree Reuter on The Chronicle of the         Horse website cites Gavin's identification of lupus as the       explanation for Sewell's invalidism and the blog `Catherine Pope &#8212;       Victorian Geek' writes of Gavin's `excellent biography of Anna       Sewell...which I thoroughly recommend.'
Oulton's Cholmondeley research has similarly raised public awareness of       Cholmondeley's life and work, impacting on lecture audiences and       individuals and aiding the preservation of British literary heritage.
The       impact of this research and its reach have been extended by Oulton's       critical edition of Cholmondeley's Diana Tempest, published by the       public-facing Valancourt Books in 2009, and by the Mary Cholmondeley       website, authored by Oulton and widely accessed by users (17,755 since 1       Jan 2008, with web hits consistently increasing from around 25 per week in       2008 to around 80 per week in 2013) who want to learn about Cholmondeley's       life.
A user in October 2011 commented: `I've had a look at your website       which has made me even more curious about Mary Cholmondeley.'
The website       has received increasing attention on reading blogs and has served to       disseminate the underpinning research.
In 2012 the website was archived by       the British Library web archive at their request.
A public lecture in 2011       (with an audience of around 30) at the Folkestone Book Festival on       `Forgotten Victorian Women Writers,' which included Cholmondeley, both       registered and increased public awareness of the range of Victorian       women's writing being re-evaluated by the unit.
In April 2013 The         Ufford Punch ran an article on Cholmondeley's residence in the       village, soliciting comments from Oulton as an acknowledged expert in       order to raise awareness of Cholmondeley's local novel Notwithstanding.
Oulton's Jerome research also raised public awareness of Jerome's life       and work, impacting on audiences and individuals and aiding the       preservation of British literary heritage.
The impact of this research and       its reach have been extended by Oulton's critical edition of Jerome's Weeds,       the first widely available edition of this novella, published by the       public-facing Victorian Secrets in 2012 (35 copies sold) and by her       critical introduction for the free kindle edition of Three Men in a         Boat for Victorian Secrets (2012) (77 copies downloaded).
Oulton's       Jerome research has been widely discussed on the Jerome K. Jerome       Society's online forum (comments including: `I would be really interested       to hear author, Carolyn Oulton, give a talk on any JKJ aspect of her       choice), changing perceptions of the life and significance of Jerome.
Oulton has contributed to Idle Thoughts, the journal of the       Society (with an international readership of 500), and regularly posts       replies to questions in the forum pages of the society's website,       receiving several thousand hits, as well as advising on a new play based       on Jerome's life, and advising on and endorsing a successful Marchmont       Blue Plaque application.
This research has also featured on a series of       blogs; `Bill Posters,' for example, comments, `What I love about Oulton's       study is that it gets under the skin of the man.'
The biography attracted       600 entries in a Goodreads Giveaway in 2013 and Oulton was a guest blogger       on the Virtual Victorian in 2013.
(Comments on her article on Jerome's       London included: `A really fascinating post.
I loved the details about the       various London neighborhoods and his reactions to them.
I have never read       Three Men in a Boat, but now I want to' and `A very interesting account.
Such a beautiful cover, I yearn to own it!
I haven't had the pleasure of       reading Three Men in a Boat, now I'm searching online for a       copy.')
A public lecture held at the City of Westminster Archives Centre       was described by the audience as `engaging and informative' and a public       lecture to an audience of 30 at Waterstones in Canterbury in 2012 as part       of the ICVWW's Book of the Month series inspired energetic debate on the       merits of Jerome's lesser-known fiction.
