     The composition "Eight Bells" (2011) was the result of a collaboration       with marine scientists based at Newcastle University's Dove Marine       Laboratory.
Feedback from stakeholders and audiences alike provide a means       of evaluating and gauging the impact of this work, which was featured as       part of North Tyneside's Shimmer Festival in Nov 2011&#8212;a weekend event that       attracted over 5,000 visitors.
Evaluative comments from Jane Delaney, Director of the Dove Marine       Laboratory (see ref 1. below), offer an indication as to the work's impact       in `helping professionals and organisations respond differently' (to       findings of scientific research and their subsequent representation).
Delaney's assessment was further validated when Manchester University's       Faculty of Life Sciences incorporated Eight Bells into its Life Sciences       Podcast series (see ref 2. below).
Having been commissioned by North       Tyneside Borough Council in association with Rednile Projects and then       performed in St. George's Church, Cullercoats, the impact of the work       extended simultaneously into several spheres of civic society (scientific,       religious, artistic), activating 'sacred' coinages and inflections that       provoke interdisciplinary dialogue about contemporary knowledge and       epistemology.
Other research activities, such as Brass Trax (2011), highlight the       impact the work achieved in its compositional (end point) and       residency-based (processual) forms.
Commissioned by HM Prison Frankland,       The Sage Gateshead and Durham City Arts, this project evolved out of a       period of time the researcher spent working as composer-in-residence in       Frankland prison.
Prisoners serving long custodial sentences in this       Category A institution attended brass instrument improvisation and       recording workshops in order to compose a new piece of music.
The outcome       of the process was recognised with 2012 Koestler Trust Platinum Award for       its "contribution to changing offenders' lives" (see ref 3. below)     Sounding the Sacred/A Sign in Space (2012) is the project title of a       large-scale residency and opera commission funded with &#163;60,000 from Youth       Music, Durham Cathedral and Durham County Council.
The project took as its       starting point a prima facie engagement with 'sacred space' and followed       the researcher's 'public proximity' model of musical creation, bringing       together a range of beneficiaries (individuals, institutions and agencies)       within the ambit of a musical artifact that took extracts from Isaac       Newton's Principia and re-presented them as sacred text.
The nature and       number of partners and beneficiaries involved in the project (see refs 4-6       below) offers an indication of the project's veracity in generating social       and cultural impact.
The curatorship of the Durham International Brass       Festival, for instance, ensured a high degree of exposure for the work and       a high footfall (an audience of 800).
A Sign in Space was subsequently       shortlisted for the 2012 Arts Council Award and won Best Event in the 2012       Journal Culture Awards.
The work also influenced the artistic direction of       the arts-in-education agency, The Forge, in suggesting ways of conceiving       and delivering contemporary arts projects and performances in and for       ecclesiastical contexts (the agency has subsequently continued working       with Durham Cathedral).
A Sign in Space's impact also prompted the Durham       Cathedral authorities to host another of the researcher's works (Book of       Bells), and the compositional methodology employed therein was       subsequently showcased in the BBC2 TV film "Compose Yourself", a programme       directed at primary school teachers in which young people were led by the       researcher through a creative process that involved responding to, and       'reading', the inflections of a geographical location (see ref 7. below).
The installation, Book of Bells (2013), also achieved high attendance       numbers (4,500) when it was installed in the Monk's Dormitory Library of       Durham Cathedral as part of the Lindisfarne Gospels Exhibition in July       2013.
With an almost unanimously glowing batch of responses from the       general public (see ref 8. below), this sound installation was created       with funds from Durham County Council (&#163;4800) and was covered in the       national magazine The Wire.
The work's bell-inspired premise (and the       wider inquiry it embodies) formed the basis of a CPD workshop developed       for Durham &amp; Darlington Creative Hub (see ref 9. below) and currently       underpins not only the direction of that initiative's music-related       content, but also its interdisciplinary and speculative emphasis.
The research's discourse about the nature of the sacred-secular divide       has also made an impact on musicological debate.
"Thimio's House" (Perfect       Edge, 2013), for instance, is a recently published book ose content forms       the subject of a forthcoming paper presentation at the 2014 International       Word and Music Conference in Slovenia (see ref 10. below).
The text       represents a 'hybrid' linguistic approach to musicological exegesis, and       this was detailed in a seminar given at the International Centre for       Musical Studies at the University of Newcastle upon Tyne in 2011 and a       paper presentation given at the International Baltic Musicology Conference       in Riga the year before.
Thimio's House will be the subject of lecture to       be given by the researcher on 2nd April 2014 as part of the B&amp;D       Studios public lecture series.
At the time of writing the book has       achieved advance (pre-publication) sales of 122 copies.
