     The contribution of the PAM-INA project outcomes, with its multilingual       and bottom-up approach, has a significant international impact in       contributing to the discourse on European identity and citizenship in       academic and educational contexts.
As the EU is ever-expanding, it is       important to develop common study material on the critical issues of       European identities to encourage young generations to reflect upon       similarities, differences and otherness in Europe.
The project outcomes       have brought the issues pertinent to European identity and citizenship to       a broader stage and have achieved international recognition.
The impact was multiple.
The research brought together diverse interests       working in the area of social science and citizenship education.
It       ensured a practical linkage between academics working in traditional       western EU member states, new EU member states and educational       practitioners in Europe (and beyond).
The multilingual nature of the       toolkit ensured not only a bigger international audience but greater       acceptance among practitioners and students alike by overcoming language       barriers.
The toolkit assists in the enhancement of awareness as well as       of factual knowledge of European cultural and civic identities and       citizenship.
For instance, in Northern Ireland it has helped to strengthen       the Learning for Life and Work (LLW) programme at Key Stage 4.
The European Commission's project evaluation report (February 2013) has       recognized the project as highly successful (with overall 9 out of 10       marks) and states that "PAM-INA materials are a valuable addition to the       stock of resources available to European teachers on an issue of ever-       increasing relevance" (LLP Final Report Assessment Sheet, 2013: 4).
Forty-one international post-primary schools have worked with and       evaluated the toolkit in the piloting phase and the published toolkit Living         in and Reflecting on Europe: The PAM-INA Teacher Manual and Resources       has by now been distributed to over sixty post-primary schools in Northern       Ireland, forty schools in France, 110 schools in Cyprus, 200 schools in       Greece, 500 (primary and post-primary) schools in Slovenia and 120 schools       (plus 100 additional teachers on staff development courses) in Poland.
In       Germany, 250 copies have been distributed to the sixteen federal       ministries of education and to teacher organisation institutions; the       toolkit has been circulated to all Swedish agencies of education.
Furthermore, the project website (http://www.pam-ina.eu/)       will remain working until at least 2018.
The established network of       academics, educational practitioners and cultural organisations will       continue to cooperate after the end of the project's lifespan.
International exchange on the European Dimension in Education and European       Citizenship, promoting the PAM-INA toolkit, is therefore ongoing and by       2012 had included ten countries, twelve universities, and forty-one       European schools.
Furthermore, the project's teacher- training unit       PAM-INA ITT, which uses and promotes the toolkit, has been presented and       piloted at international professional meetings of an academic and       non-academic nature.
For instance, it has been piloted at            13th Annual CiCe Network Conference "Europe's Future: citizenship in a         changing world", 9-11 June 2011, Dublin (Ireland) / (http://cice.londonmet.ac.uk/;         27.11.2012)       ISATT, July 5-8 2011, Braga (Portugal) / (http://www.real-association.eu/news/15th-biennial-international-study-association-teachers-and-teaching-braga-portugal;         27.11.2012)       The European Youth Parliament's 69th international event "Bridging the         cultural divides of Europe", 23 March - 1 April 2012, Istanbul (Turkey).
Also, the EYP headquarters in Berlin has participated in the project's       2012 international conference in Ljubljana and has decided to include       PAM-INA ITT workshops in future EYP events.
Additional PAM-INA ITT       courses, which will promote the toolkit, are planned: March 2014 in       Freiburg (Germany); autumn 2014 in Eskilstuna (Sweden); 2015 in       Lesbos/Athens (Greece) and Belfast (NI) and 2016 in Nicosia (Cyprus).
To conclude, the significance of the toolkit Living in and Reflecting         on Europe: The PAM-INA Teacher Manual and Resources (Ljubljana:       Ljubljana University Press &amp; University of Education Freiburg, pp.
52       (including DVD); ISBN 9789612375348) plus PAM-INA ITT, and the difference       they have made to the beneficiaries is evidenced            By the extent to which the research and toolkit have been used at an         international level       By the way in which it has contributed to and consolidated the         discourse around European identities beyond academia       By the way it included local feedback groups' real needs in the         development of the toolkit, with their influence on the project evident         from the outset (bottom-up approach)       By the way it has permitted the authors to become advisors to         educational practitioners and related institutions/individuals       By the recommendation of the European Commission to upload the final         PAM-INA project report (public part) on the agency's website as an         example of best practice (LLP Final Report Assessment Sheet, 2013: 3).
