     Please note that lettered citations refer to evidence sources in section       5 and that numbered citations refer to outputs in section 3.
Research has directly resulted in changes in husbandry practices of both       stakeholders [A,B].
It has also contributed to the body of peer-reviewed       research on the specific behaviours of coyotes [1], and of donkeys, mules       and horses [2-4].
Due to the fact that the research was requested by, and       developed with, the partner institutions, decision makers were willing and       able to implement changes and improvements as an outcome of our research.
As a result, changes have been made by both organisations that have       improved the welfare of the animals in their care and altered associated       policy [A,B].
Results have also altered educational material, specifically       with regard to the work of the Donkey Sanctuary [B].
The work on coyotes at the United States Department of Agriculture       Wildlife Services National Wildlife Research Center's Predator Research       Facility in Millville, Utah [1], has become extremely important relative       to animal husbandry at the facility [A].
The research has resulted in an       extensive environmental enrichment program that has been incorporated into       animal care standards at the site [A].
The work also dismissed previous       criticism that captive animals were not good models for animals in the       wild, allowing research at Millville to be more widely and easily applied.
Therefore, significant improvements in both scientific integrity and       animal care were made as a consequence of the research.
The work in conjunction with the Donkey Sanctuary [2-4] has allowed them       to more easily demonstrate the need for donkeys not to be kept as       companions to horses or ponies [B], which is a very common practice.
This       message is now reiterated at training courses and behavioural talks that       the Donkey Sanctuary gives around the world [B].
It is also shared with       the Donkey Sanctuary's centres in seven other European countries and their       partners in Asia, Africa and South America [B].
The work has also been       important in informing discussion about whether the Donkey Sanctuary       should take ponies or horses and if they should stay long term or if       another equine charity should be asked to assist [B].
The research with the Donkey Sanctuary has therefore had the following       specific impacts [B]:            The establishment of species-specific groups on specialist farms, and         increased observation of bonded companions in the first few weeks of         relinquishment.
Changes to fostering rules to only allow mules to go out as companions         for ponies or other mules.
Changes to policy on the education of owners relinquishing mixed pairs         or groups, dealing with an issue where previously owners had been upset         when they find their donkey-pony pair have been separated once in the         Donkey Sanctuary.
Changes to international training and educational work.
In summary, research from within the `Animal Cognition and Welfare' group       of the Ecology Research Group at CCCU has changed the husbandry and animal       welfare policies of two partner institutions, one a research centre in the       USA, the other an international charity.
As a result, the welfare of a       large number of animals has been improved [A,B] and training courses and       behavioural talks given by the Donkey Sanctuary around the world have       changed [B].
More generally this research has improved the understanding,       by carers, of the behavioural and social processes of their animals.
