     (1) Public engagement campaigns       Professor Randhawa was appointed through open national competition as a       Non-Executive Director to UK Transplant (2001-2005) in recognition of his       research expertise and to inform research analysis and public campaign       work.
This led to the inception of a series of Organ Donation Campaigns       that specifically were aimed at BME communities.
In 2008, Professor       Randhawa was invited to become a Member of the Organ Donation Taskforce.
It is of great significance that the Organ Donation Taskforce made       explicit recommendations to tackle the needs of the UK's multi-ethnic and       multi-faith population:     "Recommendation 13: There is an urgent requirement to identify and         implement the most effective methods through which organ donation and         the "gift of life" can be promoted to the general public, and         specifically to the BME (Black and minority ethnic) population.
Research         should be commissioned through Department of Health Research and         Development funding."(5.3).
Furthermore, The Taskforce was asked to examine the impact of         introducing an opt-out system.
In recognition of Professor Randhawa's         reputation in the field, he was asked to meet with national faith         leaders (3.2; 3.3) and this led to a further Government recommendation         "The Taskforce strongly recommends that the programme delivery Board         builds on the foundations of the interviews with faith and belief         groups, reported in annex m, to ensure that the valuable dialogue that         was established is maintained."
(5.4).
Professor Randhawa led the dialogue with Faith Leaders on behalf of the       Taskforce and was subsequently commissioned by the Department of Health to       build upon this work and this has led to a series of faith community       events which has led to increased numbers of organ donor registrations       (5.5).
Professor Randhawa was commissioned by NHS Blood and Transplant in 2012       to work with national Faith leaders to design and author written materials       relating to faith and organ donation.
These Faith leaflets were launched       at a national event (5.6).
Subsequently, these materials have been used at       public engagement events to increase organ donor registrations.
In 2012, Professor Randhawa was invited to become a Member of the       Department of Health's National Black and Minority Ethnic Transplant       Alliance (he is the only academic on the Group).
The Alliance is pulling       together the most rec3ent evidence-base around the world regarding public       engagement campaigns and making it available to the public and policy       makers to inform future community engagement events in order to increase       organ donor registrations (5.7).
At international level, Professor Randhawa was invited to provide Oral       Evidence to House of Lords European Union Select Committee examining the       impact of the European Organ Donation Directive in 2008 &#8212; Cultural and       faith issues in organ donation and transplantation.
The House of Lords       Report subsequently made specific recommendations relating to the EU       needing to focus on demand and supply issues among different ethnic and       faith communities (5.8).
In recognition of his standing in the field, Professor Randhawa was       invited to Co-Chair the European Working Party on Public Issues in Organ       Donation by the European Society for Transplantation in 2011.
Professor       Randhawa co-edited a book in 2013 that provides the first comprehensive       analysis of public engagement issues in organ donation from all around the       world (5.9).
Most recently, Professor Randhawa was invited by the 4 UK Departments of       Health (England, Wales, Scotland, and Northern Ireland) to be Chairman of       the Transplant 2020 Stakeholder Group to take forward engagement with       various sectors &#8212; business, education, health, and voluntary &#8212; in       promoting conversations about organ donation.
(2) Professional training and practice       Professor Randhawa was invited to become a Member of the National       Institute for Clinical Excellent (NICE) Guidelines Development Group for       Organ Donation to provide insight into demographic, ethnic, cultural and       faith issues.
The NICE Guideline has specific recommendations relating to       the need for staff training and practice to take cognisance of faith and       ethnicity issues of potential donors and their families (5.2).
Professor       Randhawa's work (3.5 and 3.6) on the need for relevant staff training and       education regarding faith/cultural/end-of-life care issues has led to the       inclusion of the topic as part of the Masterclass curriculum offered by       NHS Blood and Transplant to all of its Specialist Nurses in Organ       Donation, Clinical Leads for Organ Donation, and Organ Donation Committee       Chairs across the UK.
NHSBT have commissioned Professor Randhawa to       provide this training.
This has led to increase in the number of families       agreeing to organ donation.
Professor Randhawa is also a Member of the UK Donation Ethics Committee       (UKDEC) with a specific remit to provide faith/ethnic research expertise.
This has led to specific recommendations and implementation of staff       training and practice regarding diversity issues within UKDEC policy       guidance documents (5.10).
In summary, Professor Randhawa's research has informed policy and       practice to contribute to the increase in organ donor registrations from       diverse populations in the UK and in many other countries.
He is a regular       contributor at national and international policy meetings as well as       regular expert speaker in the media, having appeared on programmes such as       BBC Newsnight with Jeremy Paxman, Radio 4, etc.
