     The Nature of the Impact:     A.
Changing the way carbon is priced in UK cost-benefit analysis:     In UK government, all new national spending and regulatory proposals are       subject to Cost-Benefit Analysis (CBA), and guidance has existed since       2002 on how to price greenhouse gas emissions as part of this.
In 2009 the       Department for Energy and Climate Change (DECC) issued revised guidance on       the price of carbon for CBA, which fundamentally changed its basis from       the social cost of carbon to the marginal cost of emissions abatement.
Our research had advocated this change (see section 2 above) and played a       key role in the revision [A].
The main source of impact was our direct       engagement in the process of reviewing and updating the existing guidance.
Dietz was one of the six official, independent peer-reviewers of interim       guidance produced in 2007 (his comments were published online by DEFRA;       [B]), while he was then employed as a consultant by DECC on the       preparation of the new guidance in 2008/2009.
As part of his consultancy,       Dietz advised on the approach, as well as peer-reviewing the draft       guidance line-by-line, suggesting changes to the wording and argumentation       [C].
A result of this change is to increase the likelihood that the UK       government, all else being equal, can deliver on its statutory obligation       in the Climate Change Act to reduce overall emissions by at least 26% by       2020 and 80% by 2050.
B.
Design of carbon pricing policies worldwide:     We have had a broad impact on the design of carbon pricing policies,       especially carbon markets, both domestically and internationally.
We have       had impact on legislating new carbon pricing policies in, for example,       Australia, China, Mexico and South Korea, all of which have recently       adopted new measures or are in the process of doing so (though Australia       has now withdrawn its).
The fact that there is serious climate legislation       in these countries is crucial to the prospects for an international       agreement on climate change, according to the senior UN official in charge       of the negotiations [D].
Legislators confirm that the international debate       among parliamentarians -- and LSE's background research to guide and       support it &#8212; has been instrumental to this outcome [E].
Our research was,       for instance, the basis of discussions between UK/EU legislators and       China's chief negotiator, Minister Xie Zhenhua, in the House of Commons in       October 2011, in which "good practice" was compared.
In the case of       Australia, the LSE team provided well-received direct advice on a       particular technical point of the Australian trading scheme related to the       treatment of carbon offsets [F].
Our research has influenced both the dynamics and the substance       of carbon pricing legislation.
In terms of dynamics, our work on       documenting international climate legislation has changed the perception       that "nobody else is taking action", making it easier for countries to       move ahead with carbon pricing [D, E].
In terms of substance, close links       with policy makers have allowed us to feed our research findings (e.g.
on       valuing carbon in CBA and on a carbon floor price) into national and       international decision making processes.
We do this both through formal       channels (e.g.
through written evidence and technical reports) and       informally (e.g.
through seminars and discussions with officials).
Close       contacts with GLOBE International, a global forum of parliamentarians, has       created a direct link between our research and the legislative process: in       particular, our research has fed directly into an international policy       paper, which aimed to help legislators understand the nuts and bolts of       carbon markets as they were drafting the relevant legislation [G].
The LSE       team contributed to the drafting of the paper and it incorporates many of       our research findings.
Wider Implications:     194 countries have accepted &#8212; in principle, as part of the United Nations       climate negotiations &#8212; the need to radically decouple greenhouse gas       emissions from economic activity and growth by the middle of this century.
Since there is an externality at the heart of the climate problem &#8212; that       the negative effects of emissions are not automatically internalised into       polluters' decisions &#8212; there is a case for policy intervention and it is       widely accepted that the cost of such a policy intervention is greatly       reduced by making it economically efficient.
Estimates in the literature       suggest that the cost savings could be of the order of $1 trillion per       year globally.
Carbon pricing satisfies the necessary and sufficient       conditions for an efficient intervention, but only if the policies that       create such prices are well designed.
