     Kinman's work has enhanced understanding of the wellbeing of HE staff and       the factors that underpin this, and also resulted in changes to national       policy and practice.
Several reports have been published (e.g.
5.1).
The       results of this research have been widely publicised in the sector, and       have been used as evidence by the House of Commons Education and Skills       Select Committee on the future sustainability of the HE sector and to       inform the development of workload management models and approaches to       change management at a national level (5.2).
The research was also quoted       extensively in a report commissioned by Universities UK on the extent and       impact of the changes experienced in the academic profession in recent       years (5.3) and cited in international working papers for reform in the       sector (5.4).
Kinman has advised HE professional bodies, such as the       Universities and College Union (UCU), which has enabled them to raise       awareness of stress in post-16 education via conferences, reports and       inform national campaign materials to improve terms and conditions for       members (5.5).
Over the REF assessment period, Kinman's longitudinal research in the HE       sector has applied the UK Health and Safety Executive Management Standards       approach in several waves to allow the UCU and institutions to monitor the       wellbeing of employees and the extent to which short and longer term       targets to improve this are being adhered to.
The research has gained       substantial coverage in the media, for example it was featured in a leader       in the Times Higher Education Supplement and in other newspapers such as       the Guardian, and also stimulated public debate..
In 2009, with Dr. Almuth McDowall of the University of Surrey, Kinman       founded and now co-chairs the British Psychological Society's Working       Group on Work-Life Balance, sponsored by the Division of Occupational       Psychology.
This working group aims to raise awareness amongst       practitioners, organisations and employees of the role played by evidenced       based psychological research in enhancing the work-life balance and       wellbeing of employees and the profitability of organisations.
She has       organised two conferences to promote knowledge and best practice in this       area focusing on organisational aspects (2010) and diversity and       difference (2011).
Several other events (such as breakfast meetings and       seminars) have also been organised addressing issues of contemporary       concern such as the role of the recession on work-life balance       initiatives.
These events have been attended by a wide range of       stakeholders such as HR managers, management consultants, company       directors, and officials from trade unions and professional associations.
In terms of outputs, Kinman has led the development of three       evidence-based factsheets on work-life balance that are tailored to       different audiences: individuals, organisations and life coaches (5.8).
These have been well received by the business community and developed and       updated consultants' skills in order to help individuals and organisations       enhance their work-life balance and wellbeing.
In terms of international activities, in 2012 Kinman coordinated a summit       at the inaugural Work-Family Network Conference in New York to debate       international concerns about key issues with experts from 15 countries -       this work continued with an invited panel discussion of academics,       practitioners, employers and representatives of the not-for-profit sector       at the BPS Division of Occupational Psychology conference in January, 2013       which she led.
The events have enhanced knowledge and experience of       attendees.
Kinman's research on the factors that underpin resilience and how this       might be enhanced has had impact in terms of reach and significance.
It       has received considerable attention in the UK and Europe (5.9).This work       has been utilised by national social work bodies to illustrate how       emotional reactions to practice can impact on wellbeing and service       provision: for example, Skills for Care and the National Skills Academy,       who support employers to develop the skills of the nearly 1.6 million       social care workers, and the British Association of Social Workers (5.7       and 5.10).
The broad impact of the research findings on the social work       community is illustrated by the journal article mentioned above (3.6)       having been distributed to all managers in the Bedfordshire and       Hertfordshire regions by senior management.
The research has also been       presented at the national Health and Wellbeing at Work 2013 conference       which is attended by 3,000 health and safety professionals.
The research has also informed the development of interventions that have       been disseminated nationally via reports, websites and training.
The       Higher Education Academy (HEA) has also commissioned Kinman to develop a       resource guide on how to enhance resilience and wellbeing in health and       social care (5.6).
In 2012, the HEA commissioned a national study of       social work departments with a view to developing an "emotional       curriculum" based on Kinman's work.
This identified the extent to which       resilience and self care was included in the curriculum and educators'       attitudes towards the inclusion of the strategies emerging from Kinman's       previous research.
In 2012, Kinman and Grant were commissioned by Community Care (the major       information source for social care professionals working with children and       families) to write an online resource and interactive quiz on resilience       in social workers.
The work has been exceptionally popular in the social       work community.
To date, almost one third of the social workers that       subscribe to the service have viewed the resource and participated in the       quiz in order to help them develop their emotional resilience within       practice.
A live "advice clinic" has been replayed more than 1,300 times.
Social work practitioners from several countries have contacted Community       Care to provide feedback on the usefulness of the tool for enhancing       insight in their personal strengths and areas for development and       improving their wellbeing and professional practice.
In 2012, Kinman was       also invited to participate in an online debate hosted by The Guardian on       tackling stress in social care.
Moreover, a training package developed by       Kinman from this research has been delivered to more than 400 trainee       social workers and qualified staff from several local authorities       (including East Kilbride and Oxford) and social care charities with       demonstrable effectiveness.
There is evidence that trainee social workers       levels of psychological wellbeing improved following the training.
