     Context: Key impacts include the development of a research and       participation model for academic, professional and community-based groups       with a shared research focus; the conservation, interpretation and       dissemination of the significant early history of Folkestone; and the       facilitation of an understanding of the impact of heritage on public       culture and communities, both in contemporary and historical contexts.
These impacts have helped to inform public policy on historical heritage       issues in Folkestone and East Kent and have had a sustainable legacy in       the creation of new research groups.
Both the FPHC and ATU       attracted huge public engagement and created considerable training,       learning and educational impacts, as well as creating new audiences.
IMPACT 1 &#8212; Developing and engaging local associations /creating new         audiences /developing a research and participation model By December       2008, when the ATU project was developed, the FPHC had       attracted 3,000 visitors, with 41 volunteers and 228 on its register of       interest.
It was providing a range of exhibitions, talks, workshops, finds       days, newsletters, support for developing historical projects, training       for historical research, and schools learning events.
The FPHC       worked with a range of local groups including the Save Folkestone Museum       Campaign, Folkestone Arts Society, and the Folkestone Creative Foundation.
Major projects included the first Folkestone History Weekend (October       2008) and ArtHist, an innovative fusion of history, art and theatre       focusing on the Anglo Saxon to mediaeval (July 2009).
A firm point of       interest was the Roman villa site at Folkestone's East Cliff.
Following a       survey by CAT in 2007, it was clear that the site was at risk from       erosion and could be lost within fifty years.
This formed the backdrop to       the ATU project, which attracted extensive local and national       engagement and created new audiences for local heritage.
2,083 people       attended the 4 public talk programmes given by Dr Hardy, Dr Dalton, Dr       Richardson, Keith Parfitt and other members of the ATU Research       Group between 2009-11.
2,186 people attended exhibitions held between       2010-2011 and 1,012 volunteers received training in archaeological and       historical skills between 2009-11, including six British soldiers       undergoing rehabilitation for injuries sustained in Afghanistan.
The       latter was an early pilot for `Operation Nightingale', a project using       archaeology as occupational therapy.
Between June-October 2011 over 8,000       people visited the Villa excavation and Folkestone living history weekend.
The ATU website http://www.atownunearthed.co.uk       received 111,810 visits between October 2010 and July 2013 from the UK,       USA, Australia, Russia, Malaysia, China, the Ukraine, Vietnam, Germany,       France, the Netherlands, Poland, and Latvia amongst a range of       international hits.
The website includes the following material: diaries       and evaluative material; transcriptions of talks &#8212; on aspects and issues       related to history of Folkestone, methodology and interpretation; gallery       of images &#8212; record of all aspects of project; oral History &#8212; excerpts and       transcriptions of interviews with historians and archaeologists about       project history, findings and approaches; events &#8212; details and background;       exhibitions &#8212; gallery and interpretation; and `intangible'       heritage-research in areas such as local myths and associations with       historic sites.
The ATU project was featured by BBC1 for Inside         Out News &#8212; an all-day feature on 30th May 2011 (c. 1       million viewers), by BBC 2 for Digging For Britain with Alice       Roberts on 9th September 2011 (c. 4 million viewers), see http://www.bbc.co.uk/programmes/b014hfkr       and the History Channel for Mud Men, with Johnny Vaughan on 23rd       February 2012 see http://kentfilmoffice.co.uk/2012/02/mud-men-2012/       The creation of new audiences led to the foundation of several new local       associations including the Folkestone Heritage Working Group formed in       2008, the Folkestone Research and Archaeological Group formed in 2011, the       Folkestone Research Group formed in 2012 and the Folkestone History Group.
Folkestone's research and participation model has also influenced the       set-up of the EU funded `Two Seas Interreg IV A Project' on `Maritime       Communities of the Bronze Age' with cross Channel partners including       Boulogne Museum, Ghent University, and Lille 3 University.
IMPACT 2: Challenging assumptions about the history of         Folkestone/influencing policy and practice Hardy and Dalton's       research challenged previous assumptions about Folkestone's lack of       historical significance before its Edwardian heyday.
In particular,       Hardy's research on the antiquarian reception of Folkestone's past was       critical to the reinterpretation of the archaeology of the Roman Villa and       the Bayle sites.
She also researched the impact of historiography and       heritage on the town's identity.
As a result, Hardy has advised a number       of fora and public bodies on policies and strategies around issues of       history and heritage, such as Folkestone Heritage Working Group, which was       created in 2008 as part of the public campaign to stop the closure of       Folkestone Museum and the dispersal of its collections.
She provided       advice to Folkestone Town Council and Kent County Council on the       `Folkestone HEART' project for developing a new museum.
This included a       successful Stage 1 Heritage Lottery Fund bid for c. &#163;50,000 by Folkestone       Town Council for a new museum space submitted in May 2013.
She also       advised Kent County Council Archives and Libraries on the development and       launch of The Folkestone History Resource Centre in 2010.
She gave further       advice to Shepway Heritage and Tourism Forum (SHTF) to ensure that       the importance of the region's early history and archaeology was better       understood in the development of policy.
SHTF was formed in 2010       to bring together a wide range of community-based regional history groups       with representatives of local government, government sponsored initiatives       such as Visit Kent, the local tourist industry and local businesses.
The       Forum's aim is to promote and share information about the history and       heritage of Shepway as part of government and regional culture and tourism       strategies, which recognise the contributions of heritage and tourism to       economic, cultural and social benefit.
Similarly, Dr Hardy has also       advised the following groups/bodies on heritage and historical issues:       Shepway District Council, THINK NETWORK &#8212; a network of academics, heritage       professionals and others working in Public History, and the Treasures       Revealed project, which has secured &#163;1,682,000 from the European Interreg       programme.
The money, secured by BOSCO+ (the Boulogne, Shepway and       Canterbury Co-operation), will be invested in the Beaney Art Museum and       Library in Canterbury and Boulogne's Crypt Museum.
IMPACT 3: Preserving and interpreting cultural capital/conserving and         disseminating the early history of Folkestone: ATU developed       innovative, and accessible ways of interpreting and presenting the       relationships between history, archaeology, art and culture:     Exhibitions held at Folkestone Town Hall:     Earth and Vision, May 2012 (1,086 visitors including 302 children       from 4 schools), Curator &#8212; Bryan Hawkins Media, Art and Design Department       CCCU, Director Dr Hardy.
Inside the Museum: A History of Folkestone Museum (in       partnership with Kent County Council Libraries and Archives) 6th       July- 29th July 2012 (1,100 visitors including 207 children       from 3 schools) in partnership with Kent County Council Libraries and       Archives, Director, Dr Hardy.
A Town Unearthed: Folkestone's Ancient landscape (In partnership with       Kent Archaeological Society) March 2013, Curator Ken Fisher, Director Dr       Hardy.
Talks:     `Folkestone in the late Anglo-Saxon and Anglo-Norman periods', Dr Paul       Dalton, University Campus Folkestone 2009 (40 people).
`S.E.
Winbolt and the Public History of Folkestone', Dr Hardy, Folkestone       Literary Festival Nov 2011 (110 people recorded).
`Imagining the Past: Rome and Romans in the culture of C19th and       C20th Folkestone', Dr Hardy, Hythe Folkestone Fine Arts and       Decorative Society, July 26th 2012 (120 people recorded).
Conferences:     Unearthing the Past &#8212; Conference held at University Campus (CCCU)       Folkestone September 2010 with 70 delegates and speakers, including Dr       Hardy, on issues around the politics and culture of public engagement with       the past.
Education:     2 ARKS (Archaeological Resource Kits) toolkits were produced for schools       including artefacts and interpretation.
100 Educational DVDs were sent out       to local schools, libraries and societies.
By July 2013 over 2,060       children attended ATU activities on site or in the classroom and 46       teachers had taken part.
