     The Glasgow avian sex test is a simple, yet effective, means to determine       the sex of many bird       species with minimal optimisation.
The technology is also freely       available, without requirement for       license by users.
These advantages have led to the test being adopted by       commercial companies       in the UK and USA, and by zoo-based research units worldwide, which have       made the test       internationally available to a broad range of users, including those       involved in the management of       conservation captive breeding programmes worldwide for some of the world's       rarest bird species.
Commercial use     In 2000, the Glasgow avian sex test was adopted by Avian Biotech       International, one of the largest       providers of bird sex-determination tests in the USA.
Avian Biotech       International performs       approximately 50,000 sex tests per year, 95% of which use the Glasgow       avian sex test developed       by Griffiths.a The test has been instrumental to the       development of the company, and at an       average cost of &#163;13 per test, generates revenues of approximately &#163;618,000       per year.a Avian       Biotech International provides services to a broad user base including       zoos, conservation       organisations, commercial bird breeders and private bird owners across       North America and       Europe, as well as in Brazil, China, Japan and the Philippines.
The       company continues to use the       Glasgow test because it represents `...a simple, reliable, thus far         unsurpassed molecular method         to identify the sex of most of the approximately 9000 species of birds'       &#8212; Founder and Research       Director of Avian Biotech International.a     Avian Biotech also provided services to a number of commercial bird       breeding companies.
Examples include Hurricane Aviaries in Florida, USA; Preferred Birds in       Oklahoma, USA; Birds       International in the Philippines; and Exotic Fauna NV in Surinam.
Avian       Biotech also works with       industries such as Bayer AG, who sex a large number of quail for use in       their veterinary medicines       development work.a     The Glasgow test is also used by Biobest Laboratories Ltd., a large UK       specialist in veterinary       virology, serology and DNA diagnostics which undertakes avian DNA sex       determination.
Biobest       Laboratories adopted the Glasgow test in 2002, and since 2008 has tested       approximately 2,000       individual birds across a range of species for bird owners, collections,       breeders, and zoos.b     Use in avian conservation programmes     Breeding programmes must maintain large, self-sustaining, genetically       diverse captive populations;       however, a single zoo might only have two or three individual birds.
Zoos       and other conservation       organisations, therefore, collaborate to exchange birds in coordinated       breeding programmes.
In       Europe, these are managed through the European Association of Zoos and       Aquaria (EAZA), within       European Endangered Species Programmes (EEPs) and the European Studbook       system.
Studbooks (also a component of EEPs) record the genetic history and       movement of every bird       within a given species in the programmes.
Knowing the sex of each bird is       a basic requirement for       both EEP and studbook management.
Use in successful captive breeding     Edinburgh Zoo uses the commercial services of Biobest Laboratories for       sex determination.
Since       2008, the zoo has sexed 352 individual birds from 39 bird species, nine of       which are managed       through EEPs.
The majority of these tests (202 individual birds) are       performed on Gentoo penguin       chicks, an iconic colony for which the zoo is well known.
This ensures       that the colony maintains a       stable 1:1 sex ratio, which is important because the birds breed as       monogamous pairs.
All bird       species tested are listed on the International Union for Conservation of       Nature (IUCN) `Red List' of       threatened species, which include four categorised as `critically       endangered' and three as       `endangered'.
One species, the Socorro dove, is extinct in the wild; the       fewer than 100 purebred       birds that exist in captivity (which include four at Edinburgh Zoo) are       vital for the species' survival.c     San Diego Zoo (SDZ) Institute for Conservation Research has used the       Glasgow test for avian sex       determination since 2000.
While the majority of bird sex determination in       the zoo is now performed       by Avian Biotech, the test is also performed in-house as part of the zoo's       Hawaii Endangered Bird       Conservation Programme.d Since 2008, the zoo has used the       Glasgow test on Hawaiian bird       species, including the 'alal&#257; (crow family), palila (a type of finch) and       various species of Malkoha       (members of the cuckoo family).
The Hawaiian 'alal&#257; is extinct in the       wild, and the entire population       of 110 individuals exists within two conservation programmes at SDZ.
To       date, 25 individual crow       chicks have been sexed using the test, supporting the zoo's successful       captive breeding efforts       ahead of their reintroduction to the wild in early 2014.
The palila is       critically endangered, and since       2012 eight birds have been sexed.
With the Malkoha species, despite trying       a number of different       DNA-based sex determination approaches, only the Glasgow test gave clear       results, which has       enabled five males and 18 females to be sexed.d     The Royal Zoological Society of Antwerp Centre for Research and       Conservation has used DNA-       based sex determination since 2003.
Since January 2008 it has used the       Glasgow test to       determine the sex of 370 individuals across 55 bird species held at       Antwerp zoo, 11 species of       which are classified as threatened on the IUCN `Red List'.
One species,       the Bali myna, is critically       endangered, and seven hatchlings have been sexed since 2008, contributing       to the strictly       regulated captive-bred population of around 1000 birds worldwide.e     Use in successful reintroductions     The Ara Project, a zoological park and conservancy in Costa Rica, is a       customer of Avian Biotech       International.
Ara works with the Costa Rican Ministry of Environment and       Energy to reintroduce       and stabilise the populations of Scarlet and Great Green macaws, the two       native and endangered       macaw species in Costa Rica.
The project uses the Glasgow avian sex test       to aid their captive       breeding programme, and determine appropriate sex ratios at release sites.
Since 2008, 69 scarlet       macaws and 34 great green macaws have been tested, all of which were       subsequently released       into the wild.f     The Seychelles warbler is a threatened bird species that originates on       the tiny Cousin island in the       Seychelles.
In the 1970s the warbler nearly became extinct and was rescued       by a conservation       programme, which used Cousin as a source to establish populations on       neighbouring islands.
As       part of continuous monitoring of the population, each of the roughly 60       birds hatched per year on       Cousin are routinely collected from the wild, tagged and have their sex       determined using the       Glasgow test (performed at University of Groningen, Netherlands).g       In the latest conservation       programme in 2011, led by Nature Seychelles, a successful new population       was established on the       neighbouring private island of Fr&#233;gate.
The new population comprised 59       birds captured from       Cousin, and because the sex of each of the Cousin birds is known, this       enabled the translocation       of a balanced sex ratio of birds.g
