     In both areas of public and political concern, Hayes and Yuill have       actively participated in debates and consultations, seeking to engage       sympathetically with others in evaluating the problems of different policy       prescriptions.
In both areas, the critical engagement with the issues and       the debates with alternative views or policies have been bolstered by the       academic research listed above.
Adoption     (1)Transracial Adoption.
Note that there is considerable previous activity as a background to the       current assessment period, representing a longstanding engagement with a       crucial issue of debate about adoption policy.
Evidence that the research       identified here has impacted on government policies and on guidance       supported by the committee discussion of what became The Adoption And       Children Act 2002.
In debate on 27.11.2001, Tim Loughton, then an       Opposition MP, referred approvingly and in some detail to the       Parliamentary submission by Hayes &#8212; see       http://www.publications.parliament.uk/pa/cm200102/cmstand/special/st011127/pm/11127s02.htm       The research has been disseminated and contributed to public debate in the       national media e.g.
P Hayes participated in BBC 1 The Big Question,       `Should Adoption Be Colour Blind' 15.11.2009     Note: While it is only inferential and cannot be completely demonstrated,       in 2011 the by-then Children's Minister Tim Loughton MP published the       government's Guidance On Adoption.
This guidance, which was revised In       June 2013, goes some way towards meeting the arguments for transracial       adoption put forward In the research.
For example compare the following       passages Hayes 2003 (opening para p. 255): "Where decision making in       adoption focuses on ethnicity, almost inevitably this results in less       attention being given to other critical factors relevant to the successful       outcome of the placement...
It is not In the best interests of children to       give too much weight to ethnicity in placement decisions."
Guidance 2013 (4.6): "It is important that social workers avoid       `labelling' a child or placing the child's ethnicity above other relevant       characteristics without good cause when looking for an adoptive family for       the child."
(2) Adoption Reform In Far East.
In Korea, the research helps to inform       the preparation of prospective adopters applying to SWS Adoption Service       in the city of Busan.
In Japan the research was disseminated at meetings       aimed at adoption practitioners and adoptive parents, including one at       Waseda University In 2008.
The response to these sessions encouraged the       translation of a revised version of P. Hayes And T. Habu Adoption In Japan       (Nihon No Yoshi Engomi: Shakaiteki Yogo Sesaku No &#207; Chi Zsu Ke Du To Tembo       Tokyo: Akashi Shoten 2011, P.
357.)
Prospective adoptive parents have used       the research to learn of the process of adoption In Japan [see website at       5.3 below, citing Hayes and Habu]     (3) Regulation Of International Adoption.
P. Hayes has been asked to       contribute to a question and answer feature on international adoption on       the OUP Blog for adoption month (November 2013).
In the USA the research       has helped to inform the speeches and writings of Professor Elizabeth       Bartholet, a leading advocate of reform in international adoption.
Assisted Suicide     The research conducted has both benefited from and led to active public       engagement.
The various communities that have benefited from dissemination       include Humanists in the North-East (who invited Kevin Yuill to debate       with Bill Etherington) and an international audience.
The engagement in       debate takes the form of many different forms of media and communication:     1) The publication by the author of articles In The New York Times (30       March 2013, also online)     2) Debates With Debbie Purdy (10 November 2009), Professor Ray Tallis,       Former MP Bill Etherington and Lecture/Seminar at Manchester University       Medical Ethics Classes.
For a TV Debate With Debbie Purdy under The title       `Unbearable Suffering', click on with CTRL + Left click       "Unbearable Suffering: An Argument Against Assisted Dying" (2010).
It has       been viewed 5,727 times on Youtube and attracted 91 comments.
It       was screened by the Lancashire Humanist Society in a meeting on assisted       suicide attended by 40 people.
2) The research has led to an invitation to speak on the Radio 4       programme Moral Maze (3 February 2010).
4) The book has been reviewed in the British Medical Journal , at       http://blogs.bmj.com/medical-ethics/2013/07/03/book-review-kevin-yuill-assisted-suicide-the-liberal-humanist-case-against-legalization-2/
