     How the research underpinned the impact     The Sensor Research Group was equipped with manufacturing and test       equipment &#8212; mostly supplied by commercial sponsors over an extended period       of years.
Members of staff were able to undertake industrially sponsored       contract research on a full-time basis without teaching commitments or the       requirement to publish in the academic literature.
This context, together       with experience of manufacturability, commercial and end-user issues       related to developing `real' sensor systems was attractive to sponsors       looking to undertake development work outside the scope or capacity of       their in-house staff and too commercially sensitive to be undertaken       within a `conventional' academic environment.
The nature of the impact     Three types of impact are claimed for the work undertaken by the       University of Bedfordshire:     (1) Sensor systems produced by the group enabled sponsors to generate       data (that was otherwise inaccessible or prohibitively expensive)       enabling, supporting or facilitating manufacturing processes that, in       turn, better satisfied their customer needs.
(2) Generation of intellectual property to enable sponsors to maintain       and/or improve their products and/or services.
(3) A general impact on the wider community through the uptake of the       redox-mediated whole cell biosensor approach to rapid toxicity assessment       invented by Prof. Rawson (Pollutant detector.
GB Patent 2189605A).
Process or means through which the research led to the impact     University of Bedfordshire staff were able to work for, with and in       industry to: design and manufacture prototype sensor systems; work with       sponsors to test prototypes under `real' conditions; and, where necessary,       work with third parties to transfer technology and facilitate scale-up       from laboratory (thousands) to manufacturing (tens of thousands) prototype       production.
Details of the beneficiaries     Work carried out by the University of Bedfordshire on behalf of Johnson       &amp; Johnson led to the generation of intellectual property.
Although it       is difficult to quantify the economic value, it has enabled the company to       protect and enhance its significant share of the billion dollar market for       blood glucose measurement systems.
This is a market in which the company       is determined to remain a leading player which is why it continues to push       for the widest possible protection of the intellectual property generated       on its behalf by the University (Dr Saini, 5.1).
The association between Unilever Corporate Research and the sensor       research group at the University of Bedfordshire extended over many years       covering (amongst others) the technology programme at Unipath Diagnostics       and the Healthy Ageing programme (2005-2009) managed by Michael Catt       (5.2).
A fundamental objective of the research programme was to examine       the feasibility of analysing biological fluids for vitamin C levels as a       surrogate indicator for fruit and vegetable intake.
This work was       initiated in light of the associations found in the EPIC study (Int J         Epidemiology 37 2008 978-987).
Vitamin C is routinely added       to foodstuffs and beverages and the sensors developed were deployed for       material quality assessment within the business, both in the UK and       elsewhere in the EU.
Exploratory product concepts were well received in       qualitative professional and consumer research.
The programme included       exploration of other relevant biomarkers that informed the Healthy Ageing       programme and, although the sensors have yet to be commercialised, there       is still considerable potential for rapid assessment of markers of dietary       intake and Professor Catt continues to collaborate with the University of       Bedfordshire (e.g.
ref 3.3).
Indicators of the extent of the impact     The extent of the impact of the University of Bedfordshire work on       Johnson &amp; Johnson's business is reflected by the international scope       of the patent applications (China, US and IPO agencies; section 5).
The       position is similar with respect to the work for Unipath/Unilever (US and       IPO patents).
Although the CellSensef6db instrumentation is no longer       available in the UK, it is manufactured and distributed in China       ("ToxTell"; Biosensors and Bioelectronics 41 2013 557-562) and the       patented redox-mediated biosensor approach to rapid toxicity assessment       continues to be exploited in the UK (e.g.
Rothamsted Research, 5.3; and       Environment Agency, 5.4) and across the world.
Dates of when these impacts occurred     2008 to present.
