     REACH:       Coral reefs are the most diverse ecosystems on the planet, and are the       most threatened from climate change.
Coral reefs provide a habitat from       which 6 million tons of fish are caught annually, providing income and       food for local communities.
Reefs also act as breakwaters, protecting the       land and nearby coastal communities.
Economists estimate that the reefs       are worth several billions of dollars in the Caribbean alone.
Our work has       been important throughout the Caribbean, for example Jamaica, and the       second largest barrier reef in the world &#8212; the Meso-American Barrier Reef,       from Mexico through Belize to Guatemala and Honduras.
As a result of our       research, Crabbe, as research leader, was invited to take part in the EDGE       programme by the Zoological Society of London (5.1) and the Coral Reef       Crisis Working Group, by the Royal Society (5.2).
The former produced a       new scheme for funding conservation of coral reefs throughout the world,       and the latter produced a report that was a major environmental       consideration at the 15th Conference of Parties in Copenhagen       in 2009 and produced the Copenhagen Accord.
SIGNIFICANCE:       Our research informed policymakers throughout the Caribbean, and as a       result Crabbe was invited to develop management action plans for policy       developers in the Caribbean, concentrating on two countries, Jamaica and       Belize.
In Jamaica, in 2010, this led to work with the National       Environmental Protection Agency, part of the Government, to develop their       plans for marine protected areas (MPAs).
In June 2013 this involved       working with government officials from the wider Caribbean and the USA.
The Jamaican government has now agreed to the development and       implementation of more effective MPAs around its coastline, as discussed       at the recent Caribbean Challenge Initiative (5.3).
To inform public       debate, Crabbe has often been interviewed on Jamaican radio about       environmental issues, most recently in August 2013 concerning the Portland       Bight Reserve near Kingston.
In Belize, this led to a capacity-building exercise around MPAs in the       Meso-American Barrier Reef, which involved both local NGO community       workers and the government fisheries department, the last so that       community engagement could be directly interfaced with fisheries       operations and policy.
Personal action plans were developed to facilitate       the future of sustainable MPAs in the MesoAmerican Barrier Reef system.
An       NGO participant said `For the first time we were able to engage with       someone from the Fisheries Department to make a significant change to reef       preservation'.
A fisheries manager said `As a result of this exercise we       can collaborate to protect our reefs and enhance our fisheries'.
The       capacity building case study, uniquely involving the participants to       directly make measurements of coral growth and recruitment on coral reefs,       has produced new ideas to improve organisation, management, education,       support, and policy development in MPAs in Southern Belize (5.5).
All       participants felt that training and capacity building to key staff members       was important, since this enabled them to enhance their skills in the       field thus raising their standards to a certain level so as to perform       better.
The participants have agreed to maintain iterations among and       between their constituent groups to ensure continued sustainability of       both the reef and the fishing practices.
Involvement of the Department of Fisheries in our capacity building has       resulted in direct transfer of information to the communities and the       Government.
The Director of Fisheries later said `This was an important       undertaking which has resulted in increased GDP from our fishing       industry'.
The personal action plans that were produced have been       implemented, and taken back into their constituent communities.
A key       outcome of our work has been that in Southern Belize three NGOs TASTE       (Toledo Association for Sustainable Tourism and Empowerment), TIDE (Toledo       Institute for Development and Environment) and Friends of Nature have been       incorporated into a single self-governing organisation, which spans four       MPAs (Marine Protected Ares).
This means that areas between MPAs which       were previously subject to illegal fishing activity are now monitored and       policed.
The merger has enabled assessment and enforcement across four       different MPAs.
It also means greater efficiency per unit area in terms of       MPA management.
In summary, our approach as part of a complex relationship       linking an ecosystem-based approach to fisheries management has resulted       in greater engagement from all stakeholders (5.4 - 5.6).
CONTRIBUTION:       Both these examples, in Jamaica and Belize, have important economic       impacts, based on our work at the University of Bedfordshire.
Belize has       the highest annual capture production &#8212; the annual volume of aquatic       species caught by country for all commercial, industrial, recreational and       subsistence purposes, in 2010, for countries in the Caribbean for which       data is available.
In 2010, Belize had 11.86% of its territorial waters as       MPAs (compared to &lt;2% in 2000), again, the highest value in the       Caribbean where data is available.
Having a large percentage of its       territorial waters as MPAs, and in a coordinated network, reflects in the       value of a country's fishing industry.
Our research has influenced the       increasing development of MPAs in the Caribbean.
In Belize, the fishing industry contributed 7.2% of the county's GDP in       2001, and our new measures (implemented in 2012) have enabled more       efficient use of marine staff time, by employing NGO staff, as well as       increasing the numbers of fish and invertebrates caught legally and       sustainably by Belize fishermen.
This has increased the valuable lobster,       conch and snapper catches by c. 15% by mid-2013 from its value of c. 850       tonnes in 2007.
In Jamaica, fishing is more a cottage industry, while the       reefs are an important part of the tourist industry.
The new co-operative       management plans as a result of our research have multiple benefits &#8212;       increase in yields for the local fishermen, and help preserve the reefs as       a part of Jamaican ecosystems, while attracting increasing numbers of       international tourists, now approaching 2 million per annum (5.6).
In both       countries, the measures adopted as a result of our research have promoted       the resilience of the coral reefs to increasing global warming and climate       change as well as increased income from fisheries.
