     The production and use of the antibody ALK1 by the University of Oxford       has had a major impact on lymphoma diagnosis and provided invaluable       information on tumour development.
ALK-positive ALCL is now also included       in the World Health Organization's (WHO) current classification of       haematological malignancies.
Accurate Diagnosis       The production and use of the antibody ALK1 by the University of Oxford       has had a major impact on lymphoma diagnosis, enabling the definitive       diagnosis of the tumour entity ALK-positive ALCL.
ALCL was previously       regarded as an aggressive incurable disease and frequently misdiagnosed as       a carcinoma or other haematological malignancy, resulting in inappropriate       treatment.
Not only has the antibody ALK1 revolutionised the accurate       diagnosis and understanding of ALK-positive ALCL, this tumour now       represents the best characterised T-cell lymphoma, with the exception of       cutaneous T-cell lymphoma, which has a far worse prognosis7,8,9.
Importantly, the sensitivity of the antibody has permitted the detection       of minimal residual disease.
The latter is an important factor in cancers       since it can lead to a failure to detect disease and result in the patient       relapsing.
A vital element of the value of an antibody for diagnostic use       is its inclusion in the NEQAS scheme.
The United Kingdom National External       Quality Assessment Service (UK NEQAS) ensures the accuracy and reliability       of laboratory tests and is used by all diagnostic labs.
ALK1 fulfills this       category.
The following statement was received via email on the 19th       of September 2012, from Doctor Merdol Ibrahim, Manager of UK NEQAS-ICC.
This email, and the antibody usage table, has been kept on file: "NEQAS         requested ALK for its lymphoma module about 1.5 years ago for the first         time.
We distributed a composite control of a tonsil and anaplastic         large cell lymphoma for participants to stain.
Participants also         submitted their methodologies and I have attached the antibody usage         table (second table on the right), which shows that 104/179 (58%)         participants used the Dako CD246 clone.
It is one of the most popular         antibodies and had a very good pass rate with respect to the expected         staining levels.
"10     Policy and Guidelines       The identification of ALK-positive ALCL (as opposed to ALK-negative ALCL)       has gained worldwide acceptance and is now included in the current       classification of haematological malignancies, first published by the       World Health Organization in 2008.
ALK1 is considered to be the gold       standard antibody for the diagnosis of ALK-positive ALCL9.
Clinical outcomes       Approximately 870 children are diagnosed with non-Hodgkin's lymphoma every       year in the USA 11, equating to about 175 new cases of ALK+ALCL       annually.
For adults, this figure rises to approximately 1,50012.
Before 1997 it was difficult to compare the survival rates of patients       with ALCL due to problems with the actual diagnosis of the disease.
This       was compounded by a lack of common staging systems, relatively small       numbers of patients, and a variety of different treatment regimens being       used in the clinics.
This meant that patients may have undergone       unnecessary surgery or invasive therapies as a result of misdiagnosis.
The       availability of the ALK1 antibody in 1997 enabled the correct diagnosis of       ALK-positive ALCL, resulting in improvements in targeted therapy and       greater survival rates for patients with this lymphoma.
For example, the       five year overall survival rates increased from 71% in 199913       to 89% in 200814.
It is expected that additional improvements       in patient survival will continue from future clinical trials.
The       widespread introduction of ALK-specific kinase inhibitors is a distinct       possibility.
Commercialisation       The ALK1 antibody is licensed commercially throughout the world by       DakoCytomation15 and is considered to be the international gold       standard for identifying this ALK-positive ALCL.
The below graph shows the       upward trend in total units of ALK1 sold by Dako from 2010 to 201215.
When patent restrictions are removed in 2014 this upward trend is       predicted to continue.
Total royalties received for ALK reached approximately &#163;50,000 for the       period 1998-2005.
Sales of the antibody have since increased due to       worldwide interest in ALK.
The total amount of royalties received by the       University of Oxford for ALK from 2008 to 2009 reached &#163;22,875, with       royalties now consistently exceeding &#163;10,000 per annum16.
