     The workhorse for x-ray medical imaging is the amorphous (am-Si) flat       panel which are available in sizes up to 40 cm square &#8212; they are       relatively slow, possess high readout noise and image smearing.
Imaging       using superior CMOS devices has long been an aspiration by the medical       community.
Three factors have held back their employment &#8212; relatively       small size of CMOS devices (above 2 cm x 3 cm requires the 2D stitching in       the photolithographic masking process), ease of damage by ionising       radiation (diagnostic x-rays are 30 keV - 160 keV, while therapeutic       applications require 1 MeV and higher), and higher cost.
Through       developing Dynamite, based on our extensive experience with CMOS       imager design, we were able to translate the radiation-hard design       concepts developed for relatively small CMOS devices by the space and high       energy physics communities into a full wafer-scale and commercially       attractive device.
Working closely with our chosen silicon foundry, we       were able to optimise the 2D stitching process as well as our unique pixel       structure.
Though Dynamite is a complex chip, with four       independent cameras at two different spatial resolutions and very flexible       readout capabilities, we designed for high yield and flexible operation.
The noise floor is approximately two orders of magnitude less than for       am-Si panels, frame rate is at least 10x faster, no image lag and a "best       in class" radiation-hardness.
Yield is [text removed for publication]     To further the exploitation of wafer-scale and other custom CMOS Imagers,       the spinout company, ISDI Ltd was formed in 2010.
Using a network of       top-flight CMOS designers across Europe and solid relationship with       several foundries, it is possible to build a company without selling       equity Extensive discussions[text removed for publication]     In conclusion, through the generous support of the UK Research Councils,       the Universities and other bodies associated with the development of       specialised CMOS imaging devices and systems, the UK (through ISDI Ltd and       its partners across Europe) is a world-leader in this expanding field.
Dynamite itself, and our ability to manufacture very large CMOS       imagers, has attracted much publicity and recognition &#8212; for example,       short-listed for British Engineering Excellence Awards (2011), awarded IET       Innovation Prize for Electronics (2012), and invited presence at SPIE       Photonics Europe Conference and Tradeshow, Brussels (2012).
Currently Dynamite is being used within the &#163;1.6m Wellcome Grant,       PRaVDA, to provide proof-of-principle for Proton CT &#8212; the Holy Grail of       radiotherapy.
Experiments are conducted at the Birmingham Cyclotron and at       the iThemba Proton Therapy Centre (Cape Town).
Partners are University of       Lincoln (Lead), University of Surrey, University of Birmingham, University       of Liverpool, University of Cape Town, University Hospital Coventry and       Warwickshire NHS Trust, University Hospital Birmingham NHS Foundation       Trust, Christie NHS Foundation Trust, United Lincolnshire NHS Trust, and       iThemba Laboratories.
ISDI Ltd is a named suppler for PRaVDA.
