     Framed around Westad, Rajak and Harmer's research, the Global Cold War       seminars (held in 2009, 2010 and 2011) have had a profound impact on the       way in which teachers think about the Cold War, how they impart their       knowledge about it to students and how those students then conceive of       world history and contemporary international relations [A].
At each       seminar there were approximately 30 participants from different types of       schools from across North America, Russia, Eastern Europe and the UK.
Asked by Gilder Lehrman immediately after the seminar how useful it would       be for future teaching and increasing the use of primary sources in the       classroom 75-90% of participants consistently described it as very good or       excellent [GL Evaluation Reports, 2009-11: B].
Surveyed in January 2013 [C], former participants also testified that the       seminars had a "tremendous", "huge" and "great" impact on their teaching       [Q3 of 2013 survey; Kang Testimony: D, E].
As a direct result of advice,       encouragement and instruction they received at the seminars, respondents       commented on how the seminar changed their use of primary sources,       technology and audio-visual materials in the classroom as well as their       ability to include new perspectives when teaching the Cold War.
The       overwhelming majority of respondents emphasized that Westad, Rajak and       Harmer had vastly improved their understanding and knowledge of the global       Cold War and given them "expertise and confidence" (Q10-6).
"I learned       from outside the US perspective, using the most accurate research" one       participant testified, "They broke through revisionist history and made       this complex subject relevant and understandable" (Q3 -21).
Felicia Kang,       a teacher at St Anne's School in Brooklyn, testified that Harmer had       helped her learn about "a huge chunk of the globe that was very       overlooked...
I entered assuming that the great powers determined what       happened in what you might call the non-aligned nations...
I came away       with a) more curiosity to find out what indigenously happened and b) more       of a recognition that this was a big gap in my curriculum; I wasn't       covering any of this..." [Kang testimony, D, E].
Formal changes to syllabi made by teachers who attended the seminars       varied.
Participants wrote of subsequently including in-depth teaching on       Korea (Q6-6); a Cold War dimension to Middle East classes (Q6-9); "World       War II simulation", a "popular culture unit on lit[erature] and film,       Skype interviews with individuals who formally lived "behind the wall"       (Q5-14); "a Crisis Analysis unit" incorporating information on the Cuban       Missile Crisis and China/Taiwan crises and revising a War on Terror unit       that brought together information learned during the seminar and a power       point presentation to offer new perspectives on "the interconnectivity" of       events in on Iran, Iraq and Afghanistan (Q6 -23).
Kang ran a new elective       the year after she attended the seminar as a result of the seminar that       spent a month on Cuba and the Third World [Kang Testimony: D, E].
Those       more constrained by IB/AP syllabi also reported having moved the focus       "away from bipolar/great powers to a more global conversation" (Q6 -14).
Teachers also reported that their students responded very positively to       changes made.
As one put it, "Students respond enthusiastically to the       projects and tasks" implemented as a result of the seminar: "When an       instructor is better able to answer students' questions because of extra       time and effort expended, the class responds by working harder too."
(Q8-23).
A teacher at Tambov Lyceyum 6 in Russia set up an online project       in 2010 with a teacher at Palmer Ridge High school in Colorado that       allowed their students to communicate with each other entitled "The Cold       War is long ago: Getting to know each other" (Q9-11).
This project       fostered familiarity and shared awareness between these students and       teachers across inherited ideological divides.
Indeed, one of the reasons       participants would most recommend the seminar was because it brought       teachers from former antagonist countries together and offered the       opportunity for them to exchange personal and professional insights that       changed the way in which they subsequently teach the history of Cold War       (Q10-13, 22).
Another teacher encouraged students to look at how lessons       from Cold War crises can be used to analyze contemporary crisis situations       (Q6-22) and one teacher reported that "The Cold War now comes alive &#8212; they       see how it changed the face of the world, how these fears still drive us       today.
Many students have grandparents who fought in Korea and Vietnam &#8212;       this explains why."(Q8-22).
Kang reported that classes on the Third World       and Cuba sparked students' interest in writing their research papers on       these subjects and exploring Latin America.
Her elective on the Cold War       also ran for 3 years after the seminar.
Next year she will be teaching a       course on Communism that will focus on China and Cuba, inspired directly       by the Gilder Lehrman seminar and drawing on Westad and Harmer's insights       offered at the seminar (Kang testimony: D, E).
These kinds of benefits       have reached students across the world from very different kinds of       schools.
The majority of respondents to the 2013 survey (a quarter of all       those who attended the 2009-11 seminars) taught in public schools, but       others came from independent/private schools, a religious school, an       international school based in Central America and a high school in Russia.
The Cold War seminar has also influenced the work of one teacher now       serving as a consultant to the International Baccalaureate Organization at       The Hague and a National Park Service employee who works on permanent       exhibitions visited by thousands of visitors (Q8-11, 16).
The IBO       consultant noted that in designing a new IB Group 3 course on Global       Politics he found that the Cold War seminar had influenced him to advise       "exploring ways this new offering course can use primary documents."
(Q8-16).
These are only snapshots of the results of the three seminars that ran       between 2009 and 2011.
Yet they accurately reflect the seminar's core aim,       namely to change the way in which the history of the Cold War is taught at       school level across the globe and, consequently, how people from very       different backgrounds understand each other and the world they live in.
Aside from improving school education of the Cold War itself through       lectures, Westad, Rajak and Harmer's goal in sharing their multi-archival       research and new approaches to the study of history was to encourage       teachers to impart greater empathy, tolerance and understanding across       continents and boundaries to the hundreds of students they come into       contact with and help educate.
They communicated their research and ideas       through traditional lectures and informal discussions.
These discussions       were not confined to the classroom but were rather part of intensive       conversations about teaching methods and historiographical approaches that       took place throughout the week.
The teachers were not expected to read the       whole of the Cambridge History of the Cold War or recent       monographs and articles (some of which came out after the seminars)       published by Westad, Rajak and Harmer.
However the three of them shared       primary sources they had used for their research, discussed how they used       them in the classroom and conveyed precise details of their findings,       conclusions and analytical approaches.
"Participating in the seminar will       have an immediate and long lasting impact on your life as a teacher" one       participant wrote, "It is eye opening to interact with archivists and       historians doing the work of interpreting history.
It increases your       personal knowledge and expands how students view you as an educator.
It is       well worth your time!"
(Q10-21).
