     Please note that lettered citations refer to evidence sources in section       5 and that numbered citations refer to outputs in section 3.
The ladybird, C. nigritus is economically important as a BCA in       many parts of the World.
It has few natural enemies, reproduces rapidly in       response to pest numbers and has an excellent capacity to coexist in       stable relationships with other natural enemies of pests.
Work at CCCU has       allowed the provision of a suitable, sustainable control of armoured scale       insects in UK glasshouses where previously none existed [A] and has       informed the use of the species internationally [B,C].
Within the UK, C. nigritus is particularly important in       situations where pesticide use is problematic (e.g.
in butterfly houses,       or in botanical collections open to the public).
As these are also the       situations where the unsightly damage caused by scale insects is often of       most concern, effective and safe control of the pest is a priority.
Beneficiaries therefore include both biocontrol companies selling this       species and users of this BCA.
As a direct consequence of this work, C. nigritus now occupies a       small, but extremely important, sector of the BCA market, with sales by       WyeBugs, and through them by BCP ltd (Certis Europe), steadily increasing       as protocols for efficacious use have improved [A].
At present C.         nigritus is the only commercially available BCA for armoured scale       insect control in the UK.
Worldwide, this BCA also continues to gather       economic importance in both tropical and subtropical regions, and it now       forms an important part of the natural enemy complex of IPM programmes       globally (e.g.
[B,C]).
Research findings on prey relations and population monitoring pest       management have modified and informed the advice given by biocontrol       companies to glasshouse managers in the UK, Europe and around the world.
Such advice includes the climatic conditions required for successful       establishment in glasshouses, suitable times of the year for       introductions, information on the type of prey (pest) present and the       likely effect of the introduction on pest populations, modification of       cultural practices (e.g.
cease hosing down during introductions) and       advice on deployment of the beetle in IPM systems.
Interaction with beneficiaries include the following examples.
1) Biocontrol trials at the Royal Botanic Gardens Kew (2009-2010) which       directly resulted in changes to how Kew handles release of the BCA [D].
2) Advisory meetings with pest control staff at the Eden Project (2008)       which informed them of the conditions needed for the BCA to be effective       and indicated the specific pest combinations most likely to result in       successful deployment of the beetle [E].
Impact has therefore specifically occurred where C. nigritus has       been released as a BCA and specific beneficiaries therefore include the       Royal Botanic Gardens Kew (2009 and 2010) [D] and the Eden Project (2009)       [E].
For these beneficiaries, the availability of effective BCAs is       particularly important given the reputational value they place on not       using pesticides.
Numerous butterfly farms and indoor landscapes have also       benefited from this work [A] and there is strong evidence on product       websites and from verbal communication that the research has been used by       biocontrol companies and growers worldwide to modify production processes       and pest management practice (e.g.
[B,C]).
