     During 2002-05 Knight conducted two AHRC funded research projects       examining the historical practices of several artists', women's and       independent moving image distributors &#8212; London Filmmakers' Co-op, London       Video Access, The Other Cinema, Lux, Film &amp; Video Umbrella, Circles,       Cinema of Women, and Cinenova &#8212; and their funders &#8212; primarily the Arts       Council, British Film Institute, and Film London.
The research involved       extensive archive research via the records of these organisations, and       this paved the way for the Film &amp; Video Distribution Database (FVDD)       project.
Developing the FVDD required seeking permission from the       organisations studied (or their successors) &#8212; as the rights holders of the       material &#8212; to publish a selection of their documentation online.
All the       current rights holders saw the wider public awareness raising value in       making the documents publicly accessible and signed permissions contracts       for their online publication (obtained July 2006-October 2011).
Developing an online database raised questions/challenges that are faced       by all online moving image collections and related e-resources, especially       with regard to their long-term sustainability.
To address this issue,       Knight set up the AHRC funded Future Histories of the Moving Image       Research Network which brought together participants from inside and       outside academia to share information and learn from each others'       practices.
The network ran a workshop to enable online resource managers       to acquire skills that would help them maintain and develop the use of       their e-resources without having to depend on the availability of funding.
Entitled `Doing It Outside', the workshop was held in October 2008 and       non-academic attendees included representatives from Picture This       (Bristol), FACT (Liverpool), and Bang!
Short Film Festival (Nottingham).
These attendees reported that the workshop had been an energizing and       valuable experience in terms of thinking about how to develop their online       resources (Source 1).
Some of the distributors studied had not seen it as a priority to       preserve their own histories, and the FVDD has provided a way of       documenting their historical role in promoting British       artists'/independent moving image work.
In June 2013 Cinenova linked to       the FVDD from its website to enable users to `find out more about the       history of women's film and video distribution' (Source 2) and one of its       management committee members became an FVDD volunteer helping compile and       upload new content (Source 3).
Artist websites have also started linking       to it (Source 4).
FVDD webstats show that since January 2013 the number of       unique visitors to the database have been steadily increasing from just       under 200 to well over 300 per month.
Most of the visitors are from the       UK, but also come from Italy, Germany, Poland, Canada, Australia, France,       India, Croatia, Netherlands, Sweden, China and Russia.
Knight's research into women's film and video distribution impacted on       the programming of the Institute of Contemporary Arts (ICA) in London.
In       February 2012, the ICA held a series of events focusing on the work of       filmmaker Lis Rhodes, a founding member of the women's distributor       Circles.
The curator was referred to Knight's research which `spurted a       lot of ideas of how the program could be developed' (Source 5).
Knight was       invited to participate in a public panel discussion about the history of       women's moving image distribution and provided access to documents from       Circles.
Extracts from those documents were read out at the beginning of       the panel discussion to provide a historical context.
The curator used the       title of a co-authored article Knight had published (at http://alt-fv-distribution.net/papers.html#articles)       to name the ICA event `A Fragile Existence &#8212; A History of Women's Film and       Video Distribution' (Source 6).
The event sold out (100-120 seats) and the       curator reported receiving a lot of positive verbal feedback.
The role of distributors tends to be invisible and hence little       understood.
Lux, the UK's largest distributor of artists' moving image,       has used Knight's research to help raise awareness among their client base       about the promotional activities required to build audiences for artists'       moving image work and encourage artists to contribute to those activities.
Firstly, Knight was invited to participate in a public panel discussion,       held at Lux and entitled `Professional Practice: Distribution Seminar'       (June 2012), addressing issues of distribution for an audience of       practising moving image artists (Source 7).
The organiser wanted to use       Knight's research to highlight to contemporary practitioners the       importance of understanding how moving image work gets seen and       demonstrate parallels between historical and contemporary practices.
One       attendee emailed the organiser after the event, saying: `I wanted to let       you know how useful the session was on distribution ...
I found the       openness, and the quality of information on offer really valuable.
Having       attended many different events at various organisations in the past, I       have found the advice LUX has to offer to be highly supportive and       relevant' (Source 8).
Secondly, Knight and curators/writers Dan Kidner and       Elinor Cleghorn were also invited to contribute postings to the Lux Blog       about the FVDD database and the histories it makes available (July 2013)       (Source 9).
Finally, Knight's research has been used to inform teaching and learning       at other institutions.
University of the Arts London (UAL), for instance,       run an MRes Art: Moving Image course in conjunction with Lux and uses both       the Reaching Audiences book and the FVDD on the course.
The course       leader invited Knight to talk her students in June 2013 about doing       archive research and the uses/limitation of digital resources in the study       of moving image, based on the experience of her own research projects       (Source 10).
Students from UAL also became FVDD volunteers compiling and       uploading new content to the database (June 2013).
The FVDD was used on a       Film History course at New York University in a session considering how       digitisation might affect how we see or `do' history (May 2012).
Feedback       from the students noted the value of how the FVDD enabled access to PDFs       of the actual documents rather than having them only cited as evidence in       a secondary historical analysis, while also prompting discussion about the       selective nature of digital resources.
