     In 2008, the UK's Labour Government proposed a set of provisions to       criminalise possession of `extreme pornography' and launched a       consultation process to which Smith made a submission supported by more       than fifty academics from within Film, Media, Cultural Studies and       Sociology, leading to a request for a meeting from Baroness Miller (LibDem       Member of the House of Lords) to advise her on the rigour of the       Government's research base and about research findings offering a more       complex and complete view for her interventions in session [Source 1].
Although the legislation became law in 2009, advice to Baroness Miller       contributed to the tabling of amendments to the final drafting of the       legislation [Source 2].
Smith also advised anti-censorship groups       'Feminists Against Censorship' and 'Backlash' in their representations to       members of both Houses of Parliament and opposition to the proposed       legislation, leading to her nomination as Campaigner of the Year by the       disability advocacy group 'Outsiders'.
She was also invited to contribute       to public debate via the Guardian's Comment is Free (this piece       sparked 149 `below the line' comments [Source 3] and discussion in the       wider blogosphere).
Subsequently, Smith was invited to speak on related issues at the UN's       Internet Governance Forum and to review research carried out by the       international EROTICS project undertaken by Association for Progressive       Communications.
The succeeding Coalition Government's proposals to       regulate access to internet pornography through `opt-in' measures led to       invitations to speak at Internet Service Providers Association's public       meeting with MPs at Westminster and to debate young people and pornography       at the Westminster Media Forum.
While described as `an important voice in       these debates' by lead MP Claire Perry, policy makers have declined to       take up Smith's proposition that further research is needed before any       legislative actions are taken and are pushing ahead with their plans in       the interests of `protecting children'; her commentary has, however, been       sought by numerous public outlets such as The Guardian, The         Times, Times Higher Education, The Conversation,       BBC's Newsnight, Woman's Hour and numerous local (national and       international) radio talk shows.
She has also contributed to workshops in       Edinburgh (NHS, March 2010), Leeds (Youth Workers, February 2010), and led       a training session organised by Streetwise (a youth sex education charity       based in Newcastle) in May 2010.
As part of the activities of the AHRC       funded Onscenity Network, Smith co-organised thirteen events       including Sex, Health and Media for practitioners, at Friends       House, London which was attended by 87 sexual health educators,       practitioners and academics.
As a result of this growing public profile Smith was asked to act as       expert witness in a case brought under the terms of Section 63 of the       Criminal Justice and Immigration Act 2009, employing the methods and       approaches developed in her research in a report for the Defence which led       to the dropping of all charges in R v Holland (2010).
The following year       Smith gave evidence in court in R v Webster 2011 on similar charges and in       R v Peacock (2012) under the Obscene Publications Act 1959 and also in R v       Walsh (2012).
As expert witness Smith advised the Defence on their       strategy and gave testimony to the Court [Sources 4 and 5].
In each of       these trials she presented testimony exploring the textual formations and       histories of specific pornographic genres and their production, as well as       investigations into audience interests in sexually explicit media and       particular sexual practices such as BDSM (Bondage, Domination, Submission,       Masochism).
Her testimony was not presented as a defence of       pornography but as a means of guiding members of the Court towards an       understanding of the specificities of particular texts as representations       and how and why they might fail to meet the provisions of the legislation,       particularly around questions of realism and likelihood       rather than risk of serious injury [Source 6].
Beyond the       particular and significant impact on the individual defendants in each of       these cases (they were all acquitted), Smith's expert witness report for       Webster has been used in Career and Professional Development training for       solicitors and barristers at the Inns of Court.
The various trials were       widely reported in the national press [Sources 7, 8 and 9] and across       social media &#8212; the Peacock and Walsh cases are also important as having       been the first prosecutions to be live-tweeted from Court       (#ObscenityTrial; #PornTrial) - as a result, Smith's evidence was carried       into wider and more public spaces beyond Judge and Jury [Source 5].
She       has been involved in two further cases during 2013 R-v-T. (charges       dropped) and R-v-B.T.
(awaiting verdict).
Following not-guilty verdicts in Walsh and Webster, the Crown Prosecution       Service recently re-issued its guidelines (http://www.cps.gov.uk/legal/d_to_g/extreme_pornography/)       on the use of expert witnesses in cases brought under the Criminal Justice       and Immigration Act, suggesting that prosecution should only be pursued       where the offense under the provisions is obvious enough not to require       explanation [Source 10].
