     Rheumatoid arthritis is a persistent inflammatory arthritis of synovial       joints that currently affects around 500,000 people in England and an       estimated 0.5-1% of the adult population worldwide.
Rheumatoid arthritis       can lead to pain, deformity and loss of function, work disability,       economic losses and premature death.
Prior to the development of anti-TNF&#945;       therapies, a considerable proportion of patients treated with the       available disease-modifying antirheumatic drugs (DMARDs) were still       plagued by premature death rates, and had evidence of persistent disease       activity, with many patients remaining wheelchair bound due to ongoing       joint damage and disability.
The commercial introduction of anti-TNF&#945; agents from 1999 has profoundly       changed the management of severe rheumatoid arthritis throughout the       developed world, with over 2 million patients having received this       treatment.
Anti-TNF&#945; therapy has had a profound impact on the quality of       life of patients with rheumatoid arthritis.
It is capable of not only       controlling symptoms such as pain and stiffness, it can also protect       joints from the structural damage which leads to disability.
This has also       prompted the successful use of anti-TNF&#945; therapy in a number of other       immune-inflammatory diseases, such as juvenile rheumatoid arthritis,       ankylosing spondylitis, psoriatic arthritis, Crohn's disease, ulcerative       colitis, and psoriasis.
One study on the effects of anti-TNF&#945; therapy in       patients with Crohn's disease showed that it significantly improved the       quality of life of patients, by increasing their ability to work and       participate in leisure activities, decreasing fatigue, depression, and       anger7.
In addition, whilst TNF inhibition in established       disease does not result in cure, evidence is emerging that commencing       treatment during early disease can result in drug-free remission8.
The British Society of Rheumatology issued guidelines on the use of       anti-TNF&#945; inhibitors in rheumatoid arthritis in 2001, and the National       Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence endorsed the therapy in 20029.
The combination of an anti-TNF&#945; agent with methotrexate remains       unsurpassed in reducing the signs and symptoms of rheumatoid arthritis and       in improving joint destruction10.
Current UK guidelines also       address the optimal use of biologics and disease modifying antirheumatic       drugs (including methotrexate) for the management of rheumatoid arthritis11,         12.
The 2010 European League Against Rheumatism guidelines for the       management of rheumatoid arthritis recognise the importance of early       introduction of biologic TNF&#945; inhibitors in patients failing to reach a       treatment target of remission or low disease activity on conventional,       non-biologic synthetic DMARDs13.
Anti-TNF&#945; therapy is the       recommended first line treatment, and if therapeutic response is not       achieved within 3-6 months, the guidelines recommend a trial of either a       second anti-TNF agent or a biologic of an alternative mechanism of action13.
The development of anti-TNF&#945; inhibitors by the Kennedy Institute has had       a major impact on the pharmaceutical industry.
Sales of the five licensed       anti-TNF&#945; inhibitors (Key Patents: US App 08/446,674 / 20030064070A1; US       App 20020136723A1; US App 20020010180A1) for all indications reached       US$24.4 billion in 201114, most of which was used for the       treatment of rheumatoid arthritis.
Interest in the therapeutic use of       biologics has blossomed since their discovery, with monoclonal antibodies       making up around one-third of drugs in the sector, essentially all for       chronic disease.
High unit production costs of monoclonal antibodies are       falling as their use grows.
New products are now also being launched,       including generic versions of the top selling antibodies as they lose       patent protection, which should eventually benefit patients and society.
It is predicted that by 2014, three of the four top drugs sold worldwide       will be anti-TNFs15, while the top 5 will be biologics,       monoclonal antibodies and antibody like fusion proteins.
This shows the       outstanding impact of this research on the field of therapeutics15.
