     Our research has provided economic and technical impact in both the       energy supply industry and processor manufacturers, helping the former to       carry out simulations their competitors are not capable of, saving       millions of dollars per year through this, and the latter to maintain       their position as worldwide market leader in x86 architectures [5.1, 5.2,       5.3, 5.4].
A Energy Supply industry     The contributions from our research group made it possible for ABB       engineers to simulate and optimise entire devices for the first time in       their company's history, saving a significant amount of money for       development and components, and putting ABB at the leading edge of energy       supply technology worldwide.
Our cooperation with the group of the Senior       Scientist at ABB, Switzerland, has been very successful over many years.
It has significantly contributed to establishing high performance       computing technology as one of the basic elements in the ABB research and       development infrastructure and has had a considerable impact on many       development projects involving simulation tools.
In the 1990s our cooperation efforts were focused on speeding up the ABB       in-house codes for electromagnetic simulations as well as on creating an       efficient computing environment.
In 1999, the first Linux cluster was       implemented at ABB together with Carsten Trinitis' research group.
This       was a long time before cluster technology became an industry standard.
Today, several clusters are operated in ABB and the engineers at worldwide       distributed ABB sites can run the parallel codes which are continually       being optimised and adapted to latest high performance computing       technology by Carsten Trinitis' team, in their on-going relationship with       ABB.
During almost 2 decades of collaboration between the modelling and       simulation team at ABB's corporate research centre led by their senior       scientist Dr Andreas Blaszczyk and Carsten Trinitis' team, ABB has       performed several projects that have been successfully been implemented as       production tools and put into production use from 2010 on.
The most       important examples, beyond the parallel cluster environment mentioned       above, are as follows.
Creation of a parametric optimisation framework used by ABB           engineers to run complex simulations in an automatic loop involving           direct coupling between CAD systems and electromagnetic simulations.
Performance optimisation of a SPICE-based solver for fast           computation of transformer cooling; the new solver is used as a           component of an interactive transformer design system in ABB.
Acceleration of contingency analysis of electric power grids;           increasing the efficiency of the in-house code developed by ABB Sweden           running on the new multi/many core processor architectures.
According to the Senior Scientist of ABB, Switzerland [5.1], the group of       Carsten Trinitis has shown not only a high level of professional skills in       the area of high performance computing, but they have been adjusting and       extending their own scientific goals according to the needs of industrial       cooperation.
This is something which ABB considers to be very positive       (although not very common in the academic community), and which enables       new research topics to be found that are challenging to the academics and       which have practical interest and application for the industry partner.
New features which were not available before have been integrated into       their simulation system Toolbox, enabling them for the first time       to optimise day-to-day problems by reducing runtimes from 20 seconds to       200-300 milliseconds per iteration at around 1000 iterations per       optimisation run.
These features are not available in commercial software,       making the flexibility ABB gained through collaboration with Carsten       Trinitis' team unique in the energy supply industry.
According to their       Senior Scientist, production costs were reduced by between $0.5M to $5M       per year through this [5.1], and he plans for the collaboration to       continue over the next few years at least.
B Processor manufacturers     The work done by Carsten Trinitis' team on many-core architectures has       focussed on power efficiency, efficient algorithm implementation, and       sparse and dense matrix solvers, and has significantly helped Intel prove       and improve their many-core products.
In 2009 and 2010, Intel had to make       decisions on whether a many-core architecture was actually necessary.
There were real questions if such an architecture would provide       substantial benefits to Intel's user community.
Intel selected very few       sites to conduct studies on the performance and utility of their many-core       prototypes.
Work done by Carsten Trinitis' team on TiffaMMy was one of the       first independent studies that validated what became Intel's MIC       Architecture.
The findings of performance and programmability provided a       valuable early proof-of-concept that supported their ideas, and it helped       Intel make the choice to press forward with further investments.
The       result was the Intel Xeon Phi coprocessor.
Other feedback given through       Intel's software development phase and during the first product       development influenced the decision which Intel made in future Knights       Landing &#8212; the first highly parallel host CPU.
The work with Carsten       Trinitis' team has been highly influential in Intel's product design,       resulting in a 82% market share in the November 2013 Top500 list [5.2],       [5.3], [5.4].
Through this share, Intel have significantly strengthened       their position in high performance computing, making them the number one       manufacturer of processors for supercomputing systems worldwide not only       in terms of compute performance, but also in terms of energy efficiency       [3.5].
The experience gained through the above mentioned research allowed       Carsten Trinitis' research group to participate in the development of       numerical libraries for the latest processor architectures at Intel, who       have now incorporated parts of our code into their Math Kernel Library       (MKL) for the Xeon Phi architecture [3.2], [3.5].
