     Nature of the Impact: Reading the Riots informed public       understanding of the disturbances in five English cities in August 2011,       challenged conventional wisdom around the events, and had a direct impact       on policy.
Reading the Riots deliberately sought to maximise       public engagement.
This aim was reflected in the research design and this       in turn led to further public engagement.
Being run jointly with a news       organisation meant that the study moved particularly quickly and was       unusually extensive in its reach, utilising both the conventional print       edition of the newspaper, and other media, to reach as broad an audience       as possible in order to improve public understanding of the events.
Speed       was vital to its success.
The study was launched and, most unusually,       funding secured within weeks of the riots.
The ESRC's announcement of its       Pilot Urgency Grants Programme recognised that RCUK need to be able "to       respond to urgent or unforeseen events (for example the August 2011 UK       riots), where there is a strong case for immediate research" [A].
The       research was commended by the Chair of the Home Affairs Select Committee       as being both important and complementary to the work of the Committee       [B].
From 5th to 10th December 2011 The Guardian       ran approximately 34 stories over 23 pages of the newspaper reporting the       results of the first phase, and in July 2012 ran a further 18 stories over       11 pages of the paper, covering the results of phase two.
The study       commanded six front page stories.
The study was also reported extensively       in other UK media.
On the first phase launch day, Paul Lewis and Tim       Newburn appeared on radio and television programmes with a combined       audience of over 30 million.
Altogether during 2011 and 2012, 200       references were made to the research in the UK and international media.
The dedicated website for Reading the Riots has received 2.8       million hits.
Reading the Riots informed public understanding and challenged       current wisdom in a number of important ways.
First, against a background       of official denial, the study clearly showed that anger against the police       was a specific motivation, particularly in the early days of rioting.
This       element of the study was the subject of a special edition of BBC2's       Newsnight (5th December 2011), in which a film made by the Reading         the Riots team illustrating some of the key research findings [C]       was followed by a studio discussion (involving the then Police Minister,       the former Commissioner of the Metropolitan Police, Lord Ian Blair, David       Lammy MP for Tottenham, and Tim Newburn).
This argument was widely       reported across the media [D] and formed the basis of a specially       commissioned verbatim drama, also broadcast on the BBC [E].
Second, and contrary to initial claims made by the Home Secretary, the       research helped establish not only that the role played by gangs in the       riots was minimal, but also that a `truce' existed between gangs during       the disturbances [F].
Third, phase two of Reading the Riots, which built       on previous research on policing, minority communities and disaffected       youth (1-5), turned its attention to the response of the criminal justice       system to the riots, further informing public understanding.
In       particular, it identified a series of problems besetting the policing of       the riots, highlighting the shortcomings in police radio technology, and       in the Metropolitan Police's use of mutual aid support from other forces.
The problems with the police tactics in the riots [G], the subject of a       second film made by the research team for a BBC2 Newsnight special in July       2012, were commented upon by the Police Minister, Nick Herbert, by David       Lammy MP and Mark Rowley, an Assistant Commissioner of the Metropolitan       Police in the studio [H], and subsequently also by the outgoing HM Chief       Inspector of Constabulary and by the Metropolitan Police's second in       command during the rioting [I].
An indicator of the public debate provoked by Reading the Riots       is the broad range of policy makers and others who reacted to its findings       in a variety of forums including LSE's conference in December 2011, and in       articles published in The Guardian and other media.
They included:       the Home Secretary [J]; the Leader of the Opposition and Shadow Home       Secretary [K]; the Deputy Assistant Commissioner of the Metropolitan       Police Service [L]; the Archbishop of Canterbury [M]; the Mayor of London       [N]; the President of the Association of Chief Police Officers, and the       Chairman of the Police Federation [J]; the Director of Public Prosecutions       [O]; the Chairman of the Government's post-riots Victims and Communities       Panel [P]; and Louise Casey, the Government's then lead on the response to       the riots [Q].
The most significant direct policy response to Reading the Riots       came at the LSE's conference on 14th December 2011.
In her       speech, the Home Secretary announced a formal review [R] of best practice       in relation to police stop and search powers.
A major element of this was       a review undertaken by Her Majesty's Inspectorate of Constabulary, a       primary prompt for which was the LSE and Guardian report [S].
HMIC       published their review in July 2013 [T], and in a statement in the House       of Commons on 2nd July 2013 the Home Secretary said she       anticipated significant reform of the use of these powers [U].
Recognition of the innovative partnership with The Guardian,       designed to increase public understanding of the 2011 riots, was       demonstrated by the award of `Innovation of the Year' at the British       Journalism Awards, the `Innovation Award' at the European Press awards,       and shortlisting for the THES `research project of the year, all in 2012.
The research has had substantial reach with media coverage and engagement       in France, Italy, Germany, Sweden, Australia, India, New Zealand,       Singapore, the US, Canada, Russia, Zimbabwe.
Wider Implications: The Unit's work on understanding the riots is       important to the communities affected by the violence and destruction; to       the policy-makers with responsibility for responding to the issues raised       by the disorder, and to the police and other members of the criminal       justice system tasked with dealing with such an emergency.
By helping       provide a more effective understanding of these major events, the Unit's       research is helping address the policy and practice issues raised by the       riots.
