     Research conducted by the NCCR has directly influenced UK domestic       policy, as well as indirectly influencing society through increasing the       awareness of the impact and severity of cyberstalking.
Coupled with this,       the NCCR has contributed to training frontline practitioners through the       provision of resources and expertise.
Examples of these various       contributions are described below.
The former CEO of the Network for       Surviving Stalking (NSS) responded to the NCCR's initial research [3.4]       stating that it had "helped the leading charity supporting victims of       stalking to understand the problem of cyberstalking and the impact on       victims.
This has allowed the NSS to support victims more effectively than       before".
The results of the research, and the experience and knowledge       gained in the process by the principal researchers, Prof. Carsten Maple       and Dr Emma Short, have enabled the following contributions to be made at       a national level in the UK.
&#8226; Contributing to changes in the UK law on cyberstalking     The Crown Prosecution Service (CPS) held a consultation in September 2011       on cyber-stalking with a view to changing the law.
Short and Maple were       the only academics presenting; the NCCR offers a unique combination of       expertise providing insights previously unrecognised.
Four road- show       events were held to launch it (in London, Manchester, Durham and Bristol)       reaching over 400 frontline workers.
In April 2011, at the start of the       first National Stalking Awareness Week, there were invited speakers at the       launch event from the National Stalking Helpline, from the Association of       Chief Police Officers (ACPO) and from NCCR; Carsten Maple and Emma Short       presented the results of the ECHO Pilot Study.
The CPS took account of       feedback provided at the event.
The Assistant Chief Crown Prosecutor for       London commented "A substantial debt is owed to the National Centre for       Cyberstalking Research for their immense contribution to the development       of our guidance and new ways of working.
We learnt what they had already       learnt.
We shared what they shared with us.
I am sure that victim       confidence will increase as a result" [5.1].
In July 2011, Short and Maple gave invited expert evidence based on the       ECHO report to the Justice Union Parliamentary Group (JUPG) inquiry into       stalking law reform.
The chairman of the session has written "Their       exposition of why and how stalkers use electronic means for stalking was       illuminating.
We are grateful to the Centre for its contribution to the       enquiry".
The presentation of materials to support the inquiry, which       include the ECHO report [3.4] are listed on this Home office webpage:         www.gov.uk/government/publications/presentations-relating-to-the-consultations-on-stalking.
A rapid change in UK law was made as a result of the JUPG report, and the       feedback received from the CPS roadshow.
The intention to change the law       was announced by the Prime Minister on 8 March 2012 (International Women's       Day) and the new law was enacted on 25 November 2012 in the form of       amendments to the Protection of Freedoms Bill to make stalking a specific       offence in England and Wales.
The chairman of the JUPG has written "The       evidence presented to us by Professor Maple and Dr Short was crucial in       making us realise that such an offence would be necessary, to allow for       the serious psychological impact which cyberstalking can have on a victim       &#8212; particularly over a prolonged period" [5.2].
The National Association of Probation Officers (NAPO) Lead on the       Parliamentary Inquiry into Stalking Law reform said "The NCCR provided the       only piece of research from academics and gave the parliamentary group an       understanding of the extent of cyberstalking and some of the key issues       faced.
This contribution was an important lever in the decision to change       the law".
One of the amendments to the law includes the ability for Police       to have access to the use of the internet, email or any other form of       electronic communication associated with stalking in a wider range of       cases.
Another of the changes is the ability of the police to seize a       suspect's mobile phone, as a result of the findings highlighted in the       ECHO study.
&#8226; Supporting policing through provision of resources and training     (i) The NCCR has provided information and expertise to the police which       has helped to illuminate the means, motives, impact and investigation of       cyberstalking.
The Assistant Chief Constable of the Greater Manchester       Police has said "The work of Prof Maple and Dr Short has given the ACPO       Stalking and Harassment working group an invaluable insight into the issue       of cyberstalking" [5.3].
The ACPO Stalking and Harassment working group       asked the NCCR to produce a one-page guide which provides advice to       officers on the front desk of all police stations in the UK which will       explain how to address any victims of cyberstalking who report to the       police.
This is being circulated to all police stations in the UK" [5.4].
(ii) NCCR has provided training materials and delivery of a course by       Maple and Short at the College of Policing, at ACPO's request, which       covers cyberstalking techniques, their effects on the victims and ways of       combating the problem.
(iii) Emma Short has delivered training for Paladin [a joint         agency team of the Metropolitan Police and the Border Agency to         safeguard children at London's ports] and for the probation       services, and contributed to the design of the British Crime Survey in       2010 through the VAWG (Violence Against Women and Girls) team, ensuring       that incidents of harassment via electronic communication were recorded       for the first time.
(iv) Emma Short was invited to speak as a panel member on `Stalking Law       Reform &#8212; Implications for the Police', at the Police Federation Annual       Conference, May 2012.
Her research within the NCCR into the psychological       and social impacts of cyberstalking was considered important to present to       this police body.
&#8226; Providing Support to legal services and EU legislators     Some of the work carried out by Prof.
Maple has been extended to the       wider legislative and legal community through cooperation with Richard       Lang from the Law Department of UoB.
The paper `Vulnerability, Victims and       Free Movement &#8212; the Case for Cyberstalking' [3.5] made a critique of a       European Commission proposal in May 2011 for a Directive `establishing       minimum standards on the rights, support and protection of victims of       crime'.
Maple and Lang proposed amendments to the Directive and       recommended that they be considered by the European Parliament.
Copies of       the paper were sent to all MEPs [5.5].
Several MEPs confirmed that the       article had assisted them in their consideration of what was an important       and complicated piece of legislation.
&#8226; Increasing public and corporate awareness of the nature and extent         of cyberstalking     The research findings of the NCCR team have been widely publicised, both       in professional bodies and among the general public.
The Acting Head of       Policy and Services at the Suzy Lamplugh Trust has said that the       work "has been hugely helpful in filling knowledge gaps and in helping a       wider audience to understand the trauma of cyberstalking, NCCR has       collaborated with the Helpline on a number of conferences and campaigns       and we are often asked by police officers if we have any information       relating to cyberstalking" [5.6].
Prof, Maple spoke in April 2013 to 300       members of the Royal College of Psychiatry at their annual conference       about the impact and investigation of cybercrime.
As a result of this       presentation, he was asked to advise senior psychiatric and IT staff at       Broadmoor Hospital on precautions associated with access by patients to       the internet.
Since 2010, there has been much media interest in print, radio and       television.
Dr Short and Prof.
Maple have provided material for press       articles and have taken part in numerous programmes, demonstrating the       reach and significance of the work on cyberstalking.
BBC Breakfast       in April 2011, to coincide with the first National Stalking Awareness Day,       included a presentation by Dr Short on the outcomes of the ECHO study and       its implications.
In July 2011, that programme had an item in which Prof       Maple spoke about the vulnerability of systems to phone hacking.
Dr Short       featured in The Antisocial Network, shown on BBC3 in February       2013,                www.bbc.co.uk/programmes/b01dwg1n providing information about       the impact and risk linked to the escalation of electronic stalking       behaviour.
Media contributions have also included local and national radio       appearances and contributions to articles in publications such as The         Economist; The Guardian; The Sun and the BBC News       website.
These are a few examples; a longer list is available [5.7].
