     African Wild Dogs represent a unique lineage of wolf-like canids that       have been classed as       endangered on the IUCN's Red List of Threatened Species for the past 22       years.
Currently, the       worldwide captive AWD populations are managed separately in       continent-specific programmes       (USA, Europe, Australia and South Africa).
In Europe, the captive       population of AWDs is managed       within a European Endangered Species Programme (EEP), an intensive form of       captive       management.
European zoos hold half of the world's captive population of       AWDs (288       individuals).a The EEP is overseen by a coordinator (currently       based at GAIAzoo, Kerkrade, The       Netherlands) and a committee; the coordinator is responsible for       collecting and maintaining       information on each individual in captivity, and planning for the future       management of the species.
However, up until 2008 this had been difficult owing to incomplete       studbook records, which contain       information about the pedigree and history of individuals.
In addition,       the studbook records were       not based on genetic diversity, which is of key importance in breeding       programmes.
"From working with this studbook since 1992 it was very clear to me         that not all data were very         reliable, especially the earlier ones... Before [2008] I made         recommendations on best         information I could get from studbook data analysis and my personal         knowledge of the zoos,         their breeding results the family lines... After the 2008 research we         had proof of the DNA of         88% of the African wild dogs in our program."
- African Wild Dog EEP       coordinatora     Implementation of the genetically informed management plan       The genetically informed management plan developed by researchers at the       University of Glasgow       was initially discussed and ratified at a meeting of the European       Association of Zoos and Aquaria       (EAZA) studbook management committee in Kerkrade, The Netherlands in 2008.
The EAZA has       statutory oversight over all member zoos involved in conservation       breeding, and consists of the       studbook coordinators, a vet and other zoo managers who make breeding       recommendation       decisions annually and meet every 3 or 4 years.
Since 2009, recommendations based on the genetic profiling of wild and       captive populations of       AWDs conducted by the University of Glasgow have changed the way in which       the captive AWD       populations across the European zoo network are managed.a The       recommendations direct which       individuals should be selected for breeding and which should be relocated       and to where.
Currently,       53 zoos in 16 European countries (and one in Tel Aviv, Israel), are       involved.a     "Without genetic management a significant amount of diversity will be         lost in the next twenty         years.
Based on these results, recommendations were made in August 2008         for a large         number of transfers in order to compile better genetic breeding groups."
&#8212; EAZA Annual       Report (2007/08)"b &#8212; referring to pre-publication results of       the University of Glasgow research3     Application of the genetically informed management plan       Dr Clare Marsden (University of California, Davis, 2010-present), who was       a research student       working under Mable (2006-2010), has provided an ongoing voluntary role as       consulting geneticist       to the studbook coordinator (2008-present).
This involves a yearly       consultation involving a case-by-case       assessment of AWDs in each zoo.
Since 2009, 98 individuals have been       exchanged       (always as small groups).a Based on the Glasgow data, animals       from under-represented (and not       inbred) founder lineages are identified, as are animals that need to be       moved to prevent       inbreeding.
From this list, the coordinator and geneticist (Marsden)       identify groups of males and       females that make good breeding combinations from a genetic perspective,       but also meet certain       guidelines that increase the likelihood that the breeding group will form       and successfully produce       offspring.
"Clare [Marsden] figured out exactly which mixes would give best         results, I checked if it would         be possible in practical ways to bring these animals together."
&#8212;       African Wild Dog EEP       coordinatora     For example, in the 2008/9 consultation, four males in Ebeltoft zoo       (Denmark) were assigned as       high priorities in terms of genetic management criteria, so two high       priority females were       transferred from Port Lympne Park (Kent, UK) to Ebeltoft zoo to breed with       two of the males.
Meanwhile, the two other Ebeltoft zoo males were transferred out to       another zoo so that two       females could be bonded with them.a Creating small breeding       groups such as this reduces the       chance that the males would kill the females (if two females had been       introduced to four males);       success is higher if introduction of male and female groups are similar in       age and size (e.g.
three       males to three females), and where the animals were with their parents       long enough to help raise a       litter in a subsequent year (i.e.
so they learn how to rear young).
In 2012, a breeding group needed females to bond with males in both       Dortmund (Germany) and       Rome (Italy) zoos.
Females were available from Duisburg (Germany) and       Sigean (France) zoos.
The original proposal had been to combine males from Wroclaw zoo (Poland)       with the Duisburg       females, and Rome males with Sigean females, but this was a poor       combination genetically.
So       instead, the genetically informed management plan enabled the selection of       a better genetic match       by sending Sigean females to Dortmund, and Duisburg females to Rome.a     Balancing genetic consultation with behavioural constraints       The genetically informed management plan also takes account of key       logistical issues raised by       the age, sex, and sex ratio of the group to be introduced, and how those       individuals were reared.
It       remains difficult to implement an optimal genetically informed management       plan because the best       genetic matches aren't always possible.
For example, some individuals who       would be well       matched are too old to breed, or were hand-reared and thus unable to rear       offspring (typically they       kill them); or the males and females are very different ages, where       experience shows there is a low       chance of the group breeding successfully.
Often one sex is less       available, making finding matches       for genetic priorities difficult.
Nevertheless, AWDs unsuitable for       breeding, genetically speaking,       may be good helpers for rearing pups or useful as companion animals &#8212;       which can benefit       breeding AWDs of high priority.
The genetically informed management plan also balances the desire of the       zoo with what is best       for the breeding programme.
For instance, most zoos want to establish a       breeding group, but if all       zoos had breeding groups then there wouldn't be enough space for all the       pups.
In addition, a new       zoo that hasn't bred AWDs before may have lower likelihood of successfully       producing a litter.
For       this reason, consultations try to give the most important, high priority       breeding animals to the most       experienced zoos.a The University of Glasgow research has meant       that:     "Zoos across Europe had to revise their studbooks, and radically         re-think the husbandry,         management and breeding programmes of captive wild dogs....The best         scientifb01c research         makes a difference to our knowledge of a species, and how we manage it.
This piece of work         has done both."
&#8212; Royal Zoological Society of Scotland, Edinburgh,       Annual Review 2008c     The management plan established by the University of Glasgow research has       also initiated the       early stages of genetically informed management to the USA and Australia       captive breeding       programmes.
In 2011, Pittsburgh zoo (USA) hosted a workshop involving the       African wild dog       breeding coordinators of the American Zoo Association and the Australian       Zoo and Aquarium       Association, with Marsden (by this time Postdoctoral Research Associate at       UC Davis, California)       invited to share insights into the development and implementation of the       Glasgow-EAZA plan.d It       was agreed that all regions would perform similar DNA surveys in their AWD       populations, with the       aim of initiating a genetically informed management plan for the US and       Australian captive       populations.
These surveys are currently underway in the USA, with 56       samples from 23 zoos       currently documented.e
