     Our collaborative research on supporting SMEs through funded projects has       resulted in a number of impacts.
Firstly, local public bodies, SMEs, SME       Associations, NCPs and RTDs have benefited through increased awareness of       their respective roles and contributions gained through involvement in our       projects, attendance at our workshops, technology road mapping and       knowledge transfer events, with improved networks and websites a direct       consequence of this work (cf.
MAPSME and SEEK).
Secondly, our work has       benefited individual SMEs through direct engagements with universities,       providing access to new sources of consultancy, placements and various       types of formal and informal knowledge transfer (MAPSME and       USE&amp;DIFFUSE).
Thirdly, our work has developed processes, methodologies       and roadmaps for use by regional universities (SEEK and MAPSME), local       authorities (LEVERSME) and the European Commission (USE&amp;DIFFUSE)       International knowledge transfer has been further enhanced through our       study visits which enabled local SMEs to travel to other countries to       understand best practice in their technology areas, and to exchange ideas       (USE&amp;DIFFUSE).
We have gathered and assimilated best practice for       SME-RTD involvement in European projects and in terms of `reach' provided       guidance in the form of the Use and Diffuse Handbook distributed       to positive acclaim throughout Europe.
This book is now produced in 8       European languages and used by NCPs throughout Europe.
1.Providing tools, processes, events by which SMEs can engage with         universities     In the MAPSME projects companies were invited to initially engage       with the universities by using an online innovation test, which signposted       innovation weaknesses and identified those SMEs to be visited by a       university academic.
This tool was independently acclaimed by the EU       INNOVA project as amongst the top 15 Innovation Management tools in Europe       [5.1].
The tool still resides on the Association Of Universities in the East of       England (AUEE) website [5.6] and SMEs visiting the site are able       to benchmark their innovation performance against similar SMEs.
By helping       SMEs to be aware of their relative competitive performance as regards       innovation, this tool has provided incentives for SME engagement, with       over 300 SMEs mostly from the east of England using the tool up to 2010.
2.
Allowing SMEs and universities to jointly create technology         roadmaps and facilitating knowledge transfer (KT)     The UoB-initiated SEEK projects have produced an environmental       framework, with i10, 7 SMEs and 2 SME associations involved in its       development.
The road mapping workshop (Sept 2004) allowed 7 SMEs to plan       their businesses to 2015 in a context of deeper insights into the future       technical, legal and business environments they will face.
It has allowed       the universities to focus on R&amp;D needs and the SME associations to       offer additional advice.
Outputs have been used by Central Bedfordshire       Council and universities outside the region (e.g.
East London) in support       of infrastructure bid applications.
Following delivery of a presentation       at the Institute for Small Business and Entrepreneurship conference, Dr       Philpott was invited by the UEL to share best practice when engaging with       SMEs from the environment sector with academics working on an ERDF `Eureka       Project' [5.2].
Two SEEK events, `Opportunities in Carbon and       Waste' (Nov 2004) and `Opportunities in Water and Environment' (March       2005), were attended by 40 SMEs.
At the first event feedback showed 68%       believed the event to be relevant, 76% indicated that the materials       provided were useful and 83% made new and useful contacts.
Following the UoB-initiated events, a number of knowledge transfer       activities were started across the universities within the i10 consortium.
These included the brokering of a hitherto unpublicised brownfield       environmental technology; cross referral of enquiries between support       agencies; two Knowledge Enterprise East Projects, one to develop emerging       technologies and the second to undertake market research and development       for a company; a new product development consultancy for a company dealing       with air pollution; and a student placement on an IT project for a company       in the water industry.
All knowledge transfer activities involved SMEs who       previously had not considered approaching their local universities for       help.
3.
Encouraging SMEs to become involved in R&amp;D projects     Some 10,000 Use and Diffuse Handbooks were distributed between       2010 and 2011 to SMEs and SME-support organizations, providing guidance on       involvement in European R&amp;D projects.
The handbook is SME-friendly and       utilizes the visual metaphor of a `journey' using a pedagogical approach       which makes it more appealing to SMEs.
The Handbook has now been endorsed by a number of public and       private bodies throughout Europe who actively recommend the Handbook       to SMEs and RTDs considering joining EU research projects [5.3, 5.4].
European National Contact Points have also subsequently agreed to use the       handbook with clients [5.5].
By inviting UK SMEs to participate in       study visits in partner countries the project has provided UK SMEs with       the opportunity of benefiting from EU funds for R &amp; D projects.
BISC       has itself hosted a UK study visit attended by partners, 10 SMEs and 4 SME       associations (Nov 2009).
Following the completion of Use and Diffuse,       Dr Philpott was invited to contribute to the FP7 research policy review by       the project officer [5.7] and by the UK government's Technology       Strategy Board.
The LARCI project LEVER-SME involved profiling local SMEs for       involvement in European projects and the transfer of knowledge to public       authorities as to how SMEs benefit from involvement in EU projects.
This       included the distribution of the Use and Diffuse handbooks to 60       companies and a seminar on `Accessing funding' in October 2010.
