     The travelling facts project provided the Dutch Environmental         Assessment Agency (PBL) with a conceptual approach and methodology to         check the integrity of scientific `facts' contained in a UN         Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) report [A].
The project has been cited as key literature by Dr Maarten Hajer (2011,       reference item [B] below), head of the PBL, in deciding how to react to a       "climategate" problem as it arose in the Dutch Parliament in February       2010.
A significant error in the IPCC report claimed that 55% of the       Netherlands was below sea level.
This created a serious political       embarrassment for the Dutch Minister for Environment.
She asked the Agency       to check the IPCC reports for all further errors and to report the       findings to her, and to the Dutch parliament.
The Agency's Head of Methodology Dr Arthur Petersen (now Chief Scientist       of the Agency), sought advice from Mary Morgan, lead researcher of the       Facts project, as to how to go about doing this assessment.
On the basis       of the Facts research project findings, Morgan suggested that the task was       not to establish the truth or falsity of all the climate science facts per       se &#8212; an impossible task without redoing all the science.
Instead, he       should undertake a quality assurance check of how the integrity of those       scientific facts (that had been established by scientists and passed their       peer review systems) was maintained as they then travelled into the final       IPCC report.
This involved not only checking whether the facts that had       been produced by scientists were accurately reported in the final report       but, in addition, where judgement had been required, whether such       judgements were reasoned and reasonable.
So, this strategy involved a       methodology of checking whether those facts were accurately reported, the       transparency of the process by which those facts found their way into the       IPCC report, and an assessment of the expert judgements used in reporting       those facts.
These three modes worked together to justify the integrity of       the facts as they travelled into, and through, successive revisions to the       IPCC reports.
Morgan's advice (in person and by email comments on the       draft report by the agency into the problem) was based on the project       research in two respects: on its conceptual understanding of how facts       maintain their integrity as they are circulated and on the project's       developed methods for tracing scientific facts backwards and forwards.
On the basis of this advice, which was passed on from Dr Petersen to the       head of the Agency, Dr Maarten Hajer &#8212; the agency set up a process to       check the integrity of the facts that had travelled into the final IPCC       reports.
Under the co-leadership of Dr Petersen, this checking involved 30       staff members over 5 months.
They were able to clarify how the specific       error about Dutch flooding arose (due to a conflation of two facts into       one, which was then reported inaccurately), and to reassure the Dutch       government and parliament that there were no errors that affected the IPCC       summary conclusions on projected regional climate-change impacts.
However,       using these methods, they found several failures of integrity relating to       the way facts travelled to the summaries, and developed a useful taxonomy       of such shortcomings for future analyses (see their 2010 report,       referenced item [C] below).
Dr Petersen said: "the interaction with Professor Mary S. Morgan,       informed by the results of her LSE Facts project, has been crucially       important in my Agency's undertaking of its 2010 assessment of the       Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) Fourth Assessment Report       of 2007...How well facts travel, in particular how well scientific       advisers can follow &#8212; and to some extent trace &#8212; an experts group's       judgment, has become a pivotal methodological concern in my Agency's       system of scientific quality assurance and quality control."
[A]     A greater and wider impact of the Facts project lies in the fact that         the Dutch Environmental Assessment Agency has undertaken to conduct         similar "integrity checking" quality controls &#8212; based on the Facts         project approach and recipes &#8212; for the next set of IPCC reports.
As of         Summer 2013, it has conducted integrity checks for drafts of two of the         Working Group reports (one now in its final form).
This should       ensure that the errors and shortcomings that might creep in during the       process of transferring original scientific findings into final reports       are avoided or removed before publication.
Given the political and public       concern over errors in the last set of IPCC reports, this is likely to       offer a significant improvement in accuracy and so credibility for this       next round of reports.
Their work on these IPCC reports was commended in a       recent evaluation of the Agency by an international review committee.
The Facts project showed that the integrity of scientific facts used as       evidence in public discourse can be ensured by checking the integrity         of facts as they travel from the scientific literature into the       public domain, rather than by attempting to assess directly the validity       of all the scientific claims made.
Since climate science is so important       to society, it is equally important that public understanding and argument       can rely on the integrity of the evidence in the public domain.
