     The impact of the research has been in supporting the cyclical innovation       within an SME through joint research and development programmes.
The       integrated partnership has: (a) involved the placement of university       researcher(s) within the company (as part of Knowledge Transfer       Partnerships and EPSRC/BBSRC CASE Studentships) to work alongside company       employees, and; (b) allowed company employees to register for higher       degrees and to work alongside university academics and researchers within       the university.
Innovation oversight has been managed by LLOYD (UoB) and       Professor Lewis (BUK) and further informed through LLOYD's membership of       the company's Scientific Advisory Board from 2003 to 2008 and appointment       as an ongoing scientific consultant to the company.
The joint advancement       of knowledge through the partnership has stimulated and supported       innovation within the company, leading to on-going marketing benefits for       existing products, new material applications, new products and patents, as       illustrated below.
Product performance data: The development and marketing of the       Proclear&#174; family of soft contact lenses by the EyeCare Division of       Biocompatibles UK Ltd.
The Proclear&#174; family of lenses was launched and was       able to establish a niche in the monthly disposable segment, supported by       strong scientific data generated through the collaboration with UoB that       demonstrated significantly less bio-fouling with proteins and bacteria,       leading ultimately to a more comfortable contact lens &#8212; using assays that       were originally developed to support material optimisation for a novel       intraocular lens and glaucoma filtration device.
These assays became       standard in-house test methods for the company (source 5.2).
The data       produced by UoB researchers underpinned the submission to the U.S. FDA for       the claim: `may provide improved comfort for contact lens wearers who       experience mild discomfort or symptoms relating to dryness during lens       wear'.
This is the only contact lens worldwide cleared for this claim.
This contact lens business was sold in 2002 to the Cooper Group for ~&#163;70m       and was then the 6th largest contact lens business.
In 2011, net sales of       CooperVision's PC Technology products represented 28% of CooperVision's       soft lens net sales of &#163;650m and with forecast sales of &gt;$1.3bn in       2013, the Proclear sales are now worth circa.
$300m per annum (5.1, 5.2,       5.3).
New material applications: Early work by the company had       identified the potential use of PC-materials in blood contacting and       protein biofouling applications.
The early observations made through the       joint research programme into the propensity of these coatings to reduce       cellular adhesion and activation increased the scope of the PC-coating       applications.
The optimisation of the biological performance of PC       coatings through the research undertaken by UoB contributed to the broader       regulatory approval of PC-coated medical devices for clinical use and       assisted in the development of the BiodivYsio&#174; family of coronary stents       and the Yellowstar&#174; family of urological catheters and stents.
The coating       technology was licensed to Vertellus Specialities UK Ltd, which has       continued to exploit the PC technology in a wide range of medical device       applications based on the data originally generated by UoB and BUK.
The       research publications derived from this work still form part of the       company's marketing data and the data is used by Vertellus to inform       development programmes with companies around the world (5.2, 5.4).
New products: (i) Celluminate&#174;, a fluorescent cell-tracker system,       developed and marketed by BUK from 2008 until 2011, is based on the       research funded by BBSRC into novel bioresponsive self-assembling PC       polymers.
(ii) DC Bead&#174; Technology &#8212; a novel combination product for the       treatment of liver cancer, was developed initially as a bland embolic       device intended for the purpose of embolising the blood vessels of a       variety of hypervascularised tumours (e.g.
uterine fibroids) and       arteriovenous malformations in-licensed by BUK.
The DC Bead&#174; drug-eluting       bead technology arose as a consequence of the company's experience in drug       eluting devices and interventional procedures.
A series of joint research       programmes funded by BUK, EPSRC and the Royal Commission for the       Exhibition of 1851 broadened the potential of this technology and provided       much of the scientific underpinning that supports the product in market.
It has been evaluated in clinical trials worldwide and is rapidly becoming       recognised as the gold-standard treatment for intermediate primary liver       cancer.
The product is now available globally in over 600 hospitals in 50       different countries and there have been over 100,000 reported procedures.
The value of this business was recognised in early 2011 when BTG Limited       successfully acquired Biocompatibles for &#163;177m (5.5 and 5.6).
Patents: (i) LEWIS, A.L., ARMES, S.P., LLOYD, A.W.
and SALVAGE,       J.P. (2002) Drug Carriers comprising amphipathic block copolymers       US2012157550.
(ii) LEWIS, A.L., FORSTER, R.E.J., GONZALES-FAJARDO, V.M.,       TANG, Y., LLOYD, A.W.
and PHILLIPS, G.J.
(2007) Delivery of Drug       Combinations US2011229572 (iii) ASHRAFI, K., LEWIS, A.L., HEAYSMAN, C.,       LLOYD, A. and PHILLIPS, G. (2011) Drug Delivery Systems WO2012101455.
