     Mark Casson's research has made, in the words of the UKTI Director of       Economics and Evaluation at the Department of Business, Innovation and       Skills (BIS), `an outstanding contribution' to Government policy in the       area of prioritising subsidies for export support services for SMEs since       2007 [1].
He was approached by an economist at the then Department for Trade and       Industry (DTI, now UKTI Director of Economics and Evaluation) after       presenting a paper at the Industrial Economics conference at Nottingham       University in 1998.
The DTI was interested in applying Casson's conceptual       framework to policy concerns in the area of international trade and       investment.
The DTI provided Casson with complementary knowledge of how       economic analysis is used in the government policy-making process.
This       senior government economist has remained in contact with Casson, and has       used his work in a number of business support evaluation research projects       over the years.
In 1998 Casson successfully bid for a contract to evaluate the economic       impact of the UKTI's Export Explorer programme of market support services       for SMEs [2].
The conceptual framework pioneered the use of social cost       benefit analysis for measuring the impact of government support for SME       exporters.
Beginning from the original Government priority of encouraging       SME productivity growth, Casson and the team of economists at Reading       (collectively the Reading Business Group &#8212; see section 3 for details)       demonstrated that a lack of trustworthy and affordable information did       indeed lead SMEs to miss out on overseas opportunities.
In 2001 the University won a tender to design a performance monitoring       system for UKTI, which quickly led to the invitation to design and       implement the Public Sector Agreement (PSA) Performance Indicators for       UKTI in sixteen quarterly reports from 2002 to 2005, followed by several       summary reports [3].
This represented a substantial data gathering       exercise by the Reading Business Group over the period 1998 to 2005.
The long period of data gathering from 1998 until 2005 helped to inform a       series of improvements and refinement to the Government export services       offered to SMEs.
In particular, the emphasis on the significance of       'market failures' in the Reading report led to a change in Government       intervention.
In the words of the UKTI Director of Economics and       Evaluation, market failures `prevent a business from fully realising the       above benefits on its own.
It is these [market failures] which create the       potential for Government to intervene usefully, and this is the area in       which Mark Casson's analysis was most influential.
In particular, he       succeeded in explaining the 'trusted intermediary' role, which private       sector unaided is less well able to play, and which forms one of the most       important roles for Government.
Mark succeeded in explaining this in a way       that was understood and credible to both economists and lay people, and       this role has been reflected in the 5 roles for Government set out in the       conclusions of DTI 18 [p. 92 in source 6], and in its successor paper with       same title, BIS Economics Paper 13 (2011) [source 1 referring to source       7].'
The identification of the role of government as `trusted intermediary' or       `honest broker' first led to a more nuanced approach to       government-sponsored business-networking activities.
The systematic       refinement of the market support services led to UKTI increasing its       provision of market sensitive information by a trustworthy       Government-backed source and at a price well below a `market' price,       therefore overcoming the principal `market failure' threat of SMEs       disengaging from exporting.
In consequence, the return to the UK economy       from UKTI spend increased further (reaching &#163;22 of profit for every &#163;1       spent by UKTI on trade support services, according to p. 23 in [8]).
The       support for UKTI's international trade advisors has increased from 27% of       all UKTI spending on trade development in 2006-07 to 38% by 2011-12 [p. 31       in 8].
Successive UKTI annual reports show that spending on export support       services has increased from &#163;57.6m in 2007-08 to &#163;235.6m, whereas spending       on other UKTI activities has been reduced [compare p. 31 in source 8, and       p. 8 in source 9].
The number of UK businesses helped by these services       has risen very substantially, and the net economic benefits to the UK from       assisting more SMEs to export than would otherwise have been the case have       been very significant.
The research also had significant impact on the activities of UKTI       through an innovation in the methodology of the reporting by the       University of Reading team.
The PSA Performance Indicator reports authored       by Casson and his colleagues [3] translated the benefits of the improved       targeting of export support subsidies into one of the first applications       of performance measurement of this business support policy within the       framework of the Comprehensive Spending Reviews.
This provided a clearer       metric that translated the receipt by an SME of some Government support       into subsequent improved business performance.
In the words of the       Director of Economics and Evaluation at UKTI, `UKTI continued to use that       metric as the basis for Spending Review targets until very recently, and       it is still reported and used in the PIMS (Performance and Impact       Monitoring Survey) reporting.
It has stood the test of time as a good       metric because it is well aligned with the needs of the businesses being       supported &#8212; so has proved robust in protecting against the risk that       targets can sometimes skew behaviour against the interests of the true       aims of policy.'
[1]     In sum, this University of Reading research has had an outstanding impact       on UK Government policy since 2007.
Its direct beneficiaries include:       UKTI, BIS, FCO, HM Treasury, and its indirect beneficiaries include:       exporting SMEs, subgroups of SMEs, and the UK taxpayer generally.
