     In the early 2000s, growing numbers of EMNEs were investing in advanced       economies.
Policy       makers in emerging markets were worried that these may be preludes to       disinvestment and       relocation.
Increasing numbers of policy makers and advisors in developing       economies were       asking for technical assistance from the United Nations to help them       design better industrial policy       that was not only consistent with World Trade Organization (WTO)       regulations, but also helped       them to counter the perceived threat of EMNEs investing in developed       economies.
These member       states' requests for assistance were referred to UNCTAD.
UNCTAD's World Investment Report for 2004 demonstrated that the       number of cross-border       acquisitions by firms from developing economies was increasing rapidly,       adding urgency to the       need to understand the implications of this growing phenomenon.
John       Dunning was the Senior       Economic Advisor for UNCTAD since 2001, and so the Director of UNCTAD's       Division on       Investment &amp; Enterprise commissioned Dunning and Narula in 2004 to       survey EMNE activities.
This survey provided the clearest empirical data to date about outward       FDI from emerging       economies, and was written up under Dunning and Narula's guidance into the       2006 World         Investment Report [4] focused entirely on this subject, entitled FDI         from Developing and Transition         Economies: Implications for Development.
The UNCTAD World Investment       Reports have       continued to draw from this research as evidenced in the UNCTAD World       Investment Report       2011[5].
This report has had a very significant impact on UNCTAD's technical       assistance programme for       member states.
The policy guidance from UNCTAD since 2007 has been to rely       on the frameworks       developed by Dunning and Narula (primarily built around the IDP) and to       assist member states to       design and customise policies to attract and embed inward FDI, to help       them identify the most       appropriate domestic sectors and industries upon which to focus their       industrial development and       investment policies, and how to target the most efficient ways to maximise       domestic upgrading.
The UNCTAD technical assistance policies therefore do not aim to raise       barriers against outward       FDI from emerging economies, nor to raise unrealistic expectations of the       likely net economic       impact of such overseas investments.
The result was for UNCTAD's technical assistance programme to alter its       advice to policy makers,       which in turn had a direct influence on industrial policy in several       countries, where government       debate had previously determined to prohibit their leading firms from       acquiring assets in advanced       economies such as the UK and US.
Instead, on the recommendation of UNCTAD       advisors, policy       was moderated and plans to prohibit such outward FDI were withdrawn.
As UNCTAD's Chief of its Investment Issues section confirms, `this advice       has influenced countries       such as Indonesia, Malaysia and South Africa vis-a-vis liberalising their       policies towards outward       FDI by national companies, including acquiring assets in advanced       countries.
In this respect,       research by Narula and Dunning &#8212; for instance on the Investment       Development Path &#8212; has       materially and distinctly supported UNCTAD's programmes.'
[1]     The Head of Cluster and Senior Economic Affairs Officer, United Nations       Economic Commission       for Africa (UNECA), also confirms that Narula's work injected, `an       important dose of realism into       policy advice from UNCTAD' [2].
A related outcome has been a more careful evaluation by emerging       economies on `getting the       conditions right' to promote EMNEs and their sustainability.
Thus, the       United Nations also       commissioned Narula to develop a major international training programme on       planning and       implementing strategic alliances for developing countries for the United       Nations Industrial       Development Organization (UNIDO), from 2009 onwards.
Other national       governments have also       sought help on evaluating their options, sometimes directly, or through       supranational institutions.
Narula was part of a team of experts sent by the OECD to evaluate the       investment milieu of       Russia.
Related work was undertaken as an advisor to the International       Labour Organisation, and       the Inter-American Development Bank.
Dunning and Narula's body of research continues to develop.
So when       developed economy       governments started perceiving the high-profile acquisitions by EMNEs       (such as the acquisition of       Jaguar by Tata) as a potential threat to their own long-term       competitiveness, the OECD appointed       Narula as one of eight non-residential fellows to steer the group of       experts that drafted its flagship       publication, Perspectives on Global Development on the subject of       `Shifting Wealth' in 2008.
After       Narula's intervention, the eventual report had a far more moderate tone       than the original draft, now       being based on the IDP framework [3].
The primary beneficiary of this research has been UNCTAD, whose published       work feeds directly       into their technical assistance programme.
UNCTAD provides assistance       tailored to the needs of       the developing countries, with special attention being paid to the       requirements of the least       developed countries (LDCs) and those countries with the greatest needs.
These commissioned       studies seek to customise policy advice to individual countries,       distilling the work from Dunning and       Narula.
Additional beneficiaries include other governments and supranational       organisations, which are       responsible for dispersing large amounts of subsidy funding to MNEs and       additionally for       establishing standards that govern international trade and investment.
These include ILO, OECD       and the European Commission.
Many governments have special units charged       with monitoring,       evaluating and assessing the impact of investment and trade.
Their work       builds directly on these       models and frameworks, and feeds directly into their recommendations to       governments.
