     The two streams of research led by Alan Winters came together to underpin       New Zealand's       establishment of the Recognised Seasonal Employers Scheme (RSE) [see       Section 5, C2].
This       scheme, operational since 2008, allows recognised agricultural employers       to recruit workers from       certain Pacific Islands for a season's work subject to the workers meeting       certain (mild) criteria and       to the employers providing reasonable working and living conditions.
Workers with good records       can return in subsequent seasons.
Evaluation of the scheme in two of the island economies that have       benefited shows massive       effects: the per capita incomes of participating households have       risen by an average of 35-40 per       cent in Vanuatu and Tonga.
Workers remit money to their families while       they are away and carry       income and goods back home when they return at the end of the season.
According to Vanuatu's       Labour Commissioner [C3], `The scheme has raked in around Vt 3.8 billion       so far for the country'       (approximately $40 million) and around 11,000 temporary placements have       been made.
Virtually       all of the benefit was reaped over the period 2008-13, although the data       include a few hundred       workers who moved under the 2007 pilot scheme.
The key innovation of the RSE was that it not only suited New Zealand       farmers but that it also drew       on research to assuage society's fears about migration and to show       explicitly how it would foster       development in the Pacific region, a major foreign-policy objective for       New Zealand.
The research       was central to these innovations, motivating migration as a development       policy and defining the       practical needs for success for both host and home countries.
Its role is       evident in the World       Bank's report Home and Away [C1] and in the accounts of the RSE in       the evaluation documents by       John Gibson and David McKenzie [C4].
The confluence of the two research streams came in the Home and Away       report, following which       the New Zealand government sought the World Bank's help in constructing a       temporary-migration       scheme for the Pacific Islands.
Winters worked closely with the senior       economist involved (Manjula       Luthria), especially on the design of the scheme and the presentation of       the case for what was a       very innovative and potentially contentious piece of policy.
Winters was       also largely responsible for       persuading the parties to set it up with a proper evaluation process &#8212; a       first for a national migration       policy.
Demonstrating the scheme's effectiveness objectively was important       politically and enabled       the idea to be exported to Australia (which adopted a similar small pilot       scheme in 2008 and a full       scheme in 2013 [see C5, C6] and elsewhere (see the testimonial from       Michael Clemens [C10]).
McKenzie et al.
[R5] reports the RSE baseline survey for Vanuatu.
After leaving the Bank in 2007,       Winters passed the project to his co-author of that study, David McKenzie       who, with John Gibson,       has continued the evaluation.
They write [C4]:     The RSE ... is viewed as a possible model for other countries [in the ILO       good       practices database].
... Our evaluation was designed prospectively,       alongside the       launch of the program [with] baseline surveys ... before workers left to       work in New       Zealand, and then re-interview[s] ... 6, 12 and 24 months later.
...
The       results show       that the RSE has had large positive effects on sending households in Tonga       and       Vanuatu.
We find per capita incomes of households participating in       the RSE to have       increased by over 30 per cent relative to the comparison groups in both       countries...       Subjective economic welfare is estimated to have increased by almost half       a standard       deviation in both countries... School attendance rates increased by 20       percentage       points for 16- to 18-year-olds in Tonga...
Overall these results show that       the seasonal       worker program has been a powerful development intervention for the       participating       households.
On the fifth anniversary celebration of the RSE in 2012, New Zealand High       Commissioner, Bill       Dobbie, said [C3]:     RSE is a very important scheme because it is a huge initiative for New       Zealand and       Vanuatu.
Every year 2500 plus workers are recruited to work in a New       Zealand farm.... For the last five years Vanuatu has over 11,000 RSE work       placements in New       Zealand.
RSE also contributed greatly to the Vanuatu's economy.
Each year       RSE       workers contributed over Vt 1 billion to the economy.
The New Zealand scheme has been closely copied in Australia.
After a       pilot scheme between 2008       and 2012, Australia introduced a full scheme in 2013 [C5].
The pilot,       which naturally had only       modest coverage, suggests that Tongan participants increased the per         capita income of their       households by 36 per cent [C6].
The New Zealand experience also provided inspiration for the imaginative       US response to the       Haitian earthquake of providing 1,000 temporary unskilled-worker visas       specifically for Haitians.
The champion of this policy change &#8212; Michael Clemens of the Center for       Global Development       (CGD) &#8212; acknowledges the inspiration of the RSE for policy work in his       testimonial [C10].
Winters' research findings on small economies and on temporary migration       have both been       disseminated widely as separate themes &#8212; not only in academic outlets, but       personally at       conferences, seminars and policy meetings (for example, OECD, UNCTAD,       World Bank, IOM,       ComSec) and as policy briefs and by ComSec staff (notably Roman Grynberg)       in their operational       work.
The work particularly underpins developing countries' efforts to       raise temporary labour       mobility as a significant element of the Doha Round; this goal still       informs many developing country       policy positions, although it has not yet borne fruit at the WTO.
