     i.
New clinical studies with patient involvement     By highlighting the importance of ASICs in pain regulation, we have       increased the potential targets for research in patient populations across       a range of conditions, and this is reflected by the recent increase in       clinical studies focused on these channels.
In the last three years, six       clinical studies have been initiated to look at the involvement of ASICs       in - and the effects of ASIC-targeted drugs on - conditions such as       inflammatory pain, optic neuritis, and gastroesophageal reflux.
These       studies involve over 400 participants, including patients and healthy       volunteers [a].
ii.
Novel drug and treatment development for pain and disease     The world market for pain management drugs and devices reached $34.9       billion in 2012, growing at a rate of 2.9% from 2010 to 2012.
The market       is growing as a result of the aging population, but also because of       increased awareness of pain and the need for treatment, among other       factors [b, c].
The major challenge in the pain drug market is to       reduce the side-effects associated with treatment, and our discovery of       roles for ASIC1b and ASIC4 in the pain caused by tissue acidosis - which       accompanies a variety of conditions from arthritis to gastroesophageal       reflux - has provided the pharmaceutical industry with ideal targets for       the development of more specific analgesics which will have widespread       applications.
Our discovery that ASIC1b is only expressed in the peripheral nervous       system, and has a sensory neuron-specific distribution and more selective       ion permeability than other members of the ASIC family, makes it arguably       the most promising of the ASIC targets for drug development.
Indeed, more       than 40 patents on treatments and compounds targeting ASIC1b are now held       worldwide [d].
As well as analgesic compounds, these patents also       cover ASIC-focused treatments of conditions such as ischaemic brain injury       [e-1, e-2], epilepsy [e-3], and demyelinating diseases such       as multiple sclerosis [e-4].
iii.
New ASIC-focused pharmaceutical company created     Our research has shown that ASICs are important regulators of pain       pathways, and these channels are thus valuable therapeutic targets.
In       2008, Sophia Antipolis established Theralpha, a dedicated ASIC-focused       pharmaceutical company derived from the pioneering studies of Michel       Lazdunski in France and the Wood group at UCL, focused on the development       and commercialisation of innovative therapies for the treatment of pain.
They are "advancing next generation pain drugs based on scientifically       validated Acid Sensing Ion Channel (ASIC) pathways", and so far have       developed compounds targeting ASIC1a, ASIC3 and ASIC1b (one of the       channels we cloned).
They describe their programme as follows [f]:     "There has been a lack of clinical breakthroughs in recent years, and         current therapies are often inadequate, have side effects, or are         under-prescribed due to the dangers of addiction.
Theralpha aims to develop its pipeline to address unmet medical need         in pain, a significant economic burden where more than 300 million         people worldwide suffer.
The chronic pain market is currently valued at         $30 billion and is forecast to reach more than $47 billion by 2023.
Our lead product, THA903 is designed to address acute pain by         sublingual administration.
We have three additional product candidates         in preclinical development [THA901, for the treatment of neuropathic and         postoperative pain; THA902, for the treatment of inflammatory pain; and         THA904, a natural peptide in drug discovery" which acts on the       ASIC1b-containing channels that the Wood group at UCL discovered [g].
By informing the development of novel pain-relieving compounds by a       pharmaceutical company that specialises in ASIC-based therapies, our       research has had commercial and economic impact on the pain drug market.
iv.
Sites of action of existing therapeutic and naturally-occurring         compounds uncovered     Our identification of a novel ASIC splice variant and a new member of the       ASIC family has allowed mechanisms of action of existing compounds to be       uncovered, thus increasing the clinical understanding and potential       therapeutic application of commonly prescribed drugs (such as amiloride),       and highlighting a therapeutic role for naturally-occurring analgesics       (such as peptides in black mamba venom).
Amiloride is a potassium-conserving diuretic, usually prescribed to treat       water retention and hypertension.
ASICs are sensitive to amiloride, and       our lab showed that amiloride inhibits the current through ASIC1a and       ASIC1b to a similar extent (see Underpinning Research section).
In the       light of amiloride's antagonistic effect on ASIC channels, this drug is       increasingly being considered as an ASIC-based analgesic as well as a       diuretic, and four clinical studies are now testing amiloride for the       treatment of painful conditions such as pressure ulcers, heartburn, optic       neuritis and human inflammatory pain [h].
Recently, a new class of three-finger peptides from black mamba venom has       been shown to abolish pain through inhibition of ASICs expressed either in       central or peripheral neurons, including inhibition of peripheral ASICs       containing the ASIC1b subunit that we cloned [g].
These peptides,       termed mambalgins, are not toxic in mice but show a potent analgesic       effect upon central and peripheral injection that can be as strong as       morphine.
Inhibition of ASIC1a and ASIC2a subunits in central neurons and       of ASIC1b-containing channels in nociceptors is thought to be involved in       the analgesic effect of mambalgins.
Thus our cloning of ASIC1b has led to       the identification of a mechanism (a key step for regulatory approval) by       which natural peptides that block this target can produce a potent       analgesia.
