     In 2008, the Department of Health published a white paper entitled Pharmacy         in England: building on strengths, delivering the future in which it       outlined the new service which was being developed, referencing the work       of Barber, Horne and Clifford [a].
This idea was taken forward by       the Labour government, but then frozen when the election was called.
The       coalition government, however, took up the policy again, naming it the New       Medicines Service (NMS), and continuing its development through to       implementation in October 2011 [b].
The Chief Pharmaceutical       Officer for England has confirmed that "it is the research in question         that forms the fundamental building block to this important development         in health policy" [c].
Barber, Horne and Clifford were involved in the development of the       service during this period.
They participated in stakeholder meetings in       which the nature of the new service was agreed and the intervention and       subsequent training designed [c].
Barber and Clifford co-authored       the questions the pharmacist should ask and also some of the CPPE training       manual and some of their teaching was put on YouTube to be widely       available [d].
Barber participated in a series of national day       long `road show' which visited all Strategic Health Authorities to       publicise the launch of the service.
The service is targeted at NHS priority groups and at medicines       associated with avoidable hospital admissions (typically due to poor       adherence).
Any patient starting a chronic medication who is prescribed a       diuretic, anticoagulant, or has asthma, chronic obstructive pulmonary       disease (COPD) or type 2 diabetes is eligible, and should be offered the       service [e].
The pharmacist sets up a meeting with the patient a       couple of weeks after the patient presented the prescription and asks a       series of open questions to elicit the patient's experiences with the       medicine, their adherence and any problems or questions.
The pharmacist       should explore possible ways to deal with any issues raised.
Two weeks       later the pharmacist contacts the patient again to see if the issues have       been resolved, to check adherence and to find out whether any further       advice is needed.
The pharmacists are paid for this if patient completes       the whole process.
Impacts on patients     By the end of May 2013, 1,023,697 patients had received the service [f].
In December 2012, Gary Warner, Chairman of the Pharmaceutical Services       Negotiating Committee's service development subcommittee (which had       undertaken an interim evaluation of the NMS based on 224,554 patients)       commented: "NMS interventions are making a real difference to so many         patients".
The report showed that 32% of formerly non-adherent       patients became adherent to their medication after the NMS intervention.
In addition, pharmacists gave 366,702 pieces of healthy living advice to       patients while they provided the service [g].
Improved patient safety     One of the innovations of the service was to encourage pharmacists to       fill in `yellow cards' reporting adverse drug events.
In August 2012 the       Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) announced that       there was a 120% increase in Yellow Card reports received from community       pharmacists since the launch of the NMS, compared to the same time period       a year ago, indicating that the service leads to rapid identification of       side effects of medicines, strengthening the national regulatory process [h].
Impacts on professional training     Barber and Clifford were heavily involved in preparing the professional       training for the NMS prepared by the DH-funded national Centre for       Pharmacy Postgraduate Education (CPPE) and wrote some of their training       material.
They also made a series of videos for CPPE and ensured that       these materials were open-access.
The reference to this work can be found       in YouTube videos (see above) and the CPPE open learning programme that       can be accessed by GPhC members only [i].
Economic benefits to the NHS     Elliot's health economic study showed a saving to the NHS of &#163;95.40 per       patient.
The impact assessment prepared for the Government estimated the       likely costs and benefits of the scheme under various scenarios.
Using the       middle of three scenarios they estimated the net benefits of adopting the       service to be &#163;1.5bn (discounted) over a 10 year period [j].
Other national &amp; international schemes     The research presented above has led to a similar service becoming policy       in Scotland, where it has been integrated with their chronic medication       service [k].
There has been interest from other countries in introducing a similar       scheme.
For example, pharmacists from the Norwegian pharmacy organisation       Apokus visited the UK in December 2012 to learn about the service.
The       visit followed interest from Norwegian community pharmacies in undertaking       a pilot NMS for new anticoagulant medicines.
The team learnt about the NMS       and met with individuals involved, including a member of the UCL team       (James Davies) involved in evaluating the service [l].
