     The research described in section 2 has produced impact in three major       ways.
First, it has informed legislative debate, thereby influencing       legislative change, at EU level.
Second, it has shaped executive policy       (specifically UK prosecutorial policy) at the national level.
Third, it       has been used to inform law enforcement agents involved in the detection       and prosecution of cyberstalking.
(a) Informing the legislative debate at EU level     [3.1] was sent by the authors to all MEPs, the national Ministers       comprising the Justice and Home Affairs Council, and the Commission.
With       regard to the debate in the European Parliament, [3.1] and a covering       letter were sent to MEPs in August 2012, in advance of the Parliamentary       debate on the issue, which took place in mid-September 2012.
Several MEPs       confirmed that the article assisted them in their consideration of what       was an important and complicated piece of legislation.
Those who responded       include, notably, a member of the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice       and Home Affairs (one of the parliamentary committees which reported on       the draft) [5.1], the Vice President of the Parliament [5.2], who chaired       the debate on the Directive on 11 September 2012, and the President of the       Parliament [5.4].
In terms of the actual amendments to the text of the       draft Directive called for in [3.1], the call made in the article for the       proposed Directive to be rejected in its then-present form was heeded, and       the final text was in fact significantly transformed from its original       version.
Although the call for a direct reference to cyberstalking in the       recitals and/or body of the Directive was not, in the event, adopted, a       material error in the draft which had been pointed out in [3.1] was       rectified in the post-debate version which was sent to the Council, dated       20 September 2012 (compare the original proposal for the Directive, 18 May       2011, at eur-lex.europa.eu/LexUriServ/LexUriServ.do?uri=COM:2011:0275:FIN:EN:PDF       with the final version of Directive 2012/29/EU, 20 September 2012, at       register.consilium.europa.eu/pdf/en/12/pe00/pe00037.en12.pdf).
The research has contributed to an important debate on a vital piece of       legislation which will ensure that the victims of crime are in the future       afforded the same minimum protections in all EU countries.
As a result,       the research has helped enhance the rights of, and mitigate harm to,       individuals, as well as improving access to justice.
(b) Influencing prosecutorial policies in the United Kingdom     In March 2013, Lang and Maple submitted a response [5.5] to the Crown       Prosecution Service (CPS) public consultation on the "Interim Guidelines       on prosecuting cases involving communications sent via Social Media",       issued by the Director of Public Prosecutions (DPP) in December 2012       (see: www.cps.gov.uk/consultations/social_media_consultation.pdf).
Lang and Maple's response to the consultation included a copy of [3.1].
The main argument made in the response was that the guidelines needed to       be much more victim-focussed, and that concentrating only on the reach of       social media posts (as the interim guidelines did) seemed to damn those       who criticised public figures, whilst exonerating cyberstalkers the reach       of whose posts could be very local indeed, but the vulnerability of whose       targets could be far greater.
Accordingly, the response argued that       vulnerability of the "target" of the allegedly criminal communication       should be an additional public interest factor to be taken into account by       the CPS in making its decision as to whether or not to prosecute the       sender.
At the end of the public consultation period, the guidelines were       reviewed by the DPP and the CPS' Strategy and Policy Directorate in light       of the responses received, and final guidelines were published in June       2013 (see Director of Public Prosecutions, "Guidelines on prosecuting       cases involving communications sent via social media", 20 June 2013,       available at www.cps.gov.uk/consultations/social_media_guidelines.pdf).
Lang and Maple's response to the consultation called for `vulnerability       of the victim' to be expressly mentioned as an additional public interest       factor to be taken into account in considering whether to prosecute; this       call has been heeded.
It is specifically mentioned in the summary of       responses [5.6, p.8], and led to a cross-reference being inserted into the       text, directing prosecutors to section 4.12(c) of the Code for Crown       Prosecutors which deals with vulnerability of the victim (compare Guidelines,       p.12, &#167;42 and Interim Guidelines, p.11, &#167;37).
Lang and Maple's       response to the consultation (including the description of the special       vulnerability of cyberstalking victims in [3.1]) thus led directly to the       decision to make reference to the concept of victim vulnerability in the       final Guidelines.
As a consequence, this concept should be at the       forefront of prosecutors' minds when deciding whether or not to bring       charges against those accused of crimes committed via social media,       including cyberstalking.
Lang and Maple's research has thus enhanced the manner in which the CPS       assesses whether to prosecute wrongdoers in the case of offences involving       the use of social media.
It thus has positively affected the vital service       which the CPS performs for the public.
In addition, the research has       influenced professional guidelines and affected professional practice, as       well as helping mitigate harm to individuals, not only by making       prosecution of those who perpetrate crime on vulnerable victims by means       of social media more likely, but also by disincentivising potential       perpetrators in the first place.
The protection of the rights of       vulnerable victims, and potential vulnerable victims, which was       specifically advocated in the research, has thus been enhanced.
(c) Informing law enforcement agencies     On 18 April 2013, at the National Stalking Awareness Day Conference in       London, Lang and Maple presented [3.1] to the Stalking and Harassment Lead       for the UK Association of Chief Police Officers (ACPO), who was extremely       interested in the research and subsequently commissioned Lang and Maple to       prepare a provision-by-provision summary of the new EU Directive on       victims' rights, to be distributed to the Chief Police Officers of all       police forces in the country [5.8].
The impact of Lang and Maple's research on the activities of the ACPO,       beginning with the meeting in April 2013, has thus been considerable, and       has had a knock-on impact on the situation of victims of crime throughout       the UK.
Every Chief Police Officer in the country is in possession of the       summary of the new Directive, which is being distributed among their       staff.
As a consequence, police officers, in their day-to-day dealings       with the victims of crime, will ensure that victims receive all of the new       rights which the Directive contains.
As a result, those who are the       victims of crime in the UK are likely de facto to enjoy the       benefits of the extra rights and protection which the Directive affords       them, some two years earlier than might otherwise have been the case.
