     The research described in section 2 has had a clear impact outside       academia, in particular in the following areas:     (a) Assisting NGOs in shaping their strategies (including litigation         strategies)     Dr Borelli's research on human rights and counter-terrorism has both       grown out of and fed into her long-standing collaboration with NGOs       specialising in the international legal protection of human rights.
Through her consultancy work, Borelli's research has had an impact on         the legal arguments put forward by human rights NGOs involved in human         rights litigation.
For instance, the knowledge and expertise       acquired through research on prosecution of abuses committed during states       of exception was put to practical use through contribution to and       assistance in the drafting of an amicus curiae brief, submitted by       members of the Lawyers Advisory Committee of the NGO Peace Brigades       International UK to the Supreme Court of Justice of Colombia [5.7].
The       case arises out of the 2005 massacre of residents of the San Jos&#233; de       Apartado Peace Community by members of a paramilitary group, operating in       conjunction with the Colombian Army.
The case, which concerns the criminal       responsibility of senior members of the Colombian armed forces for their       role in the massacre, is, as of October 2013, pending before the Supreme       Court of Justice.
Borelli's research has also contributed in a significant way to the shaping         of advocacy policies of human rights NGOs.
For instance, in April       2011, in light of her expertise in the field of human rights and national       security, Borelli was commissioned by REDRESS to prepare [3.2].
A longer       version of the report, including the background research carried out in       order to identify problematic areas, has been made available to Redress       for internal use with a view to assisting the organisation itself more       generally to identify strategic areas for litigation and advocacy       activities.
The Report, which contains a detailed analysis of the       international legal standards of protection against torture and       ill-treatment, has also been used by Redress as background material in       preparing training and discussion materials for meeting with governmental       experts and human rights activists [5.3].
Finally, Borelli's research has       also influenced public debate and informed relevant non-academic users.
A good example of this is again [3.2].
First, it has assisted the       organisation which commissioned it in identifying strategic areas for its       action; in that regard, a senior officer of REDRESS noted that the       research had "informed, and helped to shape REDRESS's advocacy on the       issue of security legislation, which constitutes a critical development as       it facilitates/perpetuates torture and frequently poses considerable       obstacles to accountability and reparation".
Second, the report, which has       also been translated into French, Spanish and Arabic, has been widely       distributed to and used by other human rights NGOs, including being       reproduced on their websites as reference material.
For instance, Dignity,       a Danish human rights NGO with a similar mandate to that of REDRESS,       included the report in the "toolkit" of materials for practitioners and       human rights activists available on their website [5.4], whilst the       Spanish NGO RIS (Rights International Spain), an independent       non-governmental organisation whose stated mission is "to strengthen human       rights accountability in Spain, focusing on access to justice for victims       of human rights violations", has included it on the webpage dedicated to       international reference materials on "Security and Human Rights" [5.5].
(b) Informing the debate within international organisations     Due to its nature and subject-matter, Borelli's research on       counter-terrorism has had an impact on the public and institutional         debate on counter-terrorism and influenced the work of international       human rights monitoring bodies.
A prime example of this type of impact is       that deriving from the REDRESS Report [3.2].
As mentioned above, the       Report was prepared in the context of a project funded by the European       Commission and was prepared with the express intention to inform and       influence domestic policy-makers and human rights institutions in a broad       range of States, as well as to contribute to the debate on human rights       and national security in relevant international fora, including the       European Union and the United Nations.
The Report was submitted to the       European Commission and is highlighted by the Division on Human Rights and       Democracy of the Commission as one of its key references on torture from       EU-funded projects and partner organisations [5.2].
The Report has also       been circulated by REDRESS to members of various UN Human Rights bodies,       including the Human Rights Council and the UN Committee Against Torture.
The very fact of the publication of the report and its distribution by a       leading NGO with a long history of cooperation with international human       rights monitoring bodies ensures that the report is considered, given due       weight and informs the debate within those bodies.
Further evidence of the       impact of the report on the international debate on the topic emerges from       the fact that the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for       Refugees (UNOHCR) posted the report on its public website [5.6]; the       website in question is a key point of reference for practitioners, policy       makers and experts working on human rights issues.
(c) Contributing to the public debate on counter-terrorism and human         rights     Borelli's research on human rights and counter-terrorism has informed       public debate on the controversial question of the protection of the       fundamental rights of terrorist suspects.
An example of this type of       impact is that deriving from the research on rendition and intelligence       cooperation [3.1], carried out as part of a project on intelligence       accountability jointly undertaken by DCAF, the Human Rights Centre at the       University of Durham and the Intelligence Oversight Committee of the       Norwegian Parliament.
The project brought together intelligence       practitioners and civil servants, members of oversight bodies,       representatives of civil society organisations and academics to discuss       new trends in international intelligence cooperation, examine the       challenges faced by intelligence oversight bodies and make recommendations       as to how oversight of international intelligence cooperation may be       strengthened.
The research was presented to the Intelligence Oversight       Committee of the Norwegian Parliament, thereby contributing to informed       discussion in that forum.
As noted above, [3.2] has also influenced public       debate on counter-terrorism measures.
