     Worldwide, obesity represents one of the most challenging health       problems, with the UK having among the highest rates in Europe.
The       associations between obesity and health problems such as type 2 diabetes       are set to add substantially to health service costs in the future.
Measurements taken as part of the Health Survey for England (HSE) have       been used extensively at every stage of obesity policy making and       monitoring.
Public Health England describes HSE as "currently the most         robust data source to monitor trends in adult obesity in England" [a].
HSE data are used extensively by the Department of Health, NHS and local       authority staff, the media, and the public.
In one year alone (1 April       2012-1 April 2013) there were 36,803 page views (26,928 unique) of HSE       pages on the Health and Social Care Information Centre (HSCIC)'s website.
The three months April-June 2013 saw 7,796 downloads [b].
The UK       Data Service reported that the HSE was the second most frequently       downloaded dataset in the UK in 2011 [c].
Here we present key       evidence for how, during the period 2008-13, HSE has informed the       quantification of the obesity problem, the development of Government       policy and strategy, the development of clinical guidelines, and the       monitoring of progress.
Measuring the obesity problem     HSE data have enabled the extent and escalation of obesity within the       population to be quantified, drawing the attention of Government and       policymakers to the issue.
Importantly, HSE data enabled the       quantification of the obesity problem within sub-groups of the population,       highlighting the high rates in children and among adults from lower       socioeconomic positions.
The Foresight Report, funded by the Government       Office for Science, used HSE 1994-2004 data to project population trends       to 2050 and examine future impacts on life expectancy and economic costs       of overweight and obesity [d].
The 2010 adult update [e]       used HSE data from 1993 to 2007.
The adult obesity projections varied       little: future health problems were predicted to soar, with       obesity-related diabetes rising by 98%, strokes by 23%, and heart disease       by 44% by 2050.
Influencing Government policy and strategy     HSE measurement data are used by Government to produce evidence-based       strategies to combat obesity.
The Chief Medical Officer (CMO), the       Government's most senior medical advisor, publishes an annual report to       identify priorities in health and recommend action to improve public       health.
The CMO's 2011 report used a range of HSE data, including on       obesity [f].
The UCL team were responsible for the analyses which       identified obesity as one of the main risk factors behind the differences       in prevalence of multiple lifestyle risk factors by age and by       socio-economic position.
The research on the HSE that was cited in the Foresight report was used       to justify investment of money and Government focus on obesity.
For       example, in the 2008 Healthy Weight, Healthy Lives: A Cross-Government         Strategy for England, a range of commitments for reducing obesity       were identified [g].
It states: "the Government will make         available an additional &#163;372 million for promoting the achievement and         maintenance of healthy weight over the period 2008-11."
The 2011       document Healthy Lives, Healthy People: A call to action on obesity in         England set out specific plans for dealing with the obesity problem       [h].
One specific area in which our data influenced this report was       in relation to the Change4Life campaign, an extensive public       health programme run by the Department of Health which started in 2009.
HSE data were used to choose the appropriate adult age group to target for       a new phase of the health promotion campaign entitled Change4Life: One         Year On [i].
In addition, a calorie reduction target set out       in this document was derived from HSE weight gain data, to estimate that a       mean reduction in daily energy intake of 100 calories (kcal) per person       would correct the energy imbalance nationally.
This was also set out       within in Responsibility Deal &#8212; a series of pledges that food       manufacturers, retailers, caterers, suppliers and service organisations       such as restaurants signed up to with the goal of providing "a mechanism       for the food and drink industry to make and record its contribution to       helping the population meet the calorie reduction challenge" [j].
Informing clinical guidance     The National Institute of Health and Care Excellence (NICE) clinical       guidelines on the prevention, identification, assessment and management of       overweight and obesity in adults and children, currently being reviewed       and updated, used HSE data to justify the document's creation, quantifying       the issue of obesity, attaching economic costs to this, and assessing       cost-effectiveness of clinical treatments.
NICE 2012 guidance Obesity:         working with local communities also used HSE obesity data to       quantify the extent of the problem [k].
Mean measured height by       age and sex from the Health Survey for England were used by the Standing       Advisory Committee on Nutrition (SACN) in the SACN Dietary Recommendations       for Energy to calculate energy requirements [l].
Monitoring and evaluating the success of obesity strategies.
HSE data have been used to monitor targets and evaluate the success of       obesity strategies.
HSE data showed early indications that the focus on       childhood obesity was paying off, with wider evaluation shifting further       strategy work to adults.
One area of particular importance has been the       monitoring of equality considerations.
For example, equality impact       assessments for the two Government reports Healthy Weight, Healthy         Lives and Healthy Lives, Healthy People used HSE BMI data       related to age, sex and ethnicity to show that the strategies met their       legal requirements and could be implemented [m, n].
HSE is one of       the Department of Health's main data sources for Parliamentary Questions       on obesity (for example, PQ48492 in 2011) and Parliamentary debates (for       example, House of Lords, 7 Jan 2010).
