     With international focus on the intelligence failure that prefigured the       Iraq invasion, Professor Mark       Phythian has been instrumental in forging relationships between       intelligence professionals and       academia, aimed at reducing the risk of such a failure happening again.
His major development       was recognising the valuable contribution that insights drawn from social       science could bring to the       field.
He has developed academic, analytical approaches to understanding       past failures and       evaluating the challenges faced by intelligence agencies.
Two senior officials, one then working within the UK Cabinet Office, the       other for the US Federal       Bureau of Investigation (FBI), have testified to the impact of Phythian's       work.
Paul Rimmer was the UK's Director of Central Intelligence Assessment and       Deputy Professional       Head of Intelligence Analysis at the Joint Intelligence Organisation       within Whitehall until November       2012 when he was appointed Chief of Staff (Policy and Finance) at the       Ministry of Defence.
In this       role he was responsible for professional standards and practice amongst       intelligence analysts in       the Assessments Staff and, as Deputy Chair of the Joint Intelligence       Committee, also for Defence       Intelligence, the Joint Terrorism Analysis Centre and FCO Research       Analysts.
He wrote that Phythian's research has "made a valuable contribution, in       particular to the debate       about the politicisation of intelligence ...
I have drawn on it in my own       work and advice to staff ...
In       particular it has influenced professional standards, guidelines and       training; the research findings       are used in the conduct of professional work or practice; practitioner       debate has been informed or       stimulated by research findings; and research has challenged conventional       wisdom, stimulating       debate among stakeholders.
It will continue to be a source of reference       that we will draw on in       future training and guidance" (A).
[text removed for publication].
He wrote that Phythian's work: "has       provoked a lively debate in both       the law enforcement and intelligence communities.
Your research and       presentation made a       valuable contribution, in particular to the debate about the role of       ethics in intelligence operations"       (B).
He added that Phythian's publications in the International         Journal (5) "will continue to be a       source of reference in future training and guidance" both inside and       outside the United States.
Numerous practitioner engagement activities have provided routes to       impact and encouraged the       intelligence services to integrate Phythian's social science approach into       their guidelines,       standards and critical thinking.
For example, he has spoken in recent       years at the `Australia's       Strategic Futures' Conference, organised by the Australian Defence Science       and Technology       Organisation (subsequently published as 3), at similar events in Canada       and Turkey, and at the       International Intelligence Ethics Association (IIEA) conference at       Nuffield College, Oxford.
In 2010,       Phythian presented his research at a seminar held at the Cabinet Office in       Whitehall chaired by       Paul Rimmer.
A revised version of his presentation was subsequently       published (2).
Phythian was also commissioned to prepare a 6,500-word report on lessons       from the Scott Inquiry       into arms-to-Iraq, which was disseminated to defence intelligence staff       within the Ministry of       Defence in 2013 (C).
He has been interviewed as an expert on the       ethics-intelligence relationship       for a report on counter-terrorism and ethics produced by RAND Europe,       commissioned by the       Dutch Ministry of Safety and Justice.
Phythian has also engaged with practitioners by commissioning book       chapters from serving or       former intelligence professionals across several edited works published       during the current REF       census period.
Phythian makes a point of aiming his own published work at       both academic and       practitioner-focused audiences.
In addition, his published work has been       reviewed in the CIA's in-house       journal, Studies in Intelligence.
Phythian's work has also been used on broader security issues.
The       Strategic Defence and       Security Review (SDSR) was a major review of the UK's defence posture       commissioned by the       newly-formed coalition government in 2010.
Phythian's research into issues       arising from the       SDSR underpinned a submission to the House of Commons Defence Committee in       2012 which       was cited at various points in its 2013 report into Defence       Acquisition (D, see paras.
155, 157 and       191) and informed its key recommendation (D, see paras.
191 and 198, E).
Phythian has also provided expert opinion for the BBC, and appeared in       print and broadcast media       in the UK and internationally, including BBC Radio 4's Correspondent       programme in 2011 (F).
