     IMPACT: ENGLAND.
The research in section 2       underpinned policy changes in 2006 leading to final       impacts between 2008 and 2012, documented below, and also to reform in       2012.
The 2006 reforms introduced variable tuition fees, extended the system of       income-contingent loans       to cover fees, and reinforced policies to widen participation through       intervention earlier in the       system.
Those reforms contributed to final impacts during the assessment       period in several ways.
More resources for universities: between 2007-8 and 2011-12,       tuition fee income at English       universities from home and EU undergraduates increased by 53%, from &#163;2.65       billion to &#163;4.05       billion (HESA data).
Taxpayer support for teaching remained broadly       constant; thus the income       from fees was a net addition to university resources.
Increased student support: the reforms increased the value of       maintenance loans, extended       loans to cover fees and re-introduced student grants.
Between 2007/8 and       2011/12 the number of       awards of financial support to English-domiciled students rose by nearly       20%, from 836,000       students to over 1 million; spending on student loans rose by 50%, from       &#163;3.97 billion to &#163;6 billion,       and on grants by 57%, from &#163;1 billion to &#163;1.57 billion [A, Tables 2a, 2b;       B, Table 2].
More students: increased resources facilitated expansion of the       system.
The number of new       English-domiciled entrants between 17 and 30 years old into higher       education rose by 16%, from       294,000 in 2007/08 to 342,000 in 2011/12, [C, Table 1].
Wider participation: the reforms were associated with an increase       in applications from people in       the most disadvantaged areas, from 13.8% of the cohort in 2008 to 18.4% in       2012, an increase of       33% [D, Fig.
6 and underlying data].
Given the range of surrounding       reforms (e.g.
the Literacy and       Numeracy Hours, Education Maintenance Allowances and AimHigher), the       evidence does not       allow a claim that the reforms led causally to improved participation, but       supports the claim that       they were part of a strategically-designed package which was consistent       with wider participation.
Reforms in 2012 included raising the interest rate on student loans.
By       reducing the fiscal cost of       loans, this reform is a fundamental element in a strategy to expand       student numbers and thus to       increase investment in skills; increased numbers also particularly benefit       students from       disadvantaged backgrounds.
The final impacts will emerge in the coming       years.
LINKS BETWEEN RESEARCH AND IMPACT.
Activities directed at       influencing policy included invited       evidence to the Education Select Committee [E] and newspaper articles [F].
Nicholas Barr was       described by the Financial Times (30 June 2011) as `the most       influential thinker in this area'.
His       influence was acknowledged by Tony Blair when Prime Minister [G],       including `thanks and       appreciation for the outstanding contribution you made to the debate on       our higher education       reforms.
The maturity of the debate ... owed a great deal to your media       presentations, and all the       painstaking work on which they were based.'
The contribution to the       interest rate element in loan       design was acknowledged in a letter from Dr Vincent Cable, Secretary of       State for Business,       Innovation and Skills to the editor of the Financial Times (5 July       2011), stating that `[Martin] Wolf       rightly praises Prof Nick Barr's ideas, which have influenced our       thinking.
For example we are, as       he recommends, introducing a real interest rate on student loans ... to       reduce the costs to the       exchequer' [H].
In further corroboration, a House of Commons Library       publication [I, p. 12]       acknowledged that `Professor Nicholas Barr has argued for some time that       the interest rate       subsidy is both inefficient and unfair'.
IMPACT: HUNGARY.
As a result of earlier policy work       in the UK based on [2], an LSE team was       invited to assist in the design and implementation of a student loan in       Hungary (see source J).
Prior to the loan scheme there was no general system of student support in       Hungary.
The loan       facility was therefore popular, because it gave students an option they       did not have before.
The       scheme has universal access (i.e.
all students are entitled to a loan, and       the size of the loan is not       income tested), and all students face the same loan conditions.
The       crucial elements in the       underpinning research described in section 2 were (a) the importance of       income-contingent       repayments, (b) the need for loans to avoid interest subsidies and (c)       ensuring that the loan       scheme was classified as private.
The resulting scheme has all these       features.
The interest rate       has three elements: the cost of finance, a cohort risk premium, and an       element to cover       administrative costs (Berlinger 2009: K).
The cost-of-finance element and       cohort risk premium       mean that the loan system breaks even and thus does not require a       substantial government       guarantee.
The latter is the essential feature which allows the loan to be       classified as private, a       core objective, since at the time of its introduction Hungary faced a       binding requirement to comply       with the Stability and Growth Pact as a pre-condition for EU accession.
The final impact &#8212; better student support, facilitating investment in       human capital &#8212; is shown by the       history of the scheme.
In 2008 the maximum size of the loan was increased,       and it became       possible to use loans to pay tuition fees directly to universities.
In       2010 the European Investment       Bank agreed a new credit line of EUR 140 million, a market test of the       scheme's financial and       operational stability in the face of the economic crisis.
In 2011, the       scheme's tenth year, the flow of       repayments matched loan outgoings, i.e.
the system became self-financing       on a year-by-year       basis [L, pp.
46 and 50].
As indicators of significance, between 2008 and 2012, 64,000 students       took out loans totalling 61       billion Forints (approximately EUR 210 million) [L, p. 46).
By 2012, the       scheme had made       cumulative loans of 247 billion Forints (approximately EUR 850 million, or       0.85% of GDP) to a total       of 331,000 students [L, p. 46], an average take-up rate of about 25 per       cent.
LINKS BETWEEN RESEARCH AND IMPACT.
Consulting papers in 1999 [M]       were based on the research       described in section 2.
Public acknowledgement includes an invitation [N]       from Csaba Bugar, CEO       of the Hungarian Student Loans Company to Nicholas Barr to give the       opening keynote address at       the tenth anniversary conference of the loan scheme: `It is a great       pleasure for us to officially invite       you to our conference ....
Being a ... world-renowned expert ... and one       of the founding fathers of       the Hungarian scheme, your participation will make our conference an event       of great significance'.
Berlinger (2009: K) is explicit that `The Hungarian model, developed by       Nicholas Barr, may be       seen as an improved version of the British model' (p. 257).
IMPACT: EU LOAN FACILITY.
Noting the success of the       Hungarian loan scheme, in 2010 DG-EAC       invited an LSE-led team to produce a feasibility study for an EU-wide       student loan.
The resulting       institution, the Erasmus + Loan Guarantee Facility includes EUR 600       million in the EU budget for       2013-2020 (i.e.
approximately EUR 85 million per year) to finance a       guarantee for an EU-wide       student loan for Master's degree students to foster student mobility.
That       base level of finance will       underwrite around EUR 3.6 billion of student loans, i.e.
EUR 500 million       per year.
The scheme was       confirmed by the European Parliament in June 2013 [O].
It is too early for       final impacts.
LINKS BETWEEN RESEARCH AND IMPACT.
The loan facility was presented       at a EU Testing Workshop       at the EU Commission in January 2011 and is set out in detail in a       consulting report [P, published       late 2011] by an LSE-led team, based on the research described in section       2.
WHY THE IMPACT MATTERS.
Technological advance is driving up the       demand for skills.
Thus the       size and quality of the higher education sector matters for national       economic performance; failure       to invest in human capital puts national competitiveness at risk.
Social       mobility is important both as       a widely-held value judgement and because Europe cannot afford to waste       talent.
Thus student       loans are an essential ingredient in policies to widen and deepen       investment in skills, contribute to       social mobility and, if well-designed, foster international mobility of       students.
The impacts affect the       life chances of many young (and less young) people.
