     The research produced health-economic Italian evidence which demonstrated       that HPV vaccination in males is cost-effective.
These research outcomes       were incorporated into a reimbursement dossier produced by Sanofi Pasteur       Merck [1], prior to their publication in the open literature.
The company submitted this dossier to AIFA in December 2011 to obtain       reimbursement for Gardasil HPV vaccination to males.
On 18 September 2012,       on the basis of the submitted dossier, AIFA approved Gardasil for HPV       vaccination to males, changing its indications as follows:       "Gardasil is a vaccine indicated from 9 year of age....." [2].
Any reference to gender is now removed, thus approving and reimbursing       Gardasil for use in both males and females after 9 years of age.
The funding of the anti-HPV immunisation was limited to a national school       programme targeting 12 year old girls by the 2012-2014 National Plan of       Preventive Vaccination (PNPV, approved earlier on March 2012) [3].
Individual regions had only two options to extend the vaccination coverage       to boys:            Immunising individuals at risk (HIV infected boys, already included in         the PNPV funding);       Voluntary vaccination of boys with the HPV vaccine charged at regional         tender cost at no incremental cost to the regions.
In November 2012, two regions (Emilia-Romagna and Sicily) took one or       both options [4].
Both of these regions have undertaken voluntary vaccination of 11-26 year       old males.
With an effective coverage of 80%, the total savings accruing       from this vaccination programme are &#8364;98.9 million     In addition, Emilia-Romagna undertook the immunisation of HIV-infected       males up to 26 years old resident in the region.
This programme provides       immunisation benefits to a high-risk sub-population at a relatively modest       total cost of &#8364;40,273     The economic benefits of this policy change were estimated in       collaboration with the Italian Agency for Drug Approval (AIFA) [5].
The medical benefits of the anti-HPV immunisation of a cohort of males       also include:            Overall health benefits of a universal vaccination       Improved health outcomes for men, who represent more than one-third         total direct costs of HPV related disease       Improved `herd immunity' resulting from vaccinating a larger         percentage of the population.
