 Soon after taking devolved legislative power for housing in 2011, the National Assembly for Wales moved to introduce reform in this area, recognising the serious inadequacies of current law and the compelling need for legal reform.
In October 2011, the Assembly published an initial discussion paper, which drew heavily on the work of Carr, Cowan and Hunter and quoted it directly as an inspiration for reform: "2.1 The current state of the law is out of date, cumbersome, wastes landlord, tenant and court resources and places unnecessary obstacles in the way of the achievement of appropriate policy outcomes" (source 1, citing output 3).
In recognition of the significance of their research to the Assembly's reform agenda, the Joseph Rowntree Foundation then arranged for Carr, Cowan and Hunter to meet with the Assembly's Housing Directorate and their legislative personnel in November 2011.
This meeting, described by a Project Manager for the Welsh Government as `immensely useful' (source 5) enabled a focused discussion of the key research insights detailed in their joint research (focussing particularly on output 3), and assisted the development of Welsh law and policy.
Issues discussed drew on a range of previous key research findings, including how the Law Commission's rental reform Bill might be updated to deal with the proportionality jurisdiction opened up as a result of Article 8, Schedule 1, Human Rights Act 1998 (output 3); leasehold reform (output 6); the problems of vulnerable tenants facing automatic eviction (outputs 3 and 6), and the integration of co-operative housing provision within a tenancy reform project.
Subsequently, Carr was appointed to the expert panel advising on the legislation, attending further key stakeholder meetings in December 2011 and February 2012.
The Assembly then published a Consultation Paper in Spring 2012, setting out its intention to take forward tenancy reform in the current parliamentary session (2012/13) (source 2).
This paper again took its starting point from the body of research described above (outputs 1-5) (source 5).
The Consultation Paper is a substantive document, which accompanied advice to the Welsh Minister for Housing and Regeneration and informed the subsequent White Paper published in May 2012 (source 3).
The White Paper commits to legislation on tenancy reform, during the lifetime of the Assembly (i.e.
before 2016).
In preparation for that legislation Carr was seconded to the Welsh Law Commission for six months (September 2012 - March 2013) to work on the project, writing a series of issue based memoranda and a report updating the Law Commission's proposals, placing them in the Welsh context, and engaging with the legal scope of devolution (which includes housing but not property law) (source 4).
This is work for which she was considered by the Law Commission to be uniquely qualified (source 6).
Her work is closely informed by the body of research described above and made a very significant contribution to the advice given to the Minister and the proposed legislation.
In the 2013 White Paper (output 5), which underpins the reform, she developed and extended that body of research.
In particular, the following elements of the legislation closely reflect the insights that are developed in the research set out above:  The need for distinct separation between social and market tenure (outputs 3, 4, 5 &amp; 6).
Abolition of ground 8, the mandatory ground for possession currently available to housing association landlords (outputs 3 &amp; 5).
Extension of succession provisions to carers (output 5).
Incorporation of some of Scottish reforms to social housing tenure (modified in the light of experience) (output 5).
The need to ensure that proposals are sensitive to the needs of supported housing and issues of domestic violence (outputs 2, 3, 5 &amp; 6).
Carr is also working closely with key stakeholders within Welsh housing and with Government lawyers in Cardiff to ensure that the Report is responsive to their concerns, again drawing fully on the research insights described above in this process.
The senior civil servant responsible for the Welsh Assembly tenure reform process wrote to Carr and Cowan to offer formal thanks for the contribution which their research made in the reform process, and highlighting as key Carr's `knowledge of comparative tenure', `understanding of the legal context in which supported housing operates', ability `to draw on significant previous engagement with supported housing organisations in Wales' and role in helping to ensure that the Renting Homes White Paper takes account of all key developments in housing law subsequent to the publication of the Law Commission's report in 2006 (source 5).
He explains: "I particularly value the independence of an academic perspective against which a wide range of viewpoints, such as there are within the housing sector, can be validated ... your input has already had a significant impact by stressing the importance of adopting a broad-ranging perspective on tenure reform, flagging reforms in other countries we could learn from and highlighting issues that have arisen since the Law Commission's work that we might wish to address.
...
I would go so far as to say that, without that body of research and your on-hand expertise whenever I have required it, I would not have been able to develop the proposals as far as we have been able to do so.
Although the Consultation Paper did not explicitly refer to your body of work [as is normal practice with this type of document], it is evident from the terms of the paper that it formed the basis for it.
For example, the following elements of the proposed legislation closely reflect the insights developed in your research: Distinct separation between social and market tenure; Abolition of ground 8, the mandatory ground for possession currently available to housing association landlords; Extension of succession provisions to carers; incorporation of some Scottish reforms to social housing tenure (modified in the light of experience)" (source 5).
The research has thus provided a direct inspiration for substantial reform of Welsh housing law, shaping the political agenda, colouring public debates and forming the basis for changes that will impact very directly on the lives of approximately half a million people who are either tenants or landlords, as well as the work in this area of all Welsh councils and housing associations.
