     In 2008, the UK government raised the UK size thresholds for accounting       regulation to the EU maximum for smaller companies [S3].
The results of       the Kingston research influenced the UK government's decision to raise the       UK thresholds through engagement with the relevant government departments,       as detailed below.
These increases in the size thresholds formed an       amendment to the Companies Act 2006.
It is estimated that 3,100       medium-sized companies and 1,600 large companies were eligible to prepare       and file less detailed accounts at Companies House due to this change.
The       reduced reporting requirements would lead to a saving of only 6 hours of       accountancy time per year, using an hourly rate of &#163;26.0017 the savings       per company would be in the region of &#163;156 per annum [Dept.
for Business       Innovation &amp; Skills (BIS) Impact Assessment No 0301] This could result       in a reduced burden for all 4,700 qualifying companies amounting to a       total saving of up to &#163;730k per annum.
Around 2100 companies also became       eligible for first year capital allowances provided by the tax system.
[S4]     The underpinning research cited in Sections 2 and 3 above, in particular       [R1] and [R2], formed a critical part of the process that led to this       change.
The research findings were used as part of the evidence on which       the Department of Business, Enterprise and Regulatory Reform (BERR) based       recommendations to the Secretary of State in deciding the approach the UK       should take on audit exemptions [S1, S2].
The Director of Accounting       Policy Corporate Law &amp; Governance at BERR, said "The statistics       produced on the numbers of small companies using an external accountant to       prepare their statutory accounts gave us useful data... and meant we were       able to present to Ministers options which were grounded in experience"       [S2].
One of the key research findings showed that the directors of small       companies see benefits in retaining the audit and having an independent       check on their results.
Nevertheless, they supported the proposals to       increase the audit exemption threshold.
This helped BERR gauge the       potential reactions of small companies and meant the options BERR       presented to the Secretary of State for Business were firmly grounded.
[S4] (Note: Audit size exemptions were not changed at this point).
In 2011, BERR &#8212; now renamed the Department for Business Innovation &amp;       Skills (BIS) &#8212; drew on the results of [R1 and R2] in drafting an initial       impact assessment of aligning audit exemptions with accounting exemptions       for small companies and in the final impact assessment published in 2012.
The research [R2] was referenced six times by BIS when it was assessing       whether to align audit exemptions with accounting exemptions for small       companies.
[S6, S8].
The research concerned take-up rates for small       company audit exemption, related time and cost savings.
Of particular       interest to BIS were the findings on the director's perceptions of users       of their published accounts [S7].
The regulations introducing the changes       have now been published [S9] and the changes apply for accounting years       ending on or after 1st October 2012.
This change exempts approximately       36,000 from compulsory audit.
The Government also exempted most subsidiary       companies from mandatory audit, as long as their parent company guarantees       their liabilities, affecting a further 83,000 subsidiary companies [S10]     In addition, another 67,000 dormant subsidiaries will no longer need to       prepare and file annual accounts, provided they receive a similar       guarantee.
The research instrument [R3] was subsequently used as the basis for       regulatory impact assessments in Denmark, Finland, Norway and Sweden,       where the regulators were investigating the most appropriate thresholds       for introducing audit exemption.
The Chairman of the Governmental       Commission on Audit and Auditing, Ministry of Justice, Sweden said, "The       information you provided was excellent and gave us a more comprehensive       view on policy on audit and accounting..." [S5].
Thus, Kingston       University's research on this topic had an impact on policy making in the       UK and four Nordic countries, and consequently on auditors, preparers and       users of the financial statements.
The main beneficiaries of the research are regulators in the UK and other       jurisdictions who have conducted consultations and regulatory impact       assessments on the EU changes to the accounting and auditing requirements       for smaller entities.
The findings of the research are also useful in       helping the directors of such companies and their accountants weigh up the       costs and benefits of their options under the Companies Act 2006, and will       also be of interest to lenders, creditors and other users of the financial       statements.
