     This research has changed policy in a major international HR professional       institute, with consequent changes in the practice of HR personnel.
Members of the Employee Engagement Consortium have also made lasting       changes to their practices as a result of the research.
CIPD     The CIPD is one of the largest HR and development professional bodies in       the world, with over 135,000 members across 120 countries.
It supports and       develops those responsible for the management and development of people       within organisations as well as informing and shaping debate, public       policy, and legislation in order to enable higher performance at work.
The underpinning research influenced the CIPD's research programme and       shaped its input to public policy through:     i) work on the independent MacLeod Reviews [1] [2] on engagement in       2008/9 and 2012     ii) input to the UK Commission for Education and Skills on human capital     iii) work with the charity Business in the Community [3], shaping       its "work-well model" and a tool to measure engagement and well-being       (2011).
For example, the second MacLeod Review [2] makes heavy use of the       Kingston engagement research, arguing the link between engagement and       performance.
"The importance of `engaging managers' has increased... and       employee engagement performs a crucial linking role between line manager       behaviours and employee performance" [pg 2, citing KU research].
All 4 CRESS reports were made available for free download to CIPD members       in 2009, 2010, 2011, and 2012 respectively, and were featured in the       CIPD's marketing strategy to direct members to this work including       highlighting the member newsletters.
As of 8 February 2013, these papers       had been downloaded 14,757 times.
There was widespread media coverage for       the research.
For instance, the latest CRESS-CIPD report was discussed in       over 25 publications, including HR Magazine, HR Review, and The Telegraph       newspaper.
The research was also disseminated to CIPD members through the       CIPD's engagement forum, a knowledge network open to all members, the CIPD       annual conference on Engagement, a practitioner conference attracting       approximately 200 people and the National Conference attracting some 2,000       delegates.
In addition, the work was disseminated around the CIPD's branch       network of 46 autonomous regional groups [4].
As a result, much of the work was translated into practical interventions       by CIPD members.
For example, Essex County Council used the work to raise       awareness of engagement and its importance in driving performance.
They       used the research evidence to inform their thinking about the       interventions they could make, and to educate their organisation to deal       with the individual's needs while also listening to the collective voice.
The council's Employee Engagement Manager says: "The work gave us the       ability to persuade our managers of the importance of engagement and we       used it to shape our "engage space" events for line managers to educate       them in their role in engagement."
[5]     The research fed into developing views at CIPD, engagement is now a       recommended component of the CIPD syllabus.
In 2012, the CIPD published       two public policy reports that reflect its changed view on engagement [6].
The second report highlights the differences between emotional and       transactional engagement and provides guidance for employers, managers and       policy-makers [6 pp.
17-18] for identifying and supporting emotional       engagement.
The impact of the research continues to be felt among the wider business       community, with findings on emotional and transactional engagement cited       in the recent independent Salz Review providing recommendations for       business practices changes at Barclays bank [7].
The Deputy Chair of the       Employee Engagement Task Force, and co-author of the MacLeod report,       states that 'The work that CRESS has undertaken and continues to       undertaken in the field of employee engagement has been a vital       underpinning to the work of the government-sponsored Engage for Success       employee engagement national taskforce [8]'     Consortium Members     The UK's largest mutual business, The Co-operative Group used the       research to identify personal attributes that had an impact on engagement       and job role fit.
Using the research findings, The Co-Op changed the way       it measured engagement and enabled it to identify and test a range of       drivers to get a clearer understanding of what makes a difference to       engagement.
[9] Similarly, plastic bottle manufacturer Nampak,       [approx.
700 employees] developed a range of initiatives to foster a       culture of engagement and innovation after participating in the first wave       of research (2007-9).
Implementing a company-wide participation programme       that looked at ways to improve the customer and employee experience, the       company rapidly transformed its 70% "negativity" rating by employees to a       80% "approval" rating as a good employer over a 3 year period from 2007 to       2010, and enabled 50% of their employees to gain NVQ qualifications.
Nampak was the overall winner of the CIPD People Management award in 2010,       and was the sole SME selected to participate in UK government-backed       taskforce `Engage for Success' to promote employee engagement launched in       2011.
The CEO of Nampak commented, "Our work with Kingston identified the key       areas we needed to address; leadership and management development, lack of       feedback to employees and enabling employees to understand their       contribution.
We were also able to exchange knowledge within the network,       find out what was working for others and why, access academic thinking and       get a greater understanding of how other businesses were addressing the       issues we were facing."
[10]
