     University of Glasgow researchers led pivotal clinical trials in       collaboration with Roche to show that Xeloda and XELOX were safe and       effective novel treatments for patients with bowel cancer.a       This research has enhanced patient care by increasing the therapeutic       options available and by improving the treatment experience, with more       convenient dosing schedules and fewer side effects compared with previous       chemotherapy regimens.
This was achieved by substituting oral for       intravenous chemotherapy, and removing the requirement for either       in-patient administration or long-term indwelling venous catheters.
Xeloda       and XELOX have been approved by drug regulatory bodies and adopted in US       and European clinical guidelines for bowel cancer.
In the UK, the reduced       costs offered by these novel treatments have benefitted the NHS, both       economically and in terms of saving time for patients and healthcare       staff.
European licensing extensions granted for Xeloda     Xeloda was approved as a first-line therapy for metastatic bowel cancer       in 2001 and as an adjuvant therapy for advanced bowel cancer in 2005 (USA       and Europe).
The European Medicines Agency (EMA) subsequently broadened       the use of Xeloda to the first-line and second-line treatment of       metastatic bowel cancer in combination with any other chemotherapy drug       (February 2008).b The NO16966 phase III clinical trial of XELOX6       was one of two studies cited as the pivotal clinical evidence to support       this licence extension.a The phase I study of XELOX4       was cited to support the safety of combining Xeloda with oxaliplatin,       whereas the X-ACT phase III trial of Xeloda2 was cited as       evidence for the beneficial effects of Xeloda on survival and quality of       life among patients with metastatic bowel cancer.
The specific combination       therapy of XELOX was approved in by the EMA in March 2010.c       This update cited the NO16968 phase III clinical trial of XELOX as the       sole evidence.a Both of these EMA approvals were highlighted by       PharmaTimes, a leading online forum for the pharmaceutical industry and       healthcare systems (94,280 unique visitors to the website,       January-February 2013).d     The Scottish Medicines Consortium (SMC) is responsible for advising NHS       Scotland on treatment efficacy and costs.
In September 2008, the SMC       stated in their assessment of Xeloda (SMC No.
507/08e) that it       was accepted for use alone or as a combination therapy for metastatic       bowel cancer and directly referenced the 2008 J Clin Oncol paper.6       This statement was followed by another SMC assessment in July 2011 that       accepted the use of XELOX as an adjuvant treatment, citing data from       clinical trial NO16968 (SMC No.
716/11).f     Xeloda is currently marketed in over 100 countries.
Worldwide sales of       Xeloda were approximately &#163;1,057 million in 2012, an increase of 9% on the       previous year, and it ranked fifth in Roche's top 10 best-selling drug       list.g Xeloda showed sustained growth in sales between 2008 and       2013 as XELOX gained regulatory approval.
For example, Roche saw its       biggest rise in sales of Xeloda (17%) following EMA approval in 2010,       demonstrating a substantial economic impact of the research.g     Changes in clinical guidelines     The National Comprehensive Cancer Network (NCCN) is a consortium of 23 US       centres of clinical excellence in cancer care.
In 2013, the NCCN published       clinical guidelines that recommended XELOX (referred to as `CapeOX' by       this organisation) for use in bowel cancer.h The guidelines on       colon cancer provide detailed treatment protocols for advanced and       metastatic cancer that directly cite research by University of Glasgow on       the basis of evidence and consensus classified as `category 2A' (uniform       NCCN consensus).
In the `Principles of adjuvant therapy (COL-E)' chapter       it is stated that "capecitabine appears to be equivalent to bolus         5-FU/leucovorin in patients with stage III colon cancer," citing the       2005 NEJM publication.2 The 2008 J Clin Oncol       publication6 is cited in the chapter `Chemotherapy for advanced       or metastatic disease (COL-C)'.
In 2010, the European Society for Medical Oncology (ESMO) published       clinical guidelines on primary and advanced bowel cancer.i,j       These guidelines advocated the use of Xeloda in the adjuvant treatment of       patients with primary colon cancer (class of recommendation A), citing the       phase III clinical trial X-ACT2 (level of evidence I).
XELOX       (referred to as `CAPOX' by this organisation) was recommended as an       alternative to FOLFOX for patients with advanced bowel cancer (level of       evidence I, class of recommendation A).
The 2008 J Clin Oncol       paper6 informed the evidence base for this recommendation.
Benefits for patients and the NHS     The XELOX regimen requires only one clinic visit every 3 weeks for the       2-hour infusion of oxaliplatin, demonstrating a marked advantage over       treatment with 5-FU.
Information on XELOX has been disseminated to       patients via support groups, including Macmillan Cancer Support.k       This UK organisation describes what patients with bowel cancer should       expect in terms of treatment schedule, tumour response and side effects if       they are prescribed XELOX, citing the 2008 J Clin Oncol paper6       as the only clinical trial evidence.
Similarly, Genentech provides online       material for US patients.l This resource directly references       X-ACT2 as the sole evidence base supporting the efficacy of       XELOX as an adjuvant therapy for bowel cancer.
The use of Xeloda and XELOX has reduced treatment costs for the NHS.
A       2011 National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (NICE) costing       report determined that adjuvant treatment with Xeloda cost &#163;3974 per       patient versus &#163;8736 for 5-FU.m The cost of XELOX was &#163;10,514       per patient versus &#163;11,461 for FOLFOX.
Costs to the NHS will drop further       when Xeloda comes off patent in December 2013, enabling generic       formulations to enter clinical practice.
