     The potential social benefits of life and medical science are at once       indeterminate and incalculable,       and the research outlined above has helped to improve the validity and       hence social value of       controlled trials around the world.
Beneficiaries include both the       organisers of, and participants in,       trials themselves, but also extend to all the patients to whom the results       of those trials apply.
Edwards' work relates to the considerable number of clinical trials run       each year.
For example, in       2012, the UK regulator approved 952 applications to run clinical trials of       new medicinal drugs.
In the       same year, figures from the National Institute of Health Research (NIHR)       show that almost 638,000       patients volunteered for clinical trials in the UK.
Those benefits accrue particularly from the use of Edwards' research to       inform significant changes       in the guidelines of bodies governing the conduct of research both       internationally and in individual       countries (the UK, Europe, US, and Canada), including supporting       improvements in the       international governance of cluster trials delivered in developing       countries.
The numbers of such       trials are increasing as more vaccines, educational and behavioural       interventions are evaluated.
In       turn, this has led to changes in the ways in which research trials are       conducted, particularly by       ensuring the use of a more robust ethical framework for participants.
Edwards' research has also       benefited individuals participating in controlled trials by promoting       autonomous participation       (especially informed withdrawal) throughout trials &#8212; rather than only at       the point of consent &#8212; and by       protecting the rights and interests of individuals in defined communities       recruited for cluster trials.
In       so doing, the research has helped to address the problem of `missing data'       from trial drop-outs.
In 2008 the Canadian National Institute for Health (NIH) funded a project       [a] to produce the first       internationally recognised guidelines on the ethics of cluster trials,       based on Edwards' longstanding       work on moral problems in such trials.
Edwards was invited to join the       project's Canadian Working       Group, which met in Ottawa in 2009; this group comprised biostatisticians       (including the person       who invented the cluster design), methodologists, trialists, health policy       professionals from WHO,       and another bioethicist [1].
The Working Group wrote the Ottawa         Statement on the ethical conduct       of cluster trials, with a pr&#233;cis in the BMJ [1], which is used by       researchers and ethics committees for       guidance on the design and conduct of such trials.
Edwards contributed       particularly to       Recommendation 14 of that Statement, which recognises that clusters may       contain vulnerable       participants and obliges researchers and ethics committees to consider the       need for additional       protections ensuring that consent procedures are appropriate for such       participants.
Furthermore,       the Statement's fundamental recognition that inequalities may exist within       clusters, and might be       exacerbated by participation in the research, is explicitly based on [d]       (see section 3 in [1]).
Following the Working Group meeting, its representatives presented the       resultant Statement,       including Recommendation 14, at a meeting in July 2013 of the US       Secretary's Advisory Committee       on Human Research Protections (SACHRP); this meeting prepared the first       publicly available       recommendations in the US on how the US Department of Health and Human       Services (HHS) and       Food and Drug Administration (FDA) regulations should be applied to       cluster trials.
These       recommendations will, for the first time, guide investigators of all         FDA funded trials of this sort as       well as their Institutional Review Boards.
The SACHRP discussed the       recommendations at the       meeting for final approval in October 2013 [2].
In 2010, Edwards contributed to a World Health Organisation (WHO)       Working Party set up to       produce guidelines on the ethics of patient safety research [3].
Those       guidelines, which were       published in 2013, provide guidance on patient safety in research taking       place in resource-poor       contexts.
Recognising that many projects on patient safety resemble       cluster study designs,       Edwards' research [d] was cited to support the first guidance point that       "vulnerable populations       should not be differentially exposed to any extra risks brought up by the       research without good       reason, to avoid exacerbating inequalities".
This point responded directly       to the findings in [d].
As part of her research in Mumbai, Edwards piloted a study of this WHO       guidance point in an       international cluster trial of health services.
The study was designed to       develop and test a model       strategy to improve women's and children's health in 40 Mumbai       communities; it was funded by the       Wellcome Trust and led by Dr David Osrin of UCL.
The 24,000 households       recruited, from February       2012 to present, benefited from access to health services [g].
In April 2013, the World Medical Association (WMA) released for public       comment a draft revision of       the Declaration of Helsinki.
Although not binding in itself, it is       widely recognised as the most       authoritative guidance for human research ethics, and provides a basis for       the regulation of       research around the world.
For example, it is enshrined in the EU       Directive on, and UK regulations       for, clinical trials which cover all investigational medicinal products.
Following the release of the       April 2013 draft revision, and based on her philosophical and empirical       work, Edwards was invited       in July 2013 by the Chair of the Working Party to draft a clause on the       right to withdraw [4].
Edwards' research has further improved the development and         implementation of clinical trials         through its use as the basis for professional training.
Again, the       reach of these impacts       extends both across and significantly beyond the UK.
The National         Research Ethics Service       (NRES) oversees the operation of 69 NHS research ethics committees whose       approval is legally       required for clinical research projects in the UK.
In 2008, Edwards was       awarded a competitive       contract to provide research-based training to members of NHS and Social       Care committees.
Since       2008, she has provided training on consent and its limits for 160       committee members, based on her       research and its uptake in professional and legal guidelines [5].
Ninety       percent of members scored       the content of her training as 4-6 on a six-point scale.
This training also led to sustained refinements in the advice         provided by the NRES.
In 2011 the       NRES training lead, who had attended Edwards' training sessions, included       her arguments in       favour of limiting the right to withdraw from research (developed in [a])       in Article 6.2.2 of NRES'       official policy document on Participant Information on "What will happen       if I don't want to carry on       with the study?"
[6].
Governed by this document, 10,883 research         projects were approved by NHS       and Social Care ethics committees in England between December 2011 and       March 2013 [7].
The       recognition of Edwards' framework as best practice is indicated by the       fact that this Article will be       retained in a major revision of this document in 2013 [6].
The Association of Research Ethics Committees (AREC), an       independent umbrella group for       research ethics committees, provides training and resources for more than       2,500 members across       the UK.
In 2012 it invited Edwards to draft a short guide to cluster       trials after committee members       asked for guidance on this topic, in light of the increasing numbers of       cluster trials they were asked       to review [9].
That draft was approved for publication in early 2013 by       the AREC board and is now       increasingly used for training, since AREC organises the full training       programme for NRES [8].
Edwards drew on her research to develop and deliver a large-scale         continuous professional         development programme on research ethics and governance through UCL       Partners, an academic       health-science partnership based in the south-east of England.
Between       2009 and July 2013, she       trained 493 researchers over 7 one-day events, a substantial component of       which focused on the       issue of consent and its limits in research.
The training course was rated       3-5 on a five-point scale       by 92% of delegates [9].
