     Identification: Wadd's work on drinking in older people was used       in the Big Lottery fund (BLF) proposal for &#163;25 million investment to       improve evidence-based responses to problem drinking in older age (www.biglotteryfund.org.uk/global-content/press-releases/uk-wide/030613_uk_rgh_alcohol-misuse).
This       led to a request to brief Age UK, which then decided to engage with the       BLF, in partnership with Alcohol Concern and other multi disciplinary       organisations.
Galvani's studies of training for social workers in       substance use have directly contributed to the higher profile of substance       use in social work education for the last decade, resulting in a       commission to write The College of Social Work's (TCSW) guidance for       social work educators on substance use for the revised qualifying       programmes in England (2012).
(See www.tcsw.org.uk/uploadedFiles/TheCollege/Media_centre/Curriculum%20Guide_Substance_17Jul         y2012_proofed.pdf).
Improving effective practice: Forrester's evaluation of a service       to prevent care led to a consultancy (2008-09) for the Welsh Government on       the reform of social services (`Stronger Families'), and recommendations       (in the Children and Families (Wales) Measure 2010) on new services for       families with serious problems and the career structure for social       workers.
Specialist teams are being set up in every authority,       contributing to better preventive services for tens of thousands of       families in contact with social services in Wales.
Of Forrester's six       reports for the Welsh Government, two informed policy formation and four       underpinned the roll-out of the Stronger Families reform.
Forrester's work       on the outcomes for children in care led the Welsh Government to remove       the proposal that local authorities should have a legal duty to reduce the       number of children entering care, replacing it with a focus on intervening       to reduce the need for care while recognising that care can be a positive       choice.
It has also influenced English policy on adoption.
A Demos report       (2010) and Narey's report for the English government (2011) both       extensively quoted Forrester's research [5.1].
These reports led to       policies that increased the number of children being adopted between 2011       and 2013.
Galvani's work has had a similar impact on services for families       where substance misuse is linked to domestic violence.
For example,       Galvani worked with Adfam and AVA to develop resources for families on       living with substance use and domestic abuse, improving the quality and       scope of staff training [5.2, 5.3].
Forrester's work currently focuses on       creating evidence based organisations where policies and practices are       designed to produce effective helping relationships.
The work involves       transformational change programmes in 6 local authorities, with current       and future impact on outcomes for the tens of thousands of vulnerable       families these authorities serve.
This work informed the analysis during       early 2013 of the implications for training and education in social work,       which developed into TGC's successful tender later in 2013 for the       delivery of Frontline, a training programme aimed at increasing the skills       of qualifying social workers.
Influencing policy and practice: Galvani's research influenced the       profile of substance use teaching, including the provision of materials       for TCSW as good practice exemplars.
The materials she produced with       Forrester for the Higher Education Academy (e.g.
www.swapbox.ac.uk/8/)       were identified by the Subject Centre for Social Work and Social Policy       (SWAP) as an example of excellence in teaching.
They have been distributed       to all 157 qualifying social work programmes in England.
The TCSW       endorsement underpins the use of these resources in core teaching on       social work programmes in England.
Galvani's work has influenced BASW's       approach to professional updating [5.4].
Each of five BASW pocket guides 	  (www.basw.co.uk/group/?id=10)       was distributed to over 20,000 social workers and other materials from       this research are being distributed to every UK qualifying programme.
Wadd's research provided a focus for a Panorama programme (Old, drunk and       disorderly?
September 2012) on drinking in older people, which was seen by       an estimated 3m viewers and which contributed to the development of the       Big Lottery initiative.
Forrester's research was the focus of a BBC       Scotland documentary (Home is where the hurt is, July 2009).
Forrester       completed the British Association for Adoption and Fostering guidance       (Parenting a child affected by parental substance misuse, 2012) about       children affected by parental drug or alcohol issues, which is used to       improve the preparation of all prospective adopters.
Capacity development: Finally, the Centre has had an impact on the       development of greater quantitative research literacy among practitioners.
Our work has ensured that quantitative analysis plays a greater role both       in social work research and in social work education.
Of particular       relevance is Forrester's lead on two current ESRC programmes to develop       and deliver a core curriculum for quantitative research in social work.
This has been incorporated into the qualifying training in 15 (of 80)       universities, influencing the research literacy and confidence in at least       770 social work students each year (or around 17% of the social work       students qualifying each year).
