     The Epic Guidelines for hospitals, and community and primary care have       been published in the peer reviewed Journal of Hospital Infection (JHI) on       three occasions and made free-to-view by the publishers Elsevier.
The       Epic2 Guidelines published in 2007 were among the top ten cited papers in       Journal of Hospital Infection in 2008.
Several summary articles were       disseminated via journals with a wider readership.
In 2011 BioMedLib       included four of our publications in the top ten articles published in the       evidence-based infection prevention and control guideline domain.
Epic2 is cited in the USA (Hospital Infection Control Practice Advisory       Committee/Centers for Disease Control) Urinary Catheter Guidelines (2009)       and the Australian National Guidelines (2010) as one of the systematically       developed national guidelines used to generate the questions for the       systematic review (CDC) and recommendations within the guideline (ACSQH).
The WHO Hand Hygiene Guideline (2009) included Epic2 as one of the       guidelines reviewed for rigour of development and consistency with the       final WHO version (see citations below).
Our systematic reviews       underpinned national policy advice and guidance related to MRSA screening,       one of the main pillars of preventing the transmission of MRSA, and which       has had a major impact in driving reductions of 50% in MRSA bloodstream       infections across the NHS between 2005 and 2009 as evidenced in the       Department of Health archive.
Our systematic review of the significance of       uniforms as a vector of HCAI, was incorporated into national policy       related to healthcare worker uniforms in 2011.
In 2003 the Chief Medical Officer of England published `Winning Ways',       which used the evidence from Epic (2001 &amp; 2003) to develop one of the       seven areas for action to reduce HCAI, and in 2007 the guidelines were       used to underpin the high impact interventions for the reduction in MRSA       bloodstream infections.
These high impact interventions formed the       backbone of practice improvement strategies developed by the DH in England       that resulted in an initial 50% reduction in meticillin resistant Staphylococcus         aureus (MRSA) bloodstream infections between 2005 and 2009 with       sustained reduction of infections by 80% to date.
National Quality       Improvement Audit Tools developed by the Infection Prevention Society and       available electronically free to NHS trusts across the UK, are largely       based on the evidence from Epic2.
The Epic guidelines were widely disseminated via a range of initiatives       including a national programme of educational events in collaboration with       the Infection Prevention Society, CR BARD (BARD Medical) and Ethicon       (Johnston &amp; Johnston Ltd), and national and international conference       presentations.
The guidelines now provide an evidence-base for clinical       policies on the prevention and control of HCAI across NHS Trusts in the       UK.
In addition, a programme delivered by the researchers in collaboration       with the Modernisation Agency from 2002-2003 applied improvement       methodology with multidisciplinary teams from the NHS to develop projects       to reduce HCAI.
This methodology was later applied between 2006-2009 as part of the DH       programme to achieve a 50% reduction in MRSA bloodstream infections and a       30% reduction in Clostridium difficile infection.
Epic guidelines       also formed the basis for NHS e-learning programmes developed in 2007 by       the researchers in collaboration with Intuition&#174; and the Core Learning       Unit (CLU) on infection control practice for clinical and non-clinical       staff, and the prevention of device related infections.
This won the       Institute of IT training e-learning project of the year silver award 2007.
The programme for non-clinical staff was subsequently updated in 2012 as       part of the national Skills for Health programme.
In December 2009 the Chief Nursing Officer launched eight high impact       actions, one of which was to reduce infections related to the use of       indwelling urethral catheters.
This action, together with the subsequent       Harm Free Care &#8212; Safety Thermometer that has been adopted by most NHS       Trusts in England, is based on evidence evaluated and synthesised in       Epic2.
Hosted by the University of West London (then TVU), the establishment in       2006 of the Healthcare Associated Infection Research Network (HCAI RN),       has delivered forward momentum in ensuring that patients and the public       are involved in the prioritisation, development and conduct of research in       the field of infection prevention and control.
Since its inception in 2007       the Service User Research Forum (SURF) has ensured that researchers have       access to members of the public interested in HCAI research with core       training related to meaningful engagement with research groups, to meet       the National Institute Health Research requirement that patient and public       Involvement is a reality in publicly funded research.
This is demonstrated       by the inclusion of service users researchers as members of funded       research teams and steering groups.
