     Since the early 1990s the United Nations and European Commission have       increasingly relied on       the data and analyses of a succession of Reading-based researchers,       notably John Dunning and       Rajneesh Narula, to improve their understanding of the economic impact of       MNEs and to improve       the quality of their advice to policy makers.
In particular from the late 1990s to the present Narula was commissioned       by the European       Commission and several EU and EEA national governments to advise on       national and supra-national       industrial policy.
This research led to a two-year project for the       Norwegian Research       Council (NRC, the industrial policy arm of the Ministry of Science and       Technology), where officials       were increasingly concerned by the growing evidence of Norwegian firms       reducing or even closing       their domestic R&amp;D activities and relocating these overseas.
Narula       discovered that an increasing       number of smaller but fast growing firms in new, high-technology sectors       believed that Norwegian       industrial policy and support for R&amp;D had been captured by the       dominant incumbents.
They were       therefore increasingly disinvesting and relocating R&amp;D activities to       countries (like the United States       and Ireland) where the research infrastructure offered better returns.
Narula's report to the NRC       therefore identified the problem not as one of a `hollowing out' to low       wage countries, but one of       policy failure arising from incumbents capturing the policy making       process.
This led to Narula being invited to collaborate with a succession of EC       Directorate for Research       and Innovation researchers from 2003 and 2008, focusing on understanding       the relationship       between a firm's dependence on access to the local R&amp;D infrastructure       and its increasing need to       locate some complementary R&amp;D activities closer to other firms or       research institutions with which       it could collaborate.
As R&amp;D activities were becoming increasingly       specialised, so the importance       to a firm of locating close to its ideal partner (in order to ensure the       optimal returns from the       collaboration) meant that R&amp;D mobility increased yet further.
These       findings were increasingly       welcomed at the highest policy levels.
This began with Narula's keynote       address on policy       dimensions of globalization and R&amp;D to the United Nations Commission       on Trade and       Development annual intergovernmental meeting of 2004, and a similar       keynote to the OECD in       2005.
These were followed by several high level contributions, such as to       the EU Presidency       special investigation on innovation policy in Prague in 2009.
Then in November 2011, Narula was invited to join the Expert Group       commissioned by the EU       Directorate General for Research and Innovation to investigate the       potential costs and benefits of       increasing international co-operation in research and innovation as a part       of its Horizon 2020       programme, the EU's 7-year industrial and technological policy framework,       with specific reference       to the technological and scientific priorities for spending &#8364;35 billion in       R&amp;D subsidies.
The Expert group published its report, International Cooperation in         Science, Technology and         Innovation: Strategies for a Changing World in 2012 [1], which       contained nine recommendations,       five of which directly draw from Narula's research.
These five are: 1.
The       strategy should focus on       promoting European attractiveness as an international research and       innovation hub and partner in       order to strengthen European competitiveness and prosperity.
2.
Theme- and       problem-oriented       prioritization is needed rather than geographic; Grand Challenges as a       clear prioritization tool       should be mainstreamed also in the international dimension.
Prioritization       of international       collaboration should follow closely the priorities of the EU's core       research and innovation       programmes, while the geographical approach should be the core of an       implementation strategy.
3.
Make the Horizon 2020 truly open and attractive to the best and       brightest in the world allowing       European actors to work with the best brains wherever they are.
4.
The       international perspective       needs to be more fully integrated into 'regular' programmes at EU level.
5.
A strong focus on firms       and innovation is needed.
This has not been properly addressed before and       it requires a       new/different approach; there are fundamental differences in drivers of       international cooperation       between academia and industry and between research and innovation.
All these recommendations have been accepted by the Commission, and are       now included in the       Horizon 2020 policy [2].
Narula's research has assisted in a fundamental departure in EU policy.
Horizon 2020 now       explicitly encourages and supports R&amp;D co-operation with non-EU       partners, and further treats non-EU       partners on an equal basis.
This represents a fundamental departure from       previous EU policy,       where the former emphasis was on geographic priorities within the EU.
Furthermore, Horizon 2020       also includes an enhanced focus on subsidising R&amp;D infrastructure       explicitly to encourage       additional private investment in R&amp;D facilities.
The Chair of the Expert group confirms that Narula's research has led to       `a more effective       innovation policy strategy' within the EU [4], and the Expert group's       Rapporteur further underlines       how Narula's research made an `outstanding contribution' to policy with       respect to collaboration       between academia and industry, Narula's research led to `a significant       improvement in EU policy'       [5].
This University of Reading research has therefore directly impacted one       of the most important       items of EU policy &#8212; research and innovation &#8212; and the many thousands of       firms around the world       participating in Horizon 2020 research and innovation programmes.
