     Professor Garner's work has facilitated debate which has effected change       in key areas of animal welfare, including the controversial uses of wild       animals in travelling circuses in the UK, and the hunting of whales (A,       B, C).
As a result, Garner has made an influential       contribution to campaigns for social, economic, political and legal       change.
His arguments &#8212; made from both political and ethical standpoints &#8212; have       been employed by DEFRA in presenting to Parliament its case for an       outright ban on the use of wild animals in travelling circuses.
The       proposed Wild Animals Circuses Bill, which was published in April 2013 by       DEFRA, outlaws the use of species not normally domesticated in the UK from       appearing in travelling circuses after December 2015.
DEFRA has also       introduced a stringent new licensing scheme which is designed to ensure       the welfare of wild animals in circuses as the bill works its way through       Parliament.
DEFRA consulted Garner on the contents of the bill &#8212; in particular the       question of why it is unacceptable for wild animals to perform in       travelling circuses but acceptable for them to appear in other       entertainment spheres such as TV, film and theatre.
Upon the Bill's       publication, DEFRA wrote to Garner to thank him for his contribution to       some of the work underpinning the justifications for its proposal.
(H).
Based on Garner's study, DEFRA outlined its case to Parliament, saying:       `The Government does not believe it is appropriate to continue to use wild       animals in travelling circuses because:            People can still experience the circus without wild animals being part         of the act.
Wild animals are just that.
They are not naturally suited to         travelling circuses and may suffer as a result of not being able to         follow their natural behavioural instincts.
We should feel duty bound to recognise that wild animals have         intrinsic value.
Therefore we should respect their inherent wildness and         its implications for their treatment.
The practice adds nothing to our understanding and conservation of         wild animals or the natural environment' (I).
Elsewhere in the field of animal protection, Garner's work has impacted       upon the way in which the global welfare of whales is approached.
His       input contributed to the outcome that the International Whaling Commission       (IWC) has for the first time recognised that animal welfare is an       important and relevant consideration to be taken into account in the       killing of whales, both directly through hunting and indirectly, and       inadvertently, through other activities such as shipping and fishing.
This       changed conservation policy has led to the improved design of an important       regulatory machinery for protecting the natural environment.
Garner was invited to prepare a briefing document on the Ethical Case       against Whaling which was presented at a two-day workshop convened by the       WSPA (World Society for the Protection of Animals) and DEFRA (D).
The workshop's aim was to produce recommendations on the future role of       animal welfare in the IWC's decision-making structure, with the resulting       report submitted by the UK delegation to the IWC in 2011.
Garner's       contribution was to provide expert advice on the ethical dimension of       whaling in general, and a clarification of the meaning of animal welfare       in particular (E, G).
At the IWC's 2011 meeting, the UK formed an Intersessional Working Group       which concluded that animal welfare is relevant across all the IWC's work.
Drawing on the contents of the Workshop's report, the group reached       consensus on a series of recommendations, including proposals for two       animal welfare-focused workshops.
At the IWC's meeting in 2012, the UK       tabled the Intersessional Working Groups' report and recommendations,       which were subsequently endorsed by consensus by the IWC (F).
In more general terms, Garner's work has shaped the debate within the       animal rights movement which has historically coalesced around the       abolition versus regulation question.
Garner's work is cited within the       movement as the principal academic justification for the latter position,       thereby challenging established norms, and modes of thought and practice       within the abolitionist strand of the animal rights movement (a strand       which has been traditionally dominant).
His research has impacted on       stakeholders at all levels, with his work disseminated in a variety of       forums including radio interviews, podcasts and newspaper articles.
He has       also given many talks and lectures throughout the world attended by both       activists and academics.
These have included recent keynote lectures to an       animal rights gathering in Austria (in December 2011), to the       International Animal Rights Conference in Luxembourg (in September 2012)       and to a conference organised by the Australian RSPCA in Sydney (October       2012).
In addition, Garner has also played an essential role in the creation and       development of the Centre for Animals and Social Justice (CASJ) &#8212; a third       sector think tank which was launched in 2011 to focus on academic research       and advocacy in animal protection public policy.
(http://www.casj.org.uk/about/who-we-are/).
The CASJ was formed following a number of meetings between academics and       activists.
These included Dan Lyons and Angela Roberts from the       anti-vivisection group Uncaged, Kim Stallwood, former CEO of the American       animal rights group PETA, and Alistair Currie, Campaigns Coordinator at       PETA in the UK.
Lyons and Roberts now act as the paid organisers of the       CASJ and Garner acts as the Chair of the Research Committee.
The CASJ seeks to build bridges between academia, advocates and policy       makers.
Through Garner, it has funded a series of seminars on animals and       public policy at the University of Leicester (attended by academics,       activists and public policy makers) as well as part-funding a PhD student       in this research area under Garner's supervision (Anne Marie Matarrese who       began her studies in October 2012).
Garner has also contributed to a CASJ       policy submission to British political parties, and to an RSPCA working       group on `Animal Welfare in Government'.
Professor Garner's influence and impact on the CASJ's role is attested to       by Dan Lyons, its CEO (J).
He reports that Garner's research `has       had a major impact on the debate within the animal protection movement at       all levels, in particular stimulating a growing recognition of the need to       move beyond ideal ethical demands towards proposals that take account of       constraining power structures'.
