     Shell In 2007, Shell International was seeking evidence-based       tools to improve its stakeholder relationships.
It was introduced to Money       by Tesserra Consulting, which was using a SPIRIT-type approach in its       consulting work.
First SPIRIT, and then the Reputation Framework, made an       impact in a number of ways.
In the first instance, Tesserra was able to       apply the tool to a number of practical situations in Shell and provide       stakeholder engagement advice.
Second, the Head of UK Media Relations at       Shell worked collaboratively with Henley Business School and co-developed       a global training programme - The Henley/Shell Senior Communications       Programme - for its stakeholder engagement and communications functions.
Since the start of these programmes in 2008, Shell has trained more than       150 senior staff in Shell from their global functions in Europe, Asia,       Africa, the Middle East and the Americas.
The company has applied the       SPIRIT/ Reputation Framework model as the foundation of its world-wide       stakeholder relationship management, including teams working on projects       such as Arctic exploration, operations in Nigeria, the oil sands of North       America, unconventional gas, and with energy-concerned consumers.
The       models are currently applied across the world in Shell's day-to-day       interaction with stakeholders, as those who have gone through the training       programme embed the model's concepts in projects throughout the company.
SPIRIT/ Reputation Framework also guide on-going work in relation to       global stakeholder relationships (including employee engagement and NGO       relations).
The fact that SPIRIT and the Reputation Framework have been used so       extensively by such an important company as Shell is strong evidence of       their impact.
Shell was ranked as the seventh biggest company in the world       by market capitalisation in 2012, operating in over 90 countries, and its       operations impact the material existence of people across the globe on a       daily basis.
Unilever In 2009 Unilever announced its ambition to double the       size of the business while reducing its environmental footprint and       increasing positive social impact.
In 2010 Unilever's Vice- President       Reputation Strategy, Planning and Research approached Money to explore how       the Reputation Framework could be utilised within the company to `inspire       advocacy among key stakeholders by championing and demonstrating our       belief in the need for sustainable growth.'
The Reputation Framework was       subsequently used in the development and implementation of a Unilever       communication and stakeholder engagement strategy.
This was further       adapted to incorporate refinements to the model from Money and Hillenbrand       `Putting Positive Psychology to Work' (2009), providing Unilever with a       tool that could not only help to drive positive stakeholder behaviour, but       also shed light on stakeholder well-being.
Since 2011, the Reputation Framework has been applied within Unilever to       explore how communications can be used to help the company in achieving       its ambition.
The tool has provided data-driven insights that guide       Unilever's communications in such a way as to encourage responsible       consumption, employee engagement with sustainability and the support of       key opinion formers such as international governments, NGOs and academics.
As with Shell, the fact that the Reputation Framework has been applied to       the development of communications strategy by such a major company as       Unilever demonstrates its impact.
Unilever products are used by more than       2 billion people (around one third of the world's population) every day.
HMRC Since 2009, the HMRC has been using the Reputation Framework       to guide the gathering of performance data and drive its stakeholder       engagement strategy with individual, SME and large business taxpayers.
The       application of the tool led the identification of an important driver of       both tax compliance and non-compliance and evidence that a one-size fits       all strategy would not improve the former.
This has led to key policy       changes by the HMRC, notably the implementation of more service-orientated       behaviours towards community members with low financial knowledge rather       than simply using enforcement-based strategies (since positive service       experience is associated with higher levels of compliance and lower rates       of non-compliance for such groups).
In 2013 - the success of the       application of the Reputation Framework in the HMRC was commended as       best-in class in a National Audit Office report as well as in the findings       from an on-going Capability Review looking into the role of communication       functions across Government departments.
A key output from the Capability       Review is the establishment of the new Government Communication Service's       mandatory evaluation initiative (called Aspire).
Aspire aims to roll out       the Reputation Framework approach across all Whitehall departments (24)       and their arms-length-bodies (330).
Oxfam Since 2008 Oxfam has been using the Reputation Framework to       train over 100 senior managers and its leading officers from the UK and       over 30 of the countries it operates in around the world.
Through a series       of development workshops, Oxfam's country leaders have been trained to       develop responses to emergencies and humanitarian disasters which better       incorporate the responses of stakeholders.
Summary of beneficiaries The beneficiaries in all these cases are       the organisations that have applied the SPIRIT/ Reputation Framework       model.
The tool has allowed the organisations to understand their       stakeholders better &#8212; and form stronger relationships with important       groups.
In the examples of Shell and Unilever, these groups include       communities, employees, governments and NGO's, while in the case of the       HMRC stakeholders include employees, but also individual, SME and large       corporate tax payers, as well as citizens of the UK who use services       dependent upon tax revenue.
In the case of Oxfam the stakeholders are the       leaders who have been trained in the use of the tool and the communities       they serve.
