     Local crops are critical to feeding developing nations in Africa and       Asia, and also to earning precious foreign currency from exports that can       raise living standards.
So when the larvae of pests such as diamondback       moth, cotton bollworm or armyworm literally eat their way through acres of       cereals and vegetables, it can devastate the livelihoods of many thousands       of people.
Each of these global pests has been estimated to cost a billion       or more dollars annually.
They have traditionally required expensive       chemical pesticides which cause environmental damage, and to which they       are increasingly resistant.
The University of Greenwich has worked with       governments and local people to develop effective new biological       pesticides which can be produced cheaply and locally.
It has guided       strategies to overcome barriers like inadequate national pesticide       registration policies and lack of pesticide production infrastructure.
It       has shared the knowledge on how to use and produce the pesticides through       national and international training, and its control strategies are       becoming the norm in many countries.
The Tanzanian government based its       armyworm control policy on the research, including new knowledge about       armyworm ecology which has enabled forecasting of outbreaks.
The       university was also a partner in research that successfully developed       genetically modified (GM) brassicas to resist diamondback moth and other       pests in cabbage and cauliflower.
Impact has been achieved not only through new knowledge but also long       term capacity building of research partners in developing countries, and       new small and medium sized enterprises (SMEs) who produce the       biopesticides.
In India for instance, new viral insecticide production       took off after Grzywacz and local collaborators led training programmes       for 16 private and public sector institutions who went on to produce many       of the estimated 45 baculovirus insecticides registered in India since       2008 [5.1].
Research on developing better quality production of viruses in India led       to international guidelines for baculovirus quality and a training manual       in the techniques of baculovirus production and quality control.
The       results on new virus production and formulation techniques were       disseminated actively through training courses for research institutes and       new SMEs in UK, India, Nepal, Kenya, Tanzania, Benin, Ghana and Bolivia;       they have been disseminated world-wide since 2010 by the UN Food &amp;       Agricultural Organisation [5.2].
Private company Kenya Biologics was set       up in 2009, following research into baculoviruses in Kenya, to produce two       new biopesticides now undergoing registration.
After training received in       2000-01, River Bioscience developed new baculovirus insecticides which       have been on sale in South Africa since 2008 and are currently undergoing       registration in other African countries.
Research with Thailand Department of Agriculture led to establishment of       a biopesticide company in 2008 and local production of insecticides to       control horticultural crop pests including Helicoverpa armigera       and S. exigua.
This company now produces four new baculovirus       insecticides with a capacity to treat up to 30,000 ha of high value export       crops.
Farmers can control these pests without chemical residues, allowing       them to export to EU, a market worth &gt;$50 million a year.
The diamondback moth research under the CIMBAA project developed insect       resistant brassicas for Africa and Asia.
A new Australian       Government-funded project (valued at $2.9 million) has now taken up the       outputs of this research to deploy the technology in India, Africa and       Australasia to control a pest estimated to cause losses of &gt;$2 billion       per annum [5.3].
The Tanzanian Ministry of Agriculture's current policy of promoting       armyworm virus for African armyworm control in place of chemical pesticide       is based on the Tanzanian research [5.4].
The DFID Safe and Affordable       Armyworm Control Tools project has part funded the building of a       biopesticides plant by a Tanzanian company which became operational in       April 2013 [5.5].
The project also established the village community-based       forecasting system that has set up armyworm pheromone forecasting traps in       120 locations and is now operational in Kenya and Tanzania.
It is       estimated to benefit 80,000 farmers in Kenya and 25,000 in Tanzania [5.5,       5.6].
Few African countries had a pesticide registration system that recognised       biopesticides before 2003.
Grzywacz helped the Kenyan authorities develop       a new system, adopted as law in 2008; since then over 35 biopesticide       products have been registered.
Kenya's horticultural industry has       benefitted from new biopesticide products which ensure its exports to EU       continue to meet strict pesticide residue standards.
An estimated two       million Kenyans are dependent upon this sector.
Grzywacz also advised the       Ghana Environmental Protection agency on a biopesticides registration       system which was adopted; the first commercial BV biopesticide, produced       in Kenya, was registered in Ghana in June 2012 with Grzywacz as technical       advisor.
