     This section sets out the required details in relation to each research       area separately.
i) Online constructions of men and women in SET (ref 3a)     Contribution to impact     This was the first study conducted in the UK to investigate how the       unequal construction of men and women in SET within online media       influences young people and develop ways to address inequality.
Nature of impact     The UKRC developed a practical toolkit from the research findings that       enabled improvement in gender equality at international level in the work       of those involved in the authorship of web pages and social media       www.wisecampaign.org.uk/files/useruploads/files/104877_ukrc_(toolkit_women_online_a4).pdf     Dissemination of research     The research has been disseminated through a report, several conference       and seminar presentations (including one seminar as part of a training       programme for women scientists):            Mendick, H. and Moreau, M.P., Online representations of scientists           and gender equity, King's College London, 9 June 2011 (Invited           seminar).
Mendick, H. and Moreau, M.P., Monitoring the Presence and           Representation of Women in SET Occupations in UK Based Online Media,         Institute of Physics, London, 2 December 2010.
There are also blogs on the internet (online article on the GEA website:       www.genderandeducation.com/issues/research/launch/women/scientists)     Researcher role within research project     ii) The needs of student parents in HEIs (ref 3b)     Contribution to impact     While student parents are a growing presence in higher education,       national and university policies continue to address the needs of students       as if they had no caring responsibilities.
This piece of research informs       the national debate about what appropriate support would look like.
Nature of impact     Outcomes of the research were disseminated to practitioners and       policy/makers to translate findings into practice: the NUS included the       work in a policy briefing document sent to their welfare and social policy       advisers in the UK, (October, 2012) and the Leadership Foundation for       Higher Education commissioned a briefing paper for university senior       managers from Moreau (budget: &#163;2,500).
Dissemination of research     Findings were disseminated worldwide on the websites of the press,       policy/making and professional organisations: the Guardian       newspaper (www.guardian.co.uk/higher/education/         network/blog/2012/dec/13/student/parents/university/support/care),       Equality Challenge Unit (ECU), Skills Development Scotland, Scotland's       Colleges, Gender and Education Association (www.genderandeducation.com/issues/car/)       and National Association of Student Money Advisers.
iii) Raising M&#257;ori students' achievement (ref 3c)     Contribution to impact     Underachievement of M&#257;ori students in New Zealand is longstanding.
Te       Kotahitanga is a research and development project that has improved the       achievement and attendance of M&#257;ori students in over 50 secondary schools       in New Zealand (see ref 3c) by statistically significant levels through a       programme of teacher professional development.
This programme increased       teachers' use of culturally appropriate pedagogies derived from an       Effective Teaching Profile that was developed within the project.
(See       below for Wearmouth's role.)
Nature of impact     The spread is across 56 out of about 400 secondary schools in New       Zealand, where, as a result of the research, teachers' practices were       changed to accommodate culturally appropriate pedagogy and led to       statistically significant improvements in M&#257;ori students' attendance,       engagement and academic results between the beginning of the project and       2011 as evidenced in reference c above.
Around 12% of school population       are M&#257;ori and, hence, may be impacted.
In addition, the reports of the       project and associated research and development methodology have       influenced government policy and teachers' practices in many other       secondary schools, e.g.
the New Zealand Ministry of Education (MoE) has       used aspects of Te Kotahitanga in other initiatives related to M&#257;ori       students' achievement: the national M&#257;ori strategy Ka Hikitia (M&#257;ori       students achieving education success as M&#257;ori) is based largely on Te       Kotahitanga and is influencing education at all levels www.minedu.govt.nz/NZEducation/EducationPolicies/MaoriEducation.
Further, the MoE's Registered Teachers' criteria that frame teachers'       accreditation are based on the Effective Teaching Profile, as can be       demonstrated through inspection of the MoE's publication.
Dissemination of research     Research outcomes are regularly disseminated through teachers'       conferences and workshops (e.g.
University of Waikato, December 2010),       news broadcasts by the NZ national broadcasting authority and newspaper       articles.
Researcher role within research projects     For 6 months in 2010 Wearmouth drew on materials from the UoB group's       conceptual frameworks during a research consultancy at the University of       Waikato where she carried out part of the project's data collection and       evaluation, and led the compilation and authoring of the evaluation       report.
iv) Inclusive education (ref 3d)     Contribution to impact     This work brings together concern for learners whose educational       experience is problematic with concern for professionals who have to deal       with problems that are experienced, and facilitate opportunities for       learning.
International research, including work within the group, has       been translated, theorised and synthesised to make it accessible to       professionals from a wide range of backgrounds.
Nature of impact     The research synthesis has informed/improved the work of others in       teacher professional development (PD), as evidenced by NASEN (2009)       national book award for contribution to teachers' PD, given to Wearmouth.
Potentially 20% of the child population of school age might be impacted       through the improvement of teachers' practices in SEN provision.
Dissemination of research     To date the book has sold 1479 copies in the UK and internationally,       including USA, Canada, Australia, New Zealand, as evidenced in university       library catalogues.
Outcomes are regularly disseminated through       conferences and articles in international journals and conferences.
Researcher role within research projects     The work began at the Open University (OU) in 2000, included staff at the       OU from 2004, was extended to include researchers from the Universities of       Wellington and Waikato in New Zealand, and continued in UoB from 2009 with       research into SEN provision in mainstream schools and publication of       further books and journal articles.
