     The PCR test developed at Surrey has been established as a standard tool       for meningococcal disease diagnosis in laboratories in the UK (Ref 1),       Europe (Ref 2) and most developed countries (Ref 3).
Furthermore the test is supported by the World Health Organisation (Ref         4) and consequently has impacted upon health and wellbeing on a       global scale, with a recent study of the PCR based-assay during an       epidemic of meningococcal disease in India demonstrating that it was more       reliable than conventional culture in this setting (Ref 5).
In       addition to the impact of this test within the UK, the PCR-based test is       rapidly becoming established as the standard across the world for both       diagnosis and surveillance.
The Meningococcal Reference Unit, a specialist unit of the Health       Protection Agency, performs approximately 16,000 PCR-based tests for       meningococcal disease to diagnose approximately 1000 patients with the       disease each year (Ref 6).
Importantly, the PCR-based test is       increasingly being used alone for the rapid, robust diagnosis of       septicaemia and meningitis, with 53% of invasive meningococcal disease       confirmed by PCR alone in 2010 (16,607 samples, representing 11,418       patients investigated by PCR; Ref 7).
This increased efficiency of       laboratory diagnosis can be further illustrated by the percentage of       meningococcal disease cases that were laboratory confirmed, which have       risen from 60% to 74% in the period 1999 - 2010, due to the effectiveness       of PCR for laboratory diagnosis.
Importantly, since the adoption of the PCR-based diagnostic test, the       mortality rate from meningitis and meningococcal disease has shown a       steady decline in both adults and children; for example, the adult       mortality rate has halved from 20 cases of mortality per million adults in       1999 to 10 cases of mortality per million adults in 2005 (Ref 8).
This is clearly due in part to better monitoring, improved diagnosis and       rapid treatment of patients facilitated by the PCR-based diagnostic test.
As well as providing a rapid and accurate test for diagnosis of       meningococcal disease, the Surrey research has also stimulated the       development of blood/PCR-based diagnostic tests for other pathogens.
For       instance, in 2008, Lehman et al.
developed a multiplex PCR that       could detect and differentiate twenty-five bacterial and fungal pathogens       in blood samples (Ref 9).
This study cites the original 1996       Newcombe et al., publication as the starting point for their       development.
In summary, the work of McFadden's research team pioneered a PCR-based       diagnostic tool for the detection of the meningitis pathogen in patients.
Adoption of this work has led to a significant worldwide Health and       Wellbeing impact, both in terms of individual patient diagnosis and       epidemiological surveillance.
Together, these have helped reduce the       mortality rate associated with meningitis and meningococcal disease, as       well as allowing the successful monitoring of novel therapeutics, such as       the meningitis C vaccine.
Finally, the impact of this work reaches beyond       meningitis alone, as it has formed the underpinning research for the       development of PCR-based assays against other pathogens.
