     The research conducted at Surrey has direct implications for lighting,       its design and implementation, in the home and workplace and has led to a       number of International Policy, Health &amp; Wellbeing and Commercial       impacts.
On the basis of work carried out by the research team on the impact of       blue light on human action spectra, plus the related discovery by others       of the novel photopigment melanopsin, and the intrinsically photosensitive       retinal ganglion cells that drive these responses, a major policy         impact on lighting standards has been achieved.
International       lighting standard organisations, e.g.
DIN (Deutsches Institut f&#252;r       Normung); CIE (International Commission on Illumination), set up specific       Task Forces to address this issue, with task force recommendations being       incorporated into current guidelines from 2009 onwards (Ref 1 and 2).
This policy impact has paved the way for the development of blue-enriched       lighting, providing a rationale for its use in personal, commercial and       healthcare settings.
One of the joint patents between the University of       Surrey and Phillips Electronic N.V, complimented with novel clinical       studies was used to develop a new range of lighting products;       blue-enriched polychromatic lighting.
These products were initially developed as specialised light boxes,       providing timed, blue-enriched polychromatic lighting for individuals at       work or home (Ref 3).
In addition to personal light boxes, the       reach of this impact was further extended through the development of       blue-enriched polychromatic traditional light fixtures.
These lights are       suitable for use in the workplace, hospitals, schools and care homes,       where they positively impact on health and wellbeing, and productivity.
These lighting systems are proving to be of significant benefit in the       workplace, for example in factories of shift workers (Ref 4); in       care homes for the elderly (Ref 5); and in schools (SchoolVision&#174;       system; Ref 6).
The impact of the SchoolVision&#174; system of       blue-enriched polychromatic lighting has been clearly proven in the       classroom, where reading speed increased by 35%, frequency of errors fell       by almost 45% and restfulness was reduced by 75% (Ref 7).
In summary, the identification of the health and wellbeing benefits of       blue-enriched polychromatic lighting by researchers at Surrey has had a       widespread impact.
While the development of personal light boxes impacted       the health and wellbeing of many at an individual level, the expansion of       blue-enriched polychromatic lighting to traditional light fixtures extends       this impact to a larger population with its incorporation in the       workplace, schools and healthcare institutions.
Equally, a significant,       and on-going, commercial impact has been achieved through the sales of       blue-enriched polychromatic lighting.
