     The underpinning research has a led to a number of changes in UK       government policy on the       treatment of young offenders, demonstrating an important policy impact.
Many of these       approaches are being incorporated into policy across the international       arena, demonstrating the       reach of this impact.
The health and wellbeing impact of this research is       also significant.
The       successful rehabilitation of young offenders and their reintegration into       society is important not only       for the individuals concerned, but for society as a whole.
Prevention of       re-offending also has a       significant economic impact, leading to a reduction in the       institution and courtroom costs required       to deal with young offenders.
The research has underpinned the development of speech and language       therapy services for       vulnerable young people who are in contact with criminal justice services.
The 2004 and 2007       studies provided the first hard evidence that at least 60% of young       offenders present with       communication difficulties.
The prison inspectorate, Department for       Education, Department of       Health and the Youth Justice Board all requested details of the findings,       and Bryan gave       presentations to senior staff and a meetings with key officials.
This       dissemination of the research       findings resulted in an impact at the level of policy on the management of       young offenders (Ref 1),       as well as an impact on practitioners through improved training of       individual youth offending team       members (Ref 2).
Bryan has continued to drive the development of policy and practice in       this area through her       inclusion on inspection teams by the past two HM Chief Inspectors of       Prisons, leading to specific       recommendations on communication difficulties in these inspection reports       (Swinfen Hall and       Warren Hill).
These recommendations have influenced the development of new       standards for       inspection, including an emphasis on understanding SLCD in young offenders       (Ref 3).
In parallel to the development of policy and practice in this area, the       work of Bryan has been       fundamental in the development of speech and language therapy services in       15 Young Offender       Institutions in the UK.
In addition, four Youth Offending Services have       established services to aid       young offenders with SLCD, with another 12 conducting scoping studies for       such services.
As       such, the work of Bryan has led to significant changes in practice in a       manner that has had a       significant positive impact on the health and wellbeing of young       offenders, both in the short and       long term.
The provision of SLT for young offenders is now beginning to       have an economic impact       due to the reduced re-offending rate as a result of such intervention: at       present, each young       offender costs the criminal justice system &#163;8,000 per annum, with the top       10% costing &#163;29,000 per       annum, with nearly two thirds of young offenders known to re-offend (Ref         4).
As well as driving policy change within the prison and health       professions, the work of Bryan has       had a wider reach, impacting upon general service development and       guidelines for young people.
In consultation with service managers and commissioners this work has been       used to drive NHS       guidelines and practice in this area (Ref 5).
In addition, the       continued impact of this work on       healthcare policy can be seen through the contribution of Bryan to the       updating of the NICE       guidance on conduct disorders in children and young people (Ref 6).
Bryan was also invited to       give evidence to the Bercow Review of speech and language therapy services       for children, which       was fundamental to policy and service development for young people with       communication       difficulties (Ref 7).
One direct action from the Bercow Review was       the creation of a Children's       Commissioner in 2011, with the work of Bryan being seen to influence this       field through meetings       with the Commissioner during the launch of the Children's Communication       Coalition (Ref 8).
Bryan       was called to give oral evidence to a parliamentary review chaired by Lord       Ramsbotham in July       2012, building on the Better Communication Research Programme that stemmed       from the Bercow       Review and which produced an advisory report for both Houses of Parliament       on Social       Disadvantage and SLCD, making policy recommendations (Ref 9).
In summary, the work of Bryan has been fundamental in driving the       development of SLT in the UK.
Her work has demonstrable impacts on policy and practice within both the       Prison Service and       NHS.
In addition, the reach of this impact continues to develop through       the involvement of Bryan       in policy development at the highest levels of Government.
