     Prior to the work detailed here, a mainstay of acute phase treatment for       myocardial infarction was       the use of oxygen, and this was reflected in national and international       guidelines.
However,       despite its widespread use there was a clear disconnect in its perceived       benefit between acute       phase responders (&gt;98% perceived patient benefit) and cardiologists       (48%).
A systematic review       and meta-analysis of randomised controlled trials suggested that oxygen       might even be associated       with worse patient outcome, with a three-fold increase in relative risk of       mortality compared to the       use of air alone, raising further concerns about patient safety.
The research has challenged existing practice at both national and       international level, and has led       to policy impact at regional, national and international level.
This is       evidenced by revisions to the       guidelines issued by the European Society of Cardiology (Ref 1),       the American College of       Cardiology (Ref 2) and in Australia and New Zealand (Ref 3)       on the emergency cardiovascular       care for patients following myocardial infarction.
In addition, such was       the importance of this work       that the Scottish Intercollegiate Guidelines Network (SIGN) amended their       current acute coronary       syndromes `mid-term' to incorporate the findings of the Cochrane Review on       the day it was       published (Ref 4).
The policy impact will lead to both health and wellbeing, and economic       benefits.
In the UK, the       fatality rate from acute myocardial infarction is approximately 16% (Ref         5).
Given the three-fold       decrease in relative risk of death associated with the use of air in acute       care compared to oxygen,       this equates to a reduction of 16,000 deaths in the UK per annum, or       850,000 worldwide.
The       worldwide cost of hospitalisation from acute myocardial infarction is in       the range US $1500-$9000,       and any reduction in adverse effects due to improved patient care will       clearly result in a significant       economic impact (Ref 6).
In addition to the impact on public policy and its resultant impact on       health and wellbeing, this work       has had a significant impact on both society and practitioners.
As       highlighted in the underlying       research, there existed significant uncertainty within secondary care       practitioners of the perceived       benefit of oxygen therapy, and a deeper lack of awareness in patients       themselves.
A       dissemination/public engagement process has followed from these findings,       enhancing awareness       of the issues surrounding oxygen treatment following myocardial       infarction.
These include       significant international media attention (New York, New Zealand,       Australia, Scandinavia etc.
; Ref         7), plus inclusion in the second edition of the popular science book       `Testing Treatments' (Ref 8).
In summary, every year millions of individuals suffer a myocardial       infarction world-wide.
It is well       recognized that the acute phase treatment that patients receive has a       major impact on their       outcome, and oxygen had been routinely used in such treatment for decades.
The research team       of Quinn et al., highlighted major concerns with the use of oxygen in this       acute phase, and       provided evidence suggesting that it may even be detrimental to health       outcomes.
In response to       this work, national and international guidelines have been altered to       remove the recommendation       for oxygen use except in very specific circumstances, and has led directly       to the initiation of at least       one international, large follow-up randomised trial (Ref 9).
As       such, this work will lead to the       improved treatment of millions of myocardial infarction sufferers every       year.
