     Reduction in the prevalence of CVD is a major aim of all healthcare       systems worldwide.
Cardiovascular disease has a significant negative       impact on both population health and wellbeing, and the economy of all       developed countries.
Based upon the false assumption that dietary       cholesterol intake was directly linked to plasma cholesterol levels,       policy was enacted to reduce the public consumption of cholesterol rich       foods, such as eggs and prawns.
Previous dietary guidelines for the       prevention of CVD included advice to restrict the number of eggs consumed       to no more than three per week (Ref 1).
The work conducted at Surrey demonstrated that this assumption is false,       leading to a significant policy impact.
The initial systematic review of       over 30 years of prospective cohort studies, followed by the direct       demonstration of a lack of association between dietary cholesterol and       plasma LDL formed an important part of the weight of evidence underpinning       the revision of European dietary guidelines to remove the previous       restriction on egg consumption (Ref 2).
This policy impact was endorsed by such bodies as the British Heart       Foundation (Ref 3), HEART UK, and the British Dietetics Association       (Ref 4).
In addition to the impact of this work in the UK, the       findings of the Surrey research team have had a much wider reach, altering       consumption advice in countries such as the USA (Ref 5) and       Australia (Ref 6).
The revisions to guidance detailed above led to a widespread media       campaign during early 2009, from both stakeholders (Ref 7) and the       popular press (Ref 8), resulting in a significant societal impact       through the better understanding of the relationship between dietary       cholesterol and CVD.
This impact can be demonstrated through a large shift       in public perception of the risk and benefit associated with eggs: In a       survey of 1,000 members of the general public conducted in 2008, only 19%       believed that it was safe to consume more than 6 eggs a week, whereas in a       repeat survey in 2011, this figure         had increased to 36% (Ref 9).
The shift in public perception of the risk and benefit associated with       eggs, has also resulted in an important economic impact.
Consumer       purchasing data indicates that egg sales in the UK were stagnant in 2008,       increasing by only 0.5% in that year.
However, following the alteration in       government advice and public engagement activities resulting from this       work, egg sales have grown year-on-year, increasing by 6.1% during the       period 2009-2011 (Ref 10).
Whilst there are numerous physical and demographic variables that may       contribute to changes in the perception of risk and to increased egg       sales, the British Egg Industry has identified the misconception of the       relationship between dietary cholesterol in eggs and increased CVD as       being the most important barrier to egg consumption in the UK over the       last decade.
Given that in 2011, approximately 11.5 million eggs were sold       in the UK, generating revenue of over &#163;885 million it is possible to       estimate the economic impact of this research; an increase in sales of       6.1% approximates to an additional &#163;54 million into the UK economy.
In summary, the work of the Surrey research team was crucial in       dispelling the long-standing belief that there was an association between       dietary cholesterol, plasma LDL levels, and hence cardiovascular disease.
Their work has had a significant impact on the dietary guidelines issued       by both national and international bodies, as well as the advice from       leading healthcare associations.
In addition, through a significant shift       in the public perception of the health risks/benefits of egg consumption       there has been an increase in egg sales, resulting in a significant       economic impact to the industry.
