     The incidence of stress fractures can be as high as 8% per year in Royal       Marines and 13% per       year in female RAF recruits, compared to only 3% in the general       population.
The Head of the       Royal Marine Training Core estimates basic training for a Royal Marine       costs &#163;74K for a full       training cycle (mean 37 weeks), and with approximately 1,000 Royal Marines       being trained every       year this equates to an annual bill of nearly &#163;74m.
The typical recovery time from a stress fracture is 10-12 weeks, and thus       the estimated cost in lost       time to the military is approximately &#163;1.34m per year within the Royal       Marines alone, representing       a significant economic impact.
The underpinning research described here was the first body of work to       identify the factors       associated with increased risk of stress fracture in Royal Marine       recruits, and to provide guidelines       for mitigation of this risk.
In the course of the research, interim       reports highlighted the association       between nutritional status and health outcomes in recruits (Ref 1-4).
Such was the strength of this       work that it had a significant policy impact, with the MoD changing their       entry criteria for recruits       immediately following the final report (Ref 5): the new entry       criteria raised the minimum body mass       of recruits from 60 kg to 65 kg and an entry criteria for fitness of VO2       max &gt;51ml.kg-1.min-1, and       multi-stage fitness test level 11 (Ref 6), both of which the Surrey       research team demonstrated are       significant risk factors for in-training stress fractures.
In addition to       an impact on the entry criteria,       this research has led to altered education and advice on nutrition to       Royal Marine and RAF       recruits, with the aim of optimising performance during training (Ref 7).
The research led by the Surrey team has resulted in better selection,       more specific physical       training, and better quality nutrition (with engaging education) in       military recruits.
This has resulted       in a (conservative) reduction of 2% of stress fractures per year, equating       to prevention of some 200       stress fractures.
This health and wellbeing impact on the Royal Marine       recruits in training also       represents a significant economic impact, with savings of at least &#163;0.4M       per year.
The impact of this work has extended beyond the recruitment and training       of new UK Armed       Forces personnel, and also encompasses trained personnel during active       deployment.
Follow-up       studies on military personnel during active deployment in Afghanistan       revealed a similar trend for       in-combat stress fractures, with poor nutritional status again being a key       indicator of risk (Ref 8).
Based upon this work, the MoD has updated both its Defence Catering Manual       and guidelines on       Battlefield Nutrition (Ref 9), reflecting the need for optimal       nutrition for armed forces personnel       during deployment.
In addition to direct impacts on MoD recruitment policy, the health and       wellbeing of recruits during       training, and a reduction in the economic burden of lost duty days and       retraining, the studies of the       Surrey research team are shaping future MoD research and policy.
These       research findings, and       their resultant impacts, are cited in the Armed Forces Executive Health       Report (2013) as landmark       case studies on the delivery of improved selection and training guidelines       across the three       Services, and how this can reduce illness and injury, and increase       training success (Ref 10).
The Surgeon General's office has recently funded the first-ever vitamin D       randomised controlled       trial in the British military with stress fracture reduction and       susceptibility to infection as the key end       points.
This 5-year project will commence in spring 2014, and will involve       4,500 Royal Marine       recruits (MoDREC 406/MODREC13).
This project will be run by the Surrey       research team, and will       continue to drive the development of MoD policy targeted at improved       nutrition for armed forces       personnel both during training and active deployment.
In summary, the work of the Surrey research team identified key factors       in the risk of both in-training 	  and in-combat stress fractures.
As such, it formed the basis for       the Ministry of Defence to       alter its entrance requirements for new recruits, and alter the       nutritional advice given to both new       recruits and personnel in combat scenarios.
Together these policy impacts       have led to secondary       impacts on armed forces personnel health and wellbeing, and an economic       impact through       reduced treatment and retraining costs.
