     The work described here on the development of self-management in the       treatment of chronic symptoms for survivors of pelvic cancer radiotherapy,       has had an important policy impact, leading to the adoption of this       approach by the UK National Health Service.
In addition, the impacts at       both the societal, and health and wellbeing at the individual level have       been made through the dissemination of this information to the general       public, and the use of these self-management tools leading to significant       improvements in quality of life for cancer survivors.
The systematic review undertaken at the University of Surrey (led by       Faithfull) underpinned the development of Health Policy to include       self-management as a key strategy for managing cancer patient's long term.
Through active engagement and representation on relevant Department of       Health committees, the work of Faithfull helped develop the publication of       a White Paper (Ref 1) providing guidance to cancer services with       regard to targeting interventions and contributed to the National Cancer       Survivorship agenda (Ref 2).
In addition to driving general policy       on cancer survivorship, this work has led to specific symptom management       strategies for people who have received pelvic radiotherapy (STEP).
Specifically, this relates to the development of NICE/NHS national       guidance on lower urinary tract symptoms following cancer treatment (Ref         3).
The impact of this work on developing policy has been followed by a       significant public communication plan, leading to a societal impact       through the better understanding of self-management of symptoms for cancer       survivors.
For example, the review provided the definition for       self-management for the Health Foundation guidance on chronic illness       self-management "helping people help themselves".
Tailored support is       instrumental in the NCSI Department of Health Vision for NHS improvement       with "top 10 tips" for self-management and work by the author quoted in       developing cancer support services (Ref 4).
The importance of dealing with the issues of cancer survivorship is       highlighted in the Macmillan Cancer Support report on the impact of cancer       survivorship (Ref 5), and has led to the development of patient       information leaflets for both men and women (Ref 6).
In addition to       printed medium, a short film (Getting Down to Coping) has been developed       in collaboration with Dimbleby Cancer Care, to convey the findings of this       research.
This societal impact of this work is evidenced by the national       recognition gained for this film, and it's utilisation by patient groups       to give positive coping messages for men undergoing prostate cancer       treatment (Ref 7).
In addition to having a positive impact at the national level, the       findings of this research are being absorbed into European Policy, through       the action of patient lobby and nursing groups at EU level (Ref 8)       and through an appointed EU task force on survivorship as a fellow of the       academy of cancer scientists (ECCO; Ref 9).
