     Every day the law expands as new decisions are made and huge amounts of       information are generated via new technology.
Practitioners are not always       sufficiently informed on how more recent decisions have changed the law,       leading to poor advice to clients and resultant frustration and misery       which could have been avoided.
Pawlowski's research and interventions have       helped the judiciary and practising legal profession to catch up on       important changes, and influenced reform of law and legal policy to meet       the changed circumstances.
Impact 1: Change in practice regarding mutual wills     Mutual wills are used by couples to determine what happens to their home       after they both die.
If they are not advised that the wills cannot be       enforced, they can neither guarantee that their wishes will be respected       by the other if they die first, or protect the beneficiary from challenge.
The research found that mutual wills are not popular but when used, the       potential for problems is significant.
The findings were disseminated to       those solicitors who participated in the project: positive feedback was       returned, indicating a new awareness of the Healey decision and       the importance of using a separate contractual document signed by both       parties complying with the Law of Property (Miscellaneous Provisions)Act       1925.
This has avoided the potential for mutual wills to be declared void       by the courts for lack of legal formality.
Impact 2: Change in advice given to clients purchasing a house in         joint names     People who buy a home in joint names and then need to sell and split the       proceeds, face financial disappointment if the law regards their share as       less than they expect.
But this is exactly what has been happening.
Pawlowski and Brown were able to provide valuable recommendations on the       importance of using express declarations of trust, and of making clients       aware that the amount they contribute to mortgage repayments, and invest       in capital improvements, can affect their share, despite the presumption       of equality and the terms of a declaration of trust.
In feedback, a       significant number of solicitors indicated a change in the advice given to       clients.
The research has also added to pressure to reform Land Registry       practice, making completion of the "declaration of trust" (Panel 10) in       the TR1/FR1/TP1 form mandatory.
The Law Society and Land Registry issued a       joint practice note in January 2013 on joint ownership and the       desirability of recording owners' intentions at the time of purchase using       a declaration of trust.
Impact 3: Informed and stimulated judicial debate     The case commentary on "Tenant Abandonment - Damages for Loss of Future       Rent" in the Law Quarterly Review [3.6] was a highly critical       piece on an important Court of Appeal ruling in Reichman v Beveridge       (2006), identifying a number of English cases not cited to the Court and       suggesting that, if they had, a different conclusion on the law may have       been reached.
Its impact on the legal community is evidenced by a response       from one of the Lord Justices of Appeal involved, stating that he was       "very interested to find that there were English cases on the point that       were not cited to us" and suggesting that the Court may have reached a       different conclusion had it been aware of them.
Impact 4: Promoted awareness of landlord and tenant, land law and         trusts within the legal profession     Pawlowski's publications are regularly cited on leading online research       tools.
He currently has 260 entries on Lawtel (http://www.lawtel.com),       over 540 publications listed on Westlaw (http://www.westlaw.co.uk)       and 198 entries in the online Lexis Library (http://www.lexisnexis.co.uk).
His       publications have been cited in many leading practitioner textbooks on       land law, such as Professor Gray's Elements of Land Law, (OUP) and       Maudsley and Burns, Land Law, Cases and Materials, (OUP), as well       as the leading works on trusts law, in particular, Hanbury and         Martin's Modern Equity, (Thomson, Sweet &amp; Maxwell).
Pawlowski       leads a high profile editorial team of practitioners as General Editor of       Landlord and Tenant Review which provides a valuable forum for his       published work and has global reach throughout the common law world.
Pawlowski is also Legal Commentator for Lexis-Nexis UK Legal News       Analysis, which has a wide practitioner audience.
Impact 5: Promoted public awareness of landlord and tenant and         property law     The impact of Pawlowski's book, Leasing Commercial Premises, on       general public awareness of landlord and tenant law continues to today.
Commissioned in 1999, it comprises a concise outline of the law relating       to commercial lettings.
It was reprinted by Estates Gazette Publishing in       2002 and is still very popular amongst readers within the legal profession       and the public generally.
Pawlowski has also been interviewed on property       law-related matters for several television programmes, such as Sky         Business Hour and BBC Inside Out, and featured in newspapers       such as the Guardian and Independent.
