     To date the audio has been downloaded 81,396 times, and in the first two       months of 2013, the audio was downloaded 4,349 times according to the       Smokefree Campaign Manager, Health and Wellbeing Directorate, Public       Health England.
The Quit Kit has now undergone three development iterations: Quit Kit-1,       Quit Kit-2, and Quit Kit-3, and with each, all aspects of the kit are       evaluated (data available for Quit Kit-1 and Quit Kit-2).
During the first       evaluation (see Ussher et al., 2011), 2,347 users of the kit were randomly       selected for interview.
It was found that people differed in respect to       which element of the kit they found useful, and the audio was used by a       quarter of the respondents.
Following feedback from Quit Kit-1 users, Quit Kit-2 launched in January       2011.
During the second evaluation, 2,379 online surveys and 300 telephone       interviews were completed by independent researchers (TNS BMRB) in       March-April 2011.
When considering the kit as a whole, the majority of       respondents reported finding the kit helpful, with nearly three quarters       saying they would recommend it.
The audio was positively associated with       quit attempts and used by 22% of the respondents (Murray, et al., 2013).
It is not possible to determine exactly how many people have gained       health benefits due to the audio MP3 or the Quit Kit itself.
However       approximately two thirds of respondents (57%) receiving the Quit Kit-2       indicated that they had attempted to quit completely since receiving the       kit, with over half reporting not smoking at the point of interview.
The MP3 audio has been requested by a number of researchers and is now       being tested in Dr. Steven Wilson's laboratory in Pennsylvania State       University, USA, and by Professor Gillihan, Haverford College,       Philadelphia, USA.
Professor Gillihan found "the mindfulness audio to be       effective in producing the desired manipulation: increasing state mindful       awareness and decreasing negative affect".
This work is currently being       written up for publication.
Cropley has been approached by the Public Health and Lifestyle Services,       to engage in the evaluation of Quit Kit-3.
This work began in October       2013.
