     The Nuclear Physics Group's world-leading research on the structure of       exotic nuclei and expertise       in techniques, such as gamma-ray spectroscopy, has led to a wide range of       public engagement       activities and media work, which have raised their impact far beyond the       confines of the       international nuclear physics community.
Much of the impact of the Group's research has derived from their being       world-leading       authorities on nuclear and radiation issues.
For example, when news of the       Fukushima nuclear       incident broke in March 2011, Professor Regan and colleagues were called       upon to take part in       more than 50 TV and radio interviews by discussing the measurement and       biological effects of       radiation.
Regan made a number of appearances on BBC Breakfast News and       BBC World News,       both of which have a viewership of millions [see Section 5, Source S1].
They informed the public       by drawing on information provided by research results, such as the       characterisation of radioactive       isotopes using gamma-ray spectroscopy (ref.
1).
Six months later, Prof.       Al-Khalili presented a       Horizon programme filmed in Fukushima, entitled `Is Nuclear Power Safe?
',       reaching over two       million viewers.
It informed the general public and stimulated an on-line       debate.
While this activity was prompted by a major news story, Prof.       Al-Khalili's on-going and wide-ranging       science communication and public engagement activities have had an even       greater and       more lasting impact.
He has just written his fifth popular science book (Paradox:         The Nine Greatest         Enigmas in Physics [S2]) and is currently writing his sixth, on       quantum biology.
His highly       successful book, Quantum: A Guide for the Perplexed (first       published in paperback in 2004), which       was instrumental in his winning the Royal Society Michael Faraday Medal in       2007, as its youngest       ever recipient [S3], is linked to his body of research in nuclear reaction       theory and related quantum       mechanics.
In collaboration with other nuclear physicists, he wrote Nucleus:         A Trip into the Heart of         Matter (revised and updated in 2012), which is the only `coffee       table' book on nuclear physics ever       published.
The link between this book and Al-Khalili's research is seen       explicitly in a section of       Chapter 4, which describes his research on the structure of exotic halo       nuclei [ref.
3].
In total, Al-Khalili's       books have sold over 100,000 copies and have been translated into 20       languages [C2].
Reviewers of his books note their societal impact in informing, inspiring       and stimulating the public.
Al-Khalili's television career began in the late 90s, but his big break       came in 2007 when he       presented the BBC Four series Atom.
[S4] (First broadcast on BBC       Four in 2007, it has since been       repeated on both BBC Four and Two within the REF period, as well as in       many countries around       the world.)
Many observers at the BBC, including the then Director       General, Mark Thompson, have       commented that the series marked a watershed in the way science       documentaries are now made.
The second hour of the series was devoted entirely to nuclear physics and       drew on Al-Khalili's       research on halo nuclei while at the Niels Bohr Institute.
Reviewers on       public websites have       described how the programme amazed them (e.g.
`blew my socks off')       and inspired physics study.
Since then, Al-Khalili has gone on to make nine more science       documentaries.
As evidence of       the impact of his work in science communication, his programmes have had       three Grierson Trust       nominations and one BAFTA nomination, and have won the Athens       International Science Film       Festival prize and an Association of British Science Writers prize for       best science documentary.
The total number of viewers for Al-Khalili's most recent four BBC       programmes is estimated to be       over 10 million.
Audience surveys (internal to the BBC) reveal that his       programmes consistently       achieve an Audience Appreciation Index of 88&#177;1%, which is considerably       higher than the average.
Al-Khalili now has a weekly programme on Radio 4: The Life Scientific,       which runs for 24 weeks       of the year [S5].
The programme has an average weekly audience of 2.2       million.
Feedback       obtained from an internal BBC `Pulse Survey' from March 2012 indicates its       format has been       extremely successful [S6].
Radio 4 controller, Gwyneth Williams, has       stated that Al-Khalili is an       excellent communicator "but fundamental to his role in such a high profile       programme is his       research expertise and his locus as a working physicist."
[S7]     The new Editor of BBC Four, Cassian Harrison, has explained how       Al-Khalili's experience as a       researcher is necessary for his programmes to have a maximum impact on       audiences: "Professor       Al-Khalili has shown a consistent ability to encapsulate and to       communicate some of the most       complex principles and theories in contemporary physics with a clarity and       insight that is clearly       born not only from years of study but also from his ongoing work and         research."
[S8] The previous       controller for BBC Four, Richard Klein, has emphasised the importance of       Al-Khalili being an active       scientific researcher when presenting programmes: "I have no doubt that       Jim Al-Khalili's research &#8212; his       willingness to re-consider and re-think the big ideas in physics &#8212; has       been a huge contribution       to his standing as one of BBC Four's principal science presenters."
Al-Khalili's media work has been credited with contributing to the sharp       increase in the number       of students applying to study physics at University.
[S9] Peter Main,       Director of Education and       Science at the Institute of Physics, has said: "There is no doubt that his       thoughtful and intelligent       contributions to public engagement have had a major impact, not least in       improving the public's       perception and understanding of science, and physics in particular, but       also in encouraging more       young people to study the subject at school and at university.
A       particular feature of Jim's media       work is the way that he draws upon his own research experience as a       nuclear physicist."
Al-Khalili has also achieved impact on science policy and culture.
In       2012, he was invited by a       House of Lords All Party Parliamentary Group to deliver a keynote speech       on thorium-fuelled       nuclear reactors.
He has represented the world of science as a judge on       several cultural awards       panels (such as the Art Fund Prize) and has helped to develop science and       science education       policy through his contributions to learned societies and organisations,       including the Royal Society.
Al-Khalili actively promotes his research through regular blogs on his       website and Twitter (with       ca.
50k followers) [see http://jimalkhalili.com/       Twitter: @jimalkhalili ].
His blog-post on the OPERA       `faster than light' neutrinos experiment was read by more than 13,000       people in a single weekend       in 2011.
He stimulates public debate with his regular comments in the       media about scientific issues       [S10].
