     The principal impact of the case study has been in the take-up by the Met       Office.
It is using the simple model to identify key weaknesses in DA       algorithms.
Following the publication of the results [1,3], the Met Office       DA group recognised the value of using the 3-body problem in an attempt to       reconcile the theoretical limitations of 4DVAR with its practical success       in situations far from those for which it is valid.
The calculation of the       background error covariance statistics of the variables used in data       assimilation schemes is a crucial part of the algorithm.
In an email       communication, the Leader of the Met Office DA Unit wrote to Ian Roulstone       "The work has had a large influence on our 4DVAR strategy, as it         probably explains why some of our recalculations of Cov were successful         (and were implemented)."
The Met Office recognised that the 4D VAR scheme for the 3-body problem,       developed by Roulstone et al., would serve as a useful test bed in which       "challenging but realistic scenarios" could be studied.
The Met Office       team set out to examine whether the standard method of calculating the       background penalty was still optimal in the presence of model error.
The       relative simplicity of the 3-body problem (and the fact that in an       idealised setting the notion of `truth' can be defined precisely) enabled       them to study this question in detail, and the outcome proved to be of       major significance.
Analysis of the standard 4DVAR technique applied to       the 3-body problem revealed that the widely accepted notion of calculating       the background error covariance from the mismatch between forecasts to       estimates of the truth was flawed.
Better forecasts could be obtained by       excluding the mismatch between the forecast and the truth resulting from       systematic model error.
The follow-up by the Met Office DA unit has had far-reaching       implications: not only is the Met Office now pursuing several lines of       research to improve the calculations of Cov, but they are also having to       review how they conduct forecast verification.
Recognising that the       current calculation of Cov in the operational model was therefore flawed,       implementing even a simple correction, mimicking the techniques applied to       improve the simulation of the 3-body problem, led to marked improvements       in forecasts.
The Leader of the DA unit at the Met Office states;     "As a result of subsequent projects carried out by the Met Office         using this model, major investments have been made in improving the         operational covariance model, which have had an impact on forecast         accuracy, and new methods of generating forecast and analysis ensembles         are being actively studied."
The 3-body problem facilitated a thorough mathematical analysis of the       implementation of the background error covariance term in 4DVAR.
The two       timescales of the 3-body problem, which play a key role in the definition,       and representation, of short-range and long-range forecast errors, the       inherent Hamiltonian properties, and the fact that the 'true state' of the       system can be defined precisely in a toy model, enabled the Met Office DA       unit to identify weaknesses in the standard formulation of 4DVAR in which       the background is designed to approximate the 'truth'.
The salient new       idea, namely that the background term should be replaced by a       'regularization factor' (reported in the follow-up papers, Cullen (2010a,       2010b), cited below), the optimal choice of which minimises the short       range forecast errors, was formulated on the basis of the study of the       3-body problem.
This regularization procedure has also been employed by       Delahaies et al [7] in a 4DVAR approach to modelling the terrestrial       carbon cycle.
