     The existence of fake antimalarial medication has had a devastating       effect on malaria-related       deaths in highly affected areas.
The continued use of counterfeit drugs       could lead to advancing       drug resistance and loss of efficacy for artemisinin combination       therapies, resulting in devastating       global outcomes6.
Dr Newton's research into the counterfeit       drug trade initiated public awareness       into this damaging activity and has led to several criminal       investigations, arrests of drug traffickers,       and further investigation from the World Health Organization (WHO).
Response from the World Health Organization     In 2005 the WHO launched a rapid alert system, enabling information about       counterfeit drugs to be       rapidly reported to relevant authorities in participating countries.
At       the time the alert was rolled out       the WHO estimated 10% of all drugs sold globally were counterfeits and       that the figure was as high       as 25% in developing countries7.
The WHO is now investigating       the global expansion of this       system.
In January 2011, the WHO released a report8 surveying       the quality of selected antimalarial       medicines circulating in six countries of sub-Saharan Africa, referencing       Dr Newton's 20011 paper       on Fake artesunate in southeast Asia as a primary source, as well       as the 2004 paper by Dondorp       and Newton2.
The information obtained in this report outlined       the overall quality of antimalarial       medications being distributed in sub-Saharan Africa; this has contributed       to the development of       regulatory systems and enforcement, improvement in surveillance       technology, the introduction of       Minilabs, and increased cooperation between national drug regulatory       authorities8.
Advanced Screening Technology     In February 2011 the Global Pharma Health Fund announced they would be       establishing 20       Minilabs in Nigeria, which will enable efficient and effective       identification of counterfeit drugs and       low quality medication.
They also reported that health organisations and       local governments will roll       out a total of 420 Minilabs throughout the 70 African, Asian and Latin       American regions9.
The University of Oxford's underpinning research has provided academic       justification for the       mPedigree Network (www.mpedigree.net),       a Ghana-based organisation empowering African       patients and consumers to protect themselves from pharmaceutical       counterfeiting.
The Network,       which connects a number of African countries to a central registry where       pedigree information of       product brands are stored, allows all patients and consumers to verify the       safety and quality of their       medicines instantly by using their own (or a shared) mobile phone at no       cost, where a mobile       signal is available.
This technology has since been rolled out for use in       Nigeria and Kenya and is       now being tested in Uganda, Tanzania, South Africa, India and Bangladesh.
Since the       establishment of mPedigree in 2007, 6.5 million packs of medication have       been tested in various       pilots10.
"The problem of counterfeit drugs in Africa came         to our attention in 2004.
With the help of         the Ghana government, local activists, and academics we established a         network of people who         were committed to creating change.
The underpinning research from Dr         Newton and his         collaborators, not only gave our cause academic credibility; it also         gave us a better understanding         of the reach and proximity of the problem."
&#8212; mPedigree Network,       founder Bright Simons10.
Criminal Investigations     The University of Oxford's research and its collaboration with other       investigators, the WHO, and       INTERPOL, has led to the arrest of alleged traders of fake antimalarial       drugs in southern China       and Burma, and the seizure of a large quantity of drugs in 2006.
The       suspects from China's       Yunnan Province were alleged to have traded 240,000 blister packs of       counterfeit artesunate in       2006, enough to treat almost a quarter of a million adults over the coming       years.
Chinese       authorities were able to seize 24,000 of these packs before they were       distributed, potentially       saving the lives of thousands11.
In February 2011 a similar       operation supported by INTERPOL took       place in Ghana, leading to the seizure of thousands of illegal and fake       antimalarial drugs and other       medications.
Initiated by the International Medical Products       Anti-Counterfeiting Taskforce       (IMPACT) and supported by INTERPOL, Operation Harmattan led to the arrest       and prosecution of       over 30 counterfeit drug traffickers12.
Public Outreach and Media Engagement     This research has led to the Worldwide Antimalarial Resistance Network       (WWARN) Antimalarial       Quality Surveyor, an antimalarial mapping module enabling researchers,       government, and the       public to access studies on the type of medications on the market, the       source of these medications       and the quality of antimalarial medicines13.
The work of Dr       Paul Newton and his collaborators has       been widely publicised around the world.
As an expert in the field of       counterfeit medications, Dr       Newton has been quoted and referenced in a number of articles by several       world news providers,       including The Guardian, BBC News and the New York Times14,15.
As a result of this public       outreach, Oxford's research into counterfeit medications continues to       garner worldwide attention,       inspiring ongoing action from global leaders, criminal investigators and       international health       organisations.
