     Following the completion of the research in 2011, the results have been       used by Miller Research Ltd. to inform their work on the Food Tourism       Strategy for the Causeway Coast and Glens region of North Ulster in       Northern Ireland and the Brecon Beacons National Park Food Strategy in       Wales with an aim of networking producers to create a shared vision for       food tourism and increase visitor spend on food produce [5.1].
The Irish       Tourist Board (F&#225;ilte Ireland) has also used the research results to       involve local champions in food tourism and to make food tourism in       Ireland more sustainable [5.2].
The results of the research have also been taken forward by Miller       Research to inform policy initiatives in partnership with local and       regional authorities.
These include the organisation of conferences with       national, regional and local stakeholders in association with the       Abergavenny Food Festival to promote the relationship between food       tourism, community development and regeneration; working with Visit County       Durham to upgrade the status of the Bishop Auckland Food Festival to a       premier regional event as part of the region's wider tourism strategy; and       strategy work on the Thames Food Festival to improve visitor perceptions       of South Oxfordshire and to increase levels of tourist expenditure on       local food produce.
The research results are also informing the creation       of a food network and festival for Newport aiming to attract food tourists       to the city [5.2].
Attributable to the research has been the development of networks and       organised events to bring stakeholders together to enhance cross-sectoral       understanding in an attempt to overcome barriers identified to food       tourism development.
The Institute for Tourism Research (INTOUR) at the       University of Bedfordshire hosted an event on Food Related Tourism       in September 2010 [5.3] at which over 60 delegates from local businesses       attended and local producers were invited to sell products in a small       marketplace at the event.
The spatial reach of the impact upon commerce       has extended beyond the United Kingdom to Norway.
Following a key note       address by Dr. Everett on the research at an industry seminar in 2011 at       North Cape industries in Norway, the Rico chain of hotels expressed       interest in increasing the use of local produce to both sustain local       producers and offer more local produce to their visitors [5.4].
Public seminars were organised by the research team to disseminate the       research and provide a forum in which local producers could network and       seek advice on how to develop food tourism.
For example, co-hosted with       Miller Research `The Big Food Debate' on 18 September 2009 brought       together approximately 70 delegates aiming to develop food tourism.
A       further public food tourism seminar was organised in conjunction with the       Scottish Border Food Network (SBFN) in Melrose from the 29 - 30 November       2009 as part of a wider set of projects to raise understanding of food       tourism at which the results of the research were presented [5.5].
The       event brought together an audience of 60 delegates including travel       journalists, food writers, tour operators, academics, the head of the       Scottish government food industry unit, representatives from NFU Scotland,       Scotland Food and Drink, Scottish Enterprise, Scottish Borders Council,       VisitScotland and MSPs.
This event galvanised support for the SBFN who       have now developed a five-year Regional food strategy to enable Scottish       Borders to compete effectively in the national food and drink sector       [5.6].
Alongside contributing to the establishment of the Borders network,       beneficiaries were local producers looking to access local markets and       consumers now able to locate local produce.
With an aim of facilitating communication between stakeholders of food       tourism development and providing information for consumers an online       resource of the `UK Food Tourism' website was developed [5.7].
The site       offers a link and matching service between visitors and suppliers using       the latest methods of displaying information online including Google maps,       blogs and reviews.
The UK Food Tourism site continues to be developed to       include new projects and developments.
