     The impact that our research has had can be demonstrated in the       commercial application (described at the end of this section) but also in       the recognition received:            a Chairman's award from BAE Systems;       Surrey was awarded a commercialisation award for &#163;250k from SEEDA;       SNS received a &#163;750k investment from IP Group;       SNS equipment sales of &#163;1.5M per annum to the global research         community during the start-up phase alone.
The semiconductor industry, whose worth is measured in billions of       dollars, urgently needs new interconnection technology and low-k       dielectrics to maintain the pace of innovation according to Moore's law.
The limitations of existing manufacturing technology threaten the       evolution to next-generation geometry sizes, speeds and power       conservation.
Manufacturers in the semiconductor industry, currently use copper to       provide the vertical interconnections required for integrated circuit (IC)       fabrication.
Carbon Nanotubes (CNT) can be structured to act as extremely       efficient conductors, but their adoption as a replacement for copper has       been hindered by the fact that conventionally grown CNTs require       temperatures of around 700 degrees centigrade.
This is too high for       semiconductor processing, and leads to the destruction of the microchip       circuitry.
In parallel, the semiconductor industry has continuing needs       for better dielectric materials.
In this context, better means lower       dielectric constant with solid materials preferred over highly porous       systems.
The materials processes must integrate smoothly with the       remaining processes as the technology need is for an incremental change       rather than a disruptive re-engineering.
"SNS's low-k material offers a potential step change for           dielectrics with a k value that meets the requirements of 22 nm           integrated circuit technology" Chair of ITRS Interconnect Working           Group     These two, well-understood industry needs are the primary target market       for Surrey NanoSystems Ltd.
The highly innovative PTCVD process, which       provides the ability to grow carbon nanomaterials at low substrate       temperatures, is the technology that underpins SNS.
It removes a major       obstacle in using devices such as CNT in next generation microchip       manufacture.
SNS was formed in 2008 to commercialise the technology and       has developed it into the world's first "turn-key" NanoGrowthTM       machine for the cost-effective, low-temperature production of precision       aligned multi-wall carbon nanomaterials.
The commercial development is       entirely focussed on meeting the International Technology Roadmap for       Semiconductors (ITRS).
This is a high-risk, high-reward strategy and is       supported by venture capital.
".....we would consider a film with these verified novel           characteristics as interesting, and would therefore be interested in           further internal evaluation for suitability of potential use [in a           manufacturing process] in the future.....".
Manager, Intel Ireland     The NanoGrowthTM machine, provides a fabrication system that       allows CNT structures and low-k dielectrics to be grown at silicon       friendly processing temperatures, that is below 450 degrees C, making       viable a new interconnection process for high-volume semiconductor       manufacture.
This is the first commercially available nanomaterial growth       machine that allows the user to easily and precisely control the rapid       growth, quality and characteristics of carbon nanotubes and low-k       dielectrics using fully tested "ingredient mix recipes."
SNS was formed in 2008.
The first stage of the business model was based       on developing the market for the NanoGrowthTM machine in       academic and commercial research laboratories.
As a result of this       strategy, many research establishments around the world have entered into       partnership agreements with SNS.
The second part of the business plan was       to attract further investment and to incorporate the technology more       widely into a range of manufacturing processes.
This is now underway,       following the &#163;4.5m of 2nd round funding that was recently       (2012) secured.
The company's base is in Newhaven, and has already hired       20 staff to run the activities.
Dr G.Y.Chen has transferred from the       University of Surrey as CTO and Prof Silva is CSO and a Board member       together with K.Robson from Surrey's Research and Enterprise Support       office.
The new business is still growing, but has already impacted       considerably in the area in terms of providing employment and economic       regeneration.
SNS expects the overall market to grow at approximately 10% per year and       notes that downturns in the sector often see increased spend in R&amp;D.       The key part of the market to SNS is the semiconductor wafer fab       equipment, worth approx.
$33bn in 2008 and expected to grow to $41bn by       2012.
The low-k materials market in itself was worth over $2.4bn in 2011,       and together with the interconnect market unlocks the $250bn semiconductor       industry IC manufacturers and equipment vendors.
SNS has started the       validation process for their equipment to be incorporated in the 2014 IC       cycle which has a 2 year lead time.
