     The research has been impactful at a number of levels.
Firstly, national       governing bodies such as       the England and Wales Cricket Board have written into their coach       education awards the use of       CAIS in order for coaches to be able to explore their coaching practice.
A       pilot licence of the tool       was provided to the England batting Coach, when he was in India with the       full England Cricket       Team (October-December 2012).
We have piloted and used the tool with       England Hockey coaches       at workshops [3.4, 5.4] and High Performance Coaching events such as their       2012 High       Performance Assessment Camps and Futures Cup, which are the contexts for       junior high       performance development [5.5].
At these events we have had coaches utilise       the CAIS iPad       software tool to enable them to analyse their own and other coaches'       practice [5.5].
A company, Axis Coaching [5.1, 5.2], has been formed, of which Harvey has       a part-ownership       (17.5%), which is taking the developments of the iPad app [5.3] to the       sports coaching community.
The development of CAIS as an iPad application has involved working with       an Irish-based       performance analysis company, and these developments are on-going.
The official launch event of CAIS was held with collaborators       Loughborough University in       November 2012 where key players in the sport and education sectors were       present.
Examples       include the British Olympic Association (now Performance Director as the       Football Association)       and representatives from performance sport in higher education       institutions (University of Stirling).
CAIS has been sold to the following organisations: Sports Coach UK for       use with their ASPIRE       program; Leicester City Football Club and the England and Wales Cricket       Board.
A demonstration       version of the software now available, which gives users a free 15-day       trial for the software.
CAIS was presented to groups at the recent Performance Analysis       Conferences held at       Loughborough in August 2013, and at Glasgow Celtic Football Club in August       2013.
Harvey visited the USA in April 2013 and met with academic staff at Ohio       State University as part       of efforts to develop the global market for the product.
He also visited       staff at West Virginia       University and they have also expressed interest in the product.
The       development team including       Harvey have also discussed offering different versions of CAIS for       different markets.
For example,       Harvey and collaborators are considering developing a `lite' version of       the application restricted to       a few of the behaviours on the main product making the application more       available to individual       coaches in addition to large organisations.
We have approached individuals       such as sport       performance directors in HEI's and they have fed back favourably on this       and suggested they       would be able to purchase licences on this basis.
CAIS was nominated for a       Research Enterprise       Award at Loughborough University and received an Honourable Mention at the       final awards       ceremony.
The England Hockey coaches [5.6] that were engaged in the project are       Centrally Contracted       Coaches and this role involves them working with and assessing other       coaches.
These coaches       stated the value of the tool in helping them in this role.
They also       suggested that the tool be built in       to an on-going professional development exercise with England Hockey,       mainly for themselves but       for coaches coaching in other local and regional contexts via England       Hockey [3.5].
Now that sales have been made, it is anticipated that a long-term       evaluation of CAIS will occur with       Sports Coach UK, for example.
This will include generating research data       for subsequent       publications.
&#8226; Evidence or indicators of the extent of the impact described, as         appropriate to the case being         made.
England Hockey May 2012; from Nov 2012 - present       Launch event held at Loughborough University on 21st         November 2012       Dr. Harvey &#8212; invited keynote presentation to English Institute of         Sport coaches conference,         10th December 2012.
CAIS was presented to groups at the recent Performance Analysis         Conferences held at         Loughborough University, one held at Loughborough University on Friday         16th August         2013, and one at Celtic Football Club on Monday 19th August         2013.
CAIS and related research was presented at both the Research fair and         as part of the main         conference at the 2013 ICCE Conference in South Africa from 10th-13th         September 2013         (3.4-3.6).
On-going evaluation study with Sports Coach UK &#8212; on-going 2013-4
