     Angela Laycock's premise that to be effective legal practitioners must       have an understanding of the law's social and political context, its       effect on individuals and its weaknesses has led to the development of       both a new teaching methodology and research approach which can develop       solutions to inadequate legislation and practice in many legal fields.
Her       work has contributed to the international movement promoting disabled       peoples' rights as human rights which culminated in the UN Convention for       the Rights of Persons with Disabilities 2008 and the monitoring the       effectiveness of disability law in the UK for the purposes of reform.
Impact 1: New teaching and research methodology       Laycock, Black and Outhwaite were the first to develop a grounded theory       methodology approach to empirical research in the field of biosecurity.
This was a mixed-method approach involving data collection from       stakeholders with open coding using QDA Miner.
A presentation at a W. G.       Hart Legal Workshop led to an invitation to contribution to the launch of       the `Research, Methods and Approaches' section of the Journal of Law and       Society [3.3].
Postgraduate teaching at Greenwich of the new empirical       research methodology led to findings relating to the effectiveness of       legislation that have been used for reform by governmental organisations       in Africa and Belize.
The new teaching methodology incorporating commissioned research projects       into the undergraduate curriculum has been well received and disseminated       through conference participation.
The audience at the 2008 International       Journal of Clinical Legal Education Conference agreed that the Community       project was the first clinical legal research project they had       encountered.
Impact 2: Pioneering human rights model of disability and system for         monitoring disability law       The DRPI Greenwich-Osgoode Hall Legal Education and Research Project       piloted methods of international cooperation between Law schools to       evaluate mechanisms for the promotion of the rights of disabled people       including the use of video-conferencing and an online forum as well       strategies for assessment.
DRPI now links Law schools across three       continents.
The projects themselves raised awareness of the rights of disabled people       being human rights , and contributed to the movement for reform in the UK       and internationally.
Laycock's chapter on disability law [3.1] was       commissioned because, at the time, the Greenwich project team was alone in       researching UK disabled prisoners' rights.
Impact 3: Developed model for pro bono undergraduate research projects         in partnership with stakeholders in the local community       The University of Greenwich Vulnerable Witness Project (VWP) has raised       consciousness locally and nationally regarding disability hate crime in       the community.
The two year independent, pro bono research project,       commissioned by Greenwich Association of Disabled People Centre for       Independent Living (GAD) examines police reports of closed cases supplied       by the Metropolitan Police Service (MPS).
The final report on its findings       will inform the local MPS's policy on treatment of vulnerable disabled       witnesses.
Preliminary findings were presented by the VWP team at the British       Conference for Undergraduate Research 2013 at Plymouth University while       the pedagogical advantages and strategies for pro bono undergraduate       projects were presented by Laycock in Plymouth (April 2013) and Greenwich       (July 2013) and Laycock's article on assessment strategies for such       projects will be published in the December edition of Compass.
Dissemination and Adoption of Innovations for Engagement in the         Undergraduate Curriculum     Withey develops strategies to engage students and improve their       performance which are robust, popular and easy for other HEIs to       reproduce.
These include a cast-iron method of getting students to really       use feedback; home-made Lego-character films to illustrate key principles       in criminal law, and championing use of students' own phones and tablets       to vote during lectures instead of cumbersome electronic voting systems       (EVSs).
Impact 1: New law curriculum feedback method       A key challenge for all HE teachers is how to get students to use       feedback: students are more interested in the grade and sometimes don't       even read the teacher's comments.
Withey has developed a system that       ensures 100% of students engage because the feedback exercise is built       into the assessment regime and the grade is only unlocked after the       learning has been achieved.
Early findings, which suggest substantial       improvement in academic performance, have been disseminated to the legal       education community [3.4] and presented at two peer reviewed       conferences at Oxford (2012) and Cambridge universities (2011).
Several       institutions have referred to her Feedback Guide for Law Students       in their study skills LL.B curriculum, and the Australian National       University's Legal Workshop team in teaching the Graduate Diploma in Legal       Practice requested a copy as part of their review of teaching and       learning.
Impact 2: New visual aid to teaching: `Lego Law' films       Withey's Lego Law films have been viewed by over 20,000 students from 103       different countries since the first film was uploaded to YouTube in March       2012: http://www.youtube.com/user/carolwithey/videos.
The channel's success led to an invitation from YouTube to moneterise the       films and coverage from the Society of Legal Scholars and Law         Careers.net.
The `Law Tutor of the Year 2013' winner used it in her       final presentation.
Universities and colleges share the link with       students, and several have embedded the link within their course       electronic learning platforms, including Buckinghamshire New University,       London Metropolitan University and the University of East London.
This       allows tutors to present the films in classes and students to view them at       leisure.
Impact 3: Using mobile technology in law schools       Withey's research relating to EVS has reached legal institutions       nationally and internationally.
Several ESTICT community members who were       using the "clicker systems" have investigated ways of combining this with       mobile technology.
A number of universities are now experimenting with the       phone system.
City University has subscribed to a campus licence for       PollEverywhere.
