     Research carried out by Surrey Space Centre (SSC) based at the University       of Surrey and later exploited by SSTL has had a dramatic impact on       Europe's (&#8364;2B) indigenous timing and navigation satellite system, Galileo       (a `European GPS').
The GIOVE-A satellite, built at Surrey, was the first       satellite launched to provide navigation and timing signals for Galileo.
As a result of an innovative unsolicited proposal by SSTL to The European       Space Agenct (ESA), GIOVE-A was built in just 30 months against a hard       deadline and at a fraction of the competing industry cost, enabling Europe       to secure the rights to the key frequency bands critical to the operation       of Galileo over the coming decades.
GIOVE-A provided the first       representative precise timing transmissions from its 22,000 km Earth       orbit, enabling European industry to start building and testing commercial       consumer products for this market estimated at &#163;90B.
By creating a credible and competitive alternative to a single European       consortium, SSTL both provided resilience and achieved dramatic cost       savings for the European tax-payer.
Europe's economy and security is now completely dependent upon       space-derived timing signals that are used to control our utilities, rail       networks, financial transactions, mobile phone networks and co-ordinate       complex manufacturing and distribution logistics, commercial and domestic       navigation services &#8212; and the ability to support military operations.
These signals are currently provided by the USAF military Global       Positioning System (GPS) and the loss or degradation of GPS signals would       have colossal economic and military impact on Europe.
To provide adequate       independence and robustness of this critical infrastructure, Europe       committed to building its own timing constellation through the European       Commission (EC) and ESA.
Galileo, intended for operation in 2008, was       beset by spiralling cost estimates and extended delays in implementation       that allowed competing systems (from China &amp; India) to argue for       rights to the frequency bands allocated to Europe for this service       alongside the GPS signals.
If Europe could not launch and demonstrate       navigation signals from orbit by the regulatory deadline of June 2006,       their reservation of these critical frequency bands would expire and China       could lay claim to them for their competing system.
This would have been       catastrophic for Europe's commercial and military independence.
In January 2004, ESA signed two contracts for the first Galileo       demonstration satellites &#8212; one with a consortium of European industries       and a second with SSTL &#8212; with a deadline of June 2006.
Surrey's 600kg       GIOVE-A minisatellites was designed and built within a budget of just       &#8364;30M, making extensive use of the latest `COTS' electronic components to       achieve the very rapid manufacture time and high performance necessary &#8212;       and at a fraction of the cost.
GIOVE-A was launched in December 2005 and       successfully generated the first European timing signals in January 2006,       five months ahead of the regulatory deadline, thus securing the       frequencies for Europe.
GIOVE-A performed exceptionally well, providing       &gt;95% service availability and all of the mission goals had been fully       met by March 2008 when ESA declared GIOVE-A "a full mission success".
Despite its intended 27-month design lifetime, the satellite operated for       over 7 years, continuing to provide a useful test-bed to the European GNSS       and space environment communities.
(NB.
The competing industrial       consortium eventually launched their first satellite `GIOVE-B' in 2009,       over two years later and with a budget of ~&#8364;170M).
The real impact of the above was realised when a decision was taken by       the European Commission to procure the operational Galileo system (2008).
SSTL teamed with the German satellite builder OHB &#8212; System to offer the EC       a fully operational satellite constellation design based on an enhancement       of the GIOVE-A payload.
Due to the success of the GIOVE-A mission and the       experience gained by Surrey, the SSTL-OHB team was awarded a contract for       14 operational satellites in January 2010 for &#8364;560M and, in a second       competition in February 2012, the EC awarded the SSTL-OHB team a further       &#8364;255M contract for 8 additional satellites &#8212; in both cases winning against       competitive bids by major European space companies.
SSTL's work share is       valued at ~&#8364;320M for the design and manufacture of the 22 complex       navigation payloads, based upon GIOVE-A.
SSTL was formed by the University specifically to exploit the research in       the Surrey Space Centre.
It has since built and launched 40 satellites,       earned export revenues of &#163;500M for the UK and created over 620 highly       skilled jobs &#8212; some 100 staff from the University were transferred to the       Company in 2000/2001.
The University's shareholding in SSTL was acquired       by EADS-ASTRIUM in 2009 for around &#163;50M &#8212; believed to be the largest UK       University cash spin-out to that date.
The synergy of academic research       with commercial exploitation achieved by SSC &amp; SSTL has radically       changed the economics of space and pioneered a modern small satellite       industry worldwide.
