     Surrey, through the DMC, has fundamentally changed the economics and       capabilities of imaging the Earth from space by pioneering capable, low       cost Earth Observation (EO) small satellites with innovative on-board       cameras to provide a rapid-response, global imaging service &#8212; a trend that       has since been increasingly adopted worldwide.
The DMC enabled the UK to join the UN International Charter on Space and       Major Disasters with global impact on hundreds of thousands of lives.
Approximately 200 major disasters occur globally each year and the DMC       responds to approximately 20 such disasters annually worldwide &#8212; the UN       estimates that the DMC has aided over 250,000 disaster victims.
For       example, the DMC provided the first comprehensive coverage of the Asian       Tsunami disaster in 2004 on which the UN based their early recovery plans       and provided the first images of the Katrina hurricane disaster to US       authorities.
The DMC satellites are also used to provide scientific information on       land and water resources, agriculture, pollution, urban development and       especially deforestation &#8212; the DMC, for example, was used extensively in       the preparations for the Beijing Olympics and in providing annual       assessments of deforestation and illegal logging in the Amazon basin rain       forest.
By dramatically lowering the cost of sophisticated EO satellites, Surrey       has enabled 15 nations to develop their own space activities and form       space agencies (Surrey has trained the nucleus of 6 new space agencies)       and achieve their own independent ability to image from space, better to       manage their national resources and security and to be able participate       more fully in international affairs.
The DMC concept pioneered by Surrey       has been recognised internationally and the concept has since been       emulated by China, Japan and France.
The DMC satellites provide more data than is needed purely for disaster       monitoring and national use, and so DMCii has supplied data to the       commercial EO data marketplace generating revenues of over &#163;10M that has       been used to build and launch replacement satellites in the constellation.
DMCii is the vehicle that has created impact post 2008.
The imagery generated from the DMC satellites is a significant commercial       and economic success.
Over &#163;5 million of DMC imagery is sold in over 30       countries for governmental and commercial use in agriculture, National       Spatial Data Infrastructure (SDI), forest monitoring, disaster       planning/management, and land cover mapping.
This commercial success       enabled DMCii to commission a new satellite (UK-DMC2) from SSTL in 2010       that was financed wholly within the SSTL group: a world 1st for a       commercial EO satellite.
In 2012, by creating a novel `DMC-3 leased       imaging capacity service', DMCii won a &#163;115M, 7-year contract to provide       high resolution EO image data to China.
In 2013, based upon the latest       developments from SSC research into small satellite platforms and imaging       techniques, SSTL is building a new high capacity EO microsatellite (funded       from DMCii revenues) that will form a constellation that will image the       whole of the Earth's land surface every 24 hours to provide a unique       database for a wide range of change detection applications.
For the last 7 years farmers in the US and Europe have relied on DMC       imagery to generate precision farming services to determine the best time       and place to apply fertilizer on their fields.
Before the DMC it was       impossible for these services to achieve the scale and frequency of       national observations required to mitigate cloud visibility for successful       commercial operations.
The US Department of Agriculture began replacing       previous supply sources with DMC imagery in 2011 for Agriculture Land       Cover Classification in the US Cropland Data Layer.
Recent analysis of the       UK DMC-2 satellite image data by NOAA (USA) gave it a quality rating of       81% compared to LANDSAT's 69% in the same bands.
DMCii, using data from the DMC satellites, is heavily engaged in       monitoring deforestation and illegal logging activities.
The Brazilian       government has relied heavily on DMC satellite imagery to provide the       annual Amazon basin deforestation assessment.
In 2012 a &#163;2.1M contract was       signed with DMCii enabling Brazil to access imagery directly from UK-DMC2       satellite from its ground station to image the entire Amazon basin every       two weeks, enhancing the ability to identify deforestation at an early       stage and alert the authorities when logging is detected.
The Brazilian       Space Agency is providing DMC-derived data on their website so the general       public can follow progress against deforestation &#8212; described by the       Director General as;     "an innovation which has enhanced public monitoring of forest         management in Brazil."
DMCii is now a key supplier of satellite imagery for the annual survey of       opium poppy cultivation.
The UK FCO and the UN office of drugs and crime       (UNODC) has required full-country imagery coverage of Afghanistan       programmed to coincide with forecast harvest and crop cycle events to       reveal areas of cultivation, crop yields and annual change.
DMCii is a subsidiary of SSTL specifically formed to coordinate the DMC,       exploit its data and stimulate EO applications.
It has achieved &#163;18M       annual turnover (2011) and has created ~30 highly-skilled jobs in the UK       and ~60 jobs in the international supply chain.
By exploiting the research carried out by SSC, DMCii is currently the       first and currently only EO company worldwide that is able to fund its own       EO satellites in orbit on a fully commercial basis without government       subsidy or support &#8212; this has only been possible due to the SSC research       and SSTL developments of small satellite techniques.
