     The approach to LCA developed at Surrey (notably "Foreground" and       "Background" analysis) is       now standard practice in industry and amongst LCA practitioners: it is       embedded in the tools used       by local authorities for waste management planning and public engagement;       it is embodied in       industry-standard tools and software packages for LCA more widely; it       provides the basis for       "ecolabelling" of products and services to inform consumer purchases; it       has shaped commercial       efforts to improve supply chain sustainability and it underpins       development of some innovative       consumer products.
Surrey's approach to LCA is embedded in the tools for waste management       decision support       developed by the UK Environment Agency for use by local authorities and       waste management       authorities, `WIZARD' and `WRATE'.
These tools are also used as a vehicle       for public       engagement in what can be highly contested local decisions.
The Science         Manager at the       Environment         Agency who led this work says "the CES approach of distinguishing         between         'foreground' and 'background' in the system and the related processes         and also between         process- and material-related burdens was essential and provided one of         the bases for the         approach adopted by the government...
The researchers at CES have been         the academic         leaders in the UK in developing sound but practical LCA methodology."
[a].
The approach has been embodied and extensively referenced in the world's       first standard for       carbon labelling of products and services: the British Standards       Institute's (BSI) "PAS 2050:       Specification for the assessment of the life cycle greenhouse gas       emissions of goods and       services", developed in 2008 and updated in 2011 [b].
PAS 2050 is the       basis for the "carbon       footprint" labels now carried by many consumer goods.
Surrey's Professor       Clift and Professor       Jackson were key members of the group which developed and revised PAS       2050, at the specific       invitation of Defra and the Carbon Trust.
An extensive industry has also       been spawned based on       PAS 2050: for example Lloyds register promote environmental quality       assurance and regulatory       compliance services by implementing the standard and Arup and the Carbon       Trust developed       Footprint Expert&#8482;, a toolkit aimed at delivering PAS 2050 assessments to       businesses.
The       Carbon Trust state that they are `the world's leading certifier of       organisational carbon footprint       reduction' and `global leader in product carbon footprinting certification       for PAS 2050', with 650       organisations achieving the carbon Trust Standard in the past 5 years [c].
The International Standards Organisation (ISO) has now issued a technical       specification for       carbon labelling which embodies the CES and PAS 2050 approach, and ISO is       developing a       standard for the carbon footprint of products, ISO 14067: `The document is       currently at the stage       of Draft International Standard (DIS) and is expected to be finalized for       publication in March       2014'.
`ISO 14067 will be consistent with ...BSI PAS 2050' [d].
In       parallel, a business-NGO       partnership called the GreenHouseGas protocol initiative launched in 1998       to develop accounting       tools for government and business to understand and manage greenhouse gas       emissions.
More       than 1,000 organisations internationally have used the GHG Protocol,       including 63% of the       Fortune 500 companies.
The GHG Protocol built on the initial PAS 2050       method in development       of its Product Standard.
This area of research continues to be taken up by industry-standard       models and databases.
Mu&#241;oz et al.
[6] presented the first model to include human digestion and       excretion in LCA.
Surrey researchers agreed for it to be incorporated into the algorithms of       `EcoInvent v3', which is       the industry standard life cycle inventory database tool.
Future LCA       studies of food supply and       related agricultural land use undertaken by researchers, industry and       policy-advisers       internationally may thus be extended and improved, based on this piece of       research.
The approach to analysing and managing supply chains and consumption has       also been applied       to help develop industry-leading initiatives such as Marks and Spencer's       "Plan A" and Unilever's       "Less Environmental Impact", which consider social benefit as well as       environmental impact.
The impact of this research is truly international.
Among the growing LCA       community worldwide,       there is a particularly active group in New Zealand (LCANZ), motivated by       the need to establish       environmental credentials for international trade; every one of the       founding officers of LCANZ is a       CES alumnus, including Prof. Cowell.
LCANZ is one of the leading bodies       outside Europe       providing accredited carbon labels, which are changing the practices of       producers and changing       purchasing practices of consumers.
The International Council on Mining and Metals commissioned a report       (2013, in press) on the       application of life cycle approaches in the primary resource sector,       written by Prof. Clift and Dr.       Basson with Prof. J.G.
Petrie (now Energy Advisor to the Government of the       Western Cape,       South Africa, and a Visiting Professor in CES).
One specific piece of work applying consequential LCA to land-use change       was an analysis of the       carbon footprint of Brazilian cattle farming [4].
Surrey's research had       impact internationally,       resulted in it being quoted in BSI's PAS 2050 and prompting more than 60       secondary articles and       provoking a specific defensive press release by the Brazilian beef       industry [e].
The approach developed by Surrey is now also being applied to specific       product and service       innovation.
It underpinned development of a new type of beverage       packaging, delivering chilled       drinks without refrigerated storage.
The packaging was developed in the US       by the Joseph       Company with the benefit of saving energy for refrigeration and emissions       of refrigerants (which       are potent greenhouse gases) from poorly-maintained soft drinks dispensers       [f].
The initial       product, cooled by refrigerant release, was banned by the then UK       Department of the       Environment (DoE) in 1998 because of its disproportionate contribution to       climate change.
A more       environmentally benign form, chilling through release of carbon dioxide       adsorbed onto activated       carbon produced from organic waste, was then proposed by the company.
DoE       agreed to lift the       ban on the express condition that an LCA was undertaken, by Surrey       researchers, that showed it       to be no worse than conventional refrigeration.
Surrey researchers have       subsequently worked       with the Joseph Company applying LCA and systems methods to re-design the       chilling system       and the supply chain.
ChillCan was launched in Spring 2012 as an       environmental "disruptive       technology", winning two major industry awards: Editor's Choice Award for       Packaging Design at       Supply Side West (the leading international food and beverage exposition       in Las Vegas) and Best       Package 2012 by the beverage industry's stalwart publication, The Beverage       Industry [g].
