     1.
Distribution mains     During the 1990s and early 2000s, the extent of leakage for the TWUL       small diameter pipe network of some 8000 km was well known, and highly       criticised, and the company had considerable difficulties in trying to       reduce leakage using traditional `find and fix' activities.
However, based       on the research work carried at Surrey, TWUL was able to submit proposals       to Ofwat which explained why it was necessary to replace significant       quantities of London's Victorian mains, in order to reduce the loss of       water &#8212; clearly linked to deterioration in asset condition.
The resulting       Victorian Mains Replacement (VMR) programme was a major factor in TWUL       being able to achieve its leakage targets over recent years, vindicating       the under-pinning research and bringing direct benefit to the environment       (through reduced water loss and associated impacts), TWUL's customers       (through reduced disruption from `find and fix' activities) and TWUL       itself.
The impact began in the `run-up' to PR04 &#8212; which led to approval       by Ofwat for the VMR programme &#8212; continued through AMP4 (2005 to 2010)       with delivery of the VMR programme and is continuing into the future       through the Distribution Mains Replacement (DMR) programme which aims to       identify, and replace, selected cohorts of pipes in `poor' condition.
2.
Trunk Mains     Whilst the failure of small diameter pipes has limited (local) impact,       trunk main failure results in a loss of water supply to thousands of       customers and can have significant (life-threatening) impact on the       surrounding environment through the flooding of underground assets such as       basements and sewers and associated closure of transport systems.
There       are some 300 - 400 failures per year in the London trunk main network and       it is particularly difficult to control the risks reactively as much of       the damage occurs immediately after pipe failure.
The work undertaken at       Surrey has improved the ability to both identify, and reduce, the risk of       trunk main failures.
However, it is very difficult to justify major       capital investment (and cost to customers) based on the consequence of       failure alone.
For a true reduction in risk, and control it at acceptable       levels, it is necessary to understand the causes of failure.
Such       understanding underpins the ability to predict the likelihood of failure       at any location enabling improved asset management so that TWUL can take       appropriate actions.
The underlying research at Surrey to address this       issue, starting in 2005 in collaboration with National Research Centre of       Canada (NRC), was to enable TWUL to provide Ofwat with a credible plan as       part of the PR09 submission, to achieve:-     i.
Initial risk reduction / mitigation during AMP5 (2010 to 2015) and     ii.
Production of suitable tools and processes to achieve on-going risk       reduction for future AMP rounds (2015 onwards).
Under this collaboration, the research focussed on the probability of       failure, based essentially on the extent of loading on pipes (NRC) and       their resistance (University of Surrey).
The results and understanding       gained from the research were used to support TWUL's PR09 submission for       trunk mains, which Ofwat rated as `Commendable' and led to additional       spend being made available for investment in targeted main rehabilitation       and replacement.
The new thinking that has been developed by the academic team in       collaboration with industry is being used by TWUL to both modify their       asset assessment and management techniques and to develop their case with       the regulator for the targeted replacement of high risk trunk main.
The       beneficiaries are again Thames Water's customers &#8212; who will ultimately be       subject to fewer interruptions in supply &#8212; and other stakeholders in       London and throughout the Thames region &#8212; who will be subject to less       disruption.
The guiding principles developed for management of risk are       also being viewed by other Water companies and were taken into the       principles adopted by UKWIR (UK Water Research).
Surrey's research has been, and continues to be, used by the network       operator, TWUL.
By gaining scientific credibility for their arguments with       the regulator, it has had direct impact on the company's ability to secure       substantial additional investment in both distribution and trunk mains.
According to one source (c):     "The resilience of ageing infrastructure is a serious problem for the         water industry.
Large programmes of pipe replacement based on simple         criteria such as age or consequence of failure, would result in a highly         disruptive and vastly expensive solutions.
We need to develop the tools         and processes to enable us to carefully target investment that will         result in reductions in risk down to acceptable levels at reasonable         cost and with minimal disruption.
The research carried at the University         of Surrey over the past 16 years has been a significant factor for both         distribution and trunk mains, in the development of such tools."
