     Guildford-based Modern Water plc is a spin-out from the University of       Surrey specialising in       desalination and water treatment.
Prof Adel Sharif developed the       desalination technology in the       University of Surrey and 5 patent families were filed between 2003 and       2006.
The University, its       Seed Fund and a Brian Mercer award from the Royal Society, with others       (altogether &#163;455,000)       funded early proof of concept and commercialisation, and external       investors including the IP Group       followed with &#163;685,000.
IP Group led the flotation on AIM (London Stock       Exchange) in 2007 raising       &#163;30m in cash and with a market value of &#163;70m with Surrey's desalination       technology being the       cornerstone of the flotation.
Modern Water plc.
has offices in the UK,       Middle East and China and       employs 52 staff, with a turnover of &#163;3.7 million (2012).
The company has       plans for further       expansion.
The company provides successful desalination plants in       Gibraltar and Oman based on       Surrey's Manipulated/Forward Osmosis (FO) technology.
Gibraltar     The plant in Gibraltar produced its first drinking water in September       2008.
Having operated over 3       years it has proved that FO has solved the well documented problems of       membrane fouling that       have existed for over 50 years.
FO also scored the highest Coefficient of       Desalination Reality       (CDR) index of 8.9 of all new technologies in the sector in an independent       study by Global Water       Intelligence; (c).
Oman     A further plant opened in Oman in 2009 with a capacity of 100 m3/day,       operating in the harshest       conditions, with both very poor quality water intake and very high       salinity.
Nonetheless it is       producing the highest quality desalinated water (&lt;120 mg/l TDS) very       low in boron, with 42%       energy saving; (note; in less harsh conditions the FO process achieves       over 30% energy saving)       as well as other lower operating costs because of reduced chemical usage       and no membrane       cleaning or replacement (k).
In July 2011 Modern Water (l) won a competitive tender in Oman for       a third commercial FO plant       with a capacity of 200 m3/day.
The plant was successfully       commissioned in September 2012 and       has since been providing the public with high quality water at a       reasonable cost.
A recent BBC       Business News report on this latest Modern Water plant showed how happy       the local people are       with the quality of water; one of the villagers commented that they only       started to drink desalinated       water when the new FO plant opened whereas before they used to buy bottled       water.
The plant       has a much lower environmental impact compared to conventional reverse       osmosis and thermal       desalination plants thereby improving on measures of sustainability.
In December 2012, a framework agreement was signed between Modern Water       and Hangzhou       Water, a leader in the desalination industry in China.
Hangzhou Water has       a 60% share in the       Chinese desalination market.
The framework agreement will allow both       organisations to jointly       identify and develop projects in China, including seawater desalination       plants and other water-related       opportunities.
In February 2013 Modern Water raised a further &#163;10m from a share       placement, the company       maintains a research collaboration with the University of Surrey that has       produced a further six       desalination-related patents.
Professor Sharif and Modern Water were the winners of the       Energy/Environmental award of the       pan-European Enterprise ACES Award at the Royal Academy of Engineering in       Stockholm on 2       December 2008 for their innovative development of water purification using       desalination       technologies.
The University of Surrey won the Queen's Anniversary Prize       for the water research       in which Prof. Sharif's work has played a major role.
