     For a long time, police responses to crime reduction have focused on       catching offenders.
This is partly due to the perception that the timing       and location of crime events is not predictable and, even if it were, the       police and others have commonly questioned the idea that place-based       strategies actually reduce crime, assuming that crimes prevented at one       location will simply be `displaced' to others.
More generally, the       practical value of academic research in policing has often been questioned       by practitioners.
However, our research on crime prediction has shown that       prediction is possible and practicable, our systematic review of research       concerned with crime displacement has dispelled the myth that place-based       crime prevention merely displaces crime, and our applied research has       demonstrated the value of academic research in practice.
Through presentations at over 50 practitioner events (including the       Government of Alberta's 2007 international conference on crime reduction,       which informed [11]), our continuing professional development courses       (over 300 practitioners at 30 courses, 2008-2013), and participation on       advisory boards and direct knowledge transfer activities, our research has       challenged accepted wisdom and substantially influenced policy and         practitioner discourse.
Research has had substantial media coverage, which both reinforces and       demonstrates its influence on discourse.
This has included, for example,       articles in the New Scientist (3 May 2008, readership 736k per       issue), on the BBC News website (9 September 2011, &gt;160m page views per       month), and TV coverage on the BBC breakfast news (18 September 2012,       viewership ~1.1m) [1].
In the UK, research contributions to policy discussion and impact on       police action were recognised at every level.
Examples include:     - In May 2012, Chainey was called as expert witness by the       Parliamentary Select Committee on Public Accounts to provide evidence on       the use and impact of online crime mapping for their Implementation of the       Transparency Agenda.
His testimony led to the recommendation that they       publish better quality and more useable data [2].
- An independent report from Her Majesty's Inspectorate of Constabularies       (HMIC) acknowledged SCS research as the basis for pioneering work       employing predictive mapping; a Police Federation article noted our       research has informed police practice; while Johnson's       participation on advisory panels led to an invited contribution in 2012 to       HMIC briefing materials for newly elected Police Crime Commissioners on       what works to reduce crime [3].
- The UK College of Policing (formerly the National Police Improvement       Agency, NPIA), for whom Johnson contributed to the 2012 NPIA       Masterclass on predictive policing, argue that our work has directly       changed the way the police perform hotspot analyses in practice,       stimulated debate on how this analysis can be effectively used, challenged       conventional wisdom held by those in law enforcement concerning (say)       crime displacement, and informed the future of predictive crime analysis       [4].
- Locally, in addition to the changes of practice described below,       Greater Manchester Police note that departmental research has changed       police attitudes to the value of academic research [5].
The global reach of this influence is demonstrated by:     - Discussion of our research in the 2012 Digest of the International       Association of Crime Analysts (members in 47 countries) focusing on key       academic work on hot-spots policing, and in an Australian Institute of       Criminology (a government agency) brief on using geographical analysis to       prevent crime [6].
- In the United States, the National Institute for Justice recognised the       importance of our work by funding Professor Jerry Ratcliffe (Temple       University, $95k) to develop "the near repeat calculator" [7] which       implements some of the algorithms developed as part of our research.
Research at SCS has influenced police practice in the UK and police         forces internationally, as well as community groups concerned with         neighbourhood security.
This has led to reduced crime in target         areas, and initiatives have subsequently been extended or imitated       elsewhere.
In the UK, based on our research and with support from departmental staff       [5], Greater Manchester Police (GMP) implemented a predictive mapping       approach to help reduce burglary in Trafford (population 226,578) [5] in       2010.
Predictive maps are used to direct police patrols and, where       feasible, staff from other agencies not usually engaged in crime reduction       (e.g.
police driving instructors, and the fire service) to provide       guardianship where (and when) it is predicted to be most needed.
This       innovative and successful intervention was recognised by the HMIC as       having scope for wider adoption [8].
Evaluation results [5] show a 38%       reduction in burglary (471 fewer victims of burglary) in the area of       implementation over a two-year interval.
Inspired by departmental research       [e] on other crimes, GMP extended the approach to other high volume       offences, reporting a 29% reduction in theft from motor vehicle       [5].
These projects were recognised internationally: the team were       finalists in the US Goldstein Problem Oriented Policing awards 2012, and       nominated by the Home Office for the 2012 European Crime Prevention       awards.
Similar interventions have been implemented elsewhere with comparable       results.
For example, in 2012 in North West Leeds (population 321,000),       which had previously experienced the highest burglary rate in the country,       West Yorkshire police reported a 48% decrease in burglary accompanied by       increased public confidence in the police [9].
Other UK police forces       implemented similar approaches in 2008-2013, including Kent, West Mercia,       and the Metropolitan police.
In North Lincolnshire, with Home Office funding and assistance from Johnson,       the Safer Neighbourhoods Team developed the Vigilance Modeller, a software       application based on Bowers and Johnson's early predictive       mapping work.
This is used to prioritise areas for crime prevention in       North Lincolnshire (population 167,400) and it was distributed to over 400       community safety partnerships in the UK in 2010.
Initially developed for       use by community safety teams (not the police), in 2011 this software was       used by Humberside Police to catch a prolific burglary team [10].
The reach of these impacts has been expanded overseas both directly and       through research by others.
Community safety organisations implemented       successful interventions based on our work.
In Edmonton (Canada) a Neighbourhood Empowerment Team (NET) developed the       Notification of Community Crime (NOCC) intervention to increase community       empowerment to reduce crime.
As part of the programme, youth volunteers       visit burglary victims and their neighbours to deliver crime prevention       advice and kits.
Following recommendations from departmental research,       teams deliver advice and kits as swiftly as possible.
First implemented in       2009, this intervention is ongoing in three NET neighbourhoods and had "a       substantial impact on rates of residential burglary" &#8212; e.g.
reducing       burglary by 66% in a six-month interval in the Bonnie Doon NET area (pop.
5000) [11].
Following invited presentations by Bowers (an update of [b]) and       Johnson (a version of [f]) in Jan 2007, researchers at UCLA       published an article on predictive mapping in 2011 that built on our work       on crime prediction (citing 4 of our papers including [b,f,c] seven times       in the article).
This led to a US spin out company (predpol.com) that has       developed commercially available predictive mapping software, grounded in       the principles set out in our research [a,b,e,f].
Their algorithm refined       our approach by incorporating an estimate of the time-stable risk of crime       at locations (discussed in [b,f]) and better calibrating the way in which       the risk of crime is predicted to spread (see [f]).
Use of this product by       the police is reported to have resulted in crime reductions of 14% and 27%       respectively in areas of Los Angeles and Santa Cruz [12].
