     One of just two interferon-gamma release assays (IGRAs) recommended by       the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention6 the T-SPOT test       has had a significant impact on the accuracy of TB diagnosis worldwide       since its commercial release in 2004.
Accurate Diagnosis:     The ability to diagnose TB more rapidly, specifically and sensitively       than the alternative TST method is a major impact of the T-SPOT test1       7 8.
The TST method of diagnosis involves injecting an extract       of TB into a patients skin, waiting two to three days2, then       examining the skin for lesions &#8212; with an inflamed lesion indicating       exposure to TB.
Diagnosing TB with the T-SPOT test is faster, easier to       administer, and easier to read than the TST method7.
By taking a small blood sample from the patient, the T-SPOT test can give       a result in under 24 hours1.
The T-SPOT test is also easy to       read and, because it measures cell numbers, it is highly quantitative.
In       contrast, the TST test is frequently difficult to interpret, particularly       in patients where the swelling is difficult to read, such as children with       sensitive skin9 or patients with conditions like rheumatic       disease (which can cause skin swelling)10.
Interpretation of       the TST test is a significant issue, particularly for doctors in developed       countries, who are less experienced in examining the skin lesions produced       by the TST method.
By using proteins that are specific to TB infection,       rather than BCG, the T-SPOT test is more effective than the TST method in       distinguishing between patients infected with TB and those who have simply       been vaccinated 1,11.
The T-SPOT test is also far more       accurate than the TST method in identifying individuals who have latent TB       infection5,12 .
Policy and Guidelines:     The commercial availability and superior diagnostic value of the T-SPOT       test has had an impact on global health policy and guidelines.
Since its       commercial approval in 2004 the T-SPOT test has been included in TB       control guidelines in the USA (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)       and Europe, with more than 20 countries now recommending the T-SPOT test       to diagnose and screen patients for TB infection6 13.
In 2011       the UK National Institute for Health and Clinical     Excellence (NICE) updated their guidelines on control and prevention,       recommending interferon- gamma release assays, such as the T-SPOT test,       for use in a number of diagnostic situations14, including:             In a TB outbreak, when large numbers of individuals need to be         screened;        For migrants between 16 and 34 years of age, coming from high         incidence countries;        Patients who suffer from immunodeficiency;        NHS employees who have had contact with patients in a high incidence         setting; and        For individuals who have been vaccinated against TB, and those who         have tested positive in a TST test.
Commercialisation and Reach:     Manufactured by Oxford Immunotec Ltd, the T-SPOT.TB test was       commercially approved for sale in Europe in 2004.
T-SPOT.TB sales       have substantially increased since their first year on the market, growing       from 2,000 tests sold in 2004 to 500,000 in 2011.
While the cost of the       T-SPOT.
TB test is &#163;30, in comparison to the TST (which is sold       for around &#163;2), the accuracy of the T-SPOT.TB test effectively       eliminates wasted resources in following up patients with false positive       TST results, avoiding greater costs related to the treatment of TB in       those who receive false negative TST results15.
Tests have been       sold predominately to developed countries such as the USA, Germany, UK,       Switzerland and France, and have been requested by clinicians from a       variety of specialties including: pulmonology, occupational health, public       health and infectious disease15.
