     As many as 200,000 people living in Britain may have fallen victim to       online romance scams &#8212; mass market fraud where criminals set up fake       identities using stolen photographs (often of models or army officers) &#8212;       and pretend to become romantically involved with their victim.
At some       point during the `relationship' &#8212; which is often conducted via dating and       social networking sites &#8212; the fraudsters claim to be in urgent need of       money.
Many scam victims have been persuaded to part with large sums       before their suspicions are aroused.
Law enforcement agencies believe that this type of crime often goes       unreported; usually because victims feel embarrassed at being duped and       sometimes because victims still hope the relationship might turn out to be       genuine.
According to SOCA's [text removed for publication] Senior Manager for       Fraud Prevention, some victims "have lost nearly every penny they had,       been robbed of their self-respect, and in some cases, committed suicide       after being exploited, relentlessly, by these criminals''.
University of Leicester research has played a key role in work in       identifying the scale of this problem and developing effective strategies       for supporting victims and preventing the crime.
Training     Training packages for the police (2011-2012): Findings from the       University's research were incorporated into police training packages       designed to improve `public protection' in areas such as Child Abuse,       Trafficking, Stalking and Fraud.
First responders, CID and Fraud Academy       officers were also issued with guidelines &#8212; tested in a UK court case &#8212; on       how to treat victims of this particular crime.
London City Police National Fraud Course (2012 &#8212; ongoing): This       three-week intensive course trains groups of 30-50 police in how to deal       with fraud.
In 2012 and 2013 Whitty presented her research in two training       sessions and provided suggestions on how police might better deal with       victims of online romance scams (e.g.
by considering transference effect,       psychological impact and re-victimisation).
Co-operation with law enforcement bodies     Metropolitan Police Operation Podium (2012-2013): A criminal residing in       the UK was brought to trial and eventually pleaded guilty to conspiracy to       commit fraud by misrepresentation.
Some 62 victims were identified       (including 18 women willing to assist police with prosecution), from       America, Canada and Trinidad and Tobago.
Using her project's findings, Whitty advised the Metropolitan Police on       how best to debrief the victims and gave on-going support for an       international prosecution.
Victims were frequently in denial initially and       needed encouragement to accept that the relationship had been fraudulent,       as well as the support which their families could not always give.
Whitty advised on support agencies in the victims' countries, and alerted       police to the `transference effect'; an effect where a female victim       transfers the romantic feelings she had for the criminal on to the male       officer dealing with her case.
In the light of Whitty's advice (and the       fact that transference among three victims had been going unrecognised by       police), a female family liaison officer was deployed to deal with these       victims.
The judge's sentencing decision was informed by Whitty's report.
Ghana prosecution by the Serious Organised Crime Agency         (2011-ongoing): Whitty collaborated with SOCA in preparing victims       appearing in a dating scam court case in Ghana.
The prosecution team draw       on the research's findings to refute defence arguments that the victims       were `mentally unstable' and therefore to blame.
Establishment of the Economic Crime Unit (for new National Crime         Agency) (2012): Whitty and three other UK academics provided       suggestions based on the research on appropriate priorities for the new       Economic Crime Unit established in 2013.
Whitty suggested that the Unit       should investigate re-victimisation and the phenomenon of victims turning       to crime to recoup their losses.
International Mass Marketing Fraud Working Group (2011-ongoing):       This group consists of representatives of law enforcement agencies       worldwide (e.g., Serious Organised Crime Agency, FBI, Federal Trade       Authority, Secret Service, the Royal Canadian Mounted Police, Netherlands       Police, the Queensland Police, Ghanaian police and Nigerian Police).
Its       members exchange information on mass marketing fraud and on strategies to       prevent it.
Whitty is the only academic representative and has presented       her work to the group on several occasions.
Her input has helped to       develop strategies on how to prevent online romance scams and support its       victims (for example, advising on the stages involved, prevention       messages, which victims need to be considered as vulnerable and on what       type of support victims need).
Victim Support     Breaking news to victims and providing support: SOCA and Devon and Cornwall     police (2012-2013): Research revealed that those individuals who have been     scammed often become repeat victims and lack the social support typically     available to victims of other crimes.
SOCA initiated a trial to determine     the best way to break the news to potential victims and support those who     had fallen prey to the crime, once they had accepted they were victims.
With     Whitty's help SOCA sent letters to 50 victims in one geographical area in     the hope of preventing them from sending money to the scammers.
All victims     were encouraged to attend a meeting with SOCA, the police, Victim Support     and Whitty.
The five who attended, along with close friends and carers, were     informed about the scam.
A peer support group was formed and all but one of     the victims who attended the event continued sending money.
Raising public awareness and understanding     Whitty and [text removed for publication] have made several appearances       on radio and TV including BBC Breakfast, Today, The One Show and You've       Been Scammed).
At one point, the findings made third spot on the BBC News       website and, surveys carried out by Whitty before and after the media       coverage, revealed that public awareness had significantly increased (48%       to 52% via television; 11%-15% via radio).
Whitty receives approximately       two emails a week from victims thanking her for media appearances and for       helping to improve understanding of romance scams.
