     The research described above has reached policy makers at the highest       level across a range of       global organisations and has had a clear influence on policy reform.
It       can be shown to have had       "impacts on public policy", by "shaping and influencing policy made by"       the IMF, the European       Central Bank and the Bank of Canada, "stimulating and influencing policy       debate by research       evidence" leading to a "change in policy direction" and "implementation",       and "enabling a challenge       to conventional wisdom".
In the period since 2008 the IMF has reformed its lending facilities, by       introducing a Flexible Credit       Line and by modifying the range of facilities through which it assists low       income countries,       introducing the Poverty Reduction and Growth Trust, the Extended Credit       Facility, the Standby       Credit Facility and the Rapid Credit Facility.
It has also significantly       increased its lending capacity       (recognizing that its catalytic effect is actually nuanced and muted) and       approved an additional       allocation of Special Drawing Rights.
These reforms have been intended to       improve country       ownership and the implementation of programmes.
Our research has had a       clear and significant       impact on these policy changes.
These are exemplified by the following       detailed examples:     (a) impact on changes in the IMF's policy towards the catalytic       effects of its lending     (b) impact on changes in the IMF's policy towards conditionality     (c) impact on changes in the IMF's policy on debt sustainability     (d) impact on stimulating policy debates within the IMF, ECB and       central banks such as the Bank       of Canada     (a) Impact on changes in the IMF's policy towards the catalytic           effect of its lending     Since 2008, the IMF has evaluated when its lending benefits recipients (a       `catalytic effect').
[C2]       describes our research here as exerting "significant impact on IMF       thinking" about programmes       and implementation since 2008.
The testimony highlights several papers,       especially paper (5),       which "challenged the conventional view" originally within the IMF that       its programs had a positive       catalytic effect.
It "contributed significantly to modifying the Fund's       approach ... and its views       regarding the adequacy of its resources", resulting in a series of reforms       over recent years (listed       above) and substantial increases in the Fund's lending capacity.
Testimony in [C3] cites Bird's research as having had "a particular       influence" on the Fund's       approach to the catalytic effect of lending programmes.
The finding that       this effect was often       insignificant (or even negative) "played a key part in [the] shift in       policy" towards increasing its       programmes "enormously".
The impact of our work on the catalytic effect of aid is also apparent       beyond the IMF.
This is       confirmed by [C5], which also comments that "Reforms since 2008 that have       sought to expand the       Fund's lending capacity... reflects the impact" of our research.
(b) Impact on changes in the IMF's policy towards conditionality     Since 2008 the IMF has "overhauled" (according to [C1]) its guidelines on       the conditions       accompanying its funding (`conditionality').
Our role here is evident from       [C1], which describes       research led by Bird as "contributing to the debate on these issues within       the Fund", with the       change of policy coming "as a result".
[C5] confirms this impact: "Further       modifications to       conditionality that are in the spirit of a more parsimonious approach have       been made in the period       since 2008 and have been significantly influenced by the debates that       Bird's research helped       stimulate."
(c) Impact on changes in the IMF's policy towards debt           sustainability and low income countries     An important issue at the IMF since 2008 has been strengthening its role       in low income countries       (LICs) and reforms have been introduced to change the portfolio of lending       facilities and       substantially increase the resources available for LICs.
[C4] cites papers       (2) and (3) as being       "important in helping to inform the policy debate" before stating that       paper (6) "led [in 2009] to Bird       being asked to participate in a project supervised by the Assistant       Director of the IMF's Strategy       and Policy Review Department, which focused on the Fund's role in economic       development."
This       was designed to provide an informed basis for the design of future policy       and "exerted an important       impact on thinking at the Fund" (see [C4]) in terms of the Fund's recent       transition from a `financing'       role towards a `facilitating' one in relation to LICs.
(d) Impact on stimulating policy debates within the IMF, ECB and           central banks including           the Bank of Canada     In the above instances, our research can be directly related to specific       changes in IMF       programmes but testimony also confirms that this research is valued for       its impact on thinking       within the Fund more broadly (see [C2] and [C4]) and outside it ([C5] and       [C6]).
Thus, [C2]       remarks that "Altogether Bird's research is highly respected at the IMF.
It has always stimulated       debate within the institution and, in the period since 2008 (as it did       before), has exerted an       important impact on the direction that reform has taken."
Further, outside       the IMF, [C6] comments       that, "Bird's research has informed and stimulated debate in the ECB ...       and has thus helped to       shape policy debates within the ECB, including on the design of policy and       the direction of policy       reform."
