     This research's main impact is Economic, Commercial and           Organizational.
The Surrey       researchers have applied their network algorithms to healthcare provider       Message Dynamics'       database of 10,000 pharmacy dispensing records to survey and track       patients' adherence with       medicine compliance when supported by a mobile communication device.
Director of Message Dynamics, states that this "was the first study in       the United Kingdom to use       the dispensing records of retail pharmacies to quantify the level of       patient non-adherence to their       medication.
It showed that adherence could be significantly improved by       the simple intervention of       reminder calls" (published interview, Chemist and Druggist,       08/04/2010).
The company reports that       the study resulted "in a significant overall improvement in patient       compliance and that there was a       reduction in wastage.
.
.
.
.
compliance improved in virtually every       therapy class and the       improvement in Statins compliance was particularly marked" (published       Company Statement).
The       company commends the research as a demonstration of evidence-based       business development,       leading to upgraded training for their account managers to help them       articulate the economic       benefits of their services and to a change in the configuration of their       software to make the       innovation available to over 5,000 community pharmacies throughout the       United Kingdom.
Director, stated in an interview for the PJO (the official journal       of the Royal Pharmaceutical Society       of Great Britain; 06/04/2010) that changes resulting directly from the       Surrey research would result       in a &#163;70,000 pa benefit to the company.
The company estimates that adopting this approach has improved patients'       adherence by 14%.
By       improving patients' compliance, this project will yield financial benefits       in terms of a reduction in       wastage on prescription drugs and reduced call on health practitioners       resulting from better       outcomes due to better compliance.
Chief Officer of Hampshire and Isle of       Wight LPC, commented       on the value of this study: "Sometimes commissioners have to go on blind       faith that we can deliver       a service.
We need to create more evidence .
.
.
It's very powerful"       (published statement, Chemist         and Druggist, 08/04/2010).
By improving patient outcomes through       better compliance also       suggests impact in terms of Health and Welfare.
The       demonstrated initial 14% increase of       patient's adherence to prescribed medicines was acknowledged by recent       Department of Health       scrutiny of drug dispensing practices in the UK, resulting in three NHS       funding awards to further       develop and extend the system for the NHS.
In terms of Reach,       the project has been trialled       regionally and is likely to extend to national coverage.
In 2012 Message       Dynamics was awarded       Department of Health funding to develop this service to provide Automated       Medicines Adherence       Triage (prototyping trials currently underway).
Given this potential reach       across the NHS, the       Significance of the project is likely to extend well beyond       the evidence-based improvements       reported from the initial regional testing, resulting in considerable       scope for cost-savings for the       NHS and improved performance and growth for the company.
In addition, SEHTA has used this research-base to produce a commercial       searchable database       (driven by the researchers' network algorithms) for its members, allowing       them to identify sources       of R&amp;D funding and liaise with successful funding recipients over       possible collaborations.
This       product was launched in 2011 and provides a resource for optimising       communication between       funding bodies, health care businesses and providers, pharmaceutical       companies and R&amp;D bodies       in the quest to secure funding for new products and service innovations       (see 4 below).
