     Types of Impact.
The research has had impact in three of the areas highlighted by MP C.     i.
Economic, commercial, organizational.
The research was       sponsored by PwC and has been       incorporated into their consulting practices (as detailed under the next       heading).
In addition,       as a world-leading consulting corporation these practices are also       disseminated into the       major international clients they serve.
According to a PwC Partner: "The       research has been       presented extensively to clients, non-executive directors, policy-makers,       regulators and       shareholders.
We have run over a dozen dedicated client workshops based       around this       research" (letter available as evidence).
In addition to PWC, their       competitor Towers       Watson have also used this research in advising FTSE 100 companies "on the       design of       performance share plans to reward executives in relation to sustained       performance .
.
.
across all economic sectors" (past president of CIPD, former director       Towers Watson until       2011; evidence letter).
They also report that Hermes Fund managers have       incorporated       findings into their new policy on executive remuneration within the       companies in which they       invest.
Given the truly international scope of the corporations adopting       these results, there       is indication of global reach.
ii.
Practitioners and professional services.
Here the focus is on       the changes to specific       remuneration advisory practices.
In the past president of CIPD's evidence       letter, reports       that the Chartered Institute of Personnel and Development (the UK's       professional HR       association) "is currently using this research in a review of its current       advice to its 135,000       members on executive remuneration practice".
A PwC Partner in Australia       details how the       research has been used in training PwC consultants, representing "an       important alternative       perspective to current consulting practices"; this team of 60 HR       professionals work "with       senior business leaders from the largest businesses and government       agencies in Australia       and Asia Pacific" (evidence letter).
Reporting that senior remuneration       professionals are       using this study as an internal training tool for their corporate       remuneration teams.
iii.
Public policy, law and services.
The study has featured in       recent consultation and resulting       Impact Assessment and Policy Option documents developed by the UK       Department of       Business, Innovation and Skills (http://www.bis.gov.uk/assets/biscore/business-law/docs/i/12-889-improved-transparency-executive-remuneration-impact.pdf;       http://www.bis.gov.uk/Consultations/directors-pay-revised-remuneration-reporting-regulations).
This       resulted in a draft statutory instrument: The Large and Medium-sized       Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports) (Amendment) Regulations 2012.
Reach and Significance.
Its reach, as indicated above, has been truly global as a       result of its adoption and practice by       world-leading consulting companies.
As PwC's representative confirms:       "Tailored launches of the       report have been conducted across the PwC network in the UK, Australia,       Switzerland, US, South       Africa, India, amongst others and a specialist financial services version       has been produced"       (evidence letter).
Similarly, PwC's representative (Australia) reports       that `the study has reached a       wide audience from the Australian business community and that it attracted       media exposure in       Australia's leading business press [Sydney Morning Herald], including       publications in Fairfax Media       Online and print editions which have unduplicated readership of       approximately 2.1 million people"       (evidence letter).
The work has also been cited three times in the FT.
Finally, the evidence from       Ms Wright (above) indicates that there is significant reach into the HR       community in the UK and       beyond with concomitant impact on the organizations served by these       professionals.
In terms of significance, the widespread adoption of the       research findings has been attributed by       users to its provision of novel insights, underpinned by a robust research       technique and translated       into timely and actionable recommendations.
This is well summarised by Mr       Gosling: "The       research has enabled us to draw some very practical conclusions and design       recommendations.
This is in contrast to much academic research on executive pay.
These       design recommendations       are influencing our consulting work with clients.
.. the weight that       proper academic research brings       has been important in facilitating the `penny dropping' thereby changing       points of view.
Through       being involved with the research and drawing out its implications we have       cemented our position       as the leading advisory firm in this area" (evidence letter).
