     The research has had impact in three of the areas highlighted by Main       Panel C.     i) Economic, commercial, organizational.
The research was       undertaken within Tilda Ltd with a       view to improving their growth and competitiveness internationally.
In       technical terms the KTP       brought innovation into Tilda's production planning and control by       providing a model to meet       diverse customer portfolios.
This reduced inventories by 35%, decreased       stock holding by       15%, increased customer availability to 99%, improved service levels by       over 5% and       produced savings of 25% in working capital.
It also enhanced supplier       relationships and       performance by aligning supply and demand, creating a more `customer       focussed' supply       chain (Tilda Evidence Letter; KTP Report).
The new methodology provided a       robust and       comprehensive understanding of the capabilities, value, scope of analysis       and techniques       relevant to Tilda's future growth.
This is evidenced by the following       statement from the Head of       Supply Chain:     "Tilda has seen the exchange with the leading academics at the University       of Surrey       delivering real value to our business in terms of service level       improvements, personnel       development and supply chain management knowledge gained.
We would highly       recommend       such collaborations between industry and academia to other firms" (Tilda       Evidence Letter).
ii) Practitioners and professional services.
The research, as part       of the KTP structure, provided       the company with research skills, training and access to cutting-edge       theories that have now       become embedded in company practices (KTP Report).
According to the, Head       of Supply       Chain: "The knowledge we acquired as part of the KTP .
.
.
had a       significant impact on the       ways we managed and planned our production and inventories.
Not only did       the training of the       production planner bring new and innovative approaches to our logistics .
.
.
it also delivered       an improved operational performance' (Tilda Evidence letter).
In addition       to these concrete       impacts the company also report gains of a more intangible kind.
These       included better       engagement with key stakeholders ensuring better buy-in and support from       across the       business, enabling the roll-out of the project on a company-wide basis, a       project team able to       understand concerns and issues with the new approach before going live,       and "an invaluable       platform for the business to test and modify solutions before moving to       full implementation"       (KTP Report).
One of the internal sponsors of the KTP at Tilda       subsequently moved to a new       company and embedded the model there to good effect &#8212; see below.
The       project has also       added to the capabilities within Surrey Business School and has allowed       the verification of a       theoretical model that can now be applied to other organizations in       complex fast-growth       situations.
iii) Impacts on the Environment.
One consequence of this research       was an improvement in waste       management for Tilda.
It has also led to improved inventory management and       supply logistics.
In both cases there is a positive impact on the environment from more       efficient use of       resources and transportation.
Reach and Significance     The research has validated an innovative supply chain methodology that       has considerable       potential for fast-growth companies in complex environments.
We are now       moving to increase the       reach of this model.
For instance, a key sponsor of the research at Tilda,       moved to a new       company, Molecular Products, where , as production manager, he has applied       the model       developed at Tilda with considerable success:     The results have been dramatic with lead times of products being reduced       by 10 weeks in the first       six months and a further two weeks in the following six" (MP Evidence       Letter).
The results from Tilda and Molecular Products suggest that this       innovation has potential for       considerable significance.
If these savings are replicated (inventories       reduced by over 30%;       service quality increased by 5%; etc.)
it will go a considerable way to       assisting the Government's       target of improved SME growth by addressing supply chain effectiveness.
(http://www.bis.gov.uk/assets/biscore/enterprise/docs/e/12-1196-exploring-how-smes-interact-with-large-businesses).
