     The various strands of the underpinning research had an impact on a wide       range of actors: the UN,       the OECD and TI &#8212; UK.
It not only contributed to and influenced policy and       law making on the part       of international organisations, but also the methodology and content of       questionnaires and surveys       conducted by CSOs.
The research has also been cited in various documents       published by       UNDESA and the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) informing       discussion in       international organisations that led to policy making and recommendations       (see section 5).
Following is a list of the impacts achieved.
Impact on Policy     Findings of the analysis of the OECD Convention were conveyed to the OECD       in the consultation       document (see (a) section 5).
The researchers were invited to the OECD       Working Group on       Bribery held in June 2008, and discussion of the consultation documents       and verbal inputs in this       meeting resulted in the adoption of a Recommendation (now attached to the       OECD Convention)       which addresses some of the gaps including the need for due diligence       mechanisms to be adopted       by companies.
The email from the OECD states "On Thursday, 26       November,[2009] the new       Recommendation for Further Combating Bribery of Foreign Public         Officials in International         Business Transactions was adopted by the OECD Council.
...This is a       major milestone in our effort       to end foreign bribery and to create a stronger, fairer and cleaner world       economy.
This success       would not have been possible without your valued input as we prepared the       Recommendation...Thank you again for your invaluable assistance.
This is       an achievement we can all be proud of"       (see (b) in section 5).
All 40 countries have agreed to put in place new       measures adopted in the       2009 Anti-Bribery Recommendation which will reinforce their efforts to       prevent, detect and       investigate foreign bribery.
The research outputs of Carr and Carr &amp; Outhwaite, informed the       background paper `Regulatory       Quality Improvements for Preventing Bribery in Public Administration: A       Capacity Building       Perspective' written by UNDESA's Inter-regional Advisor (see (c) in       section 5) to inform and       stimulate discussion at UNDESA's Ad Hoc Expert Group Meeting on Preventing       Corruption in       Public Administration: Citizens Engagement for Improved Accountability and       Transparency'.
Carr       took part in this Meeting in June 2012 (see (d) in section 5).
The       recommendations from the expert       group discussions were subsequently fed into meetings on strengthening       capacities for       professionalism, ethics and integrity to prevent corruption in the public       service.
According to the       Inter-regional Advisor "[Dr Carr] helped us in the United Nations to make       progress in the       international agenda for fighting corruption .... [Her] participation ...       helped us project before the       international community the importance of rigorous research to feed       policy" (see (e) in section 5).
Impact on Surveys driving policy     Surveys play an important role in driving policy nationally and       internationally.
The questionnaire       content and design of the surveys conducted impacted on questionnaire       design and analysis for       three projects conducted by TI-UK during 2010 - 2011.
Carr took part from       the design to the       analysis stages in the three projects.
The first project was a survey of       Bribery in the UK, the       second was National Integrity Survey.
These surveys are published as       Corruption in UK Part One       National Opinion Survey (see (f) in section 5) and Corruption in the UK       Part Two &#8212; Assessment of       Key Sectors (see (g) in section 5) and Corruption in the UK Part Three &#8212;       National Integrity Survey.
The National Integrity Report was referenced in the new national strategy       on organised crime and       was discussed both in the House of Lords and the Welsh Assembly (see (h)       section 5).
TI's third project on Defence Companies Anti-Corruption Strategy resulted       in the first ever       Government Defence Anti-Corruption Index (see (i) in section 5).
According       to TI's Programme       Director "[Professor Indira Carr's] feedback was of high importance in       helping set the parameters       for the research for both indices, and in ensuring the resulting outputs       were clear and avoided       value-laden analysis.
Her advice also stressed the need for conceptual       clarity between the indices,       and pointed out that potential outputs might be able to bridge the two       pieces of work: an angle TI-DSP       is currently considering in greater depth.
Thus Professor Carr's advice       continues to influence       the work we are undertaking following the launch of the indices, just as       it influenced their       methodological development."
(see (j) in section 5).
