     The work undertaken on the law and practice of statutory nuisance has       been part of a process of engagement over the last 20 years with the       environmental health profession involving most local authorities engaged       in environmental health in England, Wales, Northern Ireland and Scotland.
The research has made an impact on judicial decision-making, government       policy, better enforcement procedures through the training of enforcement       officers thus contributing to the health and wellbeing of citizens.
Impact on judicial reasoning in noise cases (wind farms and theme           parks)     The research has impacted on the way in which judges have decided their       decisions remain good law.
These cases show the impact of the statutory       nuisance law where controversial planning decisions are made in areas such       as noisy wind farms, theme parks and recreational activities.
The effect       of such decisions is to make the planning process cautious about granting       decisions for such controversial developments as wind farms.
So, for example, in a case concerning the noise from 7 wind turbines near       Barrow-in-Furness, the judge cited the research:     `The learned authors of Malcolm &amp; Pointing, Statutory Nuisance &#8212; Law       and Practice state that the correct procedure is to lay an information and       that if, in error, a complaint is made, this may render any subsequent       proceedings a nullity (see para 16.31 and fn 58, p.
276).'
See (a) in 5       below.
In another case concerning noise made by the Alton Towers theme park, the       judge relied on the research as follows:     "I should perhaps add to that, helpfully set out in the written part of       the closing submissions of Mr Caplan, a passage from "Statutory Nuisance       Law and Practice, Oxford University Press" written, I assume, by Messrs       Malcolm and Pointing: 'Whereas to the lay person anything that annoys him       is a nuisance, the legal test for noise/nuisance is objective.
The noise       must be both excessive and unreasonable.'"
See (b) in 5 below.
Again, in a case concerning noise from racing motorcycles and cars the       research was cited in the closing submission of Counsel.
See (c) in 5       below.
Impact on Enforcement Practices     The research has impacted on the professionalism of the environmental       health services through the training of the enforcement professions in       conjunction with the CIEH, the core professional body described in section       2 above.
As stated by the (now) former President of the Chartered       Institute of Environmental Health, the research at Surrey has changed "the       way many local authority officers work as Statutory Nuisance has been a       neglected area of practise in recent years.
In those circumstances and       with all the cuts and changes in local government many officers have       forgotten having (or in some cases never known) how the legislation should       work.
I come across many misunderstandings and misconceptions up and down       the country.
I always refer them to your work when advising how the       provisions should be used and applied in their environmental health work.
It is apparent in my dealing with EHPs throughout the country that your       excellent work has changed the perception of how statutory nuisance should       operate and sometimes it has to be said, such that their own in-house       legal advisers have to be corrected."
See (d) in 5 below.
Impact on government policy on health and wellbeing     The research has had an impact on the way in which businesses operate.
This is through the impact the research has made on government policy on       health and well-being where it has been cited in government codes of       practice and consultation documents.
These all impact on the practice of       enforcement processes within local government.
These policy documents include nuisances from noise (for example, from       wind turbines), smells (such as from sewage farms), and artificial light       (from business and other premises).
The research is cited, for example in the Wind Farm Noise Statutory         Nuisance Complaint Methodology in relation to the economic impact of       the defence available only to business and industry in relation to wind       farm noise: `The origins of the defence were to prevent such interference       in the activities of the manufacturing and business classes as would have       harmful economic consequences'.
See (e) in 5 below.
In the government guidance on smell nuisance, the research is cited in       relation to the appeals procedure which industry can bring against an       order by the local authority to abate the nuisance.
See (f) in 5 below.
The research is also cited in the Noise Management Guide (Defra /       Chartered Institute of Environmental Health).
This draft is held online at       the request of the environmental health service and is a continuing       reference point till a final version is produced &#8212; see (g) below.
Further, local authorities have indicated the importance of the research       on health impacts: `... one LA specifically commented on a legal       reference.
The text on "prejudice to health" and "nuisance" in Malcolm       &amp; Pointing on "Statutory Nuisance Law and Practice" was said to be       useful.
See (h) in 5 below.
