     Each of the study days in the Focus on Style [5.3] series,       included a historical introduction on the selected school,       followed by a master class for young professionals, in which distinctive       features of each national `style' were explored practically.
As the scholar/choreographic expert in charge of the study day on the       Italian school, Dr Poesio was faced with the problem that little or       nothing was known until recently of that particular dance tradition.
In       agreement with the Artistic Director of the Royal Ballet School, it was       thus proposed to revise the given structure of each study day by including       practical sections in the historical introduction, in line with the       choreological historiography methodological approach Dr Poesio had used       for both the reconstruction/revival of the 1890 Sleeping Beauty       and the 1886 Italian ballet Amor.
The purpose of such inclusions,       namely never seen before extracts from a duet from Amor, was       twofold.
On the one hand, the reconstructed dance substantiated the       historical narrative researched and expounded by Dr Poesio, by showing       practical rendition of unique features of the Italian school, relating to       both training and dance making.
More significantly, the practical       demonstrations highlighted the already mentioned triangulation process       (see section 2) that Dr Poesio formulated when reconstructing or reviving       dance works.
Each section was thus performed first in its entirety and       then divided and performed again in sub-sections, to be examined in       detail, thus allowing the audience to partake in the proposed       historiographical process.
As such, the danced sections highlighted a       number of issues that had been long overlooked by dance scholars, as well       as exposing commonplaces that have long underpinned Western ballet       history.
Particularly significant, in this sense, was the way the duet's       structure and compared to what is erroneously believed to be the standard       composition of the ballet duet in the second half of the 19th       century &#8212; an aspect that was later to become central to the final Ballet         Evolves performance lecture discussed below.
Similarly,       well-established notions of gender in ballet were challenged by the       reconstruction of the long-lost duet and its historicisation, thus opening       new possibilities for research at international level.
Both prompted a       vibrant, audience-centred debate, which followed the showing of the duet.
The audience of the Focus on Style study day included 7 dance       choreographers/reconstructors (1 from France, 1 from Sweden and the rest       from the UK), 5 dance scholars from the UK, 45 dance teachers from diverse       European countries (32 from the UK, 7 from Italy, 4 from France), 6 dance       journalists and writers (1 from Germany, 1 from Italy and 4 from the UK),       three company directors (the Royal Ballet, English National Ballet and       Florence Opera House Ballet Company), two dance festival directors from       Italy, 25 dance students and 27 dance goers [5.3] Such an audience of       specialists and professionals was then invited to further explore issues       relating the Italian school by attending/participating into a master class       that occupied the second half of the study day.
Dr Poesio in collaboration       with Cara Drower, MA &#8212; Director of the Cecchetti Centre in London and       internationally renowned ballet mistress &#8212; devised the class in line with       the principles explored in the earlier section; as such it       contained explicit references to the choreographic elements highlighted by       reconstructed duet, which were thus offered to the participants to       experiment with.
The outcome of the event was thus three-fold as remarked by dance writer       Patricia Linton [5.4] in the international magazine Dancing Times.
Firstly, the event validated a particular approach to dealing with past       choreographic traditions, which, unlike other forms of reconstruction,       goes beyond the mere use of notated sources and/or other choreographic       documentation.
Secondly, it cast light on an area of dance history that       has long remained in the shadows, in spite of it conventionally       being deemed by most dance historians as a truly significant one.
Finally,       it proposed a model for a fertile cross-disciplinary collaboration between       scholars and the industry, aimed at filling that gap that remains to date       a problematic aspect of contemporary dance culture.
Focus on Style informed the Ballet Evolved       performance-lectures series organised by the Education Department of the       Royal Opera House in London, presented in October, January and June 2013.
These performance-lectures too draw upon the collaboration between       scholarly research &#8212; represented by Dr Poesio &#8212; and the industry &#8212;       represented by Ursula Hageli, ballet mistress for the Royal Ballet &#8212; and       dancers from the company.
Aimed at re-assessing dance history the Ballet         Evolved series was performed to a live audience (between 120 and 200       people each time); it was also filmed and posted via 7 videos on both the       Royal Opera House website and YouTube, where it has been seen to date by       103, 481 viewers [5.6].
