     Surrey's research on Signal Crimes, Reassurance (RP) and Neighbourhood       Policing (NP) had       tangible impact in improving the quality of life for citizens in the UK.
This results from development       of outputs, such as the National Reassurance Policing Programme (NRPP) and       the national       Neighbourhood Policing Programme (NPP), which have shaped the philosophy       of policing and its       delivery at local level.
The NRPP had a positive impact on outcomes including self-reported       victimisation and public       confidence in the police (measured by the Crime Survey of England and       Wales).
The NRPP       evaluation found confidence in policing increased in the trial sites by 15       percentage points over a       12-month period, compared to a three point increase in the comparison       sites (Tuffin et al, 2006).
The same research revealed a high degree of consistency between the NRPP       delivery       mechanisms, police activity on the ground, and impact.
The increase in       public confidence was       predicated on a reduction in the crime and anti-social behaviour problems       identified by local       communities as a priority for police action (`signal crimes') rather than       an overall reduction in       volume crime (Innes and Fielding, 2002).
The design of the NRPP was       directly linked to the Signal       Crimes perspective developed at Surrey.
Transferable tools, such as the       Environmental Scanning       Tool, which officers use to record indicators of crime and disorder,       facilitated it.
There is evidence that the NPP, which was informed by the Signal Crime       perspective and operates       in all police services in England and Wales, is associated with the       improvements in confidence in       local policing observed between 2003/04 and 2011/12 (ONS, 2012).
There is,       as the head of       research at the College of Policing, noted `a strong case that the focus       on tackling local issues       informed by the Signal Crimes perspective lies behind the change in the       trend in public confidence,       linked to perceptions of the crime rate'.
A three-year NPP was officially       launched in April 2005.
Every neighbourhood in England and Wales had a dedicated team by April       2008.
Guidance derived from the RP work prioritised attention to community       influentials (those at pivot       points in the formation of local public opinion at neighbourhood level),       the role of community       informants (not paid informants but individuals motivated to exchange       reliable information with       police), and the need for connected action with other municipal agencies       (e.g., equipping police       vehicles with online facilities with which citizens can report problems in       the physical environment,       such as a broken streetlamp, to the relevant council department).
The NPP       had a central presence       in the Flanagan Review of Policing in 2008, and the Casey Engaging       Communities in Fighting       Crime Review.
The then Labour Government renewed its commitment to       sustaining NP.
The 2011       Police Reform and Social Responsibility Act reaffirm commitment to the       principles.
A driver of       these policies was the research conducted at Surrey.
Research that the       Association of Chief Police       Officers (ACPO) lead on the Home Office `Prevent' strategy described as       `influencing [one of] the       two most significant developments in police policy in the last decade'.
Findings on the interaction between minor public incivilities and       perceived crime risk at       neighbourhood level were among the first to emerge from research in the       UK.
Via work with Surrey       Police they underpinned the first application of the `broken windows'       approach to UK policing.
This       formed the basis of N Fielding's knowledge exchange work with the police       (ESRC Public Policy       seminars at House of Lords, Police Foundation/Oxford University       academic/chief officer seminars,       and reference 4 in section 3).
Innes established and directs the       Universities' Police Science       Institute at Cardiff University, continuing work on NP.
The `environmental       scan' work continues.
In       2010 and 2011 N and J Fielding applied an enhanced instrument in       geo-referenced fieldwork (with       ESRC funding) involving Surrey Police that assessed the latent       criminogenic effects of local       authority housing and education policy in a mixed residential area.
The       team provided residents,       community influentials, and police with tools to assess risk; evaluation       of impact is in progress.
Based on our work in 2010 and 2011 on the interaction of the NPP and       intelligence-led policing,       Surrey Police have re-oriented aspects of practice, including:            consulting with citizens through social media, email and website       reviewing how officers record and communicate their decision making         processes       encouraging officers to resolve problems in ways other than the         enforcement of the criminal         law          Improvements in policing and public safety are testament to the benefits       partnerships between       universities and police service can produce.
The partnership, as the Head       of Operational       Development at Surrey Police put it, `resulted not only in a significant       contribution to the academic       literature, but it translated the resulting theory into significant and       sustained improvements in the       quality of policing delivered to the public'.
