     The mechanisms of knowledge creation and utilization in knowledge-based       economies have been changing, with an increasing emphasis on the formation       of innovation networks, that is, networks that connect innovative firms,       government agencies, research institutes and sources of venture capital.
Knowledge-intensive industries such as information and communication       technologies (ICT) and biotechnology (`biotech') have already undergone       structural changes in the direction of these collective modes of knowledge       production and application.
The SKIN model allows decision makers to       examine the potential effect of policy changes.
For example, the model has       been utilised in the Innovation Policy Simulation for the Smart Economy       (IPSE) project funded by the Irish PRTLI and the European Regional       Development Fund.
The project is using a version of the SKIN model to       assist policymakers to `turn Ireland into a global hub for innovation as a       strategy for stimulating economic recovery'.
As an example of the type of       impact that this project is making, the CEO of Nua Venture Innovations       Ltd., a Dublin company that focuses on early-stage technology-enabled       ventures across a broad spectrum of sectors including information and       communications technologies, sensors and material science, medical devices       and ocean technologies and advises at a Government level on the creation,       development and evolution of innovation clusters, wrote that the project       provides "important strategic guidance for our innovation cluster work at       Nua Venture and helps us to better clarify and measure the impact of our       innovation activities".
Surrey's research has also been applied by DG CONNECT to examine the       possible effects of various proposed modifications to the European       Commission's rules for funding projects in the forthcoming Horizon 2020       programme.
Gilbert, Ahrweiler and Pyka were contracted by the programme       Evaluation Unit of DG-INFSO (now DG CONNECT) to carry out an `ex ante'       evaluation of the effect of changing the rules to have, for example, more       or less thematic areas, encourage larger or small consortia, have more or       less funds per Call, and require the participation of SMEs in all       consortia, as compared in each case with a baseline scenario of containing       the policies implemented in the current Framework 7 (FP7).
By adapting the       SKIN model to simulate project participants, rather than firms, and making       other adaptations, a version was constructed that could reproduce the       actual network structure and dynamics of FP7 projects and consortia.
The       effect of the policy changes of interest to the Commission could then be       simulated.
The results were reported to the Commission in late 2011 and       there is evidence that they are influencing the design of Horizon 2020       (which has a budget of &#8364;70 billion).
Other studies that are having an impact on innovation policies across       Europe, all of which are based on variations of the SKIN model include:            A SKIN Model Analysis of the European Defence Industry (Norwegian         Institute of International Affairs)       Modelling the Emergence of a General Purpose Technology from a         Knowledge Based Perspective: The Case of Nanotechnology (University         College, Dublin)       Simulating the Effects of Public Funding on Research in Life Sciences:         Direct Research Funds Vs. Tax Incentives (Austrian Institute of         Technology)       The Evolution of Innovation Networks in the Nordic Internet Service         Industry (University of Oslo)       The Evaluation of Value Chain Marketing Strategies (Hamburg University         of Technology)
