     Our research has led to changes in behaviour and action of either demand       or supply with the main beneficiaries being people with disabilities,       low-income groups, tourism businesses and policy makers.
4.1 Impact for people with disabilities and low income groups       through increasing information and support options for end-users:     The development of the accessibility information service `EuropeForAll'       (2007) by the EU-funded OSSATE project has facilitated the widening of       participation for the European accessibility-requiring market of over 127       million (research output 2.2).
Central to the development of this       information service was Surrey's analysis of the market and existing       access schemes.
The information service is the first European-wide scheme,       which represents a major advance in the provision of information on       accessible facilities (Letter of support `TourismForAll').
Apart from better fulfilling informational needs, our research has called       for support at all stages in the delivery of social tourism in order to       realise effective social outcomes.
In 2010, Tourism Flanders (Regional       Tourist Board for Northern Belgium) organised several workshops to       introduce our research findings to social tourism partners.
Subsequently       these recommendations were implemented by the Tourism Flanders' Holiday       Participation Centre.
Following these recommendations, in 2011 Tourism       Flanders funded (&#8364;375,000) the development of a network of regional       `travel shops' in social support organisations.
These travel shops       comprise teams of support workers who specialise in helping socially       excluded groups to overcome barriers to tourism participation.
Tourism       Flanders also produced a booklet (distributed in 1500 copies) with family       activities, to help prepare socially excluded groups for their holiday       experience &#8212; a number of the activities are directly linked to key       challenges raised in the research (Letter of support `Tourism Flanders').
4.2 Impact on Tourism businesses through new innovative inclusion       initiatives and accessibility tourism networks     Following Surrey's research, VACA, the largest social tourism provider in       Wallonia, extended existing and introduced new inclusion measures and       initiatives: they now work more closely with social support organisations,       have introduced a charity initiative and aim to benefit the local       community through their economic activities where possible (Letter of       support `VACA').
In addition, the FETE scheme, funded under the EU's       Calypso programme, for which Surrey was a research partner, produced a       pilot exchange scheme between Belgium, Germany, Sweden and Finland.
14       young people without prior international travel experience were given the       opportunity to visit a non-neighbouring partner country in the low season.
The project produced direct social and economic impacts on the       beneficiaries and touristic partners involved.
Tourism businesses were       further supported through the establishment of accessibility tourism       networks.
The `Europeforall' website, based on Surrey's research, enabled       individual destinations, such as `VisitOslo', to improve the provision of       accessibility information by adopting the OSSATE scheme.
This now       represents an integral aspect of their organisational procedures for       improving the quality of their information delivery and auditing system       for venues (Support letter `VisitOslo').
Surrey's research has also led to       the creation of a knowledge-based network through the CETA research (http://ceta.enat.be/).
This network provides SMEs with information about good practice, market       information, advice on accessibility as well as education and training       possibilities.
4.3 Surrey's research impact on policy makers and contributed to       policy recommendations The impact of Surrey's social tourism research has       been recognized by the chairman of the All Party Parliamentary Group       (APPG) on social tourism.
It is mentioned 10 times in the APPG's report       `Giving Britain a Break'.
In Europe, the University's social tourism       research has contributed to the enhanced position of social tourism on the       political agenda of the Flemish regional government.
The provision of       detailed information about the size of the market with access needs       (research output 2.2) has influenced European policies in the area of       accessible transport and anti-discrimination via the EC's impact       assessments (COM(2008)816 final).
Particularly, the report `Accessibility       Market and Stakeholder Analysis' by Surrey is quoted in this EU document       to stress the need to place greater emphasis on accessibility and consumer       protection in the EU.
Outside Europe, the study has led to a project by       the Ministry of Tourism in Thailand to encourage greater accessibility,       piloted in Bangkok, Chon Buri, Chiang Mai and Puhket News (TTR Weekly).
