     The main beneficiaries of our research are the organisations that       commissioned the team to conduct consultancy projects or directly adopted       our forecasting methodologies and reports.
This research has reached       organisations such as the European Commission, tourist destination       governments, industry associations and individual tourism-related       enterprises across the world.
Based on the developed methodology (e.g.,       Song and Witt, 2000 and 2003, Li et al, 2006), the Surrey team (has been       commissioned by the Pacific Asia Tourism Association (PATA) to produce       annual tourism forecasting reports.
The reports are made available to all       PATA members including over 80 governments, 50 airlines, airports and       cruise lines and hundreds of travel companies around the world.
The       research team have been invited to give over 50 presentations at       international conferences and workshops, and attended various media       releases of the commissioned projects over the past 10 years.
To date, over 370 tourism-related organisations and government agencies       from 39 countries have subscribed to the system.
Accurate tourism forecasts provide a scientific foundation for       formulating tourism policies (e.g., planning investments in       infrastructure, marketing resource allocation and tourist taxation) and       business strategies (e.g., operation management and new product       development).
The common benefit these organisations gained is strongly       associated with the improved effectiveness of their strategic planning and       the reduced risks of decision failures.
Below are some examples of the       impacts of our research.
PATA annual forecasting reports supports tourism policy change and       improved corporate planning.
Many tourist destination governments use PATA       forecasts as a key reference to assist their tourism planning and revising       tourism policies (letter of support from PATA).
For example, the       Philippines Department of Tourism revised their tourism strategy according       to PATA forecasts.
It is noted explicitly in their tourism policy that "to         achieve the projected growth in tourist numbers and expenditures       over the next decade, the Central Philippines will have to move to an       investment-driven strategy".
Cathy Pacific is another example that applied the findings of the PATA       forecasting report (2011), which highlighted emerging, fast-growing       tourist markets and destinations.
As a direct result Cathy Pacific       announced a new expansion in 2012: to add about 1,000 cabin crew, 300       pilots and 600 ground staff to those popular routes in order to "meet         rising demand".
Consequently, the passenger revenue increased by       3.5% compared to 2011 despite the increase of fuel prices.
The more       accurate tourism forecasts provided by Surrey's research ensure a solid       basis and greater confidence for Cathy Pacific's successful strategic       planning.
The web-based forecasting system supports improved tourism operation       management.
Since 2011 Hong Kong Disneyland (HKD) has built its attendance       demand projection model by applying the forecasts provided by the       Surrey-designed system.
HKD benefited from the system in two major areas:       attendance projection and pricing execution.
In addition, the system       allowed HKD to quickly react to the changing business environment and       business needs.
According to the letter of support from HKD, by using       better quality forecasts of arrivals the Park Operations team has been       able to significantly improve the level of guest satisfaction (by 5       percentage points to 80% overall in 2012).
In the same year HKD generated       record revenues of HK$4,272 million, 18% higher than 2011, and a net       profit of HK$109 million, the first annual profit since the resort's       opening.
Finally, the application of the methodologies developed has allowed the       Surrey team to assess the demand for accessible tourism across Europe,       responding to the European Parliament's Preparatory Action "Tourism       Accessibility for All".
While the impact of this project is yet to be       felt, the impact of the methodological work described above is in being       able to bring more advanced understanding to other areas of tourism       demand.
