     Reaching out to the local community and enriching the cultural life of       Surrey through the public       performance and discussion of contemporary poetry is a central part of the       School of English and       Languages.
The scholarly and creative research underpins a range of public       events which are       designed to challenge and deepen the public's understanding of and       response to contemporary       Modernist poetry.
The University of Surrey supports these events through       organisational       assistance and through the funding of a Poet in Residence position, which       each year gives a       contemporary poet the opportunity to spearhead the School's strategy for       integrating experimental       poetry into the cultural life of the community.
Cultural Impact: Morag Morris Poetry Lecture     The mainstay of the University's poetry calendar is the annual Morag       Morris poetry lecture, a public       event at which an established poet speaks on experimental poetry.
Since       the lecture series was re-launched       in October 2008, the renowned poets Iain Sinclair, J. H. Prynne, Michael       Horovitz, Rod       Mengham, and Bernard O'Donoghue have delivered lectures to audiences in       Guildford.
The       cultural significance of these events for the local community is       demonstrated by the size of the       audiences: over 200 tickets were sold, for example, for the 2009 lecture       by Prynne [see source 2 in       section 5].
The lectures give the public new perspectives on Modernist and       contemporary poetry.
They also sustain current debate about experimental verse by giving       influential poets a public       forum in which to present their critical ideas to a wide audience, both in       the lecture itself and       beyond: Mengham's 2011 lecture, for instance, was subsequently published       in the summer 2013       issue of the prominent poetry magazine PN Review [see source 3].
Cultural Impact: Spring Poetry Reading and Open Lecture     The spring poetry reading and open lecture, established in 2012, is an       annual event which brings       the School of English and Languages' research interest in literary       translation to a public audience.
Each year an established poet is invited to Guildford to read from their       own translations and to       discuss the challenges involved in translating poetry.
The 2012 lecture by       David Constantine and       the 2013 lecture by Harry Gilonis were each attended by 16 people from the       local area.
Feedback       collected at the 2013 lecture testifies to the impact of this event on the       audience's perception of       contemporary poetry in translation.
One attendee wrote that `the topic was       very thought-provoking       and [I] enjoyed that it was open to anyone', while another confirmed that       the event `raised       awareness of translated poems and provoked interest in the effects of       translation and [the] process       involved' [see source 4].
The impact of this long-standing lecture is also       evidenced by the fact that       Professor Edward Larrissy of the Seamus Heaney Centre at Queen's       University Belfast agreed to       deliver the 2013 lecture at short notice to honour the late poet and       playwright, and to speak about       Heaney's work in relation to modernism.
Cultural and Economic Impact: Contraband Poetry Press     The School's commitment to giving contemporary Modernist poets a platform       for their work, and to       promoting the British contemporary poetry industry, is reflected in the       activities of its poetry press,       Contraband, managed by David Ashford.
Focusing on work which intersects       with the School's       research interests (in subjectivity, gender, and translation), Contraband       publishes formally       innovative poetry by the new wave of Modernist writers that have emerged       in recent years, as well       as out-of-print material from earlier phases of Modernist poetic       experiment.
In the short time that       Contraband has been running (since 2012), it has made a significant       contribution to the cultural       economy of southeast England [see source 5].
It has published 11 volumes       of verse by local poets       Cooke, Raha, Spragg, Evans, Gilonis, Martin, Guthrie, Freeman, Luhning and       Spicer.
Sales to       date have ranged from 15 copies of the newest publications to 140 copies       of the first titles to see       publication in 2012.
In an experimental poetry market in which the sale of       200 copies makes a       book a best-seller, these are significant sales figures for volumes of new       verse.
Cultural, Economic, and Educational Impact: Surrey New Writers         Festival     The Surrey New Writers Festival is an annual public event founded in 2013       and run by the School.
The festival's programme consists of a series of sessions which introduce       the public to various       aspects of contemporary creative writing and the publishing industry.
Experimental poetry       constitutes a major focus of the festival: the 2013 event featured poetry       readings, a panel       discussion about publishing contemporary poetry, and the launch of Veer       Books' spring poetry       titles.
These events were attended by a wide range of people from the       local community: 51 tickets       were sold for the festival, and 25 local schoolchildren attended free of       charge.
Evaluation       questionnaires collected at the festival demonstrate that the poetry       sessions expanded and       enriched the audience's understanding of contemporary verse.
This impact       was particularly evident       in feedback from the younger members of the audience: one A level student       wrote that he or she       `was very inspired by the poetry' performed at the festival, and another       recorded that the festival as       a whole `has informed and interested me in different aspects of creative       writing, such as poetry'       [see source 5].
The festival's impact on the cultural life of Surrey is       affirmed by letters of       appreciation from local community figures.
Nicolas Spicer, a local poet       who attended the event,       commented that `the sense of community that the enterprise must foster,       both among writers and       reaching out to the wider public, can only have a positive impact on the       perception of literary       endeavour.'
The organisers of the monthly `Pop Up Poetry' events in       Guildford emphasised the       significance of the festival's commitment to experimental poetry, writing       that the poetry sessions       facilitated `a deeper understanding of the role of performance in       avant-garde poetry'.
They also       praised the `opportunities for professionals, academics and members of the       wider public to cross-fertilise       ideas and inform each other.
The venue in the High Street was ideal and       attracted a cross-section       of Guildford's community' [see source 6].
Cultural and Economic Impact: Surrey Poetry Festival     The annual Surrey Poetry Festival, established in 2011, is perhaps the       most high-profile forum for       registering the cultural impact of the School's research into Modernist       poetics.
In order to increase       the public reach of the festival, it is held on a Saturday and is based in       the Guildhall on Guildford       High Street, ensuring that a large public audience sees the poetry       readings, lectures, films and       installations which make up the programme.
The School works closely with       local government to       promote and organise the festival: in 2013, for instance, Experience       Guildford, a Business       Improvement District funded by Guildford Borough Council, arranged for the       distribution of       promotional flyers and secured licences for outdoor poetry readings across       Guildford on the day of       the festival.
The festival consistently attracts audiences of more than 40       people, and audience       feedback from the 2013 festival indicates that the event made a       significant impact by giving local       people their first experience of contemporary poetry.
One audience member       wrote that `it was my       first time [attending] such an event and I did enjoy it very much'; as a       result of attending the       festival, `I became curious to know more about contemporary poetry'.
Another attendee praised the       `great line up' of poets, and the `lovely atmosphere, welcoming but       thought-provoking'.
The view       that the festival was both inclusive and culturally stimulating was also       reflected in the feedback       from another audience member, who commented that `the festival hit exactly       the right note and       really helped make contemporary poetry relevant to modern life' [see       source 7].
The wider cultural       impact of the festival is demonstrated by the substantial local media       coverage surrounding the       2013 event.
On 20 May 2013, the School's poet in residence Stephen Mooney       discussed the       festival (and the work of the Contraband poetry press) in a 20-minute       segment on the BBC Radio       Surrey/Sussex Afternoon programme [see source 8].
In addition to this       radio coverage, the festival       was the focus of features in the 31 May and 14 June 2013 editions of the Surrey         Advertiser, a local       newspaper with a circulation of 22,000 [see source 9].
The festival also       has a positive economic       impact on the contemporary poetry industry, as it gives innovative small       presses a `shop window' in       which to sell their books to the general public [see source 10].
Veer       Books, for example, sold a       combined total of 46 volumes at the 2012 and 2013 festivals.
