     Educational and economic impact: training and consultancy for the         Metropolitan Police     The Metropolitan Police Sercive (MPS) has a comprehensive system of       accrediting and using legal       interpreters, ensuring interpreting quality, impartiality and       cost-effectivenes of interpreting services.
The introduction of remote interpreting, whereby interpreters work from       central videoconference       hubs, was a crucial project in the MPS Language Programme, set up in 2008       to modernise the       linguistic and cultural services in the MPS.
This programme had a high       strategic significance within       the MPS, especially with regards to the Olympic Games in London in 2012.
The MPS was aware of our research and from 2008, we were regularly       consulted by the MPS       about practical and logistical aspects of the implementation of remote       interpreting.
In 2010, the       MPS asked us to design a training progamme for MPS-certified interpreters       in the use of       videoconference-based interpreting.
The core of the training were the       recommendations and       guidelines of best practice developed in the AVIDICUS 1 project.
MPS       decided to make the       training mandatory for the interpreters to maintain interpreting quality       standards, i.e.
interpreters       must have undergone the training in order to be commissioned for work in a       video link.
Between       September 2010 and September 2011, we delivered 23 half-day training       sessions for a total of 341       police-certified interpreters.
This consistutes 89% of interpreters       currently on the list of interpreters       certified by the Metropolitan Police Service.
Feedback from workshop       participants indicates that       the interpreters considered the sessions to provide very useful       preparation for real-life remote       interpreting tasks (See analysis of feedback in Braun et al.
2012).
In November 2011, the MPS stated that "in implementing this project, MPS       have greatly benefitted       from co-operation with the Centre for Translation Studies at the       University of Surrey The       consultancy that Dr Braun has provided on the basis of a unique evidential       base has helped to       shape the remote interpreting project in significant and concrete ways,       including in particular how       to mitigate the challenges of video-mediated interpreting.
Her research       has therefore influenced       the linguistic and cultural details of the implementation of the project"       [b].
Similar training sessions were run in the UK, Belgium, Croatia, France       and Spain between 2009       and 2013, reaching approximately 350 legal interpreters across Europe.
Whilst the main impact of       this work is educational, it also has a positive economic impact, as the       training and the consultancy       we provided regarding the implementation of video interpreting help       institutions such as MPS to       make informed cost savings without compromising the quality of       interpreting.
Political impact: European Guidelines     In June 2007, the EU Council of Justice and Home Affairs considered that       improving the use of       videoconferencing in cross-border legal proceedings should be a priority       to speed up proceedings       and save costs.
The European e-Justice Action Plan 2009-2013 developed by       the Council       identifies videoconferencing as being of particular importance for       simplifying and encouraging       communication between judicial authorities.
In 2011, discussions in the EU       Council Working Party       on e-Justice furthermore highlighted the importance of developing       solutions for video interpreting.
In October 2011, Braun was invited to provide a working paper [c] and       present the outcomes of the       AVIDICUS project including the recommendations and guidelines at one of       the Working Party's       meetings in Brussels.
In subsequent discussions, the AVIDICUS guidelines were deemed by the       Working Party to       "facilitate the use of videoconferencing and remote interpreting in the       judicial systems of the       Member States" [d].
In February 2012, the Danish EU Presidency organised a       seminar in       Copenhagen specifically dedicated to videoconferencing to which Braun was       invited to present the       recommendations to approx.
100 delegates from the 27 EU Member States.
As a follow-up on these developments, it was suggested in the Working       Party that the Guide on       videoconferencing in cross-border proceedings (published by the EU Council       and available on the       European e-Justice Portal https://e-justice.europa.eu),       be updated to incorporate the AVIDICUS       recommendations and guidelines on video interpreting.
Braun was invited to       comment on several       drafts.
The final version was adopted by the Working Party on 16 April       2012 [d, e].
Improving Public Services: Key events     From the outset, there has been a demonstrable high level of interest       among public service       institutions in this research.
The international symposia on Videoconference         and Remote         Interpreting in Legal Proceedings and Multilingual         Videoconferencing in Legal Proceedings       organised by us to present the outcomes of AVIDICUS 1 and 2 in 2011 and       2013 respectively,       attracted 200 participants from over 20 countries, including       representatives from judicial and law       enforcement institutions, professional interpreting associations,       interpreting agencies and EU       institutions (EU DG Justice, DG Interpreting, European Parliament,       European Court of Justice).
Braun also gave invited presentations to key stakeholders at European       level, e.g.
at the Royal       Society of Arts Seminar A Virtual Day in Court in 2011 [6], the       meeting of the European Council       Working Party on e-Law in October 2011, the European e-Justice Seminar on       Videoconferencing         in court proceedings organised by the Danish EU Presidency in 2012,       and at national level, to the       Association of Court and Police Interpreters in 2008, the Magistrates       Association in 2009 and the       Chartered Institute of Linguists in 2010.
The recurring topic of the       events and presentations was       how the challenges of video-mediated interpreting can be mitigated e.g.
by       creating appropriate       working conditions for interpreters (including system design, training and       guidelines) and through       cooperation between all stakeholders in order to improve the quality of       interpreting as a       prerequisite for improving the quality of justice in multilingual legal       proceedings.
Another series of key events were joint workshops for legal       interpreters and legal practitioners,       which were organised in 2012 and 2013 where interpreters and legal       practitioners were invited to       participate in role plays in order to discover potential problems of       video-mediated and interpreter-       mediated communication and to apply the guidelines.
Provision of expert services: Similar evaluation and consultancy work     The research also led to a contract with London Probation Trust (2012) to       evaluate video-       conferencing and interpreting in European cross-border resettlement based       on the European       Framework Decisions 909 and 947 (transfer of custodial and non-custodial       sentences), where       similar interpreting needs arise [g]; and invitations to contribute to the       European projects Building         Mutual Trust 2 (2011-13) and QUALITAS (2013-14), which       produce educational video clips for       legal professionals (about working with an interpreter) and certification       methods for legal       interpreting in Europe &#8212; in each case with reference to video       interpreting.
In 2013, Braun was       recommended by the Society for Public Service Interpreting to the Ministry       of Justice as an       independent consultant for assessing legal interpreter provision in       England [h].
