     The compositions that have resulted from this research project exploit       the techniques and notational strategies developed through the exploration       of resonance.
As musical compositions which are available as published       sheet music, they have made a contribution to the cultural life by pushing       the boundaries of practice and playing on the instrument.
The resulting works are available as commercial recordings, and have been       performed in many hundred concerts and broadcast internationally (Cf.
list       of key performances and broadcasts with relevant dates: www.stephengoss.net/perf_past.html;       www.stephengoss.net/performances.html)     This impact is evidenced through complementing reviews in broadsheet       newspapers and the Classical music press, and further corroborated through       sales figures in large numbers.
Recently, in 2012, the research has       reached an even wider audience through the inclusion of the Alb&#233;niz         Concerto in Virgin Classics and EMI's Classical 2012       compilation album, and the commissioning of various arrangements for Milo&#353;       Karadagli&#263;'s new album Latino on the Deutsche Grammophon label.
Karadagli&#263;'s last album won two Gramophone Awards and sold over 200,000       copies.
The work with Karadagli&#263; and Andrew Lloyd Webber on Stephen         Ward (ITV, Deutsche Grammophon 2013) brought these research outputs       to an even wider audience.
The research has also advanced and influenced contemporary practice by       some of the world's most prominent guitarists, who have commissioned       pieces that use these resonance techniques, and they have collaborated on       the research as instrumentalist: John Williams, David Russell, Xuefei       Yang, Jonathan Leathwood, Milo&#353; Karadagli&#263;, Carlo Marchione, and Craig       Ogden.
Composers have used and adapted the procedures that have been       developed further in other contexts, while the notational strategies have       also been adopted by several composers when writing for guitar: Roland       Dyens, Chris Malloy, Andrew Lloyd Webber, Rob Keeley, Colin Thurmond, and       Marek Pasienczny.
The music that has so far emerged from this ongoing research project is       beginning to become part of the established canon of modern guitar       repertoire.
Other professional performers and also students have taken up       the pieces and played them in concerts and examinations       (www.stephengoss.net/perf_past.html)     The pieces have featured on examination syllabuses and have been set as       test pieces in international guitar competitions, for example the 2012       London International Guitar Competition       igf.org.uk/London_International_Guitar_Competition.html).
The music is now regularly performed in final Master's and Doctoral       recitals in many of the most prestigious universities and conservatoires       in the world.
Since 2009 these have included: The Julliard School, The       Manhattan School of Music, The Mannes School of Music (New York), Yale       University (CT), University of Southern California, San Francisco       Conservatory, University of Colorado (Boulder), Denver University, Robert       Schumann Hochschule (Germany), Central Conservatory of Music (Beijing),       Royal Academy of Music (London), Grieg Academy (Bergen), Sydney       Conservatorium of Music.
