     Stefanovski's work has created impact by advancing understanding       and appreciation of European cultural identity, history and politics       through the creation new forms of social and political expression.
The       impact of Stefanovski's work, which examines the relationship       between national narratives and European identity, lies also in the       quality and originality of his creative practice.
Both of the above were       recognised in the award of the 2007 Vilenica Literary Prize, given by an       international jury to an author from Central Europe for outstanding       achievement in the field of literary creativity and essay writing.
The       impact that Stefanovski's creative practice has had on the       cultural environment in Macedonia has been articulated by the Romanian       poet Ioana Ieronim, who writes, "He is the one who introduced the       post-modern paradigm to Macedonia years before it got to be full-blown       there and elsewhere, and to be called so.
His creativity, his electrifying       energy and his artistically fearless, challenging attitude had the power       to change his country's cultural landscape" (`Un dramaturg macedonean:       Goran Stefanovski &#351;i pove&#351;tile lui din Estul s&#259;lbatic', LiterNet.ro,       March 2009).
The specifically political impact of Stefanovski's       work is articulated and evidenced by comments from writer and critic       Natasa Avramovska, who writes, "His dramatic works allow for the voice(s)       of the other, the silenced Europe, to resonate at the center of the       European cultural capitals.
With that, the interculturality of these       theatre projects (performed at all levels of the production), allows for       the articulation of the mutual demonisation that generates the       imagological, ideological and geopolitical difference which exists between       Europe and the Balkans" (`Europe on the Contemporary Macedonian Dramatic       Stage', Slavia Meridionalis, Issue no.12, 2012).
The reach of Stefanovski's       work is evidenced by the number performances and publications his plays       have received.
In 2008-12 full productions of The Demon of Debar Maalo       were staged in Serbia, Bulgaria and France, and in 2008-13 Stefanovski's       play Everyman was performed as staged readings in Romania and the       Czech Republic.
During the same period three translations of the Demon         of Debar Maalo were published, and the script of Everyman       was published three times.
Through these productions and publications Stefanovki's       practice-based research reaches audiences and communities of arts       practitioners in Europe and beyond.
The radical dynamic of Long's work, and thereby its political       potential, is described by the Royal Academician who selected two drawings       by Long for inclusion in the 2008 Royal Academy of Arts Summer       Exhibition: ".
.
.
at the core [of Long's work] is fusion of       draughtsmanship and subversion.
In an exhibition like the Royal Academy       Summer Exhibition, a bastion of British complacency, I was keen to       introduce an alternative view of what depicting an image, a human form,       can be" (email, 16 July 2013).
The reach of this work is evidenced by       audience numbers for the exhibitions in which Long's pieces have       been shown.
The Royal Academy's Summer Exhibition, at which Long       exhibited in both 2008 and 2010, receives almost 200,000 visits each year       (source: Royal Academy of Arts website).
In addition, Long's work       in the 2008 exhibition reached an audience beyond the gallery through       being featured in a BBC2 Culture Show special on the Summer       Exhibition (TX 12 June 2008).
His practice-based research has also       achieved impact through its contribution to the enrichment of cultural       life in East Kent.
In addition to exhibiting work in galleries (Sidney       Cooper Gallery, Canterbury 19-31 July 2008; Herbert Read Gallery,       Canterbury 2-14 March 2010; The Old Lookout, Broadstairs 14-19 June 2013),       Long has presented his practice-based research in drawing through       public performance as part of the Free Range series of experimental arts       events held at the Veg Box Caf&#233;, Canterbury (`The Drawing Machine: a Relay       of Joy', 14 March 2013).
Described by music blogger Matthew Watkins as "an       extraordinary event", this piece was performed live to an audience of 40       (the maximum for this venue), while videos of the work received 247 plays       on vimeo.com by 31 July 2013.
Birtwistle's work in sound and video, which investigates the       radical potential of modernist poetics in contemporary art and       performance, creates impact through the generation of new ways of thinking       about the often-neglected role played by sound in cinema and the visual       arts.
His research on radical modernist poetics and sound-image relations,       examined in his book Cinesonica (2010), has also reached audiences       for film, poetry and music in the South East region through public       performances.
In 2012-13 Birtwistle curated and performed in three       public events organised as part of the Free Range Series, mentioned above.
In the first two of these (29 March 2012 and 21 March 2013), Birtwistle       worked with musicians and performers to produce live realisations of       Dadaist films and poetry, combining film projection, spoken word and       musical performance to create a form of live cinema.
The third of these       events (25 April 2013) featured new video works by Birtwistle,       along with existing documentary and information films, each presented with       live musical accompaniment and spoken word performance.
These events       create impact by presenting the cultural heritage of Dada cinema and the       documentary tradition in new ways, creating new forms of expression that       combine live music and spoken word with the projected image.
The political       dimension of this work lies in ways in which the modernist archive has       been rearticulated by Birtwistle within a contemporary context,       reactivating the radical potential of forms of expression originally       developed in the first half of the last century.
With the venue's maximum       audience capacity of 40, these live performances have reached a regional       audience of 120, and through video recordings made available online have       also gained an international audience, having received 1,422 views by 31       July 2013 from viewers in over 60 countries.
As contributors to the Free       Range Series, the work of both Long and Birtwistle can be       seen to have had an impact on the cultural environment of the local area.
The series was awarded the Cultural Pioneer Award at the 2013 Canterbury       Culture Awards, the Chair of Judges commenting, "These events are a rich       and creative mix of music, film, poetry, technology and even culinary       experimentation.
They cross disciplines, blending performances to create       cultural experiences that amaze, inspire and excite" (email 21 June 2013).
Birtwistle's practice-based work in sonic art has also reached       audiences outside the academy through performances (Camden Arts Centre,       2013), broadcasts and diffusion at festivals (Fabrica Europe 08,       Florence, 2008; Radio Papesse, Sienna, 2008; 38th       International Festival of Music and Electronic Art, Bourges, 2008;       Contemporary Museum, Baltimore, 2011).
Through these broadcasts and       festivals Birtwistle participates in the international community       of sonic arts practitioners, thereby reaching audiences for his work       outside the UK.
Research produced by Stefanovski has also created impact through       the provision of expert advice to European NGOs and campaign groups       through his contribution to public discussion of arts policy in the EU.
In       this way Stefanovski's research creates impact through his       membership of European cultural agencies.
As an elected member of the       European Cultural Parliament (2006-present), whose purpose is to       strengthen the role of cultural and artistic ideas in the debate on the       future of Europe, Stefanovski has contributed to public discourse       and campaigning on arts policy and practice in the EU.
For example, Stefanovski       participated in the 2009 session held in Gothenburg, one outcome of which       was a resolution sent to the Council of Europe, the European Parliament,       and the EU commission, in support of cultural institutions and the arts       community of Bosnia and Herzegovina.
A second outcome of the same session       was a statement on unjust court proceedings against two Russian curators       facing legal action for organising the controversial 2007 Forbidden         Art exhibition in Moscow.
Stefanovski has also contributed       to public discourse on arts policy in the EU through his involvement with       Culture Action Europe's We Are More campaign, which champions the       role played by culture and heritage in developing European democracy and       stresses the importance of public funding for arts and culture.
Stefanovski's       My Quarrel with Kafka was commissioned to open and close the       campaign's launch event held in Brussels in October 2010, serving as a key       reference point for discussions that took place during the one-day       conference that followed.
The research produced by the Unit can thus be seen to engage with a range       of national and international beneficiaries, including theatre companies       and cultural organisations, as well as those who attend performances and       exhibitions.
