     Impact on people with long-term conditions     Corroborating sources are numbered in brackets     1.
Sing For Your Life charity, established 2005, as an initiative       of the Centre to be able to transfer research findings to practice.
Sing       For Your Life runs over 40 singing groups for older people across the       South East and elsewhere in the country reaching over 1,000 older people       in community and care settings every month.
Singing groups have also       established in Canada, Finland and Italy following the model we devised.
Qualitative evaluation, surveys and a pragmatic community-based RCT funded       by NIHR, have provided evidence of significant effects of regular group       singing for the mental wellbeing of older people.
(www.singforyourlife.org.uk) (1)     2.
Living Lively charity established 2010 as a direct result of       the NIHR RCT.
Over 300 people aged 60+ took part in the NIHR study, and       half of them were randomised to five singing groups, which met weekly       during April to June 2010.
There was considerable enthusiasm for the       groups and Living Lively was established by one of the musicians who       facilitated groups as part of the study.
Singing groups continue to meet       weekly involving over 500 people across several counties.
(www.livinglively.org.uk) (8)     3.
East Kent Singing for Mental Health Network This network of       singing groups for mental health service users with enduring mental health       problems was established in 2009 in collaboration with the Centre, Eastern       and Coastal Kent PCT and Kent and Medway NHS and Social Care Partnership       Trust to provide opportunities for singing and support for over 100 people       with mental health needs.
Groups have come together for large public       performances on two occasions.
This led to the award of further NHS       funding to extend the network into West Kent and Medway.
(2, 4, 9)     4.
East Kent Singing and COPD Network This network of singing       groups was established in September 2011 with funding from the Dunhill       Medical Trust, and in collaboration with Eastern and Coastal Kent       Community Health Trust and the British Lung Foundation.
Over 120 people       with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) meet weekly to       participate in a programme of singing designed to promote better       breathing.
(6)     5.
Skylarks &#8212; Singing for Parkinson's singing groups have been       established in Kent in collaboration with local Parkinson's Society       support groups.
Over 60 people with Parkinson's and carers participate on       a two-weekly basis in a programme of singing designed to help maintain and       improve voice quality (http://www.canterburycantatatrust.co.uk/skylarks/4579791546).
(6)     6.
Brighton and Hove PCT singing groups of people with dementia As       a direct consequence of research on singing and dementia conducted by       Centre staff, Brighton and Hove PCT provide monthly singing groups for       this population reaching over 80 people.
(5)     Impact on practitioners, training and public opinion     1.
Royal Society for Public Health (RSPH) made a policy decision       in 2008 to more fully incorporate and recognise the work of arts and       health practitioners, initially in the area of music and singing, and       based on Sidney De Haan Research Centre work, formed a national awards       committee to assess innovation and excellence in UK arts and health       practice.
In 2012 the RSPH, recognising the growing research base in       music, singing and public health from the Sidney De Haan Research Centre       held the UK's first national one-day conference on arts, wellbeing and       public health practice.
Also in 2012 the RSPH developed the first national       public health practitioner training programme in arts, health and       wellbeing (New Horizons), based on research of several Centre staff.
The       training includes modules on singing and health focusing on mental and       physical health problems, using the research findings to influence the       content (research references 1-6).
(3, 7)     2.
Global Alliance for Arts &amp; Health (Washington, DC) In 2008       the Alliance, with over 2,000 international members, invited Professors       Camic and Clift to establish Arts and Health: An International Journal for       Research, Policy and Practice, the first international journal of its       kind, now in its fifth year.
The journal has been cited in the House of       Lords, US Congress and the Royal Society for Public Health for its       contributions to practice development, research and health care policy,       thus having an impact on public opinion.
(10)
