     Service user satisfaction     Two of the participating sites in the study (in South East London and       Yorkshire), have changed their service approach following the results of       the findings.
In London, a review of the quality (and amount) of       interaction between staff and users and development of a new service user       information policy followed from research findings showing low       satisfaction scores in relation to staff interaction and information       giving to ensure that clear, current and accurate information was relayed       to service users.
In Yorkshire, services instigated group discussions with       users to examine perceived dissatisfaction and ways of resolving problems,       following low staff interaction and safety satisfaction scores obtained in       the research.
Further impact has arisen through use of the Forensic       Satisfaction Scale developed by the UoA to assess levels of satisfaction       in a Confidential Inquiry into the care of mentally disordered offenders       by the forensic service in Ireland.
Currently, discussions are underway with a view to introduce the       intervention developed in the Comquol study (begun in January 2012)       throughout the Trust where the first phase of the intervention took place,       following findings from the first cohort of the study showing major       positive improvements in virtually all of the assessed service user       outcomes (quality of life, satisfaction, therapeutic relationship, ward       environment, recovery, as well as reduced stress levels in the nursing       staff participating in the intervention).
Additional impact has arisen       from service user involvement in the development of the project with one       service user employed as a member of the research team who is       co-facilitating the development of the qualitative phase of the study.
This work is still on-going but currently 38 members of staff have been       trained in the Structured Communication Approach (another 16 by December       2013) with 40 service users completing the intervention (another 16 by       December 2013).
Telehealth project     Impact of the teleheath project has been demonstrated through ongoing use       of the facilities and procedures developed as part of the project which       has had an impact on discharge rates and reduced staff travel.
These       principles and policies were embedded into the Trust's working practices       as part of the study.
The facilities have been used for over 350       meetings/consultations.
The resulting improved communication has led to a       reduction in the 2-3 month delayed discharge rate of 75% and reduced staff       travel.
It has been calculated by the Trust the expected savings in the       three years following the introduction of telehealth will be &#163;762,554.
Important impact has also been obtained from this KTP project in Oxleas       NHS Trust.
Following positive evaluation at the pilot stage the project       has been expanded from an initial five sites to sixteen sites across the       Trust, with current plans to introduce telehealth facilities across the       whole of the Trust.
Over 50 Trust staff were trained in using the       technology and 15 staff given in-depth training as local champions and       local leads.
Carers views and experiences of forensic mental health services     The development and introduction of carer support worker (CSW) roles in       two forensic services in Kent and South East London arose directly as a       result of the research work of the UoA.
The roles were commissioned as       permanent roles in the service and there have since been over 200       consultations between the CSWs and carers in these services.
This service       development is based on the UoA's systematically developed step by step       approach to the development of carer support services in secure settings.
This has included developing information and support resources (i.e.
in       the diagnosis and prognosis of common mental health disorders) the CSWs       can access to help maintain informed discussions with carers.
Adherence to antipsychotic medication in mentally ill prisoners     Findings from this study identified the relationship between the personal       relevance of medication and increased levels of adherence This was the       first major study to systematically examine adherence to antipsychotic       medication in mentally ill offenders and clarified the important research       design elements to be included when undertaking adherence research with       this cohort of participants.
Ongoing impact on professional practice       arising from this work will continue as the first RCT of an adherence       therapy approach utilised with a forensic mental health population       (Cavezza et al, 2013), tests an intervention developed based on the work       of this UoA.
Arising from this body of work,Dr.
MacInnes was invited to       join the Royal College of Psychiatrist's Invited Review Service and was       involved in a serious case review for the Health and Social Services       States of Jersey as well as carrying out an Independent Inquiry into       breaches of security at a low secure unit at Oxleas NHS Foundation Trust.
