     The research findings and practical tools and approaches developed by the       research team have been adopted and incorporated into planning and health       activities in local, regional and national settings in many parts of the       world.
`Their work has changed the nature of political and professional       debate about how cities incorporate health issues into their spatial and       transport planning' (S1).
Promoting and supporting healthy urban planning in cities in the           WHO European region       In recognition of the critical importance of the HUP work undertaken by       the research team at UWE, WHO designated it as an official Collaborating       Centre (originally in 1995).
The designation is renewed regularly, and was       most recently assigned in 2011.
The UWE Centre is the only one in Europe       to be based within an environment-oriented (rather than health) Faculty.
The research team in the WHO CC is the main source of       advice on HUP to the European network of more than 100 officially       designated WHO Healthy Cities and over 500 cities that are members of the       25 separate WHO national networks.
With reference to the impact of the WHO           CC research and its implementation, `[t]his has included       initiatives in several cities that now better link public health outcomes       and public health practices within strategic planning projects such as:       Milan, Italy concerning inclusion in deprived neighbourhoods; Kuopio,       Finland assessing local areas through active travel; Bursa, Turkey       integrating green infrastructure; and, here in Belfast through using forms       of Health Impact Assessment in city development' (S2).
Annually the WHO Collaborating Centre undertakes a systematic collection       and analysis of data from all of the participating cities.
This complex       data set is used to ascertain and monitor the development of HUP and thus       guide the support provided to cities.
Findings from the analysis of phases       4 and 5, 2005-2013, show that HUP knowledge and action has developed both       quantitively and qualitively in cities across the WHO European region,       which includes Russia, the ex-USSR states, Turkey and Israel.
A smaller       sub-group of European cities (those with the most capacity for and       commitment to HUP) is provided with additional support by the WHO           CC.
`Through their work in supporting this group we have seen       some truly inspirational examples of implementation through influencing       planning policy and processes in our cities to better address public       health issues' (S1).
Spreading understanding about the spatial determinants of health       The `Health Map' (see right) is a research-based conceptual tool,       developed from what had been a narrower health-only approach (R4), to       enhance understanding of the wider determinants of health in human       settlements.
The global reach and utilisation of the health map is a       robust indicator of the impact of the overall research programme.
It has       been translated into 32 languages and has been used as a key conceptual       tool in a wide range of settings from the European Environment Agency's       `The European Environment &#8212; state and outlook 2010' (S3) to the Australian       Government's Institute of Health and Welfare (in 2011) (S4).
Functional       utilisation ranges from spreading understanding of the complex       explanations of the effects of the built environment on health, to       practical use in scoping impacts as a prelude to policy review or       Environmental Impact Assessments.
UK policy development and guidance       Because of its expertise, the WHO CC team was commissioned       by the UK's National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (NICE) to       assist in the production of national policy guidance (2009-11) and a       briefing for local authorities (2013).
A series of six evidence reviews       under the theme `Spatial Planning for Health' has been produced and       disseminated (S5).
In March 2013, at the invitation of Public Health       England, the research team organised an invited expert seminar initiating       development of its `Healthy Places' work-stream.
Developing cross-sectoral leadership for healthier places       The WHO CC's research showed that the separate structural       and paradigmatic spaces inhabited by public health and built environment       were a key blockage in developing healthier settlements.
At the invitation       of Regional Government bodies in the South West of England the centre       conducted three high-level study tours (in 2008, 2009 and 2012) to       `healthy planning' exemplary developments (e.g.
in Germany and the       Netherlands).
These visits acted as learning sets for senior public health       officers from health and planning, and gave the WHO CC team       the opportunity to disseminate its research and knowledge in context.
Post-tour evaluations found the events were influential in developing new       partnerships, policies, perspectives and projects at leadership level.
For       example, in Bristol, planning applications are now routinely screened for       their potential impact on health, and in South Gloucestershire two major       new town extensions have been subject to Health Impact Appraisal.
Commercial partnership: incorporating health in commercial development         projects       Honed in the aforementioned EPSRC project (SOLUTIONS), the WHO CC       team developed `Spectrum Appraisal'.
This is a commercially available       built environment appraisal tool that supports collaborative       decision-making and synergistic outcomes for health and sustainability.
Since 2012 it has been made available in a commercial partnership with       Daniel Black and Associates (S6).
Through UK application, Spectrum       Appraisal has changed proposed plans and policies.
Examples include       Merthyr Tydfil Borough Council and Bristol City Council housing       strategies, South Gloucestershire's Filton New Neighbourhood and the       award-winning ICON housing development in Somerset.
In each case the       benefit of use of the tool has been to develop mutual understanding and       better solutions from disparate stakeholder groups, including       cross-departmental groups of council officers and civil society, resulting       in developments that support more active lives and better social cohesion.
Rethinking professional education       Research Councils UK included WHO CC's educational       implementation of the integration model for health and the built       environment as one of the 100 ground-breaking pieces of research from all       fields in their `Big Ideas for the Future' report published in 2011 (S7).
The report is a compilation of `UK research that will have a profound       effect on our future'.
This WHO CC innovation has led to       change in the national training programme for public health consultants       and a shift in policy for the national professional accreditation bodies.
