     The research outlined above has impacted on (1) Practitioners and         Professional Services and (2) on Public Policy, Law and Services,       specifically the work of NGOs (The Forgiveness Project, Centre for Peace       Building in Bosnia) and civil society partner organisations (such as the       Friedrich Ebert Stiftung in Bosnia and the Public International Law and       Policy Group (PILPG).
Noor's research, which he has developed in collaboration with       victim and perpetrator groups, has been the basis for his engagement with       the NGO The Forgiveness Project.
He has been working with the       Forgiveness Project since 2008.
This work has led to the development and       application of the Forgiveness Toolbox (http://www.theforgivenesstoolbox.com/about/).
The Forgiveness Project works with victim and perpetrator groups of       conflicts across the world.
Their main aim is `to provide tools that       facilitate conflict resolution and promote behavioural change' (http://theforgivenessproject.com/).
The focus of the Toolbox is to develop `skills [that] aim to enable       individuals and groups to re-gain their diminished sense of agency       following victimhood experiences.'
In terms of reach, this       Toolbox is publicly available on the internet and can therefore be       utilised by NGOs, groups and individuals in a range of global contexts.It       utilises the experiences of victims and perpetrators, who have worked with       Noor and the Forgiveness Project.
The significance       of this work can be seen in terms of how it has filled a demonstrable gap       in the necessary practical resources available for those working on the       ground, in the field of dealing with the effects of conflict, specifically       at the psychological level.
The impact has occurred through the process of developing the Toolbox.
From the start there has been a strong input from practitioners (The       Forgiveness Project), focusing on enhancing and improving effective       practice.
Noor's research had to respond directly to practitioner       needs.
Furthermore, victims and perpetrators of violence and conflict were       involved at key stages of the design process, and challenged many of the       assumptions of the research itself.
Thus, participants have engaged with       different concepts of victimhood, as can be seen by one participant's       testimony: `I can't look at myself as a victim &#8212; it diminishes me as a         person.'
Before going `live' in July 2013, we put mechanisms in place to monitor       downloads and access to the Toolbox, along with practitioners' narrative       pertaining to its use.
While Noor's work focuses on the       psychological responses to violence and conflict, Keil's work is       on institutional design in post-conflict societies.
These approaches have       recently been united in a policy paper, which has been distributed to       partner organisations.
Keil was commissioned to write a report by the Friedrich Ebert       Stiftung, and this has since been published by their office in Bosnia and       Herzegovina (in 2011), and has been used to confirm their policy of       supporting specific state reforms (http://www.fes.ba/publikacije/2012/Welfare/soren.pdf).
As part of the Foundation's work in Bosnia, they have identified economic       stagnation and social instability as key reasons for the on-going       political crisis in the country (www.fes.ba).
It can be demonstrated that       Keil's work has enabled the Friedrich Ebert Stiftung to continue       its focus on certain reform initiatives and provided wider information for       key stakeholders such as young people, trade unionists and social       democratic party members.
For another research paper, Keil worked       collaboratively on research with a practitioner and former employee of the       Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE).
He has also       worked with the Konrad Adenauer Stiftung in Bosnia, for which Keil       co-authored a paper on the territorial dimension of the Croat question in       Bosnia.
This paper has been used to inform policy debates in the country       in 2013.
In terms of reach, therefore this work has       specifically focused on certain societal actors in Bosnia and Herzegovina.
While enabling further public debate on fundamental issues of       state-building and social policy in Bosnia and Herzegovina, this impact is       also significant, because it enables the Friedrich Ebert       Stiftung (and other key actors in Bosnia) to apply intellectual knowledge       in their practical work.
Supporting evidence            Work with NGOs such as The Forgiveness Project, and The           Parenting Circle can be viewed at www.theforgivenessproject.org.uk,         and http://www.theparentscircle.com/         see also the homepage of the Forgiveness Tool Kit:           http://www.theforgivenesstoolbox.com/resisting-conformity/        Work with the Friedrich Ebert Stiftung in Bosnia and Herzegovina.
For         example, see Keil's contribution on their website: http://www.fes.ba         Soeren Keil's Email exchange the Friedrich Ebert Stiftung in Bosnia.
On-going email exchanges and academic consultations with Dr Valery         Perry, the Chair of Party of the International Law and Policy Group in         Bosnia (a USAID financed organisation to support civil society         development).
Email exchanges with Founder and Director of the Forgiveness Project.
Informing public debate: Research specifically dealing with the       psychological responses to violence and conflict has featured in Times       Higher Education article (4th June 2009) and as part of BBC       Radio 4's `Thinking Allowed' broadcast (19th January 2011).
