     The impact of the research has reached communities,       individuals and organisations that play key roles in PET.
This impact has       also been highly significant in terms of improving practice in PET in the       UK and in particular, changing PET policy and practice within both initial       police training and European cybercrime investigation.
Through the impact       of our research at a strategic level (such as the Higher Education Forum       for Learning and Development in Policing and the European Cybercrime       Training and Education Group), we have been able to influence the       direction of debates around issues of professionalization at both UK and       pan-European levels.
At a practitioner-based level, we have been able to       assess the training requirements and develop the materials needed to       provide a more coherent and uniform approach to PET and to, subsequently,       impact on the professional standards of practitioners in this area (see       3b) above).
At the level of reach, this research has impacted on a       number of groups, agencies and stakeholders across the UK and Europe.
The       reach of our research on initial police training as part of the UK's PET       is illustrated by a number of examples.
Our report for the Higher       Education Academy ('ASC 547 Higher Education and Policing') has reached       all higher education providers in England and Wales.
At the practitioner       level, over 70% of the police forces in England and Wales use our Oxford       University Press publication 'Blackstone's Handbook for Policing Students'       (see 2b above), authored by UoA staff to support the initial training of       police officers (to date, over 32,000 copies of the textbook have been       sold).
In terms of the reach of our research into international cybercrime       investigation training, 200 practitioners from more than 30 European       countries have benefitted by undertaking 14 innovative and high quality       cybercrime investigation training courses, designed by UoA staff and       others.
Practitioners were drawn from European law enforcement agencies       (for example, the national German police), and during the span of the       projects included investigators from every national state in the European       Union.
The courses have also been delivered beyond Europe (particularly       Africa and the Middle East) by international organisations such as the       Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (the OSCE), extending       the reach of our research yet further.
Most recently, the reach of the       impact of our cybersecurity research can be seen in the establishment of       England's new Cybercrime Centre of Excellence Network for Training,       Research and Education.
Our partners in this project are the College of       Policing; ACPO e-Crime Training, the PcEU; nine UK universities and four       commercial companies.
At the level of significance, the impact of our PET       research can be seen in a number of arenas.
First, there is our       significant engagement with debates around initial police training in the       UK.
In 2012 we were invited to contribute to the Independent Commission on       Policing, chaired by Lord Stevens of Kirkwhelpington and this has resulted       in a chapter on the future of initial police training and education in the       2013 Routledge publication (see 2a above).
Earlier staff within the UoA       authoritatively set out the current and likely future direction of initial       police training for the Higher Education Academy.
Finally, written       feedback to the publisher on the impact of our Blackstone's publication       from police trainers in the UK is overwhelmingly positive, one remarking       in 2013 that the Handbook 'makes a unique contribution to the training of       policing students' and others noting that it had become the de facto       textbook for the profession.
Our research and pedagogic evaluations within cybercrime investigation       training were central to the development of European-wide training courses       that meet urgent cybercrime investigation needs.
A good example of this is       the new Mac Forensics course designed as part of an ISEC project that our       research supported.
Up to this point there was no Mac operating system       forensics course that was common to law enforcement agencies in Europe.
UoA staff are taking a lead on the development of the EU's joined-up       response to cybercrime by making a comprehensive and up to date training       package (developed with experts from throughout the EU) more attractive to       member states than their own often uncoordinated efforts.
By       internationalising the delivery of these courses we also provide the       training within an environment predicated upon cross-border relationships.
Within the UK, the research of UoA staff has influenced a number of       national policy developments.
A notable example is the new (March 2012)       Association of Chief Police Officer (ACPO) Good Practice guidelines for       Digital Evidence.
UoA staff were also instrumental in establishing the       British Computer Society Cybercrime Forensics Specialist Group which, to       date, has over 1450 members in 44 countries.
Further tangible evidence of the significance of the research includes       the establishment of the European Cybercrime Training and Education Group       (ECTEG) based with Europol in Den Haag.
When the new European Cybercrime       Centre (EC3) was being established consultations were held with ECTEG       concerning the new agencies remit.
The significance of our impact is on-going, as demonstrated by a number       of research projects in cybersecurity that have since started and that       have arisen from the partnership developed with Europol and others.
