     The impact of this body of research has had considerable reach,       nationally and internationally, and made a significant difference to UK       and global professional practice and policy.
Impact on practitioners and professional services     Parsons' Alternatives to Exclusion project has had substantial       impact within the UK.
Findings were shared at the national conference in       2009 for local authorities, education leaders, Children's Trust managers       and headteachers, where the project LAs shared their strategies to reduce       exclusions.
This led to four regional workshops held across England between 2010-11,       attended by over 200 people from 40 LAs.
The North Lincolnshire Fair         Access Protocol for schools in 2011 demonstrates this impact and the       research was cited on the Access4Education organisation website in 2011       (1).
Booth et al.
's TLRP research recommendations, disseminated via the Index,       have had considerable reach and significance, nationally and       internationally.
In the UK, Norfolk County Council has given every school       advisor in Norfolk's 450 schools the Index 2011 edition,       underpinning staff training and peer supervision (2).
The Index       has been translated into forty languages and examples of its international       reach include its use in: supporting school developments in Norway (Nes,       2009); guidelines for an inclusive education approach in Hungary (3);       anti-discrimination workshops for teachers in Serbia, 2008; a       self-assessment tool to reduce barriers to participation in over 350       schools in Bosnia and Herzegovina, 2012 (4); inclusive developments in 30       German early childhood settings in Cologne and Bonn (Commonwealth       Secretariat, 2010).
The Index has been used in South Africa as a       framework to change negative attitudes towards disabilities (South African       Department of Education, 2008); and in Australia to address inclusive       education reform in schools in 2012.
In Lao, the Inclusive Education project (Grimes) adapted the Index       and developed a national initiative which has had substantial impact.
The       project report, A Quality Education for All (5), for Save the       Children Norway (2009) has been translated into Lao Lhoum, the majority       language, and a copy given to every school in the Lao PDR.
The research       changed the landscape of educational provision in Lao, enabling most       children with disabilities to attend mainstream schools by 2009, and       helped practitioners move away from authoritarian pedagogy to develop       innovative active learning strategies (see also UNESCO, 2010; WHO, 2012).
Impact on public debate and policy     Invitations to the researchers to serve as government policy advisors and       consultants on inclusion, as a result of the research, have been       considerable.
Parsons' research has had significant impact on policy debate; for       example, it was included in the Commons Select Committee session in 2010       (6).
Parsons presented evidence at the House of Commons Education       Committee in 2010 and at The Office of the Children's Commissioner School       Exclusion Enquiry in 2011 and 2012 (7).
He is also a member of the       national enquiry panel of the Office of the Children's Commissioner into       school exclusions (Children's Commissioner, 2013).
Significantly, findings from the Strategic Alternatives to Exclusion         from School research contributed to the initiation of the Department       for Education `exclusion trials' in 12 LAs across England, beginning in       2012.
These changes provide a better deal for young people who would       otherwise be either permanently excluded, or placed in poor quality       alternative provision (DfE, 2012).
Parsons' ongoing involvement with key       policy makers and the media (eg most recently (8)) has influenced the use       of the term `redundant' in relation to permanent exclusions.
Booth's research findings, via the Index, have influenced and       shaped policy debates and policy development.
In South Africa, the Index       helped to shape the development of inclusive schools (reported in       Engelbrecht, 2011, REF2), a policy framework for the screening and       assessment of children experiencing barriers to learning, and government       guidelines for inclusive schools (9).
Evidence of the ways in which the       research has promoted equality and challenged traditional assumptions is       found in: European policy analyses (eg EASPD, 2012) (10) and reviews of       teacher education for inclusion (e. EADSNE, 2012); publications by NGOs       (eg Save the Children, UK, 2008; Global Campaign for Education, 2012); as       well as UNESCO publications (eg UNESCO, 2009).
Grimes is disability education advisor on the advisory panel to the       European Equality Data Initiative set up by the Open Society Foundation       (OSF) in Brussels (2013), and was asked to speak at the recent Symposium       on Equality Data Collection hosted by OSF and European Network Against       Racism (ENAR).
The Lao Inclusive Education project (on which       Grimes was researcher and lead evaluator) fed directly into the Lao PDR       Inclusive Education policy and National Strategy, which paved the way for       the reform of education in Lao.
According to the Minister of Education in       Lao in 2009 (5), this strategy has been a significant step towards       fulfilling the obligations of the Convention of the Rights of the Child       and has supported Lao PDR to work towards achieving its Education for         All targets.
Rogers' work led to an invitation to sit on the Young Care Leavers'       Strategy Group and to meet the Mayor of London, Boris Johnson, in May       2013.
Her research has had impact in Australia and South Africa, being       cited by social justice NGOs The Brotherhood of St Laurence (http://www.bsl.org.au/)       and the South African charity Girls and Boys Town (http://www.gbtown.org.za).
