     (a) Introducing new evidence-based concepts to policy-makers and           the public (2007-2009)     This body of work coined the terms `demonstration effect' and `festival       effect', and introduced them into the UK legacy policy discourse, both       through the immediate users commissioning the research (eg DoH, Sport       England) and through intermediate users engaging with the work (eg       regional development agencies and local government).
As such, the use of       these terms in policy documents or discourse can be directly attributed to       the SPEAR work (6).
While the initial ESRC seminar series       contributed to the debate about the potential for legacies outside London       among immediate users involved in the series and among end users among the       wider public through the national press (eg The Guardian, 10/8/2007), the       significance of the work in informing policy was first highlighted in the       government's national physical activity plan in 2009 (7).
This plan cited       interim findings as providing the "best available international evidence       [to] maximis[e] the opportunities in the run-up to the 2012 Games and will       be used to guide the development of the regional 2012 health legacy plans       across England" (p.51).
(b) Informing national government policies and programmes           (2009-2011)     In 2009, in a major speech on physical activity policy (8) following the       delivery of SPEAR's systematic review report to the immediate user       (DoH), the Secretary of State, Andy Burnham, noted "the evidence from past       sporting events suggests the Games are likely to have two distinct effects       on the general public.
The first is the demonstration effect...[but] the       second effect &#8212; the festival effect &#8212; [is] crucial...This, for me, is the       effect we need to maximise."
Given these effects, Burnham goes on to note       that "It's vital we make full use of major sporting events as a catalyst       which is why I want to start a dialogue with sports governing bodies.
With       Ben Bradshaw [Secretary of State for Culture, Media and Sport], I want to       work with them to develop physical activity legacy plans alongside the       sports legacy plans they have to promote physical activity before, during       and after the event &#8212; to maximise the `festival effect' of this golden       decade."
Burnham goes on to list a range of initiatives in dance, walking,       cycling and swimming that will seek to harness the festival effect       identified by SPEAR's research, including:     i) The addition of Dance4Life and Play4Life sub brands to Change4Life     ii) The establishment of a Dance Champions Group, including Strictly Come       Dancing personalities Arlene Phillips (judge), Angela Rippon (former host)       and Lisa Snowdon (former contestant).
iii) A Walking for Health 2012 campaign with Natural England to deliver       200k people more active.
iv) A national programme of cycling opportunities similar to the Sky       sponsored Skyline events.
v) An additional &#163;1m to allow councils not yet signed up for the free       swimming initiative to do so.
This clearly represents a significant range of initiatives developed by       the immediate research user with a clear reach to impact upon intermediate       and end users.
Furthermore, Burnham's speech demonstrates that, although SPEAR's       research may not have directly stimulated these initiatives, it did       provide significant evidence for the purpose and direction that the       initiatives should take, with Burnham concluding "So August 2019, we come       back to this room.
Successful events staged.
A rack of medals and even a       couple of big trophies won.
Great memories.
But the biggest prize &#8212;       everybody more active than they were."
Although the prevailing economic climate and the change of government in       2010 led to the scaling-back of some of these initiatives, there were       clear programme changes informed by the research in 2009-10, and these       also impacted on end users at the time (ii, v), whilst those that survived       the change of government (i) or did so on a smaller scale (iii, iv)       continued to impact upon end users from 2010.
In fact, the research       retained influence among immediate users in the new government, with the       Coalition's Plans for the Legacy of the 2012 Games (9) noting that "the       Responsibility Deal for Public Health will draw upon the `festival effect'       of the Games to encourage healthy, active lifestyles" (p.5), and the       Minister for Sport, Hugh Robertson, reporting in Parliament that Weed's       Sport England report had guided his assessment of the relationship between       elite level sport and mass participation in sport at grassroots level       (10).
Robertson also noted that UK Sport was currently finalising research       into the inspirational effects of major sports events, research       commissioned from a partnership between SPEAR and Sheffield Hallam       University in 2011.
Similarly, in endorsing the use of Active Celebration       in the NHS Sport &amp; Physical Activity Challenge, Anne Milton, the       Minister for Public Health, commented that SPEAR's evidence-based       guide "is a key resource...to create a lasting legacy of healthier, more       active communities" (11).
Examples of intermediate users of the SPEAR research at the       national level have been SportCoachUK, who cite SPEAR's systematic       review (p.2) as underpinning their coaching legacy strategy (12), and the       Scottish Physical Activity and Health Alliance, who advocate the use of       Active Celebration to develop legacies from the 2014 Commonwealth Games in       Glasgow (13).
SPEAR's systematic review was also directly       considered in the Culture, Media and Sport Commons Select Committee's       report on the legacy of the 2012 Games (14).
(c) Informing regional and local plans, programmes and activities           (2010-2012)     Through the DoH's regional physical activity network, SPEAR's       research, particularly the evidence-based guide, Active Celebration,       achieved considerable reach among intermediate users in regional and local       government across England, with SPEAR staff running over 20       workshops on the implementation of the findings at local level in all       English regions from 2010 to 2012.
In just one example, SPEAR's       research is noted (pp.10-11) as underpinning Inspire North West: The       Health and Wellbeing Framework for the 2012 Games (15), and similar       references can be found in the strategies and frameworks of the other       English regions.
Furthermore, despite the scaling-back of initiatives at       national level following the formation of the Coalition government in       2010, Active Celebration continued to reach intermediate users &#8212; local       health and physical activity promotion practitioners &#8212; throughout England,       from Hampshire in the South (16) to North Yorkshire in the North East (17)       and, of course, in London, where one Borough alone invested &#163;90k in the       initiative (18).
While there is no systematic evaluation of the detail of       the impact of this research on end users (the least active and sedentary       members of the public), its continued use to inform the activities and       programmes developed by local health practitioners and professionals as       intermediate users suggests that it has important reach and likely       significance for such end users.
(d) Holding government policy to account and informing           international debate (2010-2013)     Since the change of government in 2010 and the rationalisation of sport       participation legacy policy, SPEAR's research has been used to       highlight shortcomings in national policy, particularly the lack of any       meaningful policies to use the 2012 Games to stimulate demand, thus       stimulating public debate among end users of the research to help hold       government policy to account.
Particularly following the publication of       Places People Play, the government's Mass Participation Legacy Plan, but       also before this, critiques of government policy directly featuring SPEAR's       research have featured in, inter alia, The Times (18/12/2010), The       Telegraph (20/5/2010), and the British Medical Journal (23/6/2011) and,       internationally, in The New York Times (15/2/2011), The Washington Post       (28/3/2011), and the Canadian Medical Association Journal (19/4/2011).
Weed       has featured in several TV documentaries, in which SPEAR research       has been used to directly challenge the former Olympics Minister, Tessa       Jowell (Sky News, 19/12/2010) and the current Minister for Sport, Hugh       Robertson (BBC One, 25/2/2011) about their policies for Olympic sport       legacies, and this has been supplemented by over 30 similar appearances on       local and national radio (2010-2013).
As such, this body of work has       managed to achieve the somewhat unlikely dual outcome of both informing       government policy and holding government policy to account.
