     Impact on Chinese curriculum developers and their syllabus     Holliday's research contributed to the conceptualisation and writing of a       Chinese syllabus for       teacher education.
The President of NAFLE was attracted by Holliday's       research and invited him to       contribute to the writing of a new national syllabus for English language       teacher education for the       Chinese National Institute of Education Sciences.
He reports: `We invited       him to do this because of       his research.'
Furthermore: `The members of the writing team are most       Chinese scholars from       outstanding universities in teacher training...Prof Holliday is the only       one we invited from abroad.'
This invitation resulted in Holliday writing one of seven chapters of the       national syllabus for training       English teachers as part the Institute's proposal for curriculum change to       the Chinese Ministry of       Education.
Holliday's chapter, entitled `Cultural knowledge and       intercultural communication skills',       sets out the parameters for how teachers should make the students'       existing cultural experience a       key resource in the learning of English.
It counters the common view that       they should leave       `Chinese culture' behind in favour of `"native speaker" culture' when       learning English, thus       becoming alienated from lesson content.
It thus impacts on perceptions and       treatment of primary       and secondary school language learners in non-Western locations with       regard to (1) cultural values       and social assumptions associated with them, (2) their cultural lives and       capital, (3) the form and       content of their education, and (4) how they are understood and empowered       by opposing the       ideology which has labelled them as culturally deficient.
The invitation was part of NAFLE's broader agenda to combat the common       stereotyping of       Chinese secondary and primary school students in English language classes       within a native-speakerist       educational hegemony.
The President of NAFLE states: `Holliday's       presentation of a       new paradigm in intercultural communication has helped us to move forward       in our attempts to       solve the problem of how to introduce new directions in countering       native-speakerism in the       teaching of culture and English.'
As part of this process, Holliday was       invited to carry out a number       of seminars and deliver papers at professional conferences.
The President       of NAFLE states: `Visits       to China have enabled him to influence the thinking of curriculum       innovators at the Foreign       Language Education Research Centre and the Research Centre for Curriculum       and Pedagogy       through seminars, workshops and conference presentations.'
An offshoot of this relationship with NAFLE was Holliday introducing them       to the Iranian Centre for       International Scientific Studies and Collaboration who share NAFLE's       agenda to make the English       curriculum culturally authentic to school students.
An email from NAFLE       states: `Building       relationship with them is helpful for our current research ...They do       share similar interests with us.'
Changing awareness in English language teaching professionals     Holliday's research was also used to increase the awareness of English       language educators with       regard to the contribution of language students' existing cultural       experience in a range of Asian and       Central American locations.
In a 3-day workshop for four Uzbek curriculum designers from the Uzbek       State World Languages       University and Andijan State University, hosted and funded by the       University of East Anglia for the       British Council Inspire project, in 2012, it was reported that `working       with the materials for your       recent book ... was enlightening for us as we developed our thinking to       design new language and       intercultural tasks to pilot with our students.'
Participants `derived       immense benefit from engaging       in discussions of your theoretical model about the nature of culture       because of the way in which it       connected theoretical aspects of intercultural communication with the       practical needs of the       curriculum.'
A two-day workshop for English language teachers, on the cultural       contribution of students, hosted       and funded by the University of Guanajuato Languages Department, Mexico,       2013, was attended       by 24 state school teachers who were also undergoing BA in-service       training at the university.
The       Head of the Department reported: `In the seminar Professor Holliday       applied his recent research ...       to the current and important issues in their professional lives as well as       being relevant to their       programme of study.'
The first two hours of the event was filmed and       featured on the British       Council TeachingEnglish Guest Writers website       (https://www.teachingenglish.org.uk/user/544821/track),       archived at       http://adrianholliday.com/video/.
The video features the grammar of culture which is developed in       Holliday (2011, 2013) and demonstrates in detail how it informs the       process whereby students       carry existing cultural experience and knowledge into unfamiliar cultural       domains, and what       teachers need to do to help this happen.
The audience participation on the       video demonstrates the       accessibility of the theory to their practice.
Since the web material was       launched in June 2013,       there were 1,138 visits in the first month, and the expected audience       comprises English teaching       professionals worldwide.
A 2-day workshop took place in Amman, Jordan, on `Making the most of the       experience and       knowledge that language learners bring to the classroom' for teachers and       teacher educators in       the region, hosted and funded by the British Council in Amman, 2012.
There       were 22 participants       representing the Jordanian ministry of education, UNRWA and 10       universities in Lebanon,       Palestine, Jordan and Syria.
One teacher commented: `I can say that this       workshop is one of the       most important sessions I have attended through my academic life'.
This       was followed in 2012 by       seminars on `Language and Culture' to Palestinian language teachers,       funded by the British       Council, at Hebron University (93 students), an-Najah University and       al-Quds Open University in       Ramallah.
Regarding Ramallah, the British Council organiser reports: `We       connected by       videoconference to students and university staff in Gaza, reaching 80 from       several institutions, and       there was some enthusiastic dialogue following your presentation with       those in Gaza, and in       Ramallah.'
Other instances of impact are conference presentations and a two-day       workshop for English       language educators in Nepal in 2011.
Also a keynote speech and Oxford       University Press Debate       at the TEC13 conference in India in 2013 are now on YouTube,       (http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cbYrwiZal_w&amp;list=PLUwf3cy5FZzhesjMIhcuyknQTQtApBeZL&amp;i ndex=8       and http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bUADbAPl1wk),       and were streamed live by the       British Council to 17,992 English language educators in 36 countries.
The       content of all these       events referred to was based on Holliday's research.
Educating in intercultural awareness in diverse academic and         professional groups     A further impact of the research, growing out of the groundwork of       Holliday (1999), is bringing new       awareness of the non-essentialist paradigm in intercultural communication       to students in a range of       geographical locations and disciplines.
Two editions of the textbook, Intercultural         communication:         an advanced resource book for students, Routledge 2004, 2010 (cited       by 244, Google Scholar),       co-authored by Holliday, Kullman and Hyde within the Applied Linguistics       research strand, has       been used on masters and undergraduate programmes in the UK (31       universities), North America       (6 universities), Europe (6 universities) and Malaysia (1 university), in       media, design, cultural       studies, applied linguistics, law, modern languages, philosophy,       psychology, research methods,       translation, management and TESOL (sales 1,069 UK, 414 US, 729 Europe, 648       Asia, 1471       Australasia).
The quality of the impact can be seen in the Master's course in Design       Management in the Faculty       of Design at Northumbria University.
The programme leader comments: `The       module was       designed to provide students with an insight into working in globally       distributed intercultural design       teams such as the ones that are created in the new multinational companies       that have developed       as a result of globalisation.
... We used the text for a period of 5 years       [with] ... 425 of our students       who engaged with the text and reflected it into their design work.
These       students have now       returned to their home countries and are employed in the design industry       across the globe, having       been influenced in their thinking by your book.
Comments from students       include: ... "The book has       penetrated my previous mind set and caused me to reflect upon my own       thought processes".
... "It       deconstructed and changed my perspective, increasing my respect toward the       "foreign others" ...       "Point mentioned in the book: the issue of prejudice, culture,       otherisation and so on, I think in the       future for my career, particularly in working for foreign companies would       bring me great       usefulness."'
