     Original research by Anders Hansen (2003a and 2003b) fed into leading       alcohol campaign       organisation Alcohol Concern's input into the Government's Alcohol Harm       Reduction Strategy       2004, from which the new tighter code of practice governing alcohol       advertising resulted with       effect from 2005:     Eric Appleby, Chief Executive Officer, Alcohol Concern, noted that:     "Anders Hansen is an acknowledged expert in the field advertising and the       media and his       work on Alcohol and the mass media was an integral and important       component of the       report 100% Proof: Research for Action on Alcohol published in 2003       by Alcohol Concern.
This report played a significant role in the shaping of the first cross       government alcohol       strategy (Alcohol Harm Reduction Strategy for England, 2004) and       the mass media chapter       has been used consistently since then by Alcohol Concern and others to       reinforce       arguments for the tighter control of alcohol advertising."
(Appleby, email       22 January 2013).
The Gunter, Hansen and Touri (2008) research was undertaken shortly after       the code of practice       governing television advertising of alcohol had been revised and the       findings showed a high level       of compliance with the revised code; virtually no alcohol advertising       depicted drinking as being       associated with social or sexual success, nor did any advertisements       feature excessive drinking.
The results of the studies continue to be of relevance to and have impact       on on-going debate,       research, policy initiatives and regulation regarding alcohol       advertising/promotion and alcohol       consumption/alcohol-related problems, as seen in the continuing prominence       of concerns about       alcohol advertising and promotion &#8212; and the degree of regulation thereof &#8212;       in successive       government papers, most particularly the Government's 2007 paper Safe.
Sensible.
Social.
The         next steps in the National Alcohol Strategy (building directly on       the Government's 2004 paper)       and the current government's 2012 paper setting out The Government's         Alcohol Strategy.
The research has likewise influenced and been drawn on in alcohol harm       reduction strategy and       policy in Australia, as evidenced in:     a) The Australian Government's National Preventative Health Strategy,       launched on 1 September       2009, which calls for increased monitoring and controls in relation to       alcohol advertising and       promotion, and references the Leicester alcohol research in its associated       Technical Paper No 3       in support of its action strategy regarding reduction of harm related to       alcohol promotion and       excessive consumption; and     b) the Australian Medical Association's call for a new policy agenda on Alcohol         Marketing and         Young People (AUA, 2012), referencing the Leicester research in       support of calls for tighter       regulation of alcohol marketing and promotion.
Concern about the topics addressed by the Leicester research &#8212; media       representations and in       particular the roles of advertising and related mediated alcohol promotion       strategies &#8212; continues       to feature prominently in alcohol strategy papers by leading organisations       (e.g.
The World Health       Organisation, 2010; the British Medical Association, The Science Group of       the European Alcohol       and Health Forum) and governments (e.g.
HM Government, 2012, and the       Australian       government, 2009).
As well as providing important evidence to inform alcohol control       policies and regulation,       particularly in relation to the codes governing alcohol promotion, the       Leicester research has       informed the field of alcohol research and policy by identifying key       approaches and directions for       research, funding (Nicholls/ARUK response and statement, see below; AHRC       funded research,       which draws on Gunter, Hansen and Touri 2008; and on Hansen, 2003) and       policy initiatives in       this field.
Dr James Nicholls, Research Manager, Alcohol Research UK (previously       AERC) indicated (email       March 2013) that while Alcohol Research UK does not systematically monitor       the impact of       research funded by them, the report of this study &#8212; available from the       ARUK website &#8212; would       likely have been widely consulted by policy makers.
He also testified to       the impact of Hansen and       Gunter's work on his own research: "Hansen and Gunter's research did have       an impact on my       own work before I joined ARUK (both the ARUK study, but also an article       that appeared in Alcohol       and Alcoholism in 2007).
They informed a project I carried out (also       ARUK-funded) into news and       social media representations of alcohol, which led to a publication in       Drugs: Education,       Prevention and Policy.
That project, in turn, helped me secure a British       Academy research       fellowship on public discourse and alcohol."
(Nicholls, email 16 January       2013)
