     Those benefiting from the research are numerous and varied, including:       the judiciary of England and Wales, HMCTS, MoJ, Judicial College, Law       Commission of England and Wales, criminal law professionals, public as       serving jurors and defendants in serious criminal trials.
The research [a,       b] has been widely covered in the press and generated substantial public       debate [13].
It has also been highlighted by the senior judiciary as       influential in judicial thinking about the future of trial by jury in this       country [3] and been used in reviews of the jury system in other       jurisdictions, e.g.
Northern Ireland, the Republic of Ireland and the US       [7, 9, 10].
Benefits arising from the research include:            Resolving long-standing concerns about the need for: racially balanced         juries, anonymity for those accused of rape, and change in upper age         limit for jury service;       Reforming official government reporting of conviction rates;       Prompting re-evaluation of judges' use of written directions;       Helping to prevent improper juror conduct and improve deliberations;       Influencing Law Commission proposals on reforms of contempt and         insanity laws.
Racially-balanced juries: Are Juries Fair?
[a] resolved       long-standing concerns that racially balanced juries are needed to ensure       fairness in trials of ethnic minority defendants through its robust       evidence that all-White juries do not discriminate against ethnic minority       defendants.
Previous reviews (Auld Review and the Runciman Commission) had       recommended racially balanced juries, but acknowledged that they did so in       the absence of reliable research, and this research has resulted in       abandonment of proposals to artificially construct racially mixed juries       [1].
Re-evaluation of juries and rape cases: The research [a] also       provided robust empirical evidence that, contrary to popular belief and       previous official reports, juries convict more often than they acquit in       rape.
These findings were cited in the independent review of how public       authorities handle rape complaints (Stern Review 2010), and were relied on       in the report's conclusion that it was not realistic to achieve a much       higher jury conviction rate in rape cases [4, pp.
15, 16, 43, 91, 92, 94].
The research findings on jury conviction rates in rape cases and media       coverage of jury trials [a] were further relied upon in the 2010       government review on providing anonymity for those accused of rape [5, p.       vi, 19, 20, 21, 23, 32, 33].
Official reporting of conviction rates: Are Juries Fair?
[a] identified that official conviction rates in Crown Courts do not       distinguish between guilty pleas and verdicts decided by a jury and can       therefore provide misleading information about conviction rates.
This was       relied upon in the Stern Review's call for a re-evaluation of how official       conviction rates for rape are reported, and the recommendation that the       publication of crime statistics always be accompanied by enough       explanation to ensure that their meaning can be widely understood and       makes clear what conclusions can and cannot be drawn from those data [4,       pp.
10, 18, 32, 33].
It was also relied on by the MoJ in its decision to       work with the National Statistician to clarify rape conviction rates and       review how conviction rates are measured in official government       statistical bulletins for all offences [5, p. vi, 19, 20, 21, 23].
Re-evaluation of the use of written legal directions: The findings       that juror comprehension of legal directions can be substantially improved       when a written summary is provided at the same time as the judge gives       oral legal directions to the jury [a] and that jurors prefer written       directions [b] has prompted a re-evaluation of the use of written       directions by the judiciary in England and Wales.
In 2010 the Court of       Appeal relied on the findings [a] in R v Thompson et al in the       guidance it provided to the judiciary on using written directions [2,       para.
13, 94], and it is now common practice for written directions to be       used in most jury trials in England and Wales.
The Irish Law Reform       Commission also relied on this research [a] in recommending that jurors       should have written information provided to them in all cases to aid       comprehension [9, para.
10.24-10.26].
Upper age limit for jury service: Findings [a] on the ability of       jurors from different age groups to comprehend judicial instructions, and       analysis of the proportion of each age group serving as jurors at each       Crown Court in England and Wales was relied upon by the government in       considering whether to raise the upper age limit for jury service to 75       [6, p.19].
This research was also relied upon by the Northern Ireland       Department of Justice in its 2011 Consultation Paper examining whether       there should be an upper age limit for jurors [7, pp.
3, 34, 56, 62].
Insanity defence: The Law Commission relied upon the research       finding [c] that jury verdicts of "not guilty by reason of insanity" are       extremely rare in deciding in 2012 that it could not proceed directly with       proposals to reform the insanity defence law [11, para.
1.3 and 1.4].
This       resulted in the Law Commission taking the unusual step of issuing a       "scoping paper" to find out how the defence operates in practice [12,       para.
1.23, 1.40, 1.44].
Contempt, the media and improper juror conduct: The research       findings on improper juror conduct [a, b] have had far-reaching impacts on       jury reforms in this jurisdiction and abroad.
Findings that a substantial       proportion of jurors were uncertain what to do about improper conduct [a]       were relied upon in the Court of Appeal's 2010 judgment, R v Thompson         et al, in which it recommended that HMCTS should consult the       Judicial College on how best to explain to jurors their collective       responsibility, and that judges should direct juries on their collective       responsibility as part of their initial remarks to the jury after they       were sworn [2, para.
7, 8].
Findings on juror use of the internet [a] have       also been relied upon by:            The Law Commission for England and Wales in its 2013 review of         Contempt of Court in proposals for reducing contempts committed by         jurors involving use of the intent and modern media [8, para.
1.9, 2.25,         4.16, 4.23, 4.28, 4.55];       The Irish Law Reform Commission in proposals that specific statutory         provisions and administrative arrangements be put in place to reduce the         risk of inappropriate juror use of the internet [9, para.
8.18, 8.19,         8.24];       The US National Center for State Courts in its review of jurors' use         of new media, citing the research as the only systematically-based         estimate of juror misconduct anywhere in the world [10, p.3].
