     Historic Royal Palaces (HRP) benefited from the cultural and financial       impact of the new "Henry       VIII: Heads and Hearts" visitor experience at Hampton Court Palace (HCP),       based on Kingston       University research and founded on a Knowledge Transfer Partnership       between HRP and Kingston       University, supervised by Erica Longfellow, that ran from 2007 to 2010.
The KTP had two aims: to carry out cultural research to inform an       exciting new interpretation for       visitors to the Tudor palace at HCP (`Henry VIII: Heads and Hearts'), and       to strengthen links and       consensus between 'public history' presented at HCP and the academic       community.
In achieving       these aims the KTP offered a pioneering model for the application of       humanities research&#8212;literary,       historical, and cultural&#8212;to a project that improved both a company's       financial position and its       engagement with the public.
`Henry VIII: Heads and Hearts' included new       live interpretation,       refurbished interiors, interactive displays, and multimedia elements, all       inviting visitors to imagine       themselves as courtiers attending the wedding of Henry VIII to Kateryn       Parr at the Palace in 1543.
This new visitor experience immersed members of the public in an       experience of the court drawn       directly from the model explored in Betteridge's work and furthered in       Lipscomb's [1].
In the course of this project, Lipscomb wrote text for various media,       designed new Tudor-inspired       visitor costumes and warders' uniforms, and briefed staff and volunteers       on research findings.
Lipscomb conducted original cultural research to inform the new       interpretation, and also translated       her research into text for written interpretation, a new website, a Henry       VIII twitter feed and an in-house 	  publication, Henry VIII: 500 Facts.
Her findings about the       workings of Henry's Privy Council       enabled the Council Chamber to be opened to the public for the first time       with an innovative       multimedia display that immersed visitors in key debates of the time.
She       also delivered historical       briefings for front-of-house staff and appeared on television and radio       and in person to promote the       new visitor experience [2].
The launch of `Henry VIII: Heads and Hearts' in April 2009 and the       accompanying media and       promotional activities helped HRP to achieve its goal of stabilising       income streams from domestic       family visitors.
HCP saw a 43% increase year-on-year in day visitors in       the six-month period of       April-September 2009 (an additional 115, 287 visitors), compared to a       12.8% increase at       comparable London attractions.
The number of visitors from the domestic       market increased       sharply, from 50,000 in July-August 2008 to 77,000 in July-August 2009       [3].
In addition to attracting new visitors, the new visitor experience       enhanced public awareness of       Henry VIII and the Tudor court.
Which?
named Hampton Court Palace       as `Top Heritage Day Out'       in the southeast, with interpretation that `all heritage attractions       should aim for' [4].
Visitor       expectations were exceeded for almost two-thirds (62%) of visitors.
Visitors commented that it was       `a living Tudor world', `like you're back in the time of Henry VIII'.
Visitor surveys also show an       increased level of awareness of the changes in Henry VIII over the course       of the reign.
In addition,       78% of visitors (98,000) [3] stated that they would tell others that they       should visit.
The high       number of visitors in 2009 has translated into sustained increases in       visits in 2010 and 2011, with       81,000 and 117,000 additional visits, respectively, over the       pre-exhibition number [5].
These       figures indicate the importance of quality, research-based interpretation       for maintaining high visitor       numbers and particularly repeat visits from the local and domestic       markets, and thus increased       community engagement with HCP as a heritage institution.
Lipscomb achieved the second aim of the KTP by implementing a strategy to       build links with the       academic community and position HRP as a research institution.
This has       significantly changed       the culture at HCP, by demonstrating that research can produce both an       enhanced reputation and       commercial success.
This cultural change has been embedded in the       institution by the       establishment of an interdisciplinary Research Advisory Panel including       Longfellow, Betteridge,       and leading academics from other HEIs and national cultural institutions.
Among the events that have taken place as a result of this new       positioning of HRP are a highly       successful academic conference on Henry VIII, co-sponsored with Kingston       University and Oxford       Brookes University ("Henry VIII and the Tudor Court, 1509-2009," July       2009, attended by over 60       academics from around the world) and a series of six public talks by       leading specialists on Henry       VIII between May and October 2009, sponsored by History Today.
This cultural change has affected projects across the organisation,       including a redesigned visitor       experience at Kensington Palace.
The Chief Executive commented that HRP       has "found ways to       value and promote academic research and relationships alongside commercial       success as       mutually important components of successfully achieving our charitable       cause.
At a practical level,       we have been able to transform our palaces for visitors and undertake       events such as academic       conferences with equal flair and energy.
The KTP has played a significant       role in this change       process."
[2]
