     The UKPDS Risk Engine and UKPDS Outcomes Model are currently being used       in a range of clinical, commercial and administrative settings -       evaluating long-term medical risks in patients, as well as economic and       clinical outcomes for patient populations worldwide.
The UKPDS Risk Engine       The UKPDS Risk Engine has become a significant tool in managing the risk       of cardiac complications in patients with diabetes, both in the UK and       internationally, and is recommended by the NHS6.
The UKPDS Risk       Engine calculates the real risk of diabetes rather than the assessed risk.
Influencing national healthcare procedure, the UK National Institute for       Clinical Excellence (NICE) guidelines recommend the UKPDS Risk Engine for7:       annually estimating cardiovascular risk in patients not considered to be       at high cardiovascular risk; educational purposes, when discussing       cardiovascular complications and risk estimates with individual patients;       patients 40 years old and above with low cardiovascular risk from       non-hyperglycaemia-related factors7.
As described and referenced by Adler5, the Risk Engine has       also been used to: assess the cost-effectiveness of screening for       diabetes; evaluate the cost-effectiveness of treatments; assist health       planners to direct scarce resources to high-risk patients; help clinical       trialists to determine likely event rates and calculate more accurate       outcome trial sample sizes; and enable actuaries and epidemiologists to       forecast disease distribution.
The Risk Engine was the most successful model of its type at the       worldwide Mount Hood Challenge Meeting in 2004.
Its equations have been       incorporated in many other leading models8.
The UKPDS Risk       Engine was licenced by ISIS Innovation - the technology transfer arm of       The University of Oxford - in 2002.
It is provided free of charge to       academic and clinical groups, but there is a charge for commercial       companies to use the model.
Over 180,000 free copies have been downloaded       to date.
In addition, approximately 14 commercial licences have been sold       by ISIS (10 to pharmaceutical companies, two to medical publishers, and       two to IT companies)9.
The UKPDS Outcomes Model       Intended to facilitate health economic evaluations of both individual       patient and entire populations, the UKPDS Outcomes Model can be used to:            Evaluate likely rates and sequences of complications (e.g.
myocardial infarction, stroke, heart failure, renal failure, amputation)         over a patient's simulated lifetime;       Assist health service planning for populations with diabetes4.
For example, it can help healthcare systems decide how many future         coronary care or renal units they need to build, or estimate the overall         difference a new diabetes treatment might make in terms of quality of         life and costs;       Help ensure more accurate calculations for life insurance premiums by         specifically estimating the life expectancy of people with type 2         diabetes4;       Assist academic or clinical groups, or pharmaceutical companies, to         model or design clinical trials4; or       Assist healthcare providers to evaluate applications for new diabetes         drugs.
The UKPDS Outcomes Model is now the preferred healthcare analysis tool       used by NICE10 to benchmark and evaluate applications for new       licensed diabetes drugs.
The UKPDS Outcomes Model is capable of       facilitating large scale economic evaluations by estimating changes in       life expectancy and quality of life, when risk factors are altered3.
The Model has been used to assess economic impact of diabetic populations       in the United Kingdom, Australia and Canada.
The UKPDS Outcomes Model was       touted the "best diabetes economic model in existence," for the purposes       of the Ontario Diabetes Economic Model11.
The Ontario Model was       created to provide policymakers with a tool for assessing the long-term       economic benefits of diabetes management, how to best allocate healthcare       resources, and to estimate the cost of treating diabetes in Ontario11.
The UKPDS Outcomes Model was also used in a cost-effectiveness study of       diabetes health services in Australia, improving health outcomes for       patients with type 2 diabetes12.
The UKPDS Outcomes Model was       the subject of an invited Keynote speech at the 2012 Second Annual       PharmaCoEconomics Middle East Forum in Abu Dhabi, attended by       international and regional experts, regulators, and other key       stakeholders.
It is now being used by the Health Authority of Abu Dhabi to       assess future diabetes health care requirements.
The UKPDS Outcomes Model was licenced by ISIS Innovation - the technology       transfer arm of The University of Oxford - in 2005.
It is provided free of       charge to academic and clinical groups, but there is a charge for       commercial companies to use the model.
Since 2005, ISIS Innovation has       provided over 170 licences worldwide in total for the UKPDS Outcomes       Model.
Of these, around 140 are non-commercial and 28 are commercial       licences.
The commercial licences sold by ISIS (three to healthcare       providers, three to insurance companies, 17 to pharmaceutical and biotech       companies, one to a university doing paid consultancy and four to       individuals undertaking paid consultancy) have generated contracts worth       over &#163;450,000 in revenue for The University of Oxford9.
