     In spring 2011 Cathcart co-founded Hacked Off (with Dr Martin Moore of       the Media Standards Trust) to press for a public inquiry into phone       hacking and ensure that the victims and the public were included in the       subsequent political process.
In July 2011 the Prime Minister announced a public inquiry.
Cathcart and       colleagues met him and made suggestions on the remit of the inquiry which       led to 16 separate wording changes, notably extending the inquiry's scope.
In autumn 2011, Hacked Off took victims of press abuse to meet the Prime       Minister.
The public inquiry under Lord Justice Leveson ran from November       2011 to June 2012.
Cathcart addressed its opening seminar, and provided       written and oral evidence as Professor of Journalism at Kingston       University.
Hacked Off made a written submission, drafted by Cathcart.
During and after the inquiry Hacked Off worked with victims of press       abuse such as Christopher Jefferies, Hugh Grant, Brian Paddick and the       McCanns.
Among other things it arranged support meetings for those giving       testimony, and in November 2012 it arranged meetings between victims and       the leaders of the three main political parties.
The day after the Inquiry reported in November 2012, Hacked Off launched       a petition for full implementation of the recommendations, gathering more       than 140,000 signatures in 10 days.
Hacked Off next published a draft       `Leveson Bill' which Labour and the Liberal Democrats both adopted as the       basis for their proposals, with minor amendments.
Cathcart was a lead participant for Hacked Off both in cross-party talks       at this time and in associated consultations with, among others, the Prime       Minister (David Cameron), the Deputy Prime Minister (Nick Clegg) and the       Leader of the Opposition (Ed Miliband).
After the Conservatives proposed       introducing change by Royal Charter, Hacked Off produced a draft charter       derived from its Leveson Bill.
Hacked Off continued to help victims make their case for reform, notably       coordinating an open letter to the Prime Minister from more than fifty       victims.
It also worked to counteract the propaganda of press       organisations, with Cathcart writing in the press, broadcasting and       blogging.
In March 2013 the cross-party talks stalled, the Conservatives favouring       a charter put forward by press organisations.
At the instigation of Hacked       Off, amendments were tabled to two Bills then before Parliament which       taken together were tantamount to the Leveson Bill.
At the same time       Labour and the Liberal Democrats proposed a Royal Charter based on the       Hacked Off draft.
The Conservatives then agreed to a version of the Royal       Charter very close to that proposed by the other two parties.
This was put       to the Commons on 13 March and supported by every party.
On 31 July 2013 the Royal Charter was awaiting sealing by the Privy       Council.
Supporting legislation had received Royal Assent as clauses of       the Crime and Courts Act 2013 and the Enterprise and Regulatory Reform Act       2013, with Hacked Off again closely involved in the drafting.
(The Royal       Charter was subsequently approved by the Privy Council on 30 October       2013.)
The distinct and material contributions of the underpinning research to       this impact are as follows:            The Hacked Off campaign was founded as a result of and in response to         the investigations cited in sections 2 and 3 above.
The subsequent         activities of the campaign were thus underpinned by this research, and         motivated by it       The input by Hacked Off to the terms of reference of the Leveson         Inquiry was based on an assessment of the results of the underpinning         research       The evidence provided to the Leveson Inquiry by Hacked Off drew         substantially from the underpinning research       The investigative results detailed in Cathcart's book "Everybody's         Hacked Off" contributed to the later impact on the Royal Charter.
The ability of Hacked Off to influence the delivery of a Leveson-based       Royal Charter with supporting legislation depended in large measure on       research-based expertise: knowledge of the experience of victims, of the       inadequate past performance of press regulation, of press conduct and       abuses, of the role of courts and the law, of the arguments surrounding       privacy and press freedom.
Without this the drafting, submissions,       negotiation and public debating that were essential to Hacked Off's       actions would not have been possible.
Cathcart's research thus played a       leading role in almost every aspect of Hacked Off's work.
