     Building on the underpinning research, Campbell established the Military       Writing Network.
This       project focused on developing and recording appropriate workshop practice       in post-trauma       environments, especially in the mental health arena.
It has demonstrated       the value of creative       writing as a tool in trauma recovery, and developed pedagogy and methods       for practice-based       research in the workshop environment.
In sum, the MWN project has achieved these key impacts, as detailed       below:            Stimulating, facilitating and honing creative expression by serving         veteran members of the         armed forces and demonstrating the value of such writing by publication         and exhibition.
Allowing members of families of armed forces to encounter the         experiences of their loved         ones in varied and exciting ways (award event, exhibition, publication)         and underlining the         importance of the record of such experience.
Establishing a `home' (in the early-stage archive) for the writing of         veterans who submitted         to the SSAFA-sponsored call for writing and/or who are or have been         clients of Combat         Stress UK or who have submitted their writing since these events.
Working initially with SSAFA (The Soldiers, Sailors and Airmen Family       Association) in 2009/10, the       MWN administered a writing competition, Forces Stories and Poems.
The       competition received       253 entries, of which the works of 11 prize-winning and commended authors       were published in the       chapbook, Forces Stories and Poems (KUP/SSAFA, 2011).
The initial       print run of 400 copies is       now sold out.
A launch event at Kingston University in May 2011 attracted       an audience of 200       which included SSAFA veterans, prize winners, and serving members of the       Armed Forces       representing RAF, RE, RN, WRNS, and TA.
Guest speaker General Sir Kevin       O'Donoghue KCB       CBE stated:     It is important to remember those who fell in previous conflicts, but to       also not forget those       who are actively serving right now all over the world.
We [at SSAFA] are       delighted to be       working with Kingston University on such a noteworthy initiative.
A former RAF serviceman who served as one of the judges for the       competition, also wrote: `The         Forces Stories and Poems chapbook .
.
.
remains an effective tool       with which to change       perceptions and influence movers and shakers'.
The chapbook was featured       in the Times       (Saturday, 21/5/2011):     Pity, expressed in both poetry and prose, is certainly among the human       emotions expressed       in the remarkable little Kingston University Press chapbook, Forces         Stories and Poems .
.
.
This is a striking short collection and the work .
.
.
featured in the       chapbook is, as one of the       judges conceded, "only a fraction of what we would have wished to       include."
Profit from sales       of Forces Stories and Poems and entry fees to the competition will       go to SSAFA Forces       Help, which supported more than 50,000 people last year.
Subsequently, working with Combat Stress UK (the registered mental health       charity for veterans),       the MWN ran a series of four writing workshops over a period of three       months in 2011/12 at       Combat Stress Leatherhead, a therapeutic environment for veterans who are       mainly PTSD       survivors.
Thirty clients signed up for the workshops, of which 23       attended, travelling an average of       89.5 miles to do so.
The Head of Cognitive Behavioural Therapy at Combat       Stress UK assessed       the results of these workshops as follows:     Collaborative work with the Military Writing Network gave Combat Stress       veterans the       valuable opportunity of developing creative writing skills within a       supportive and facilitating       environment.
Typically, the clinical presentation of Combat Stress       veterans causes them to       avoid unfamiliar situations and the loss of self-confidence can affect the       ability to develop       creative potential.
By running workshops within the safety of our Surrey       treatment centre and       using their considerable knowledge and experience, the MWN leaders Siobhan       Campbell       and Joseph Ryan (MFA student of Siobhan) enabled veterans to have the       confidence to       experiment with new ideas and craft their writing skills whilst receiving       sensitive validation of       the pre-written pieces they brought to the meetings.
Exercises were set       which introduced       fresh approaches, stimulating further growth.
Veterans travelled long       distances in order to       make use of the workshops and there are regular enquiries from the       veterans as to whether       further workshops might be held in the future as they were so beneficial.
After years of writing poetry simply for pleasure or from the deep need       to express themselves       in this way, Combat Stress veterans received recognition from the MWN       which resulted in       the publication of an anthology of poems and short stories in 2012.
It has       given the veterans       involved a huge sense of achievement and it would not have been possible       without the       expertise and encouragement of Siobhan and her team.
Growing out of the Combat Stress workshops, 324 written entries and 37       pieces of artwork for       potential publication in a Combat Stress anthology, Courage and         Strength (KUP/Combat Stress,       2012) were received through solicitation on an online workshop, Combat       Stress clients, Combat       Stress residential centres, and continuing writers in the Forces Stories       and Poems project.
Entries       were judged by a panel including veterans, the Head of CBT at Combat       Stress UK, and Campbell,       and 103 pieces were chosen for publication.
The Shards of Hope/Courage and       Strength exhibition       and book launch at Guildford Cathedral from October 31 to November 15,       2012 paired 24 pieces of       artwork with 24 poems from the anthology.
The launch (on October 31) was       attended by 160       people and was addressed by the Dean of the Cathedral and by the Chief       Executive of Combat       Stress UK.
As of January 31, 2013, 153 copies of Courage and Strength       have been sold, with all       profits going to Combat Stress UK, and 55 copies have been donated by       Combat Stress UK.
In the       introduction to the anthology, the Chief of the General Staff (2006-2009),       writes:     The contributors to this volume have shown the qualities of Courage and       Strength throughout       their military careers and never more so than in facing up to the lasting       effects of their       experiences.
The work of Combat Stress with Veterans has been essential       since Service       men returned from the Great War.
It is exciting, that creative writing can       be added, as one       veteran says as `another tool to the therapeutic toolbox'.
