     Nature of the Impact: The Dementia UK report (2)       highlighted widespread problems with care       arrangements for people with dementia, and set in train a process that led       to the National         Dementia Strategy for England (A).
Dementia UK received       substantial national and international       media coverage (including lead story on BBC TV and radio news on launch       day (February 2007)).
The (then) National Clinical Director and co-author of the Strategy       reflected: `In the UK, the       process [of policy action] was initiated by the Alzheimer's Society       commissioning an independent       report from the LSE and the Institute of Psychiatry, King's College       London, entitled: The Dementia         UK report' (B).
The new prevalence and cost projections, the       evidence on care variations across       the country, and the case for improving service quality were among       findings of Dementia UK       heavily cited by the NAO (C), prompting the Government to develop its 2009       National Strategy (A)       and its 2010 regulatory impact assessment (D).
Dementia UK       continues to be widely cited, e.g.
in       the NAO's 2010 follow-up report (E), the 2010 Public Health White Paper       (F) and the 2011 Mental       Health Strategy (G).
The Prime Minister's Challenge on Dementia built directly on the       2009 National Strategy; in       launching it, David Cameron quoted from Dementia UK (H).
A recent       progress report on the PM's       Challenge twice cited the report (I).
Outside England, the report       has informed policy discussions       by, for example, the World Health Organization (J).
The Unit was also       commissioned by the All       Party Parliamentary Group on Dementia to review evidence on cost-effective       dementia care; this       report again cites Dementia UK (K).
By bringing together robust       evidence and analysis on many       topics, Dementia UK highlighted practice challenges for a future       that will be heavily influenced by a       rapidly ageing world population, and has directly informed the development       of policy.
The Unit's modelling of the economic consequences of common mental       disorders and their       treatment with psychological therapies (5) started in 2004 and       influenced the Labour Party's       decision to make access to psychological therapy (specifically CBT) a       manifesto commitment in       2005.
Following the General Election, this became a major plank of health       policy: the       Government's Improving Access to Psychological Therapies (IAPT)       programme started with ten       pathfinder sites in 2006/07 and was followed by 32 implementation sites in       2008/09 (with &#163;173m       invested over three years).
The Unit's 2011 report on mental health       promotion and mental illness       prevention (6) was subsequently cited in a Coalition Government document       that supported the       extension of IAPT with &#163;400m over a further four years (L).
The IAPT is       widely viewed as a       success in greatly improving access to evidence-based psychotherapy for       people with mental       health needs, thereby improving their quality of life and reducing       workplace absenteeism,       unemployment and long-term NHS costs.
The Unit's work on costs and economic pay-offs from fifteen separate       interventions (6) and on       community capacity-building (8) provided key inputs to the Government's       2011 mental health       strategy for England, which was intended to promote mental health and         prevent mental         disorder.
The accompanying impact assessment (G) cited this research       heavily: `The best practice       examples presented in this Strategy are based on analytical work done by       the London School of       Economics' (p.14).
The impact assessment used 9 of the 15 economic models       in the Unit's report       (6) and another 2 models from parallel work (8).
A further DH document       explored the economic       case for improving efficiency and quality in mental health through the       Government's new policy       framework (M); 26 of 99 citations in the document were to PSSRU research.
The report (6) was       cited in guidance for general practitioners published by the NHS       Confederation jointly with a       number of mental health charities and service providers (N) and heavily       cited by the Joint       Commissioning Panel for Mental Health (O).
Along with other work by the       Unit, the 2011       programme of research was also cited in the Mental Health Strategy for         Scotland 2012-2015 (P).
The Unit's research on suicide prevention (part of ref.
6) was used in       the Coalition Government's       suicide prevention strategy for England, which, when citing the Unit's       work, noted that `suicide       prevention education for GPs ... has the potential to be cost-effective if       it leads to adequate       subsequent treatment' (Q, p.17).
The research is also reaching       policy-makers internationally; e.g.,       it was highlighted in a WHO report to justify investing in mental health       (R); the Unit was invited to       present its work to European Parliamentary Committees (S); and to draft a       background report for a       `High Level EU/German Government Conference' on mental health promotion in       workplaces (T).
Across the full programme, PSSRU's research has provided strong support       for introducing,       expanding or protecting (in the face of budget cuts) a range of       interventions that have considerable       potential to improve mental health and wellbeing.
Wider Implications: At any one time, mental health problems affect       at least one in six adults; for       half these people the problem will last longer than one year.
Consequences       include enormous       distress for the individuals and families concerned, damaged life chances,       disproportionately high       contributions to total disability burden, and huge economic impacts       through lost or disrupted       employment and the costs of treatment and care.
The Unit's research has       contributed to the       development of policy frameworks and practice responses by offering robust       economic evidence to       help decision-makers achieve bigger and fairer impacts from available       societal resources.
