     Silverman's research and expertise in the media and international justice       underpinned a unique training programme, developed by the BBC World       Service Trust (now re-named BBC Media Action) and the international N.G.O.
&#8212; Search for Common Ground &#8212; to bring daily radio coverage of the war       crimes trial of Charles Taylor in The Hague to audiences in Sierra Leone       and Liberia.
The programme ran from 2007-10, with Silverman as       consultant/mentor.
Silverman's contribution was acknowledged in media       coverage of the trial (e.g.
report on the BBC World website on August 12,       2010 &#8212; www.bbc.co.uk/news/world-10930834?print=true).
The research in Sierra Leone and Liberia led to seminars in both       countries in 2012 and 2013, attended by leading representatives of civil       society.
Arising from the Monrovia (Liberia) event in April 2012 a virtual       policy forum was established &#8212; uk.groups.yahoo.com/group/medialegitimacy/-offering       a space for the sharing of ideas/research/ initiatives on fostering       democratic legitimacy in a post-conflict setting.
The event in Freetown       (Sierra Leone) in March 2013 was attended by the Chair of the       Anti-Corruption Commission, as well as by the President of the Sierra       Leone Association of Journalists.
A 63-page report of the proceedings &#8212; "The Impact of the Special Court Trials on the People of Sierra Leone and       Liberia" &#8212; was published and circulated widely in political, NGO and       academic circles in Sierra Leone.
The research in Sierra Leone and Liberia and the subsequent fostering of       institutional relationships has led to an initiative &#8212; CIMARC Scholars &#8212; in which early career academics from Anglophone West Africa, with an       interest in media, human rights and governance, will spend short periods       at UoB participating in the academic life of the university, thus       fulfilling a primary goal of the British Academy's Africa Partnership         Programme.
Prof. Gaber's professional and academic reputation has been the       foundation for election training programmes and reporting projects in       Tunisia, Uganda, Nigeria, Tanzania, Malawi and Burkina Faso.
The Ugandan       project &#8212; the Ugandan Radio Network (URN) &#8212; is, at the time of       writing still ongoing.
It initially entailed training 202 correspondents       in election reporting techniques, the production of radio packages,       (including simple editing) and how to transmit these packages to a central       newsroom in Kampala, where the reports were then distributed to FM radio       stations throughout Uganda.
In a country, still in post-conflict recovery       from the LRA insurgency (The North of Uganda was convulsed by an uprising       by a group calling itself the Lord's Resistance Army which from 1986 until       relatively recently created terror and chaos throughout the region.)
URN       has played a crucial role in promoting independent reporting, freedom of       expression and democratic elections, in both providing news that was seen       to be reliable and independent and empowering (and funding) Ugandan       journalists to undertake robust, accurate and unbiased political       reportage.
Gaber's role in planning the project prior to launch, and then       organising and undertaking the national training programme prior to its       launch, can be attested to by the NGO that employed him.
The Nigerian project &#8212; funded by the UK and US governments &#8212; was based       around establishing and running the Nigerian Election News Report       (NENR) of which Gaber was the designer and first editor.
During the 2011       general elections a nationwide team of journalists, who had earlier been       trained by Gaber, emailed news stories to the NENR headquarters in Lagos.
These were edited, voiced and uploaded to an open-access website for       downloading by any Nigerian website, newspaper, radio or TV station.
What       was particularly innovative was that the packages were also delivered via       a mobile phone direct-dial system to over 1500 Nigerian journalists.
The       mobile phone material could either be put to air by journalists working in       remote areas who had poor internet access, or be transmitted as alert       mechanisms that directed journalists to the NENR website.
In this way,       journalists were being given unprecedented access to breaking election       news stories that were uncensored, accurate and timely.
The workshops &#8212; involving more than 100 Nigerian journalists &#8212; and the       NENR service had a significant impact.
Over the life of the project the       NENR website received 34,229 hits (from launch in March to end on 16th       June 2011).
Kemi Aduroja, political reporter for the TV news channel NN24       TV in Lagos said: "This service (NENR) equipped journalists and made them       to be more active and more effective in reporting electioneering stories       which will eventually enhance non-partisan politics in Nigeria's       democracy" and the President of the Nigeria Guild of Editors, Gbenga       Adefaye said that NENR "would bring about professionalism in journalistic       style and reporting".
A full report of the project, Nigerian Election       Support Programme, (International Press Centre, Lagos www.ipcng.org)       was distributed widely at the conclusion of the project and a paper       outlining the project and its impact was delivered at the 2012 conference       of the UK's African Studies Association.
He is currently (2013 and 2014) working on a major project in the run-up       to elections in Malawi in May 2014.
This involves training and mentoring       25 reporters with the aim of increasing the amount and quality of       issue-based reporting in the Malawian media.
He is also undertaking a       national media monitoring project covering the eight weeks of the election       campaign.
