     Sierra Leone is one of the poorest countries in the world;       unsurprisingly, cultural heritage is not a high priority there, and       institutions such as the Sierra Leone National Museum (SLNM) are       desperately under-resourced and lacking in expertise.
While schools are       aware of the importance of incorporating culture and history into their       teaching, there is an almost total lack of educational resources to       facilitate this.
Outside the country, by contrast, an abundance of Sierra       Leonean artefacts, photographs, sound recordings, and associated       knowledges are dispersed in museums and archives around the world.
Through       participatory action research and the development of an innovative digital       resource [1] RCH has `virtually repatriated' and reanimated these       collections.
Through this website and a sustained programme of associated       outreach, advocacy and capacity-building in Sierra Leone's heritage and       education sectors, the project has contributed to the preservation and       conservation of Sierra Leonean cultural resources; supported the       development of the country's museums sector offering; created new and       improved existing educational resources; and engaged Sierra Leonean and       international audiences with the country's cultural heritage.
Providing new access to museum collections, images and sound archives:       Launched in October 2011, www.sierraleoneheritage.org       was a key output of the RCH project.
The resource provides global digital       access to over 4,000 Sierra Leonean objects, images and sound recordings       from the British Museum (BM), Brighton Museum, Glasgow Museum, World       Museum Liverpool, British Library Sound Archive, and Cootje van Oven       ethnomusicological collection.
This material was largely hidden away in       museum stores and low on museums' priority lists.
Participation in the       project meant that these museums prioritised the digitisation of these       collections, providing access to much of the material for the first time       [1].
Additionally, c. 2,000 objects from SLNM collections - which       previously had no accurate record of its collection &#8212; were digitised.
Beyond providing access to the objects, this complete written and visual       record of the collection significantly improved its security [2].
It not       only provides access to images and information, but reanimates objects by       juxtaposing them with contextualising video and sound media showing them       in use, being made, or discussed [3, 4].
From January 2012, when visitor       statistics began to be recorded, to date the digital resource received       99,470 page views from 19,288 unique visitors.
Related project videos on       YouTube have been particularly popular, with examples receiving 9,776 and       5,622 views each [6].
Enhancing the profile of the Sierra Leone National Museum and cultural         heritage sector, both within and beyond Sierra Leone: Whereas SLNM       was previously regarded by many, including some within Sierra Leone's       Ministry of Tourism and Cultural Affairs, as moribund and of little       interest, the activities of RCH and its various partnerships transformed       the Museum into a vibrant hub of activity, with new displays and outreach       activities [2].
This has had a significant impact on its perception among       the Sierra Leone Government and public.
The Director of Cultural Affairs       acknowledged that his understanding of the Museum has been changed through       participation in the project, and that he has come to recognise the       importance of its collections and the contribution it can make to national       development [5].
There is increased press coverage of the Museum [8], more       high level functionaries at openings and events, and a change in       employment conditions for SLNM staff, the Museum's higher profile having       resulted in a change to the way in which they are paid.
Previously, staff       received a subvention included as an undifferentiated part of the museum's       annual funding, which typically meant that they went unpaid for months at       a time.
This was changed in 2012, such that the Museum's 16 staff are now       paid salaries directly from Government, as any other civil servant.
More       widely, an annual week-long Cultural Festival was instituted in April       2011, and the President has indicated that the Ministry of Tourism and       Cultural Affairs will receive additional funding to develop cultural       tourism [5].
Prior to their participation in RCH, there was relatively little interest       in the Sierra Leonean collections held by the project's international       partner museums, including the British Museum; the project has encouraged       these museums to reassess the significance of their collections.
As a       direct outcome of the collaboration, the BM held a 3-month exhibition       focusing exclusively on Sierra Leonean collections which attracted       approximately 67,000 visitors between 14 February and 28 April 2013, and       received much positive feedback [3].
The display was selected in 2013 for       the BM's `History of the World' tour to Abu Dhabi, Japan and Taiwan in       2014 [3, 11].
In January and February 2012, the BM and SLNM were partners       in a larger, multi-sited exhibition at UCL, which focused on different       aspects of the RCH project.
This included the loan of 19 Sierra Leonean       objects from the BM, and the first ever international loan of objects from       SLNM [12].
Research has thus made an important contribution to challenging negative       stereotypes about Sierra Leone by engaging international communities, as       well as Sierra Leoneans themselves, with the country's history and       heritage beyond the dominant images of child soldiers, `blood diamonds'       and poverty.
As the Director of Cultural Affairs described the digital       resource, this is a `powerful tool in changing perceptions of Sierra       Leone', with the ability to `change the mindsets of people' [5].
Capacity-building in the museum and heritage sector in Sierra Leone:     From March 2009, as part of the digitisation process, the project provided a     sustained programme of training and capacity-building at SLNM for a museum     `working party' of 8-10 staff members from SLNM, the Monuments and Relics     Commission, and Ministry of Tourism and Cultural Affairs.
This developed     capacity in a wide range of museum skills including conducting a collections     audit, cataloguing the objects using a computerised collections management     system, setting up a photographic studio and taking high quality digital     photographs of objects, and improving preventative conservation and storage     techniques.
As the senior curator at SLNM explains, `what was especially     valuable about the training and capacity building work we undertook as part     of [RCH] was that it was based in our own institution and took into     consideration the constraints with which we are daily faced.
The     activities...strengthened the professional capacity of the museum staff by     adapting international standards of best practice in the context of our own     work' [2].
This training was enhanced through a partnership brokered by RCH     with the British Museum's Africa Programme, for which Paul Basu acted as     consultant.
This ongoing programme of workshops and collaborative     initiatives on site included the redisplay of SLNM's permanent galleries,     museum education programmes, collaborative exhibitions, and     knowledge-exchange visits [2, 3, 5].
Developing resources for teaching and educational outreach:       Although school groups sometimes visited SLNM, little attempt was       previously made to enhance their use of the Museum as a learning space.
This was particularly unfortunate since there is no provision for the       teaching of Sierra Leonean culture or heritage within the national       curriculum and no existing teaching resources [4, 9].
Through RCH, various       initiatives were developed to strengthen the relationship between schools       and SLNM: 200 stand-alone DVD versions of the digital heritage resource       were distributed to schools, colleges, universities and community `access       points' in Freetown and other towns where computers were available but       internet access was inadequate.
In October 2011 a workshop was organised       in association with the British Council's `Connecting Classrooms'       initiative at which c. 60 Sierra Leonean teachers and 30 British teachers       explored the educational value of the resource, which was very positively       received and has since been extensively used [4, 9].
Prompted by the       availability of this high-quality teaching resource, several teachers have       gone on to establish `history clubs' at their schools [4, 9].
Following on       from this initial educational outreach, a Teachers' Forum was launched at       SLNM in June 2012.
At a workshop for 25 teachers, led in collaboration       with the BM Africa Programme, teachers and museum staff explored ways in       which the Sierra Leone National Museum could support the teaching of       culture and history in schools.
A steering committee was formed and future       meetings of the Forum arranged [4, 7, 9].
This was a significant step in       building effective relationships between teachers and museum staff,       opening up the Museum to a wider range of educational uses [2, 3, 4, 9].
Engaging Sierra Leonean and diasporic communities in the value of         cultural heritage: As part of RCH, much community outreach work was       undertaken, collecting oral histories, exploring local understandings of       the value of history and cultural heritage, and discussing sustainable       approaches to safeguarding heritage sites.
This on-going work was used to       advise the Monuments and Relics Commission on locally-appropriate forms of       cultural heritage management.
In the UK, RCH collaborated with the BM       Communities Team in a week-long object-based workshop as part of its       `Talking Objects' programme (Sep 2011).
Working with 18 young members of       the diaspora in London, this used objects from the BM collection to       facilitate explorations of their cultural heritage and identity [3, 10].
Community participation was also key to the development of exhibitions and       events programmes at the BM and UCL: the Sowei mask: spirit of Sierra         Leone display (Feb-April 2013, with community involvement from July       2012) at the BM involved close collaboration with a London-based Sierra       Leonean cultural group, who performed a traditional mask naming ceremony       at the Museum prior to its exhibition [11].
At the opening, members of the       diaspora community performed dances and masquerades at a free public event       attended by over 1,000 people.
The closing event was co-hosted with the       Sierra Leonean High Commission as an Independence Day celebration,       introducing this cultural heritage to a wider diplomatic community [3].
