     Since the early 1990s the mortality rates for peritoneal dialysis       patients have almost halved (from ~400 to ~200 deaths/1000 patient years       at risk) [1]; mortality used to be almost double that for haemodialysis       patients but in the last few years these two dialysis modalities are       equivalent in efficacy over 5 years with early survival advantages for PD       in several national registries.
This dramatic improvement is undoubtedly       multifactorial but is coincident with the clearer understanding of what is       meant by adequate treatment and how the peritoneal membrane function in       particular influences survival.
The contribution made by the Keele       research group is widely acknowledged: examples of this include the award       made in 2013 by the American National Kidney Foundation (NKF) to Davies of       their International Distinguished Medal [2], by the International Society       of Peritoneal Dialysis who elected Davies president 2010-12 and published       a supplement on the UK contribution to the therapy in their journal [3]       and a recent book describing `Landmark Papers in Nephrology' [4].
1.
Changing the paradigm of what is considered adequate dialysis:       In 1997 the NKF's Kidney Disease Outcomes and Quality Initiative (KDOQI)       published guidelines stating that patients failing to achieve a specified       small solute clearance target should not stay in peritoneal dialysis;       given that this target was more easily achieved in patients with rapid       peritoneal solute transport the expectation was that these patients should       fare best on PD.
This was refuted by our demonstration that rapid solute       transport was associated with worse outcomes in peritoneal dialysis, an       observation corroborated by others including the Canada-USA study and the       Australian/New Zealand registry, and subsequently in a meta-analysis       published in 2006 [5] which concluded that in patients treated with       continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis (CAPD) high transport was       associated with worse survival.
This led to paradigm shift in what was       considered adequate dialysis away from the view that it could be defined       simply in terms of solute clearance.
In particular it led to an equal       focus on fluid management and to the advice that membrane characteristics       should be taken into account and clearance targets modified [6].
EAPOS       extended the evidence base and it is now accepted that the use of APD and       icodextrin in patients with high transport characteristics mitigates their       survival disadvantage and that anuric patients unable to achieve a daily       ultrafiltration target of 0.75-1.00 litre should be transferred to       haemodialysis.
These changes in emphasis of what is meant my adequate       peritoneal dialysis are evident in current clinical KDOQI and European       Best Practice Guidelines which now include fluid management as a key       component of adequate treatment [6,7].
3.
Progressive membrane injury.
The demonstration that peritoneal       dialysis fluids high in glucose and their associated glucose degradation       products (GDPs), generated by the sterilisation procedure, drive       progressive membrane injury has provided a strong clinical argument for       the development of more bio-compatible (low GDP solutions) by the leading       dialysis fluid manufacturing companies [8,9].
A recent randomised       controlled trial has shown that a low GDP solution prevents the early       changes in membrane function in comparison to conventional glucose       solutions [10].
Our research has also had significant economic impact.
The       peritoneal dialysis fluid manufacturing market was valued at $1.7 billion       in 2008 and is expected to grow at 7% per annum to reach $2.9 billion in       2015.
The clinical justification for using premium fluids such as the       glucose polymer icodextrin and biocompatible solutions is underpinned by       our observations.
4.
Modelling membrane injury.
The longitudinal membrane changes       we have described include dissociation between increasing solute transport       and reduction in the efficiency of fluid transport.
This has led the       authors of the three pore model, a mathematical description of membrane       function to modify their model by accounting for interstitial fibrosis and       underpinned the arguments for monitoring membrane function on PD patients       [7].
5.
Designing and testing a novel low sodium dialysis solution.
As       a direct consequence of our work on peritoneal ultrafiltration, validation       of the three pore membrane model and evidence of over-hydration (salt       retention) in PD patients, Gambro (now taken over by Fresenius) have       developed a low sodium dialysis solution.
Following the pilot study (led       from Keele in collaboration with Lund University, Sweden) Fresenius is now       conducting a multi-centre European Phase 3 evaluation of the effect of       this solution in improving blood pressure [9].
