     Travel information can empower individuals through raising awareness of       travel options, informing travel choices and supporting the execution of       journeys.
With the information age moving into full-flight, Prime       Minister Blair had a vision for a service, akin to NHS Direct, to support       travellers.
Unusually, the concept of Transport Direct was not a recommendation from       senior civil servants to ministers, but instead a top-down instruction       from Prime Minister Blair.
The Department for Transport (DfT) did not       possess sufficient expertise internally to preside over transforming a       Number 10 vision into a reality.
Accordingly it established, in 2002, an       `expert client team' which involved seconding key external experts into       DfT, one of whom was Lyons from UWE &#8212; the only representative of       academia on the team.
He was appointed Senior User on the Project Board of       the multi-million pound Design-Build-Operate contract to develop and       deliver the service, and was also Chairman of the DfT's Transport Direct       Research Steering Group.
His secondment lasted for two years with       continued involvement as a consultant until 2007 - devising and presiding       over a major research programme of over 13 projects tailored to support       Transport Direct's delivery.
Lyons (with Kenyon) shaped early thinking on online travel       information by developing key usability principles to ensure information       was useful, usable and used.
The work of Lyons and CTS       colleagues has gone on to be a key factor in shaping Transport Direct       throughout its lifetime of major developments and use to date.
Building       upon earlier impacts during the initial design, build and launch stages of       Transport Direct, impacts &#8212; on the policy community, the public and the       international community &#8212; have occurred in the following four areas within       the REF census period (2008-2013).
Design principles of the Transport Direct service and governance of           service development       DfT's Transport Direct Division had not originally appreciated the       importance of the principles of usability of service design.
Following Lyons'       advice with supporting work by Kenyon on usability, a major       investment was made to provide extensive usability-centred design and       testing.
This led to major changes in the design of the service including       greater orientation towards users' needs, notably for those with       disabilities such as dyslexia.
Lyons played a significant role in       re-orienting the service from a policy-driven approach (to encourage the       use of public transport rather than cars) to one of empowering individuals       to make informed choices (irrespective of outcome decisions):"Without       Glenn Lyons' input in the early development of Transport Direct, it would       have been driven solely by policy rather than by the needs of `real       people'' (Transport Direct Chief Executive) (S1).
DfT officials have pointed out that it would not have been possible to       justify the sums of money and the risks of changing the main website       design over time were it not for CTS's research expertise.
This was able to demonstrate to senior civil servants and ministers that       the service's development was based on academically sound principles and       was capable of meeting business requirements.
CTS's       research insights have helped guide the service through its       extraordinarily complex journey from conception as a pipe dream to today's       reality which accommodates around 100 billion journey combinations.
The marketing strategy of Transport Direct has been influenced by the CTS       research finding that promoting public transport information is       not an effective way of promoting public transport use; on the       contrary, public transport itself needs to be promoted, from which derives       a demand for information use.
The Transport Direct Division is now less       concerned with marketing the service directly to users than with       encouraging third party organisations to use it with their own branding       (`white-labelling').
Use of the service by the travelling public       Since its launch at the end of 2004, Transport Direct had handled over 110       million enquiries (as at September 2012) and continues to address some       378,000 enquiries per week (S3).
Transport Direct's own commissioned       research (S4) has found that, of those individuals (nearly two thirds of       respondents) who were seeking information on a journey they had made       before , 7.7% intended, as a consequence of using the service, to use       public transport instead of the car, while 2.3% intended to use the car       instead of public transport.
Thus not only is the information service       being used by the public but is also influencing travel         behaviour.
DfT's influence on wider developments       In discussions with Lyons on 25 November 2011, DfT officials       described the contribution of the research of staff at CTS       as follows: "The ongoing research and interaction with service development       has resulted in an accumulation of knowledge.
It has taken time to bring       about changes in the industry &#8212; waves of promotion of latest knowledge run       up against the barriers of established/entrenched thinking.
Only through       successful waves building up can the barriers eventually be breached"       (Transport Direct Chief Executive) (S1).
This case study is seen by DfT as       an exemplar of research and policy implementation working together.
DfT       has, through its explicit engagement with CTS's research,       been able to operate as a voice of influence in the wider arena of travel       information developments.
This has been important in working with the many       national stakeholders (data owners, travel information and transport       service providers).
Lyons has continued to be consulted as a       source of expert advice both nationally and internationally (e.g.
advising, in 2012, a major French-based public transport operator on its       plans with an international technology company for developing an       `Intelligent Mobility' information service) (S5).
Wider influence has resulted in the UK being seen as a trail blazer in       this field by other countries.
Specific examples of Transport Direct       influence include the US service 511 (a telephone/web resource for       transport in the San Francisco Bay Area) and the Dutch online national       public transport journey planner `9292'.
Particularly poignant is the       impact of the Transport Direct `research and development journey'       culminating with the London 2012 Olympics.
Transport Direct was selected       by the Olympic Delivery Authority to develop a bespoke online portal to       guide event ticket holders to and from the Olympic venues.
The Spectator       Journey Planner had 2.75 million unique users (S3).
Ongoing repositioning of travel information provision as part of a           national policy agenda       At a time of huge financial pressures on public spending, it is       significant that Transport Direct has not been disbanded in the push to       make savings.
This is seen to reflect the crucial change in perception       from Transport Direct being seen as a `toy' to it now being regarded as a       critical tool in an era where the power of information and social media is       being recognised, and where there is a need for governments to open up       data to enable innovation and economic development to flourish.
Transport       Direct now sees itself as a major broker of data access with a focus on       driving up data quality.
