     This body of research has led to changes in policy and clinical practice       in the UK.
These impacts are in line with the research recommendations       summarised in section 2.
For clarity of exposition, the two areas of       research are discussed separately: abortion, followed by LARC.
Research on abortion     Policy debate has been informed by the research evidence.
The 2010       report is extensively quoted and referenced in the 2013 Department of       Health policy document, A Framework for Sexual Health Improvement in         England.
This has had onward impact on the work of the Department of       Health, the Department of Education, Public Health England, and several       charitable bodies.
Further, on the basis of the abortion research, Hoggart       was engaged as an expert adviser to the Department for Education on an       IFS/DfE project to examine the characteristics associated with teenage       pregnancy.
The delivery of a public service has changed.
New abortion care       pathways have been developed in London in response to the London abortion       research recommendations.
Brook advisory service has also developed its       service as a result of the abortion research: when they refer a young       person for an abortion they now contact them following their abortion in       order to discuss their contraceptive needs.
In terms of wider reach, Lisa       Hallgarten, formerly of Education for Choice and latterly of Brook,       believes that the 2010 recommendations on abortion, sexual relationship       education and counseling were taken up universally and certainly across       the London boroughs, with strong evidential links into policy and advocacy       documents throughout London.
She believes it is evident that policy has       become practice, and that virtually all people who engage with target       groups are well aware of the abortion research mainly because the work is       written from a practitioner's point of view, is very implementable and has       sensible recommendations.
A number of key stakeholders involved in the       implementation of the Sexual Health Strategy believe that although there       has been similar research in this area, this work has without doubt had a       major impact and has provoked actions more immediately than any other       similar piece of research.
Adrian Kelly noted that the Greenwich research       was passed down to the 32 London boroughs, which allowed each individual       borough to create locally tailored action plans.
A typical action (in       Hackney) was to recruit a dedicated nurse to follow up young women after       abortion to encourage the uptake of contraception.
Two boroughs, Enfield       and Hackney, made key decisions, following which repeat abortion dropped       dramatically.
Practitioners have used research findings in conducting their work.
Although the DoH say they are definitely witnessing a decrease in the       number of abortions, which directly presents cost savings to the UK       government, there is little or no publicly accessible comparative data to       measure robustly how much of this can be attributed to different changes       (partly because of the recent re-structuring of the NHS).
Nevertheless,       two examples are provided of local testimony of the significance of the       impact on local practice.
In Hillingdon, the Teenage Pregnancy Coordinator       implemented a strategy which involved the training of staff and       restructuring of abortion and sexual health services to ensure that LARC       was offered routinely and appropriately post abortion, and that LARC is       the initial method of contraception discussed/offered to all young women       under 18yrs (with for example the new post of a Sexual Health Outreach       Nurse).
This extends to GUM/Sexual Health outreach service.
Additionally,       abortion rates for under 16yrs and repeat abortions became more of a focus       locally than they had been before the research.
Abortion providers have       used the findings to reinforce to their staff the importance of       non-judgmental services: one of the two main providers of abortion in the       UK, BPAS, has placed the report on its website.
Professional training has been influenced by the research.
Research findings from the abortion research have been drawn upon in the       development of Sexual Health Study Days (eg Brighton &amp; Hove, July       2013) being developed by Alison Hadley of the Teenage Pregnancy Knowledge       Exchange, Bedfordshire University.
Research on LARC     The delivery of a public service has changed.
There has been a       change in contraceptive counselling practice in a number of local areas       (eg Greenwich, Hillingdon).
Women are now given more information about all       possible side-effects of the implant, and also advised to return to the       clinic as soon as they become concerned about side effects, and that       therapeutic interventions can be offered to alleviate bleeding-related       side-effects.
These changes have been recommended at training workshops       conducted by Jane Dickson (consultant in sexual health) throughout the       country.
Professional training has been influenced by the research.
Hoggart       and Newton have worked closely to incorporate the findings of the LARC       research into practitioner training and thus maximise the impact of the       research in clinical practice.
Newton and Dickson developed a workshop for       practitioners and commissioners, which was first delivered at a national       Sexual Health Research and Practice Conference held at the University of       Greenwich in May 2012.
This has now been incorporated into practitioner       training lectures which are being delivered by Dickson to practitioners       and commissioners across the UK.
It has also been incorporated into Sexual       Health Study Days (eg Brighton &amp; Hove, July 2013) being developed by       Alison Hadley of Teenage Pregnancy Knowledge Exchange, Bedfordshire       University.
Kathy French of the Royal College of Nursing has made       presentations which incorporate key findings of this research to more than       1,000 professionals in London; especially emphasising the need to deal       with unscheduled bleeding and for all agencies and stakeholders to work       together in supporting young women in using LARC.
Practitioners have used the research findings.
In London and       further afield sexual health practitioners have changed their practice:       offering therapeutic interventions for bleeding irregularities; being less       resistant to women's requests for implant removal, giving more information       about all possible side-effects of the implant, and also advising women to       return to the clinic as soon as they become concerned about side effects,       and that therapeutic interventions can be offered to alleviate       bleeding-related side-effects.
West Middlesex University Hospital, for       example, has put the educational element of LARC research into practice,       training approximately 42 people (sexual health practitioners, doctors,       and nurses) to understand the complexity of social/personal issues for       vulnerable young women using LARC, and to communicate contraceptive advice       effectively on a one-to-one basis so their clients can understand the       issues and ask relevant questions.
Industry has invested in research.
Bayer has commissioned Hoggart       and Newton to undertake further research on long-acting contraception as a       result of the high quality of their LARC research.
