     CPRC has had an impact on supply chain collaboration,       process improvement, and technology integration in the construction       industry, primarily in the South West of England, but also nationally and       internationally.
It has achieved significant changes in the construction       industry's culture by disseminating its research through numerous means:       at a `macro' scale, through major knowledge exchange activities and at a       `micro' level through working with individual businesses and engaging in       KTPs.
It is worth briefly describing the formal KE vehicles for the       Centre's research, to demonstrate the scale and intensity of activity.
On the strength of CPRC's research track record and       reputation it was, in 2004, invited to act as the regional hub for the two       initiatives designed to bring about the required changes in the       construction industry: Construction Knowledge Exchange (CKE) and Constructing         Excellence South West (CESW).
CKE was funded by the Higher       Education Funding Council for England (&#163;383k, to 2009); CESW was       funded by the South West Regional Development Agency and Department for       Trade and Industry (&#163;1.1M, to 2012).
In 2009, CPRC also       began to champion Future Foundations, a partnership of regional       and sub-regional stakeholders to promote sustainable construction.
In       2010, UWE secured the Environmental iNet (note: Olomolaiye       is CPRC lead, and was instrumental in the development of       West Midlands Centre for Constructing Excellence) funded by the South West       of England Regional Development Agency and the European Regional       Development Fund (&#163;1.07M to 2013), with an ERDF-funded extension to 2015       (&#163;350k).
The iNet is an initiative to support environmental goods       and services businesses in the Region, and has already assisted over 100       SMEs in the construction industry.
The remit of these KE initiatives is wider than that of CPRC's       research (including, for example health and safety issues).
However, the       key foci are improving collaboration and streamlining processes, which has       meant that CPRC has influenced the overall message and       culture of these programmes and disseminated its research to considerable       effect.
At international and national levels CPRC, through       its various initiatives, has channelled the combined voice of the sector       in the region, acting as the `melting pot' for best practice (S1, p.3,       1.7) and industry champion for `Rethinking Construction'.
It has had an       impact through its participation in the National Board of Constructing       Excellence, affecting policy formulation and implementation through its       advice to the international Sustainable Construction and Innovation       through Procurement (SCI)-Network.
In addition, Jones' work on       collaboration partnerships was the basis of recommendations to the       `Construction Reform Movement' and led to the development of `Construction       Best Practice Clubs' (CBPCs &#8212; comprised practitioners) across the UK.
These clubs became one of the main KE vehicles for `Constructing       Excellence'.
Meng's and Vidalakis' findings were also       built into the Constructing Excellence National Demonstration Programme.
At the regional scale, Meng, Vidalakis, Sun and Olomolaiye's       research findings were fed into local networks, training initiatives,       business assists, films, online information portals and other means of       communication appropriate for industry (e.g.
S2).
Through CESW and CKE CPRC       delivered workshops and provided training to 1700 individuals and       supported 778 businesses.
It carried out specific assistance to 400       construction related businesses, in the form of consultancies and in-depth 	  organisational assists, which are largely productivity and       effectiveness reviews.
Approximately 20% of these companies have national       and international projects, so have a reach wider than the South West.
The       Centre has also led a network of seven CBPCs, helping over 30 local       companies to adopt best practice and enabling the development of a `same       team' culture amongst stakeholders.
An independent review of the CPRC-hosted CESW initiative,       based on a survey of participants (large firms, sub contractors,       professional service firms and public sector organisations), (S1) found       that it had led to:             increased levels of confidence in the Region's prospects for growth         by supporting the development of a stronger and more professional         industry through strengthening supply chains, improving its image and         developing local networks (S1, p.6);        a positive impact on the behaviour and processes employed within           construction firms: 75% of respondents reported better working         practices and processes (S1, p.6);        improved awareness and understanding, and practical experience of           supply chain integration: 62% of respondents (S1, p.43);        improved awareness and understanding, and practical experience of           collaboration with other firms/organisations: 71% of respondents         (S1, p.43);        modernised working practices and processes: 67% of respondents         (S1, p.49); and        increased profitability: 51% of respondents (S1, p.49).
Since this review, these impacts have continued, with partners reporting       that the CRPC/CESW collaboration has: `achieved remarkable       levels of supply chain integration and collaboration'; and `up-skilled our       supply chain and provided essential support to SMEs' (S3).
Bristol City       Council reports that the collaboration resulted in its award of `Client of       the Year' at the South West Built Environment Awards, 2011 (S3).
CESW's       Director testifies that CPRC's input was `substantial and       critical in supporting us to achieve better supply chain integration (and)       improved project and management performance....
Allowing the industry to       access best practice and innovative approaches to construction       procurement' (S4).
The iNet has subsequently provided a similar       platform for companies in the region: 100 construction SMEs have       benefitted from 1700 hours of support in workshops or bespoke engagement.
Partners have reported the development of `a collaborative culture with       businesses and local authorities', and have benefited from `access to, and       use of, quality research undertaken by the University' (S5).
At the micro scale, CPRC has improved construction         processes and helped firms integrate IT solutions.
The Centre's KTP       with Waycon Precast Ltd. on the reduction of waste in the production of       precast concrete elements led to: savings on outside contractors [text       removed for publication]; increased efficiency [text removed for       publication]; reduction in errors [text removed for publication]; and       capacity to expand in new business areas [text removed for publication]       (S6).
Similarly, the KTP with MPS Ltd. produced a means of quantifying the       tangible and intangible benefits of the contract change management system.
The Director of MPS testified that the KTP provided `...MPS with a toolkit       and a methodology to demonstrate the business benefits of using       collaborative IT systems to support contract change management.
Our       customers can now measure the return on their investment' (S7).
Overall, through the development of new knowledge, and sustained       engagement with the construction sector, CPRC has helped       develop a more collaborative industry culture with improved systems and       processes, ultimately leading to increased performance and profitability.
