     Appleby and UWE colleagues have adopted an action research       approach and have taken forward       their research findings through direct engagement with organisations       outside the institution.
The       first test of this approach was with the Community of Arran Seabed Trust       (COAST).
The creation of Scotland's first fully protected marine reserve     COAST based their efforts to establish Scotland's       first fully protected marine reserve in Lamlash       Bay on the Isle of Arran on research conducted       by Appleby (S1.1,2.1,3.1).
Key to UWE's       research was settling who owned Scotland's       fishing rights and who should be consulted as       part of the decision making process (R1,2,3).
UWE indicated that the Scottish Government       owed a far greater duty to coastal communities       than was evident from the management practice       of the time.
COAST relied heavily on this legal       argument and in September 2008 COAST was       successful and their reserve was established       (S1.2).
The chair of COAST said of UWE's research "[W]ithout it we         would have got nowhere."
COAST won the prestigious Observer Ethical Award in 2009, as a result of       its efforts.
The Lamlash       Bay marine reserve has been widely reported in the national press.
It led       the Scottish Government       to include a section (s71) in the Marine (Scotland) Act 2010 to permit the       creation of marine       protected areas (MPAs) proposed by other communities in a similar position       to COAST.
Appleby       remains a trustee of COAST and UWE's involvement continued with COAST       through a joint       Conference in 2010 to encourage other coastal communities to follow       COAST's lead.
The       Conference brought about a proposal for a marine protected area by the       Sustainable Inshore       Fisheries Trust (which was formed from conference delegates) and which is       now under active       consideration.
The creation of the world's largest marine protected area via the         formation of the Blue Marine         Foundation     As a direct consequence of UWE's involvement with the successful COAST       project, Appleby was       invited to a meeting of key knowledge leaders and funders in October 2009       at the Natural History       Museum in London.
Appleby cited the complexity inherent in setting       up marine reserves in UK       waters resulting from the numerous stakeholders and legal       processes.
He pointed to UWE's       research which indicated that it would be simpler to use UK Overseas       Territories (R1,2).
A number       of the presenters and attendees of the event believed this opportunity       provided a niche to develop       a new agency for marine conservation from the expertise present and it was       decided to establish       the Blue Marine Foundation (BLUE).
Appleby was involved with BLUE       from its inception and       became an active trustee.
In 2010 BLUE, with Appleby's support       (S2.1,3.1), successfully       negotiated the huge Chagos Islands marine reserve in the UK overseas       territories with the Foreign       and Commonwealth Office (FCO) and with the assistance of a multimillion       pound grant which       BLUE obtained from the Bertarelli Foundation.
BLUE's role here was key,       based on UWE's       research, they saw that the FCO could easily, as owner of the fishery,       create a huge marine       reserve.
The Sunday Times columnist and chair of BLUE, Charles Clover,       said of UWE's       involvement that it helped BLUE "plan and implement the world's largest         marine reserve in the         British Indian Ocean Territories; this is one of the most important acts         of marine conservation ever         undertaken."
The reserve covers nearly 640,000 square kilometres.
UWE's research did not just deal with the UK acting as owner.
There was       also an important role as       regulator where the regulatory standard for fisheries appeared much lower       than for equivalent       terrestrial activities (R1,2).
The application of the EU Habitats Directive to UK fisheries     Appleby and Solandt (R5) noted that there was no exemption       for the commercial fishing sector       from the Habitats Directive, yet UK fisheries managers acted as if there       was.
The Directive gave       specific protection to "Natura 2000 sites", which cover 17% of EU waters       and 23% of English       inshore waters.
The UK and many other member states regulated all other       activities in these sites       but failed to regulate fishing.
Appleby and Solandt       pressed for the full implementation of the       Directive.
This would mean that many fisheries would need an environmental       impact assessment if       they were to be permitted, and only benign fishing methods should be       allowed following that       assessment.
Damaging activities could only take place in the public       interest and if compensatory       measures were put in place; in practice they would be banned.
UWE's       research was taken up by       the Marine Conservation Society, the environmental law firm Client Earth       and the leading       environmental QC David Hart who pressed government, and asked Appleby       to assess whether       their approach was legally rigorous (S3.2).
This collaboration of       academia, NGOs and the legal       profession changed government approach.
Defra have accepted that fisheries       are subject to the       Directive and are now using a risk-based approach to fishing in sites in       UK waters protected by the       Habitats Directive (S3.3).
The UK approach is seen as taking the lead for       the rest of the EU, and it       is likely that other EU member states will follow suit.
At a stroke,       Natura 2000 sites have gone from       being paper parks to being actively protected against harmful fishing       operations.
This action was       described by one of the founders of the MCS and a leading marine       commentator, as "the single         most effective activity the Marine Conservation Society has ever         undertaken in its entire history."
(S3.1)     The application of effective regulation for UK waters still did not deal       with the ownership question.
The Chagos island reserve had been simple because it is clear under       colonial law that the Foreign       and Commonwealth Office acted as owner of the fishery, but UWE's research       had found that there       were real questions about the ownership of the fishery in the waters       immediately adjacent to the       UK.
The reallocation of fishing quota to the inshore sector     Appleby (R6) identified that the UK fishing quota was in danger of       being privatised through an       inadequate quota distribution mechanism, which had fundamental flaws in       its design and which       failed to safeguard the public interest.
The New Under Ten Metre       Fishermen's Association       (NUTFA), which represented smaller and more sustainable inshore fishermen,       and Greenpeace       were both influenced (S4.1) by this research and lobbied government for a       reallocation of unused       quota to the inshore sector (which had been unfairly treated in the       initial allocation).
In January       2012 Defra decided to reallocate quota to the inshore sector.
Defra's       decision was judicially       reviewed by representatives of the large quota holders who argued that it       could not be redistributed       because it had become their property right.
UWE's research indicated that       the fishery was still       public property and this argument was used as a basis for an intervention       in the legal proceedings       by Greenpeace and NUTFA in support of Defra (S4.1,4.2).
Officers from       Greenpeace said of       UWE's research: "We relied on work conducted by UWE and Tom Appleby in         that intervention, and         on the 10th July 2013 the High Court found in         our favour and permitted the realignment, in the         process the Court confirmed that the fishery was a public resource".
The UK's fishery was valued       at approximately &#163;1 billion in 1999 and UWE's work helped to safeguard the       public ownership of       that asset.
A greater duty on the Crown Estate Commission to inshore Communities     The UK's vast marine estate is not just about fishing and       conservation.
The marine landholding       around the UK itself covers a huge area (over 100,000 square kilometres)       to the 12 nautical mile       limit.
The vast majority is owned by the Crown and managed on its behalf       by the Crown Estate       Commissioners (CEC).
In 2009 the Treasury Select Committee investigated the role and function       of the CEC management       of inter alia its marine estate.
Appleby gave evidence to the       Committee outlining that CEC had       wider duties than a sovereign wealth fund, and should include a greater       stewardship function.
His       evidence was extensively quoted in the Treasury Select Committee's report.
This resulted in the       creation of an annual &#163;29 million fund from CEC profits specifically for       coastal communities (S5).
