     Across the UK, some 30,000 deaths a year are linked to air pollution       (House of Commons Environmental Audit Committee, 2010) at an estimated       cost to society of c. &#163;20 billion.
The research of UWE's Air Quality       Management Resource Centre (AQMRC) has strengthened the policy frameworks       that ensure local councils and local citizens across the UK can understand       the risks posed by air pollution in their localities and engage in its       management.
AQMRC played a major role in the development of new       understandings by government and wider society of the changing nature of       air pollution in the UK.
It ensured that detailed knowledge of local air       quality was understood and taken up by national governments (including       Defra, the Scottish and Welsh Governments, DOE Northern Ireland and the       Greater London Authority) and in the c. 400 UK Local Authorities       tasked with managing air pollution at the local scale.
This research work       has had a direct impact on national and local policy and practice       (S2,3,4).
The research has identified the importance of a well-trained and       resourced workforce to assess and manage air quality.
In order to support       these developments, the AQMRC co-founded a new professional body, the       Institute of Air Quality Management (IAQM &#8212; http://iaqm.co.uk/),       dedicated to the professional profile and development of the air quality       workforce.
IAQM recently celebrated its 10th anniversary.
With       more than 300 members, the Institute represents a very large proportion of       UK air quality professionals and is acknowledged as the air       quality professional body.
Influence on Government guidance to local authorities     AQMRC's research informed Policy and Technical Guidance produced by UK       governments in 2009 (and previously in 2003; S6,7,8,9).
It provided advice       to governments and local authorities via a Help Desk (referenced in       S6,7,8,9) and produced FAQs on behalf of UK governments on the       implementation and interpretation of LAQM policy and technical guidance.
The 2009 guidance is still in force and used by all UK local authorities       in undertaking their statutory LAQM duties.
All of these contributions are       informed by AQMRC's research (S2,3,4).
Impact on the Government's In-House Policy Consultants' review and its         policy outcomes     In 2010, AQMRC research findings were central to the review of the LAQM       process undertaken by the Government's In-House Policy Consultants (IHPC).
This review of LAQM was tasked "to make recommendations with a view to         (i) improving air quality outcomes; and (ii) making better use of         available LAQM resources" (S10).
AQMRC had been involved in       supporting the LAQM process for over a decade in partnership with       Bristol-based Air Quality Consultants Ltd.
Through this work, UWE research       contributed to a continual refinement of the LAQM policy framework and       technical guidance.
This included major revisions in 2003 and 2008/9       leading to the publication of a number of new or updated guidance       documents, and via recommendations to Defra and the DAs on the basis of       emerging research findings (S2,3,4).
The key findings of a Defra/DA review       of the LAQM process drew heavily upon UWE research (S2).
This included       commissioned work that surveyed air quality officers' opinions of the       entire LAQM process and the interactions of air quality with other policy       areas (S10).
This built upon the long history of survey based research on       LAQM practice undertaken by AQMRC and reported in the literature (e.g.
R2,3,4).
The list of conclusions and recommendations of the 2010 IHPC       review read as a reflection of UWE research findings across the previous       decade.
In particular, the review endorsed the findings of R1-5 in noting       the considerable mismatch between the roles of central and local       government envisaged when the 1995 Act was devised, and what had happened       in practice since then.
IHPC favourably reported the efforts of       authorities who had entered into collaborative arrangements at regional or       sub-regional level to manage air quality.
Such arrangements offer the       potential for reducing the costs and raising the quality of LAQM, as       identified by AQMRC (R2) in 2001 and reconfirmed in 2009 (R5).
UWE       research (e.g.
R6) had identified that the role of the Department for       Transport (DfT) was critical in improving air quality.
The IHPC review       reaffirmed this in recommending that DfT develop a more concerted plan for       delivering its responsibilities and raising the profile of air quality       issues.
It echoed UWE findings that the current distribution of       responsibilities for transport was not conducive to effective delivery of       transport measures which could be helpful to air quality (R2,3,4).
It also       reflected UWE's recommendation of closer alignment between climate change       and air quality policy packages, particularly at the local level.
The       outcomes from this review have directly influenced the policy       prescriptions and practices of central and local governments.
Influence on the National Framework in South Africa and Practice in       Nigeria     UWE research outcomes have been recognised internationally for their       contribution to the effectiveness and efficiency of the processes for       managing air quality.
AQMRC has been an invited participant in fora across       the world (e.g.
IUAPPA, the International Union of Air Pollution       Prevention Associations in Australia, Brazil, Mexico, and South Africa),       examining process and practice enhancements for air quality management.
UWE research findings were particularly influential in the development of       the National Framework for Air Quality Management in the Republic of South       Africa where they "contributed to a paradigm shift in air quality         management...moving from a source-based to an effects-based management         approach" (S1).
The team collaborated with the University of Kwa       Zulu Natal and CSIR to develop the framework for the Department of       Environmental Affairs.
The group used the opportunity to translate UK and       European experience into a format suitable for the South African context,       and the AQMRC co-authored Framework now provides the template for       national, provincial and municipal air quality management in the Republic       (S1).
AQMRC's research on the air quality in the Niger Delta is impacting       on the air quality management practices of national agencies in Nigeria.
According to the Nigerian National Space Research and Development Agency       (S5), AQMRC's research has directly influenced the policy priorities of       the Agency and those of the National Environmental Standards and       Regulations Enforcement Agency.
