     (i) Corruption and reform in the Turks and Caicos Islands.
As Clegg was undertaking research on the UKOTs in 2007/2008, a       significant corruption scandal was revealed in the Turks and Caicos       islands involving the prime minister, several of his ministerial       colleagues, and a number of other private individuals.
Local government       was suspended by the UK and direct rule from London was imposed.
Subsequently a process of constitutional, political and economic reform       was undertaken to address the poor governance in the TCI.
Being such an       important development, Clegg's research focused on why significant       problems in governance had developed and what could be done to address       them.
His research became known in the Foreign and Commonwealth Office [2]       and Transparency International [1], and he was asked to contribute to       various review processes.
These included presenting a paper to the       Overseas Territories Forum at the FCO on 8 December 2009; contributing to       the Transparency International Report published in 2011; supplying on       demand several of his publications on the TCI to FCO officials (see Clegg       2012, Clegg &amp; Gold 2011, and Clegg &amp; Pantojas-Garcia 2009); and       participating in an FCO- sponsored meeting on the TCI on 27 January 2012.
Through these avenues he has worked closely with FCO officials to ensure       balanced debate and helped to develop a better understanding of some of       the underlying issues relating to the Territories, e.g.
why the TCI is       particularly prone to sub-standard governance.
His work is also       recommended to those diplomats being posted to the Territories in order to       provide them with an insight into the political and economic issues facing       the Territories.
(ii) Non-self-governing territories and their quest for         decolonisation.
As a result of Clegg's research, he was invited to attend a United       Nations Caribbean regional seminar on the implementation of the Third       International Decade for the Eradication of Colonialism: Goals and       Expected Accomplishments, Kingstown, St Vincent and the Grenadines, 31       May-2 June 2011.
(An invitation was made to attend the subsequent       Caribbean regional seminar in Quito, Ecuador in May 2013.)
Such meetings,       involving UN members and policy experts, are organised to further the       process of decolonisation in seventeen so-called non-self-governing       territories.
He had a further separate meeting with UN officials in New       York in August 2011 [3].
His interventions have contributed to the       decolonisation debate and influenced discussion at the regional seminars.
For example, Clegg suggested "holding of formal and/or informal regular       meetings involving the Territories, the Administering Powers and the UN",       and this provided a measure of support to sustained communication and       convening efforts made in that regard.
Such engagement helps to deepen the       understanding of the decolonisation process and makes progress on this       very difficult and intractable issue more likely.
Clegg's recommendation       was taken on board and incorporated into the Report of the Special       Committee on the Situation with regard to the Implementation of the       Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and       Peoples for 2011 [4].
(iii) A sub-regional legislative review to consider the impact of         stigma and discrimination in the UK overseas territories.
As a consequence of Clegg's research and related publications, he was       asked by the health and social policy consultancy firm Options (www.options.co.uk)       (acting on behalf of the Department for International Development) to       undertake a review of international treaty commitments of the six       Caribbean Overseas Territories (including Bermuda) and their potential       role in safeguarding the rights of people living with HIV/AIDS (PLHIV).
Clegg's work contributed a significant part of the report published in       2010 entitled `A sub-regional policy analysis and legislative review to       consider the impact of stigma and discrimination in the UK overseas       territories' [5].
The report and the related programme then provided       support to the National AIDS Programmes in the OTs.
Inspired by Clegg's       contribution to this report, Options, along with its Caribbean partners,       Associates for International Development (AIDInc), worked closely with the       National AIDS Programmes in all project countries, with the goal of       reducing STI and HIV infection rates and improving the quality of life of       those already infected with HIV [6].
Project interventions focused on       several key strategic areas, including developing national       legislation/policies addressing HIV related stigma and discrimination,       which was related directly to Clegg's research on international treaty       commitments.
