     The impact of van den Anker's research has been deep within the local       region but also far-reaching on an international scale.
Building on the       outcomes of the ESF project [2], van den Anker and colleagues sought to       raise awareness of modern forms of slavery, including the trafficking of       human beings into the UK and Ireland, across a range of fora, including a       public meeting in June 2007 as part of the Abolition 200 programme       organised by the University of Bristol's Centre for the Study of Poverty       and Social Justice [1].
Van den Anker's research was subsequently disseminated internationally to       policy makers and practitioners via the largest European network of       migration researchers (International Migration, Integration and Social       Cohesion &#8212; IMISCOE) in Stockholm 2009 where she spoke at a major public       event.
Among the outcomes, as a result of discussions with the leader of       the undocumented migrants' movement, a local trade union started to       welcome potentially trafficked persons.
Similarly, at the largest international conference for policy-makers and       NGOs on migration (Metropolis) in Copenhagen 2009, the chair of the Dutch       national parliamentary commission responsible for policies on human       trafficking indicated that van den Anker's message on the accessibility of       migrant rights would be used in future work (and requested copies of her       publications to inform further developments).
Internationally, van den Anker's research has created direct benefits for       trafficked persons in many parts of the world primarily because of changes       in legislation that were lobbied for by NGOs who participated in her       projects [5].
For example, when the NGO La Strada drafted new Czech       anti-trafficking legislation, and when the Migrant Rights Centre Ireland       campaigned for a bridging visa for unemployed migrant workers to reduce       vulnerability to destitution.
Further international impact occurred in       Washington, USA (February 2009) when the US civil servant responsible for       creating the annual `Trafficking in Persons' report indicated he would       look into trafficking into other industries after a lecture by van den       Anker.
Following this invited lecture in Washington, she was invited to       present in Ghent (November 2009) and Barbados (November 2010), as a       consequence of which she has been directly influential in setting up the       first Caribbean-wide anti-trafficking NGO.
This has improved victim       support and raised awareness in a region with a notoriously high       prevalence of human trafficking.
Within the REF period, her engagement culminated in June 2013 when van       den Anker addressed the Organization for Security and Co-operation in       Europe Alliance on Trafficking in Persons (OSCE), where her research       findings helped to set the agenda of the meeting as focused on global       justice and inequalities.
The benefit to potentially trafficked persons is predictably large as       these perspectives fed into policy decisions of member-states.
The work       van den Anker developed through coalition building between academics,       policy makers, civil servants practitioners and NGOs also impacted the       OSCE meeting as all of these groups were present.
Her multilevel,       multi-actor methodology spreading more widely has had a real benefit for       trafficked persons in practice [9].
Van den Anker's research has also had highly significant local impact [7,       8] which started when she created a Bristol-based counter-trafficking       coalition which developed into an organisation of 56 members.
Bristol       Fawcett, with Bristol City Council and van den Anker, in partnership with       local charities and service providers, formed a network of experts,       activists and interested parties to highlight the links between       international poverty and trafficking [4].
The coalition had a strong       input on the Scrutiny Commission for Safety and Community Cohesion Inquiry       day on Human Trafficking in November 2009 where van den Anker gave a       lecture and presented the coalition statement asking the City Council to       follow up their commitment to the Council of Europe Convention on action       against trafficking by providing resources for housing and a Migrant       Rights Centre in Bristol.
The coalition subsequently launched a Migrant       Rights Centre Bristol (MRCB), led by van den Anker, which holds drop-in       sessions once a week and runs campaigns on migrant rights [3].
Bristol       City Council has since appointed a dedicated anti-trafficking officer and       has set up a Roma drop-in centre modelled on the MRCB.
Van den Anker has actively sought to engage wider audiences through       awareness raising and training events.
For example, a training day at the       International Global Ethics Association bi-annual conference at UWE in       June 2010 informed 15 local and regional organisations about human       trafficking.
Van den Anker has also been instrumental in the design and       delivery of a training programme for 200 Bristol City Council employees       who are cascading out the awareness-raising campaign to 16,000 council       workers [6].
At the 2010 meeting of the Scrutiny Commission for Safety and       Community Cohesion, a commitment was made to roll out van den Anker's       training programme at Bristol City Council to the NHS and the police; and       a council-wide strategy and protocol on anti-trafficking measures and       migrant rights was recommended.
The Commission also agreed the wide definition of trafficking as       developed in van den Anker's research.
This means Bristol has been able to       support trafficked persons and exploited migrants more effectively.
At the       January 2011 meeting of Bristol City Council's Scrutiny Commission, a       statement by van den Anker was endorsed to commission the development of a       protocol and strategy for accessibility of migrant rights including those       of trafficked person, undocumented and self-employed;            to ensure that the trained programme developed for cascading out in         the Council is strongly recommended to the other statutory agencies;       to protect the dedicated officer's role in developing Bristol City         Council's involvement in the Bristol Counter Trafficking Coalition [10]
