     Angouri's research has had impact on two levels, (a) on the way teamwork       and team communication is understood by the project team and (b) on       training that was developed as a result of the study.
More specifically:     Economic and societal impacts:     The team's findings have been used to revise and update relevant guidance       and chapters in the 2nd Edition of the PROMPT 2 (PRactical Obstetric       Multi-Professional Training) course manual, which is used for       multi-professional training of maternity staff in the South West, the UK       and around the world (corroborating source CS1).
The manual is part of a       training package focused on obstetric emergencies.
The team's findings have been used in three course programmes: (a) local       PROMPT courses at Southmead Hospital, Bristol, (b) a train-the-trainers       days at the Royal College of Obstetricians and Gynaecologists and (c)       SMASH (Saving Mothers with Advanced Simulation scenarios for High-risk       situations) course.
Specifically:     A. Multi-professional teams from individual maternity units attend a       PROMPT Train the Trainers day and take the package back to their own unit       to train all of their maternity staff.
By July 2013 PROMPT had reached       most maternity units in England.
The trainees are Obstetricians,       Anaesthetists, and Midwives (all trainers in their own respective units).
The team's findings have been used in the Teamwork Chapter of the manual       and have been used for teamwork and leadership training generally threaded       throughout debriefing in all practical sessions (discussions being 5-10       minutes at 6 drills stations).
The courses have been held every two months       at Southmead Hospital, Bristol, and 50-60 participants were trained each       time, a total of over 300 per year (or 900 since 2009-2010).
They have       therefore had impact both regionally and nationally.
Feedback forms (CS2)       indicate that the participants have developed awareness of the       significance of teamwork and team communication for improved clinical       practice.
B.
Teamwork, as elucidated in our findings, has been a central part of       train-the-trainers courses held at the Royal College of Obstetricians and       Gynaecologists.
Teamwork is a chapter in both the Trainee and the Trainers       manuals (Trainee manual, Module 1 Teamwork p1-13 but also thread       throughout the manual; Trainer manual, Module 3 Teamwork p17-25 and       throughout).
These courses have been held four times per year with 8-16       teams of trainers from maternity units around the UK, and also around the       world, being trained.
In this area again the research's impact has had       both national and international reach.
The second edition of PROMPT 2 was       introduced in June 2012.
52 UK maternity units (208 multi-professional       trainers) have already been trained.
Feedback forms (CS3) show that the       courses met the needs of the participants and were relevant to the       trainees' everyday practice.
C. The team's findings have also informed the regional advanced SMASH       (Saving Mothers with Advanced Simulation scenarios for High-risk       situations) course for senior maternity staff (labour ward leaders).
This       is a one-day course held yearly.
The course started with a lecture on       teamwork and leadership (delivered by a team member) based on our       findings.
The PowerPoint slides (CS4) for this course drew directly on the       research.
These were followed by six stations with extensive 20-30 minutes       debriefing between stations, using formative checklists based on our work.
Anaesthetists, Obstetricians, and Midwives have attended (20-25       participants).
The course feedback indicates high satisfaction and       relevance to improving clinical practice (see letter of support from       trainee, corroborating source CS5).
PROMPT has had a national and international impact on medical       professionals' training.
Outside the UK, PROMPT 2 is used in Australia,       New Zealand, Hong Kong, China, USA, Iceland, Belgium and Ireland.
The       PROMPT 2 edition, which includes the teamwork research jointly led by Dr       Angouri, is listed as the fastest-selling book ever published by the RCOG       Press.
The manuals are now published by Cambridge University Press and       there are region-specific versions for the USA, China and Australia/NZ       (CS6).
