     Butler's work has a strong international dimension.
Her       2009-11EACEA-funded project involved addressing audiences in Spain,       Iceland and Turkey, including the Turkish Board of Education, for whom she       also ran a number of workshops in October 2010 that fed into the       formulation of public education policy in Turkey.
The project website is a       permanent site from which to access the project report and data.
Just as       important as the series of downloadable Continuing Professional       Development packs designed to spread best teaching practice in       evidence-based teaching of children's literature, and the dissemination       events in all four participating countries, organized in participating       countries to engage working teachers with the research and its       applications.
(Typical feedback from teachers included: "As an experienced       teacher, this workshop was very useful and gave me lots of ideas to       develop in school".
)[S10] This was a bottom-up project, involving focus-group 	  discussions with over 2,000 pupils and 240 teachers in the four       participating countries, and exemplifies Butler's marriage of theoretical       and pragmatic perspectives.
The same applies to Butler's volume Reading         History in Children's Books (Palgrave, 2012), a contribution to       current debates about multidisciplinary history teaching within schools,       in which `conventional' literary analysis is applied to classroom practice       and the National Curriculum.
She has been interviewed about the latter       project for the BBC History Magazine podcast (100,000-150,000 downloads       [S5], and has written on its applications for the teachers' journal Primary         History (Nov. 2013).
Butler has frequently addressed semi/non-academic audiences, not least       from continental Europe.
For example, in November 2012 she was invited to       take part in a forum on Children's and Young Adult Literature as part of       the International &#304;stanbul Book Fair, organized by the Turkish Publishers       Association, while earlier in 2012 was hired by the Danish Cultural       Agency, to run a day-school at Oxford University with Danish high school       teachers.
In March 2013 she was invited to write for the French magazine La         Revue des livres pour enfants, aimed primarily at booksellers,       teachers, and librarians.
The international aspect of her work supplements Butler's advocacy for       children's literature and contribution to the field at home.
She as been       an invited guest of the British Science Fiction Association (2010) and of       Eastercon (2011).
She has frequently visited schools as a guest author,       encouraging reading and running workshops with pupils.
She writes a       popular blog and is a regular contributor to "An Awfully Big Blog       Adventure" a community blog maintained by professional children's writers,       where her entries can garner over 1000 page views.
Their influence on       practising children's authors is evidenced by the fact that they (amongst       other plaudits) have been called works of "genius" by the award-winning       children's writer Meg Rosoff [S7].
She has been a "talking head" and       consultant for programmes on children's literature topics on national and       local radio [S6].
In 2009 she was a member of the panel to select the       Children's Laureate, a significant appointment in setting the tone and the       public face of children's literature within the UK.
The impact of Butler's work on children's literature can be measured by       the numerous references to her writings, not only within academia but in       journals such as the children's book magazine Armadillo, and       teachers' journals such as NAWE News, Primary History and       School Library Journal, which wrote of Four British Fantasists:     This important title should not be limited to academic libraries       supporting graduate and undergraduate children's literature courses.
It       belongs in any library that serves a liberal-arts curriculum.
It is highly       readable, commandingly intelligent, and refreshingly jargon-free.
A       seminal work of criticism.
[S1]     A notable strength of Butler's work is that she has established lines of       communication between academia and the wider community of readers and       writers.
In 2009 she co-organized a two-day conference devoted to the       writer Diana Wynne Jones, which attracted speakers from 14 countries and       four continents and catered to Jones's fan-base as well as an academic       audience.
The majority of those attending (and around half those giving       papers) at the conference were not affiliated to any academic institution,       and the event was notable for the fruitful interaction that took place       between academia and fandom, and the widely-articulated sense that       different kinds of expertise were here being brought to bear on each other       in a productive and unusual way that promoted mutual learning and respect       between people of different cultures and backgrounds.
The conference drew       attention from the national press [S2].
Butler has contributed to several publications that have achieved this       kind of "crossover" audience, for example an introduction and interview       for a collection of Diana Wynne Jones's speeches and essays published by       the children's publisher David Fickling [S3]; and work for the Journal of       the British Science Fiction Association, Vector [S4], all of which       have promoted understanding and communication across the       academic/non-academic divide.
Butler's research-as-practice as a fiction writer has given pleasure to       many and has also effectively promoted literacy, not least in her work       with the publisher Barrington Stoke, which specializes in producing books       for reluctant readers.
Her two volumes of fiction designed for this market       continue to sell approximately 1,000 copies per year.
[S9]
