     Influencing public perceptions of imprisonment and capital punishment     Marie Mulvey-Roberts has contributed to public discourse and perceptions       of imprisonment and capital punishment.
She was a member of the editorial       board for the non-academic UK journal Prison Writing which       published the work of prisoners.
Mulvey-Roberts has organised and judged       writing competitions for hundreds of prisoners in the UK and Ireland and       on death row in the US and the Caribbean.
Prisoners benefited by having a       forum for complaint about abuses within the penal system and means of       expressing their predicament through writing.
Judges included Rt       Hon.
Michael Foot, Dr R.V.
Bailey and poets U.A.
Fanthorpe and Benjamin       Zephaniah.
These poets contributed poems to Mulvey-Roberts's Writing         for their Lives which also included material from the writing       competitions.
Royalties continue to be donated to the charity Amicus,       which helps train lawyers in capital defence by providing internships to       the USA.
Fanthorpe's contribution, "Death Row Poets", with its dedication       to Mulvey-Roberts, appears on the English "A" level syllabus and was       reprinted in the poet's 2010 collection, introduced by Poet Laureate,       Carol Ann Duffy [1].
The importance of the book to the wider debate on       capital punishment is expressed in the following statements in book       reviews aimed at the general public: "Mulvey-Roberts .
.
.
presents the       viewpoint of the convicted and condemned...thus allowing the reader to       grasp &#8212; accurately, forcefully, and often frighteningly &#8212; the plight, the       grisly ritual, of the condemned, the executed, and the exonerated...
Anyone seeking to make an informed, balanced decision on the issue should       read this book...
Essential"&#8212;Choice.
"Nobody who reads this book       will put it down unaffected... Mulvey-Roberts has drawn together an       astonishing collection of writings and speeches which will shock, shake       and warn."
Amicus Journal (2008) [2].
In 2009, a reviewer for a       Canadian law journal website recommended the book for "any penology       classroom" insisting that without books like this the realities of death       row "are likely not to surface within the public consciousness" [3].
In       2008, Mulvey-Roberts produced scripts for actors who gave performed       readings from the book, which was nominated for an American human rights       award.
These were performed for the public at two Bristol venues, the       Pierian Centre which hosts human rights events and Borders bookshop.
Moazzam Begg, former Guantanamo Bay detainee, was the guest speaker.
Mulvey-Roberts introduced children from various local schools to       prisoners' writings from the book for an English GSCE master-class       focusing on the death penalty in 2010.
Many of her prisoner contributors       have continued writing for the newsletter of LifeLines, an organisation       whose members write to prisoners on death row.
They have benefited from       Mulvey-Roberts's work in seeing their pen-friends' work published and       human rights issues publicised.
Their founder Jan Arriens wrote the       preface to Writing for their Lives.
The empowerment and enthusiasm       prisoners feel on seeing their work in print is summed up by contributor       Hank Skinner (Texas death row) who wrote in his blog: "Buy this book!
Promote it everywhere!
Put it on Oprah!
Tell the world!...
Shout it in the       streets!"
As a result of his recommendations, Mulvey-Roberts was invited       to speak in 2008 to Lifespark, an anti-death-penalty organisation in       Switzerland.
Writing for their Lives is currently cited on many       death-penalty websites, and those associated with a number of condemned US       prisoners [4-5].
Mulvey-Roberts's death row books have provided crucial research for an       original British radio drama Washed by Tears (2013) and take up       half the list of "Useful Books" cited.
Extracts from Writing for their         Lives appear on the project's web-site.
Internet audiences are able       to change the ending of the play by voting whether the death row       protagonist is sane or insane [6].
Her book currently appears with only       three others on the home page for Justice Talking "the public       radio show about law and American life" [7].
The National Coalition to       Abolish the Death Penalty website marks the anniversary of the publication       of her book as an event in the chronology of the death penalty [8]).
Mulvey-Roberts was invited to co-produce a forthcoming film on the death       penalty and has visited and corresponded with her contributors on death       row, some of whom have been killed.
She has supported several in the       run-up to execution which, as private letters from prisoners indicate, has       been greatly appreciated.
A testimonial documenting the emotional support       the book has given a woman writing to a prisoner is on file [9].
Enabling public re-evaluation of the history of the Lyttons of         Knebworth House     Mulvey-Roberts's edition of Rosina Bulwer Lytton's Collected Letters       (reference [3] above) received a full page review in The Times         Literary Supplement (2008), where it was described as "well edited"       and making "an eloquent case for Rosina Bulwer Lytton transgressing public       and private boundaries" [10].
Transcriptions of these letters were       digitised for an electronic database and donated in 2009 to the       Hertfordshire Archives and Local History centre, which houses many of the       manuscript letters.
The county archivist regarded this as positive impact       as it has helped preserve the originals and provide easy public access to       their content.
Mulvey-Roberts encouraged the library to add to their       Rosina Bulwer Lytton collection by purchasing additional material which       she discovered.
Her work prompted an extensive library cataloguing       initiative of the Rosina Bulwer Lytton holdings.
Mulvey-Roberts's research       on the family has been used by commercial writers such as Sarah Wise in       her 2012 trade book on Victorian asylums [11].
After her case was publicised in newspapers, Rosina was freed from       incarceration.
This was because her husband, Edward who was a prominent       politician, had her released to avoid further scandal.
Mulvey-Roberts       wrote about his Gothic writings informed by her research on a blog (April       2011) for the Gothic Imagination website, which is accessible to the       public, having 7,000 unique visitors a year.
Her work on the family is       publicised in the annual Bulwer Lytton newsletter distributed throughout       most countries by Edward's descendent 2nd Earl of Lytton, Henry       Lytton Cobbold.
Mulvey-Roberts wrote the entry on Rosina Bulwer Lytton for       the Dictionary of National Biography and section in the current       guide book at Knebworth House, which has sold thousands of copies thus       demonstrating to visitors (including many on school trips) that there was       more to Edward's supposedly "mad wife".
Mulvey-Roberts initiated the       provision of a gravestone for Rosina's unmarked grave, joining in a family       service to mark the occasion on the anniversary of her death.
This event       is described on a discussion board for the blog Victorian Calendar "It was       a dark and stormy marriage" started in June 2011 to which members of the       public have responded.
Until Mulvey-Roberts's research, Rosina's mother       Anna Wheeler was unknown to the family.
Now she is included in the       permanent exhibition at Knebworth House, visited by well over half a       million visitors during the past six years, where she is recognised as a       pioneer of women's rights and co-author with William Thompson of Appeal         Against One Half the Human Race Women (1825).
As her co-authorship       was largely unrecognised, Mulvey-Roberts with the politician Michael Foot       edited an edition with her name on the cover for the very first time.
Mulvey-Roberts located a first edition of the Appeal which Lord       Cobbold purchased on her recommendation to display in a glass case.
She       enhanced the presence of these women in the exhibition by discovering       additional artefacts which have subsequently been put on display.
These       include a lock of Edward's hair kept by Rosina and the rose he gave her       during their courtship.
Lord Cobbold sought her advice on identifying a       possible portrait of Rosina.
This was bought by the family at auction and       is now on permanent display in Knebworth House which has been the       recipient of the Sandford Award for excellence in heritage education since       2001.
The family have recognised Mulvey-Roberts's contribution in       highlighting the importance of these women by publicising her work on the       Knebworth website and including her three paperback books on Anna Wheeler       and Rosina Bulwer Lytton in the estate's book shop.
She has increased       public understanding of the importance of the current family's female       ancestors who helped bring about changes benefitting women's lives today       [12].
