     The research laid the groundwork for a reinterpretation of the cultural       impact of the Atlantic slave       trade on British culture, especially in relation to the built environment,       the black presence in       England and racial attitudes.
Generating debate and informing the discourse around slavery, it       established the extent of a Black       presence in Bristol before mass immigration and assisted in forcing a       furious debate from the       1990s onwards about the way prominent Bristolians such as the celebrated       seventeenth century       Philanthropist, Edward Colston, should be judged and commemorated.
This       has forced a       recognition that Bristol's history needs to include a wider and diverse       constituency including the       descendants of enslaved Africans.
A dedicated, permanent and self-contained slavery section was installed       at the new M-Shed       museum in 2011 which derived from earlier exhibitions which Dresser       had helped to initiate before       2008 and where again she acted as the main historical consultant.
She       helped to author displays       and obtain artefacts for the exhibition and is also featured in one of the       filmed displays.
[Source 1].
Dresser's research has fed directly into the way the history of       Atlantic slavery has been articulated       to a wider public on The National Archives website, including one of its       Readers' guides.
[Source 2]       Her contribution as a member of the advisory boards of the Legacy of       British Slave-ownership       Database project since 2008 and on the advisory board of the AHRC project       `Historicising and       reconnecting rural community: Black presences and the legacies of slavery       and colonialism in rural       Britain, c.1600-1939' has also had an impact as these projects have       changed the terms in which       slavery heritage is discussed and researched and Dresser's research has       contributed to this       change.
[Source 3]     As a result of her research, English Heritage asked Dresser to mentor a       researcher commissioned       to investigate slavery links to their own properties.
This precipitated a       close relationship with       English Heritage and a looser one with the National Trust resulting in       2009 in a joint conference of       heritage professionals, user groups and academics which attracted over 100       delegates (Interview       with a member of the Black and Asian Studies Association at the Conference       led to a jointly       published book and web resource co-edited by Dresser and published in June       2013.
[Source 5]     By articulating in a dispassionate and fair minded way how networks of       merchant families were       embedded in Bristol's Atlantic slavery economy, Dresser's research also       directly influenced the       Society of Bristol Merchant Venturers' decision to put on permanent loan       to the Bristol Record       Office their world class archive documenting the Society's links with       slavery since the seventeenth       century.
It affected the way slavery records were acquired, catalogued and       featured by the Bristol       Record Office.
[Source4]     Dresser's independent slavery research, and her continuing collaborative       work with the       Ethnography Curator at the Bristol Museum Service, fed into nationally and       internationally funded       websites, including Anti-Slavery International's website and the Port       Cities website and Lottery       funded projects such as the Sweet Heritage project, aimed specifically at       young people.
[Source 6]     Dresser's research continues to affect Bristol Museum and Archive       Services' collections and       acquisition policies.
It has also inspired a number of community and       family histories and creative       projects, including Sweet Heritage, and in 2008 generated seven short       plays about slavery in       Bristol by seven writers from across the UK, including Sandi Toksvig,       Mustapha Matura and       Dresser herself.
[Source 7] In addition, her research inspired a popular       book published by Bristol       City Council's Race Forum in 2010.
[Source 8]     Having previously influenced the national commemoration of the       bicentenary of the abolition of the       slave trade in 2007 Dresser's research subsequently generated a much       replicated Bristol slavery       trail, sold at the City Museum [M-Shed], and which has appeared in a       variety of guises on various       websites.
The Bristol Slavery Trail page received 865 hits accounting for       0.9 per cent of overall       traffic of the VCH Explore website for that period and ranked as the third       most visited page on the       site.
The Bristol Slavery Trail has been used by teachers on the       Historical Association site `Bristol       and the Slave Trade: a virtual slavery trail for school children and their       teachers' while the Bristol       Radical History Group has utilised the research to produce a pamphlet on       the Abolitionist Thomas       Clarkson for public consumption.
[Source 9].
Such that a plaque has been       installed in the city       commemorating a public house with anti-slavery associations; a ceremony at       which Dresser       officiated.
[Source 10]
