     Bristol: Ethnic Minorities and the City c. 1000-2001 was one of       the two best-selling of the 14 volume series of England's Past for       Everyone initiative.
It was reprinted in 2009 and formed the basis of a       number of popular outreach projects.
The website also proved very popular.
According to the VCH Research Manager, the Bristol part of the England's       Past for Everyone website has attracted the largest number of hits of all       the local history projects: an annual average from 2008 to 20012 of 90,       715.
[Source 1]     The Bristol EPE project informed the content and approach of M-Shed,       Bristol's &#163;24million museum of the city's history.
Dresser and Fleming       were co-opted by the Bristol Museum Service to act as M-Shed's historical       advisers and as convenors of the Academic Advisers Group.
[Source 2]     The impact of the research and researchers on the shaping of the new       Museum of Bristol [M-Shed] and on the acquisitions policy of the Bristol       Record Office is formally acknowledged in their websites and documented by       the Community Partnership Officer and Senior Volunteer Coordinator of the       Bristol Museums, Galleries and Archives Services.
She has found Bristol:         Ethnic Minorities to be `extremely useful'.
It has provided `a great       way to gain contextual information about diverse communities across time       and to explore stories relating to individual people' and she recalled in       particular `researching the Irish, Jewish, African-Caribbean, Polish and       Huguenot communities with the help of this book' which `certainly helped       to bring the gallery to life'.
Since its opening in June 2011, the M-Shed       has received more than one million visitors and it was, according to the       Community Partnership Officer, `reassuring to know that `this book has in       part enabled them to gain a better understanding of Bristol's diverse       population.
She has previously coordinated a partnership initiative with       local African-Caribbean community groups and individuals during 2006-2008       called the Black Archives Partnership of which Dresser was a steering       group member and she has confirmed that the latter's research into the       African-Caribbean community in Bristol both `fed into and was influenced       by the partnership'.
For the Community Partnership Officer this was `a       great example of partnership working between Universities, heritage and       cultural organisations and communities and it's great that one of the       legacies is this book'.
[Source 3]     The project has influenced School History curricula.
The EPE website       included a separately funded `Schools diversity trail' by Dean Smart of       UWE based on the project.
[Source 4] The book has also been used to       develop teaching resources and has informed History teaching, for example,       at Downend Secondary School in Bristol and the Trinity Centre in Bristol       and provided the material for the EPE `Bristol medieval aliens' website.
[Source 5]     It has also influenced other community historical resources, such as A         Guide to African Caribbean Sources in Bristol's Museums, Art Galleries         and Archives; a South West Trades Union Congress pamphlet, Who         Makes up the South West?
The Facts around the Region's Population and         Migration, and the Trinity Centre's HLF funded `Bristol Sound       Project and book.
Bristol First Born Creatives, a Black-led education and       media consultancy which co-opted Dresser as an adviser.
[Source 6]     Dresser and Fleming have presented their research to a diverse range of       audiences, including popular history and community groups and Ethnic       Minorities has been positively reviewed, including in the British       Association for Local History's journal, The Local Historian       (39:1, Feb. 2009.
[Source 7].
The following indicate some of the diverse       audiences: Human Rights Conference at the Bristol Pierian Centre in March       2008 including asylum seekers, refugees and those working with them in an       audience of 150; Bristol conference in April 2008 organised by EuroClio,       the European Association of History Educators, an audience of over 200       mainly teachers and students from f15 countries; the Bristol Legacy       Commission's International Inclusive Curriculum Conference     Attended by teachers, students and school pupils in July 2010; and in       December 2011 the Bristol Festival of Ideas event at the Bristol Arnolfini       Gallery attended by 120 members of the public, including refugees and       asylum seekers.
[Source 8]     Dresser and Fleming have made several radio broadcasts around ethnic       minorities, including a series for BBC Radio Bristol and interviews on       Salaam Shalom, a Jewish/Muslim internet radio station, later made into       podcasts.
They have also appeared in features on community radio stations       catering for ethnic minority audiences such as UJIMa and Bristol Community       FM as well as pop stations such as Heart Radio.
Findings from their       research have featured on BBC broadcasts.
[Source 9] Finally, Bristol's       1960s bus boycott, in protest at the bus company's discrimination against       non-white employees, covered in the book, has brought Dresser into the       public eye.
Dresser appeared on BBC's The One Show (May 2013) to discuss       the boycott thus informing a wider debate.
[Source 10]
