     This research had a range of beneficiaries through introducing new works       by book artists to an international audience of other artists, collectors       and the public.
It also impacted upon artistic practice and the       development of book art festivals and exhibitions, gallery curation and       outreach, and fed into ongoing debate about the production, dissemination       and appreciation of artists' books and altered public perceptions.
It also       extended opportunities for artists internationally through exhibitions,       sales and awards.
Some key examples are:     a) Introducing works by Polish artists and writers to an international       audience of artists, librarians, curators and educators through focused       interviews and conference presentations (videos and downloads at http://www.bookarts.uwe.ac.uk/poland.htm).
An independent Polish writer/artist, who participated extensively in the       project, states: "the interview and videos of my work published from it       have helped me with my contacts with Polish universities and libraries       (invitations to give lectures, exhibitions, workshops, and purchases of my       books)" [source 3].
After interviewing the organiser of the Polish Book       Art Festival (a biennial, travelling public exhibition), Bodman was       invited to curate a section of books by British artists for The 9th       iteration of the Festival (Jan 2012-December 2014), showcasing 84 artists       from Europe, the USA and Asia.
Bodman's selection of 42 artists' books,       promoted works by British artists to a Polish audience, one of which was       awarded the Jury's first prize (http://korespondencja.bookart.pl/en/awards.html).
b) The research assisted the establishment of the London Centre for Book       Arts (LCBA) in February 2013, the UK's first open-access, not-for-profit       independent book arts resource and educational centre, (http://londonbookarts.tumblr.com).
Its founder read one of the project case studies on a model book arts       centre, the Minnesota Center for Book Arts (MCBA), Minneapolis, USA.
After       our advice at one of the project's surgeries, and the recommendation to       the director, he travelled to MCBA on a fact-finding mission.
He states:       "After much advice and input from Bodman and Sowden, the Centre opened its       doors in February this year, with more than 400 people attending the open       day and features in the Guardian, Creative Review, a-n, Crafts         Magazine, Print Week, Design Week, El Pais and O Globo"       [source 1].
c) Bodman and Sowden provided free artists' books examples to the       organisers of a new book art festival at the Limfjordscentret Doverodde,       Denmark, where artists' books were relatively unknown (June 2008 &#8212; May       2009).
These were used to promote and explain the significance of artists'       books to regional librarians, printers, museum curators, small publishers       and staff from the municipal culture department.
The researchers gave       public talks at two of the festivals, and from their support, the festival       received funding from the Danish Rural Development Programme and Culture       Fund to expand.
The festival organiser, states: "This attracted more       artist participants in our exhibitions and festivals from Europe and the       USA, and more visits from the general public, collectors and librarians to       the events, which generated sales for the exhibiting artists" [source 2].
d) The published outcomes from the project (http://www.bookarts.uwe.ac.uk/canon.htm)       extended knowledge for educators: The South African artist David Paton       (University of Johannesburg), interviewed for one of the case studies,       states: "my involvement has had both direct and indirect impact on my work       as a teacher in a tertiary academic institution as well as on my own       research in the field of artists' books.
A direct benefit is the way in       which our fledgling book arts curriculum has grown over the past three       years, as a result of such a dialogical climate" My involvement in the       project provided me with an opportunity to present a conference paper and       accredited textual output for a South African conference on Practice-led       Research."
[source 4].
(e) The director of 23 Sandy Gallery (Portland, Oregon), a well-known       dealer of artists' books in the USA, uses the Manifesto to inform       library and museum collectors when purchasing artists' books, and public       visitors to the gallery.
She states: "Between the gallery and its outreach       programs to various audiences, I have frequently relied on A Manifesto         for the Book for vital documentation of our field...
I cite the work       frequently when I lecture about both contemporary and historical aspects       of artists' books... to reach the general artgoing public who may have       never before heard of such a thing" [source 5].
