     Hedderman's initial analysis of reconviction in the East Midlands       demonstrated that the MoJ method for comparing different probation areas,       which was based on caseload rather than commencement samples, was a poorer       measure of reoffending than other existing reconviction measures (2).
Initially, the MoJ changed their measure to make some allowance for the       length of time offenders were under supervision, but they resisted making       more substantive changes.
Subsequently, the government's position changed.
This reflected pressure from within and outside the Probation Service       following the dissemination of the results of Hedderman's second study       (with Jolliffe).
For example, the study was cited in a House of Lords       debate in 2010 and showcased in an invited presentation to the Probation       Chiefs Association National Conference in 2011.
Hedderman was then invited       to give evidence before the Justice Select Committee's inquiry into the       Probation Service in 2011 which led to the Justice Select Committee (A       p.114) being able to 'welcome the MoJ's review of the local snapshot       measure of re-offending...' and the MoJ (B p.31) responding that they were       'investigating whether meaningful data on the re-offending of offenders       supervised by individual probation trusts can be produced after       controlling for changes in offender characteristics'.
In 2011 the MoJ created a new local 'proven reoffending' measure which is       based on commencement samples and includes pre-court disposals which again       increases the degree to which the measure assesses underlying offending       behaviour rather than criminal justice processing decisions.
Ultimately       this measure is expected to form the basis of a replacement for the       current probation performance measure.
A number of Probation areas subsequently contacted Hedderman for advice       on how to use reconviction information to improve the work they do with       offenders to reduce reoffending.
This led to formal consultancies with       three Probation Trusts:     &#163;10,350 (ex VAT) commencing 2010, Kent Probation Trust.
&#163;19,000 (ex VAT) commencing 2012, London Probation Trust (renewed April       2013 for the same amount for a further year).
&#163;10,450 (ex VAT) commencing 2013, Hertfordshire Probation Trust.
The work for Kent Probation Trust involved Hedderman and Jolliffe       analysing reconviction data to identify ways to improve their work on       reducing reoffending.
In 2012, Hedderman was appointed as Research Advisor       to London Probation Trust (which manages 20% of all offenders under       probation supervision) to advise them on which further analyses to conduct       in relation to reoffending (as well as other matters).
This relationship       proved so valuable to them that this consultancy was renewed in April 2013       for a further year (C).
[text removed for publication]     Since the results were provided, reoffending rates in the East Midlands       Region (even using the Government's preferred measure) have outperformed       the predicted level (8.76% proven reoffending as opposed to a predicted       figure of 9.03% in the most recent year) (E).
Hedderman and Jolliffe were also invited to be the key note speakers at a       specially convened seminar `Sentencing and reducing reoffending: some       reflections on the British Experience' in Santiago, Chile on 5 July 2011.
The event was sponsored by the British Embassy in Chile, the Chilean       Ministry of Justice and Chilean Public Criminal Defender.
Hedderman was       subsequently appointed advisor to a project funded by the Organisation of       the American States (OAS) to develop outcome measures for comparing the       impact of prison and community-based interventions across a number of       countries in Latin America and the Caribbean (Chile, Uruguay, Costa Rica,       Barbados, Panama, Dominican Republic and Jamaica).
In May 2013, the OAS       Director of the Department of Public Security wrote to Hedderman noting       that OAS 'are convinced that this project will make a significant       contribution to the efforts of our Member States' (F).
