     Explanation of the public engagement programme for Nowhereisland       The public engagement programme for Nowhereisland was built around       the compelling story of a       visiting island nation and the question of how we might build a new nation       together, as recognised       by the extensive press coverage (sources 3 and 4).
161 educational       workshop sessions were       developed with 42 different regional partners (outlined below).
Quantitative data revealed that an       estimated 10,000 people visited the Embassy; 10,953 people actively       engaged in educational       events and workshop sessions over 8-weeks; 23,003 people from 135       countries became       Nowhereisland citizens over one year &#8212; which involved actively       co-authoring an online constitution       consisting of a set of values on which the new nation might be based and       2,077 people contributed       responses to the weekly online Resident Thinker programme (described above       in 2).
144,034       people made unique visits to the website from September 2011 to September       2012 (source 1).
Understanding of citizenship and civil society     Nowhereisland inspired people from the region of South West       England to make connections with       thousands of people across the world through a co-authored online       `constitution'.
The encounters       between `citizens' were interactive, with respondents contributing to the       ideas and meanings of this       new nation itself and engaging with the wider issues it broached through       the website.
Nowhereisland facilitated a process of change in individuals and       communities by nourishing the       capacity for creative illusion &#8212; that is, the ability to think and act `as       if' things were different.
71.7%       of online survey respondents interviewed at the conclusion of the project       said that Nowhereisland       had provoked them to "think about ways in which I might be a more active       citizen".
All respondents       had visited the website more than once, with 55% visiting up to six times       and 14% more than ten       times, thereby demonstrating the online programme's ability to encourage a       deep engagement with       the concepts behind the work and therefore to develop more complex       understandings of       citizenship, as was evidenced in the contributions to the online       constitution.
(source 1)     Nowhereisland enabled participants to explore their relationship       to citizenship and civil society       through a range of education workshops, skills development processes and       parallel artistic projects       which were developed with regional partners including: Ilfracombe Arts       College and Budmouth       College; National Citizenship Scheme students, Weymouth; WILD Young       Parents groups in       Cornwall Students at Room 13; Hareclive, Bristol and High View Primary       School, Plymouth; and       HMP The Verne in Portland.
The Community Partnership Manager at The Verne reported that even though       the inmates could       not see the island they debated its constitution, thus Nowhereisland       "provided an excellent way of       stimulating debate about society, culture and what makes a good citizen,       both of which fit well with       the settlement and reintegration programme" (source 2) The British Red       Cross stated that       Nowhereisland "was one of the few Cultural Olympiad projects to       provide a solid platform for       people to discuss and share international ideas and gain a greater       awareness of intercultural       issues.
Nowhereisland was not just an inspiring concept, but also a real       project with physical       outcomes for people to engage with the diverse groups we already work       with, such as young       refugees, young foreign national prisoners, mainstream primary and       secondary schools and       university students, really engaged with the concepts that Nowhereisland       brought to the fore..."       (source 2).
Education     4,370 people under the age of 15 and 4,140 between the ages of 15 and 24,       signed up online to       become citizens of Nowhereisland in addition to the existing       individual citizenships.
The public       engagement programme with groups such as Efford Take a Part, Plymouth       Music Zone, the       YPAC, WILD Young Parents group and Ilfracombe Ambassador programme,       enabled young       people to develop personalised senses of themselves as citizens and their       role in civil society       which can be evidenced in the testimonials documented in the Arts Council       evaluation report       (source 1).
Cultural Life     Nowhereisland created the spaces and opportunities for new things       to happen &#8212; things that had       not been conceived before its arrival.
Most significantly, 82 other       creative outcomes such as new       songs, animations, new writing and musical compositions (source 1)       developed in response to       Nowhereisland clearly demonstrated the project's impact on the       cultural life of the South West       region.
International impact as a public artwork     Though relatively recent, there is emerging evidence from the reception       of the project in the       international arts media and at the Portland State University conference       (attended by 500       delegates in April 2013) that Nowhereisland is influencing other       artists and curators and stimulating       further imaginative engagements that rethink the role of public art       projects.
