     NATURE OF THE IMPACT: The impact of the research came by changing the       guiding principles of personnel policies of the Ministry of Health in       Zambia.
In particular, the Ministry modified its approach by evaluating       the benefits of alternative hiring policies using focused trials steered       by the research findings in Section (2) and using the outcomes of such       trials to inform strategy.
Oriana Bandiera led this intervention in       collaboration with MOH using a design inspired by the above research.
In 2008/09, the MOH began designing a programme to create a new cadre of       health workers, the Community Health Assistants or CHAs, to address the       shortage of health workers in rural areas.
The context in which the policy       is being implemented is similar to that in most of sub-Saharan Africa,       where weak healthcare systems are undermined by shortages of qualified       health workers, especially in rural areas where people are rarely willing       to work.
CHAs are embedded community members to whom the MOH offers health       training and whose main task is to do preventative care in rural       communities.
CHAs carry out the same tasks as informal community health       workers.
But in contrast with informal health workers, they are trained       for a full year, placed on the civil service payroll and provided with a       ladder for professional advancement and de facto tenure.
Selection,       motivation, and retention are critical to programmes that want to attract       competent individuals and motivate them to serve the community long-term.
Given the difficulty in retaining qualified staff for this work, the MOH       was very mindful of adopting effective recruitment and motivation       strategies for this new cadre.
At the same time, the then Director of       Research at the MOH (Dr Victor Mukonka) heard about Bandiera and       colleagues running a field experiment on the motivation of health       promoters with the Society for Family Health in Lusaka and thought the       research methodology could be fruitfully implemented to understand how too       best recruit and motivate CHAs (Source B).
Dr Mukonka commissioned a       review paper on existing evidence of recruitment and motivation strategies       for CHAs, which draws on Bandiera's research on incentives (Source A).
Following this, Mr Mwila, then Director of Human Resources at the MOH,       organised a meeting with the research team in July 2010.
During the meeting, Mr Mwila stated the MOH's dilemma clearly: `It is       important that we formalise and support community health workers, but what       will happen if they now see themselves as typical civil servants?
Will       they retain their connection to the community?'
On the one hand, Mwila       elaborated, having CHAs with high technical capacity and who are motivated       to excel in their careers could make them more effective.
On the other       hand, such workers may be more likely to seek personal gain or leave for       more lucrative job opportunities.
The questions raised by Mr Mwila resonated with Bandiera and her       colleagues as their earlier research was aimed precisely at understanding       the interactions between different sources of motivation and in particular       whether private rewards, financial or otherwise, crowd out pro-social       motivation.
At that meeting the Ministry and the researchers devised a new mode of       collaboration that embedded research into policy design, with a dual       feedback mechanism such that research findings shape future policy and new       policy challenges inform new research questions.
This research design had       key features in common with Bandiera's earlier published work using field-based 	  studies which provided a template for what could be achieved.
(Sources C,F)     The collaboration began in July 2010 with the first cohort of 314 CHAs.
At its core were three randomised controlled trials (RCTs) designed by       Bandiera and her colleagues and implemented by the MOH with technical       support from the researchers.
The results of each trial informed       subsequent stages of the programme and the combined results are informing       the design of recruitment and motivation strategies for the 5,000 CHAs who       will be hired over the next five years.
The first policy trial addresses Mr Mwila's question       directly by measuring the effect of the job `mission' on the selection,       retention and performance of CHAs.
At the recruitment stage in the summer       of 2010, the nature of the job mission was experimentally varied: in half       of the districts, the mission was advertised as `help the community';       whereas in the other half, the mission was advertised as leading to career       advancement in the health sector (Source E).
The researchers then       collected information on the skill level, pro-social motivation and career       ambitions of the two groups of applicants, and put in place systems to       measure performance on the field when CHAs were deployed in July 2012.
Performance was measured over the course of one year until July 2013 and       the results showed a marked difference in skill levels and performance       between the two groups.
Applicants recruited on the basis of career       opportunities have higher skills, stronger scientific background and       stronger field performance.
This does not come at the expense of lower       pro-social motivation, as the two groups score similarly on a battery of       tests that measure social preferences towards the community.
Retention       rates are also similar in the two groups in the short term, but CHAs       recruited on the basis of career opportunities are more likely to want to       move up the ladder, suggesting a trade-off between job retention and       performance in the long-run.
Upon hearing about the findings, the Permanent Secretary and the Minister       have agreed that highlighting career opportunities is a more effective       recruitment strategy and the career advancement advert is currently being       used to recruit the 2013 CHA cohort (Source H).
The second policy trial was embedded in the one-year       training programme for CHAs that ran from July 2011 until July 2012.
During training, four forms of non-monetary motivation schemes (providing       various combinations of rank feedback and social recognition) were offered       to motivate study effort.
(Source D)     The findings indicate that providing relative performance feedback       reduces performance, but that both MOH recognition and community       recognition increase performance.
But since all recognition schemes       implicitly provide relative performance feedback, the net effect is zero       (Source G).
Qualitative evidence from interviews with the trainees       suggests that these responses are partly due to their reluctance to draw       attention to themselves or be seen as non-team players.
These results       directly affected the design of motivational strategies at the deployment       stage.
Indeed, while originally the MOH was considering social recognition       schemes, in the light of the results and after consultation with the       researchers, the MOH decided not to implement recognition schemes once       CHAs were deployed to the field.
The third policy trial, which started in December 2012,       aims to quantify the effect of work autonomy on performance.
The       experiment randomly assigns CHAs to two groups that vary their autonomy in       setting goals for the number of household visits to complete in a given       month.
In the first group, goals are set by supervisors; in the second,       CHAs set their own goals.
In line with most of the research evidence on       workers' motivation, the MOH sees goal-setting as a fundamental tool to       ensure good performance.
The experiment is shedding light on which       goal-setting strategy is most effective.
Links between research and impact: The previous field research had       a direct impact on MoH in the approach that it has taken to investigating       options for policy reform, leading the MoH to use an experimental       intervention to inform policy.
The use of field-based interventions by       policy makers is rare and, without having access to prior successful       peer-reviewed papers by the authors, the MoH would have been less likely       to embrace this approach.
The work has fundamentally changed personnel       practices within MoH leading to the use of state of the art research       designs embedded in the policy itself to provide evidence base for future       policy design.
This mode of collaboration between policy makers and       academic researchers represents a major departure from the standard model       whereby policies are evaluated ex-post by commercial consultants.
The       success of the CHA research collaboration has started a new dialogue to       reform recruitment and motivation strategies for nurses, doctors and civil       servants within MoH.
The impact on policy is on-going.
Yet already, the       results of the recruitment experiment have informed the recruitment       strategy for all subsequent cohort of CHAs; the results of the training       experiment have dissuaded the ministry from using social recognition       schemes as motivation.
