     Improvements to new product development in the ceramics industry     CFPR collaborated with Denby Pottery to prove the commercial viability of       3D printed ceramic bodies as a design tool for concept modelling of       tableware and whiteware for the ceramic industry.
The partnership explored       the possibilities of printing commercial tableware designs directly in a       compatible ceramic material that can be glazed and decorated.
As a result,       Denby has doubled its in house 3D printing capability, because they can       see a clear future for 3D printed ceramics: `Here is a university that has       already made ceramic printing a reality ... We can certainly replicate       things... we are really pleased with the way it is heading'.
(Senior       Designer: S1).
Four of the five major UK ceramic tableware manufacturers (Dudsons,       Steelite, Denby and Port Merion) have all approached CFPR for 3D printed       ceramic prototypes for new ceramic tableware designs or setters (the       supports on which tableware is set to retain its shape and form during       firing) for commercial use.
As a result, CFPR is in the process of       creating a spin-out company to service these requests, supplying industry       setters for supporting whiteware (currently made in China with a 6-12 week       turnaround) for the ceramic industry and bespoke ceramics.
This       contributes to the UK's economic competitiveness by reducing their       turnaround time for development to less than a week.
The use of UWE's       innovative material has wide application in both domestic and commercial       environments.
Wider benefits to industry     A confidential consultancy and initial scoping project for Aardman       Features developed the 3D rapid prototyping of claymation models for the       film Pirates!
In an Adventure with Scientists!
(2012).
As a result       of the tests undertaken by CFPR, Aardman subsequently purchased three       Envisiontech 3D printers that allowed it to produce over 500,000 parts for       the film and create significant savings in production costs.
Johnson Matthey approached CFPR to investigate the commercial potential       of printing complex ceramic geometries for chemical processing.
UWE's       patented 3D printable ceramic material demonstrated of the viability of       this approach that has enabled Johnson Matthey to develop its own       materials.
As a result, Johnson Matthey has made additional R&amp;D       investment in order to develop this technology towards a full industrial       application (S2).
Further industrial impact has come through a       three-year KTP with Renishaw Plc (awarded in 2011) that has developed an       additive layer manufacturing ceramic dental capability (S3).
CFPR has collaborated with Hewlett Packard (HP) for over thirteen years       with the Research Labs in Bristol, and Palo Alto on multiple joint       research projects and collaborated with Roland DG on developments to the       next generation of material technologies and user interfaces.
As a result       of this work, Hoskins is regarded by Hewlett Packard (HP) as an `industry       influencer' (S4).
HP, Roland DG and Canon have used CFPR for       quality benchmarking.
However, this work is protected under       confidentiality agreements and is therefore not published.
The Arts and Humanities Research Council (AHRC) has highlighted that       CFPR's research has contributed to the creative economy, citing its unique       approach in applying research findings from an arts based philosophy to       industrial problems and its innovative creative research that led to a       patented 3D printable ceramic (S5).
Influence on Government Policy     Hoskins was invited to help with the development of Crafts Council and       Department of Culture Media and Sport policy on crafts and STEM subjects       at a House of Commons meeting in November 2011 in association with the       Associate Parliamentary Design and Innovation Group.
He is a member of an       expert advisory group for the University Alliance DSTEM project.
As a       result, he has influenced the government's thinking on how the arts,       crafts and design contribute to the UK's education and industrial health.
Hoskins and Huson's work further informed government policy via the       Technology Strategy Board's Materials Knowledge Transfer Network which       sought CFPR's advice and participation in the creation a major report and       Government policy on the future of additive manufacturing.
[S6]     Wider benefits for the creative arts     CFPR's work in 3D ceramics has also produced wider benefits within the       creative arts sector itself.
This is exemplified by its work with the       celebrated artist Richard Hamilton, whose Medal of Dishonour for       the British Museum formed a case study for process development and       exhibited artefacts (S7).
Because CFPR's research straddles the normally separate spheres of the       academy, art practitioners and industry, Hoskins was commissioned by       Bloomsbury Academic to write a new monograph on this research that is       aimed at practising artists and designers as well as academics.
