     Research on the impact of immigration on public finances [c] filled a       perceived gap in public knowledge and also led to significant         influence on public debate in the UK.
Public debate on immigration       is often highly emotional and partisan: by providing undisputed evidence       and clear figures on the effects of immigration, the research challenged       unfounded claims and meant that interest groups had to engage with the       evidence, thus influencing the tone and nature of the public debate.
The       importance of this debate is exemplified by the dispute in the months       running up to the full access of Bulgarians and Romanians to the EU labour       market starting from January 2014, and the impact that may have on UK       public finances.
Previously, no work existed that had examined the impact       of A8 immigration on UK public finances since 2004, and the debate was       dominated by anecdotes and best guesses, often vastly exaggerating the       burden that A8 migration imposed on the public purse.
Our work [c] changed       that debate by providing well-researched evidence that could not be (and       has not been) disputed.
The results of the research have been referred         to both in discussion within the broader media and in House of Commons         debates, as the only conclusive evidence on the fiscal impact of A8       immigration (see e.g.
[6]).
The methodological innovations and empirical plausibility of our results       led to the work [a, b] being more broadly influential in policy discussion       regarding the economic impact of immigration in the UK.
The research thus       provided an important challenge to conventional wisdom, and has been         frequently cited in policy debate.
As the sole source of factual       evidence on the effects of immigration on wages and fiscal impact of       immigration, the research has been cited by government bodies and in       various policy documents, Parliamentary debates and inquiries, and the       media.
Impact on government bodies       The work in question relating to labour market impact [a], though       subsequently developed and published in a leading academic journal [b],       was initially commissioned for the specific purpose of advising the Low       Pay Commission (LPC) on implications of migration for the setting of the       minimum wage.
Our work addressed these key questions by developing new       methodology to analyse the impact of migration around the 5th percentile       of the wage distribution, around where the minimum wage is set.
As the LPC's Chief Economist confirms, this research provided         important insights that aided the commission when setting the minimum         wage in 2007.
Specifically, it "re-assured Commissioners that       minimum wage was providing an effective floor in the face of major changes       to the labour market as a result of increases in migration ... and       continues to influence the decisions of Commissioners" [1].
Concern about       the impact of recent increases in migration was a theme noted in earlier       reports and specifically addressed by the commissioned research [2],       feeding, along with other commissioned research, into the decision to       recommend a rise in the minimum wage from &#163;5.35 to &#163;5.52 in October 2007,       affecting an estimated 1.3 million low-paid workers in October 2007 to       October 2008.
More recently, the most important and influential official investigation       into the impact of immigration on the UK economy conducted under the       Coalition government was the January 2012 report of the Migration Advisory       Committee [6], which, again, refers repeatedly to the research in that       report [a].
The research is now widely recognised as the only informed       source of knowledge on this particularly important aspect of immigration       policy, and led to the commissioning of a further report [d] to inform the       Migration Advisory Committee publication mentioned above [6].
Influence on Select Committee inquiry and Parliamentary debate       A report for a House of Lords Select Committee inquiry into the economic       effects of immigration was published in April 2008 [3].
This was the first       comprehensive examination into the way immigration has impacted on the UK       economy and its citizens.
It drew together all the existing empirical       evidence and interviewed a large number of experts on the subject and       significantly influenced the debate on migration in the years to come [4].
This referred repeatedly to [a, c] above (7 times to [a] and 7 times to       [c]), as well as evidence Dustmann and Preston were invited to give to the       Select Committee the preceding October.
It noted our finding of an overall       positive wage effect but also the lowering of wages in the lowest paid       jobs.
The report also recognised the finding from earlier work that "if       there is an impact of immigration on unemployment then it is statistically       poorly determined and probably small in size."
Indeed, our work on       migration figures prominently in the evidence on which the report was       based [3] and in the Government's response [5], and it greatly enhanced       the impact of our findings on the effects of immigration on the public and       policy debate.
The research has figured in debates within the House of Commons in       relation to the minimum wage and cited, for example, by the then Secretary       of State for Business, Enterprise and Regulatory Reform to answer       questions in 2008 on the impact of immigration on wages [7].
It has been       recognised as the leading research allowing assessment of the impact of       immigration on the GDP per capita of the native population.
For instance,       the then Home Office minister with specific responsibility for migration,       Liam Byrne MP, referred to the work [a] in the House of Commons in April       2008 as "the one good report in this area" [8].
In his oral evidence to       the House of Lords Economic Affairs Committee in June 2008, referred to an       estimate, based on the report [d], that migration contributed 0.15% per       annum to the GDP per capita of the native population [4], a number       described as "small, but ... not insignificant".
Impact on the media       The research described in section 2 remains the primary analysis of the       effects of immigration, both on wages and on public finances.
As a result,       it has played a central role in informing media coverage of this issue,       particularly in the financial press.
Examples may be found through the       impact period, and the research in [c], particularly, saw renewed interest       in 2012-13 in the run-up to allowing Bulgarians and Romanians into the UK       labour market.
Indicative examples of media coverage are:     - the Independent described the net benefits of immigration (July       2009) [9].
- Petros Fassoulas in the New Statesman used the research to       argue that immigration is a boon for society (January 2009) [10]; 24,910       circulation.
- Tim Harford in the Financial Times cited research as evidence       of the net contribution A8 immigrants have made to the public purse (March       2013) [11]; 393k daily print and web readers.
- Brian Groom in the Financial Times cited the wages study as       evidence of the negligible effects on wages (March 2013) [12]; 393k daily       print and web readers.
