     As an award winning broadcaster, public speaker and activist, Dr Beckford       communicates his research in written text, visual media (he has made over       20 documentary films) and audio culture (four radio documentaries, one       radio drama) to engage a wider audience with issues of faith and justice.
This has raised his public profile and led to close and on-going       engagement with non-academic groups, which has enhanced public       understanding of black theology and contributed to civil society by       challenging social assumptions and cultural values.
Enhancing public understanding via media:       Since Beckford's employment at CCCU he has contributed to several radio       documentaries and acted as the faith consultant for the BBC African       Caribbean radio network.
For example, his collaboration with playwright       Kwame Kwei-Armah on a radio drama, `Father, Son and Holy Ghost' examined       faith and the impact of a consumerist society in an inner-city Pentecostal       church (first broadcast on BBC Radio 3, 10 March 2012) and subtly       challenged the anti-intellectualism and apoliticsm of British       Pentecostalist churches [corrob.
5.1].
Contribution to civil society:       Dr Beckford's research has impacted three distinctive constituencies:       shaping the discourse of charities that work with black and minority       groups, resourcing black workers in the NHS Trust Brighton to extend the       range and quality of their empowerment in their workplace and informing       the ministry of a black Pentecostal church ministry.
The key findings of his research have played a role in influencing         and informing those shaping public discourses on diversity and inclusion.
Beckford is working as a consultant and advisor with several leading       charities, including Birmingham Race Action Partnership (BRAP), a       registered charity and `think fair tank, inspiring and leading change to       make public, private and voluntary sector organisations fit for the needs       of a more diverse society'.
One of its key aims is to tackle racial       discrimination, disadvantage and social exclusion in the city of       Birmingham.
In 2013, Beckford was a founding member of `Birmingham at the       Tipping Point' events, which was the first ever meeting of equality bodies       across the city to collectively work together for change.
Dr Beckford has       devised workshops which have helped BRAP to review equality theories as a       means to support the charity to develop more progressive practice.
He       facilitated a session which was attended by 200 young people and which       explored the link between Hip Hop as a signifier of popular youth culture       and crime.
The results of this session fed into the comprehensive report       `Urban Myths &#8212; Street Realities' with focused recommendations for       education, youth work, parents and the criminal justice system (August       2012) [corrob.
5.2].
In August 2012, Dr Beckford chaired the evaluation of       the report, `STUCK: What works in tackling gang crime', which was funded       by the Barrow Cadbury Trust [corrob.
5.3].
These examples demonstrate       impact on shaping the decision making and influencing the discourse on       equality, fairness and race-relations.
Specifically, they show how       Beckford's concept of Biblical exorcism translates into a political       praxis, that is, anti-racism in Britain [corrob.
5.4].
Beckford's work       with the charity Bringing Hope that works with families,       communities and individuals impacted by serious violence and crime, has       inspired the documentary Rite of Passage (2013), written, produced       and directed by Daniel Anderson, that explores `the journey of       dis-empowerment, hope and success within the African-Caribbean community       in Birmingham' [corrob.
5.5].
The McPherson Inquiry into the murder of black teenager Stephen Lawrence       identified institutional racism as a problem for all public authorities       [corrob.
5.6], including the NHS.
Dr Beckford has been working with the       NHS BME [Black and Minority Ethnic] network which adopted the tripartite       principles &#8212; the importance of hope in bringing         about change and the need for change process from       bottom up.
[corrob.5.7].
Beckford's key research finding, the         role of religion in organising for social justice, has enabled the       NHS BME network to develop a strategy for mobilising black workers in the       NHS based on grassroot politics aimed at challenging current practices       around the ineffectiveness of inequality practices in the NHS Additional       keynote addresses on Whiteness outlined the workings of critical whiteness       theory and a history of white people and the implications in regards to       the aggression experienced by many black NHS workers (2011, 2012).
His       research has made people aware that `faith can be a driving force for       political change rather than being confined to the personal sphere'       [corrob.5.8].
Dr Robert Beckford has worked closely with black Pentecostal churches to       translate his academic work into actual practice and social change by       presenting seminars and preaching at churches.
His work has affected the         thinking and preaching of ministers of the church and contributed         to rethinking of Pentecostal thought and practice by identifying how       colonial Christianity impacted Pentecostal preaching and teaching.
His       work has had an impact on the church's leadership team to engage in both       local and national politics leading, for example, the Birmingham-based New       Testament Church of God to cooperate with Operation Black to mobilise       black voters in Birmingham for the next general elections.
He has also       argued that a proper theological education means resisting the theological       ignorance of colonial Christianity which has led to church leaders       studying for advanced degrees in Theology.
The impact of Dr Beckford's       research is on the education of clergy of British black Pentecostal       churches and the public discourse that enhances the understanding of the       church's history and empowers members to work towards political and social       changes [corrob.
5.9].
