     Accelerated Carbonation Technology (ACT) is a single, elegant and       powerful solution to a lot of serious environmental threats - CO2       emissions, reliance on sending waste to landfill, extraction of virgin       stone for construction, and managing the impact of emissions on the       environment.
Colin Hills and the University of Greenwich proved that ACT is a cost       effective technology, which can help organisations meet their       responsibilities, through its commercialisation with spin-out company Carbon8         Systems (C8S).
Now they have taken hazardous residues from the       bottom of the waste hierarchy to the top by commercialising ACT's       application to UK-derived APCR to produce building materials, via spin-out       company Carbon8 Aggregates (C8A).
By 2012 C8A had       commissioned the world's first commercial plant using ACT to produce       aggregate from APCR in Brandon, Suffolk, at a cost of &#163;1M [5.1].
Today the       plant is producing 32,000 tonnes of carbonated aggregate (C8Agg) per year,       which block manufacturer Lignacite turns into the world's first carbon       negative concrete blocks with values as low as-40 kg CO / tonne of       product.2 The way is now open to apply ACT to many other waste streams,       including contaminated soil.
ACT delivers five main benefits by:            reducing the risks associated with hazardous waste and contaminated         soil       capturing and stores significant volumes of greenhouse gas CO2        recycling waste into a valuable aggregate       reducing waste going to landfill       producing aggregates in minutes rather than months, making the process         commercially viable.
The CO2 used in ACT comes from industrial processes, thereby       recycling gas, which would otherwise pollute the atmosphere.
However to       date it has been supplied in tankers from a sugar beet manufacturing       plant.
C8A is now working with key UK waste management companies to `close       the loop' by using the actual CO2 produced by the incineration       of municipal solid waste (MSW) that also produces the APCRs: thus the       gaseous and solid wastes are valorised simultaneously.
This is a perfectly       sustainable method for managing the 185,000 tonnes of MSW APCRs produced       in the UK every year; if adopted it would offset the CO2       produced by 10,000 cars.
Two more ACT plants will be built in 2014 and another is in planning,       increasing production capacity to &gt;100,000 tonnes by the end of 2014.
UK incinerator operators have included ACT treatment of APCRs in tenders       for new-build MSW incinerators, allowing them to demonstrate improved       sustainability credentials (zero landfill) and lower costs.
C8S       has also identified potential for simultaneous valorisation of other key       waste streams.
C8S developed the technology to optimise the continuous treatment       of ashes through strategic partnerships with Viridor Waste Management,       Kent County Council and the Environment Agency, together with funding from       Knowledge Transfer Partnership (KTP) and the Technology Strategy Board.
As       a result a new company C8A was formed to treat Air Pollution       Control Residues (APCr) and a commercial-scale plant was built in 2010 at       Brandon in Suffolk.
More than 200T of aggregate was made and tested by two       major UK block manufacturers.
It was this proof of concept that led to the       UK's largest independent waste management company, Grundon, investing in       C8A.
Grundon were looking for an alternative to the landfill disposal of       APCRs.
The significance of ACT was quickly recognised.
C8S won several       prestigious awards in quick succession including the 2008 national Shell         Springboard competition, established to identify the UK's next `big       idea' in low carbon enterprise and innovation.
The Shell prize       money helped paid for a pilot-scale facility to treat waste at a Kent       County Council landfill site in 2010 using the CO2 generated by       the site itself.
The C8S team, were invited to No.10 Downing Street four       days before critical global climate change negotiations in Copenhagen in       2009.
Prime Minister Gordon Brown said: "Our transition to a low carbon       economy will be a key driver of our future economic prosperity.
Carbon8       Systems...are at the forefront of this transformation.
Their innovation       and expertise demonstrates why the UK is one of best places in the world       for low carbon business."
[5.3].
C8S has also been one of UK Trade &amp;       Investment's (UKTI) case studies for UK low carbon innovation.
Overseas potential for ACT appears significant and, with UKTI support,       discussions are on-going to market ACT in Australasia.
Other overseas       markets including Europe and Canada are also being explored.
C8S is       partnering Canadian low carbon company, CarbonCure Technologies, in a       submission to the $35M Alberta Grand (Carbon) Challenge 2013, and has       successfully completed the first-round of the application process.
C8A's       aggregate was recognised Best Recycled Product at the 2013 UK National       Recycling Awards.
