     The research described in section 2 has stimulated and fundamentally       changed the public and policy debate about taxation, and has had direct       consequences for tax legislation in the United Kingdom.
A key example of       this was the publication of the Mirrlees Review of Tax Reform       established by the ESRC Centre, under the direction of Richard Blundell       and underpinned by his research, which has had a significant impact on tax       and benefit reform in the UK and abroad.
Each volume of the report was received with widespread acclaim in the       major news outlets.
On 18 September 2011, the Financial Times ran       a glowing lead editorial on the policy recommendations of the Review,       ending: `Were Mr Osborne to pursue such aims, he would do Britain a       service', echoing the Economist's enthusiastic appraisal a year       earlier [1].
While Larry Summers, the then US Treasury Secretary (and       Professor at Harvard University) wrote in 2010, on the release of the       first volume: `Theory and practice rarely are brought together       effectively.
It should be read by anyone who cares about the future of       taxation &#8212; that is anyone who cares about the future of government'       (quoted in [e] in section 3).
The publication of the first volume was an important factor in the Treasury         Select Committee's decision to launch an important inquiry into the         principles of tax policy.
On 24 November 2010, the Select Committee       wrote: `In the last month, the Institute for Fiscal Studies in London and       the OECD have each published important reports into the fundamentals of       tax policy.
The Mirrlees Review, published by the IFS, argues that       the tax system should be considered as a whole with the benefit system,       seek neutrality, and achieve progressivity as efficiently as possible.
The       Treasury Committee has decided to launch its own inquiry into the       principles which should underpin the tax system' [2].
After the final volume of the report was launched, Blundell delivered       specific presentations of the tax reform proposals from this research to       various policy audiences in the UK and abroad, ensuring that the research       made an integral contribution to debate on tax policy reform.
These       included, for example, discussions with the following audiences:     - Oral testimony to HM Treasury in the UK (25 January 2011) [3];     - European Union Tax Commissioners (29 November 2011);     - The International Monetary Fund (22 November 2011).
The Review is now an intrinsic part of policy discussion       regarding tax reform in the UK and abroad, and is routinely cited in       policy reports and in the media.
The launch of each volume was covered in       the press, and the findings are regularly referred to, e.g.
in articles in       the Telegraph as recently as September 2012 and March 2013 [4].
Some key examples of its use in policy are described below.
The Review provided the foundation evidence, presented by       Professor Blundell and colleagues, for the influential Treasury Select       Committee Report on Principles of Tax Policy published on 10 March 2011.
The proposals on earnings tax reform in the Mirrlees Review, which       were based on Blundell's research, formed the key evidence for the         Treasury Committee Report, Principles of Tax Policy, 2011 (see       especially p. 11 of [3]) which used it as a framework to formulate its own       recommendations.
Similarly, the Office of Tax Simplification, which was mandated with       assessing the worth of the UK's tax allowances and relief in 2010-11,       relied heavily on the Mirrlees Review as a far more exhaustive       assessment of the overall tax system (p. 5), as well as in discussing       specific aspects such as inheritance tax (p. 15) (for which it recommended       a top-down review, following the conclusions of the Review) and       corporation tax [4].
This report was presented to the Chancellor to inform       the 2011 Budget.
The research not only helped make the original business case for the         Universal Credit reform introduced as part of the Welfare Reform Act       2012, but also had direct impact on the design of the reform.
This       reform involved a complete redesign of the benefit and tax credit system       in the UK, involving some &#163;55bn of government expenditure impacting on       more than 8 million families, with a limited rollout beginning from April       2013.
As HM Treasury writes, `Professor Blundell's micro-econometric       research on labour supply and the tax and benefit system has directly       influenced UK economic analysis and policy making with respect to the       design of tax, tax-credit and benefit integration reforms.
For example we       have drawn on his work in considering the business case for Universal       Credit, the Government's flagship reform of the welfare system, and in       other modelling and analysis of the welfare system and labour market to       inform policy thinking and advice to ministers' [5].
In June 2012, Blundell was invited by Lord Freud (Minister for Welfare)       to join a high level Universal Credit Evaluation Committee at the       Department of Work and Pensions.
This committee meets regularly to       actively monitor and critically assess the roll out of Universal         Credit, according to a Universal Credit Evaluation Framework       released in December 2012 [6].
Given the delays with the roll out, this       committee plays an essential role.
As the department's Permanent Secretary       confirms, `Professor Blundell's micro-econometric research on labour       supply and the tax and benefit system is one of the Department's primary       sources for understanding the possible employment impacts of the new       Universal Credit' [7].
The research has also influenced policy debate in Europe.
For       instance, in 2010, the CPB Netherlands Bureau for Economic Policy Analysis       (CPB) at that country's Ministry of Finance announced that a Study       Committee on Taxation had been established, `inspired by the Mirrlees         Review', and charged with offering a broad review of the Dutch tax       system and proposing directions for reform.'
The study group published its       recommendations in April 2010 [8].
In recognition of the contribution of Blundell's research, in 2012 he was       awarded the Prize in Labor Economics by the German institute for the study       of labour, IZA, for `his path-breaking contributions to the econometric       analysis of labor markets and public policy reforms.'
It added: `Professor       Blundell has played a major role in the development of modern labor and       policy analysis.
His work has been enormously influential in the worldwide       debates about tax and welfare reforms over the past decades.'
This came       shortly after the IZA itself proposed a tax reform for Germany `which is       based largely on the methodology developed by Richard Blundell' [9].
