     The concept of stroke units was first put forward in the 1960s; however,       they were not widely       implemented owing to lack of robust evaluation of the benefits and costs.
University of Glasgow       research demonstrated conclusively that implementation of specialist       stroke units can reduce the       chances of death or serious disability after experiencing a stroke.
This       work also identified key       factors required for optimum patient care.
The body of research produced by the University of Glasgow on specialist       stroke units has       influenced healthcare provision and policy on an international scale,       benefiting end-users such as       clinical and social care staff involved in stroke management, as well as       patients with stroke.
This       work has raised awareness about the advantages of coherent stroke care and       driven development       of clinical guidelines that have been translated into national standards.
International and national clinical guidelines     Langhorne was co-chair of the Stroke Units and General Treatments       subcommittees of the ESO       from 2006 to 2008.
The ESO developed guidelines for management of       ischaemic stroke and       transient ischaemic attack that recommended all stroke patients should be       treated in a stroke unit.a       These guidelines (published in 2008) directly reference the 2007 edition       of the Cochrane       Systematic Review,2 stating "All types of patients,         irrespective of gender, age, stroke subtype and         stroke severity, appear to benefit from treatment in stroke units."
In addition, the 2002 Age and         Ageing paper4 is cited in the evidence base for       components of care.
The ESO guidelines have       been translated into 14 languages, including Spanish, Russian and Chinese,       reflecting the       authority they possess for improving healthcare standards internationally.
University of Glasgow       findings have also helped shape clinical guidelines outside Europe.
For       example, the Australian       National Stroke Foundation published clinical guidelines in 2010,b       which explicitly recommend       improving access to stroke units across the country (Chapter 1       recommendations, "organisation of       services"), citing research conducted at the University of Glasgow as       evidence for this approach.2,4     Since 2004, Langhorne has been a member of the UK Royal College of       Physicians (RCP)       Intercollegiate Stroke Working Party tasked with developing the National         Clinical Guideline for         Stroke (3rd edition published 2008; revised 2012), which was refined       in response to the ESO       guidelines.c The RCP guidelines advocate on-going inpatient       rehabilitation (recommendation       3.2.1F), citing the 2007 Cochrane Systematic Review2 in support       of this recommendation.
The       National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (NICE) guidelines,       published in 2008,       acknowledge the contribution of the Cochrane Systematic Review2       as a "catalyst for marked         change in stroke service organisation across the NHS" (section       7.1.1).d These guidelines       recognise specialist care as a key priority for implementation among       patients with stroke.
The       Scottish Intercollegiate Guidelines Network (SIGN) develops evidence-based       clinical guidelines for       NHS Scotland.
From 2006 to 2009, Langhorne was vice-chair of the SIGN       stroke guidelines; these       guidelines (published in 2008) highlight the need for multidisciplinary       hospital care       (recommendation 2.2).e     National standards and audit     In order for guidelines to make meaningful changes to clinical practice,       it is essential that clear       standards and targets are established and outcomes audited.
Langhorne is       President of the British       Association of Stroke Physicians (BASP), a UK-wide professional       organisation that has been       active in lobbying for national standards of stroke care.
BASP has worked       with both NICE and       SIGN to achieve this goal.
The UK government launched a 10-year National Strategy for Stroke       in 2007 that specifically       highlighted the requirement for immediate referral of suspected cases for       specialist assessment.f       University of Glasgow research, particularly the Cochrane Systematic       Review, provided the       evidence base and rationale for specialist stroke units, including       rehabilitation and leadership in       stroke care.
In 2010, NICE published a stroke quality standard covering       all phases of the       integrated care process for adult stroke patients.g This       document set out "aspirational but         achievable" standards and outcome measures for healthcare       professionals.
These include the       need to provide evidence of local arrangements to ensure patients with       suspected stroke are       admitted directly to a specialist stroke unit (quality statement 3).
Langhorne is a member of the RCP Intercollegiate Stroke Working Party       that established and       oversaw the Sentinel audit of stroke services in NHS England, Wales and       Northern Ireland.h       Sentinel evaluated nine key indicators of stroke care among 11,353       patients and was published in       2010.
Improvements were recorded in 2010 for stroke-related death (17% vs.       24% in 2004),       admission to a specialist stroke unit (88% vs. 46% in 2004), length of       hospital stay (10 days vs. 18       days in 2004) and institutionalisation (10% vs. 13% in 2006).
In all, 88%       of patients were admitted       to a stroke unit at some point during their hospital stay (vs. 74% in       2008) and 60% of patients       spent the majority of their stay in a stroke unit (vs. 51% in 2006).
High-quality care (defined as an       average score of at least 80%) was more likely to be delivered in a stroke       unit than a general ward.
In 2010, the National Audit Office reported that all hospitals in England       now have a stroke unit and       that they are working to standardise care across these units.
The Sentinel       audit data for NHS       England showed that the average score for the nine key indicators of       stroke care had improved       from 60% in 2006 to 83% in 2010.h The intellectual       underpinning of these changes has been the       SUTC Cochrane Systematic Review.2     Within NHS Scotland, the number of stroke units now exceeds 30 across all       14 health boards.
Langhorne and colleagues on the National Advisory Committee for Stroke       successfully lobbied the       Scottish Government to establish and implement national standards for       stroke services.
This effort       culminated in the establishment of `HEAT' targets for rapid access to a       stroke unit (April 2011).
Current HEAT targets require local NHS Scotland authorities to achieve a       rate of 90% of stroke       patients to be admitted to a stroke unit within 1 day.
By March 2013, 80%       of all Scottish stroke       patients were admitted within this timeframe, compared with just 49% in       2005.
In all, five NHS       Scotland health boards exceeded the 2012/2013 HEAT target.i,j       Langhorne is also a member of the       Scottish Stroke Care Audit report writing team, an exercise endorsed by       the Scottish Cabinet       Secretary for Health and Wellbeing.
The 2013 audit of stroke services       across Scotland revealed       that patients admitted quickly to a stroke unit were more likely to be       treated in line with other quality       standards (e.g.
diagnostic tests, administration of aspirin and brain       imaging).j     Accreditation     Inconsistencies in infrastructure and excellence of stroke care have been       identified among various       European countries following conduct of hospital surveys.
Langhorne was a       founding member of       the ESO Stroke Unit Committee that from 2010 to 2013 worked to establish       standards and       accreditations that categorise stroke services into two tiers (unit and       centre) reflecting the level of       care available.k The ESO used the SUTC definition of a stroke       unit &#8212; namely, a discrete ward or       area with specialist stroke staff working as part of a multidisciplinary       team.
By contrast, a stroke       centre was characterised by a wider infrastructure that also involved       stroke prevention (raising       public awareness), emergency services and subsequent rehabilitation.
Under       the ESO scheme,       which was published in 2013,k hospitals are encouraged to apply       for certification that ensures       defined evidence-based organisation and procedural benchmarks are met.
The       aim of these       accreditations is to help governments recognise differences in stroke care       between hospitals and       assist in the standardisation of treatment.
The accreditation process is       currently being piloted       across Europe.
Global awareness raising     Highlighting the benefits of organised stroke care continues to be an       important goal.
In contrast to       high-income countries, the incidence of stroke is rapidly rising in the       developing world.
Estimates       suggest that stroke burden in low-income and middle-income countries is       likely to exceed that of       malaria and tuberculosis by 2030.
The World Stroke Organization (WSO) is       an umbrella       organisation of more than 60 societies across 85 countries providing "one         world voice" for stroke       care.
WSO initiatives include the World Stroke Academy (WSA), an online       educational resource for       continuing professional development (CPD).
In May 2013, Langhorne was       commissioned by the       WSA as the sole UK representative on a panel of three experts who created       the "Essential stroke       services" CPD module to support the international initiative to widen       access to stroke unit care       (available online May 2013).l To date, more than 400       individuals have read the module content,       and 35 have completed the accompanying CPD assessment.
