     Establishment of Bower Cancer Screening Programmes across the world     The Nottingham trial is one of four randomised trials of population-based       screening worldwide in support of bowel cancer screening with the Faecal       Occult Blood (FOB) test [a].
Professor Hardcastle was also instrumental in       setting up the Danish study that constitutes another of these four trials       [a].
The results from the Nottingham Bowel Cancer Screening trial [1] led to       the development of NHS screening pilots for bowel cancer in Coventry and       Tayside in 1998.
Professors Hardcastle and Scholefield advised the       Department of Health, and thereby influenced the design and operation of       the pilots and, through these, the National Bowel Cancer Screening       Programme itself [a].
Professor Scholefield served on the National Bowel       Cancer Screening Advisory Board from its inception in 2007 to present and,       in 2012, became Chair of this Advisory Board.
Professor Scholefield is       also Chair of the Research and Audit Committee for the National Bowel       Cancer Screening Programme (2008 to present).
The results of the screening pilots were similar to the Nottingham trial,       showing a 16% reduction in bowel cancer mortality compared with no       intervention, and a doubling in the proportion of early-stage cancers       detected.
This led to the introduction of a National Bowel Cancer       Screening Programme, modelled on the Nottingham criteria for population       screening [b].
Roll out of the Programme achieved national coverage in       2010.
This involved establishing 5 dedicated screening hubs (one of which       is in Nottingham), based in secondary care, serving a potential population       of 10 million people.
The hubs send out, process and arrange colonoscopies       in over 70 national endoscopy units.
The Nottingham work on FOB screening influenced the introduction of bowel       cancer screening programmes not only in the UK, but also around the world       [a].
Since 2008, similar programmes of bowel cancer screening using FOB       tests have either been rolled out or achieved national coverage in       Northern Ireland, Scotland and Wales [c].
National bowel cancer screening       programmes modelled on the UK system using FOB tests are also being       developed and implemented in Canada [d], Denmark (committed in 2013 to       introducing a programme in 2014) [e] and Australia [f].
Some of this       commitment will undoubtedly have been influenced by the `European       Guidelines for Quality Assurance in Colorectal Cancer Screening and       Diagnosis', the first edition of which was published in 2010 [g].
This       publication aims to ensure appropriate quality assurance at all levels       when performing bowel cancer screening.
Our Nottingham research is       repeatedly cited in these guidelines as evidence for the effectiveness of       FOB screening.
Prevention and early detection of bowel cancers     Since 2008, the National Bowel Cancer Screening Programme in England has       sent out almost 18 million invitations and detected 16,000 early cancers       [h]; around 2,000 per annum.
Of these, 21.6% were Dukes stage A &#8212; early       cancers with a 95% cure rate by surgical resection alone.
Before FOB       screening became available, only 10-14% of bowel cancers detected in       symptomatic populations were Dukes stage A [The Lancet       1993;342(8865),241].
Regular bowel screening thereby increases the       detection of early-stage cancers and also reduces the risk of dying from       bowel cancer by 16% [1,b], equating to around 3,500 lives saved in the UK       per annum.
Follow up of the Nottingham cohort has also shown that there is a small       reduction in incidence of bowel cancer (due to removal of large       precancerous polyps after positive FOB tests), although the sample size       was too small to enable extrapolation to numbers of cancers prevented [3].
Health economic benefits     The health economic benefits of FOB screening for bowel cancer are around       &#163;1,600 per QALY (quality-adjusted life year) gained [i], much lower than       the cost per QALY gained for breast cancer screening (&#163;20,800) [BMJ 2013;       346:f2618].
This means that compared with no screening, FOB-based       population screening would cost the NHS &#163;1,600 for every extra year of       perfect health provided.
Impact on other bowel screening methods     Through proving the suitability of bowel cancer for a national screening       programme, and showing that lives would be saved through such a programme,       our work has paved the way for the development of new screening       techniques, such as flexible sigmoidoscopy.
The current pilot of flexible       sigmoidoscopy is also dependent on the infrastructure that has been       established for FOB screening; it is being run from the same five       screening hubs and is using the same call and recall systems.
Incremental       cost effectiveness analysis [j] has reported that the most cost effective       strategy is to give flexible sigmoidoscopy at age 55, followed by biennial       iFOB screening for ages 56-74 year olds.
This approach requires six times       as many screening colonoscopies as the current programme, and the NHS does       not yet have the skilled personnel nor endoscopic facilities required to       provide population screening by flexible sigmoidoscopy.
In the meantime,       the current programme of biennial FOB screening for ages 60-74 will remain       the sole method used in the National Bowel Cancer Screening Programme.
