     Beneficiaries of this research have been: 1) the patients who have       benefited from earlier detection and therefore improved treatment options       and outcomes, 2) clinicians who are able to offer their high-risk patients       improved early detection, 3) shareholders in the spin-out company, and 4)       the US and UK economies through taxation, legal fees and patent attorney       and other services.
Clinical Impact     Treatment for lung cancer is more successful when the disease is       diagnosed at an earlier stage.
But, currently, 85% of patients with lung       cancer remain undiagnosed until the disease has reached an advanced stagea.
EarlyCDT-Lung detects all types and all stages of lung cancer,       including Stage I and II, and is non-invasive, with no radiation risk for       the patient.
The test is currently marketed for use as `a diagnostic test       to aid in the early detection of lung cancer in your high-risk patients;       most notably long-term smokers and ex-smokers'b (ie smokers       and ex-smokers who quit &lt;15 years previously).
It is already       influencing treatment decisions and saving lives in clinical practice.
For       example, in US pilot studies on smokers, the test `either confirmed       suspicions of a cancer, or prompted surgical intervention on a cancerous       nodule previously thought to be benign'c.
Our team have helped to develop EarlyCDT-Lung as an aid to       diagnosis in the assessment of pulmonary lung nodules.
Around 35-50% of       individuals undergoing computerised tomography (CT) scanning have lung       nodules, 96% of which are not malignant.
CT scanning detects all of these       nodules, whether malignant or benign.
An EarlyCDT-Lung test       significant improves the assessment of risk of malignancy of lung nodules,       thereby impacting on the clinician's decision, and changing patient care.
When used with CT, a positive EarlyCDT-Lung result can mean       between a two-fold and five-fold increase in risk of cancer depending on       the lung nodule size.
Because of this, EarlyCDT-Lung is also now       marketed as `a new tool to stratify pulmonary nodules' for malignancyb,       especially in the indeterminate nodule (8-20mm) and/or where PET is not       indicated or is inconclusive.
According to a US clinician `You see these       indeterminate nodules, and they could be totally harmless and irrelevant       to health and best left alone.
But other patients will have ones that are       small lung cancers.
[The test] has dramatically changed our management of       things, of how we make our decisions.
For some of those patients who we       had not planned to operate, we have then taken a different approach.
When       the nodules are studied afterwards it has confirmed that it was malignant'c.
In 2011, the US National Lung Screening Trial (NLST) demonstrated that       early detection with CT, followed by appropriate treatment, significantly       reduces deaths from lung cancer by 20% [NEJM 2011; 365, 395-409].
But, CT       screening has a high false positive rate, is expensive, and `is unlikely       to achieve a cost effective position to justify national screening'a.
Commercialisation of the EarlyCDT-Lung test has therefore       addressed an urgent and unmet clinical need for a pre-CT screening blood       test &#8212; both to widen the entry criteria for CT, and to reduce the number       of unnecessary CTs performed.
`EarlyCDT-Lung will detect       approximately half the cancers in the screened population and reduce the       overall number to be followed up with CT to 7%.
Having up to half the       cancers in only 7% of the screening population should make the combination       of EarlyCDT-Lung followed by CT highly cost effective'a.
The patient benefits brought by EarlyCDT-Lung have led to the       NHS-Scotland supported Early Cancer Detection &#8212; Lung Cancer Scotland       (ECLS) studyd, which is assessing the test's feasibility as the       basis for a national screening programme for lung cancer, as opposed to       individuals having to request the test themselves.
A health economic       assessment from the US has shown that, on a population basis, use of the       test as proposed in ECLS should save lives and money: the cost per life       year gained of CT plus EarlyCDT-Lung was $20,044 (compared with no       screening) and $19,293 (compared with CT alone)e. The group       predicted that screening with CT plus EarlyCDT-Lung, or with CT       alone, would lead to a gain of 6.3 and 5.7 life years, respectivelye.
[text removed for publication]f.     Commercial Impact     The Lachesis regional investment fund initially provided funding [text       removed for publication] to support the company's goal of `developing       medical diagnostics for cancer screening, recurrence and therapeutic       guidance through a patent protected `autoantibody panel' of immunoassays'.
[text removed for publication]g. In 2006, a US subsidiary       (Oncimmune LLC) was established to facilitate the FDA oversight and       Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments lab approvals necessary to       market the test in US federal health program Medicare/Medicaid cases.
[text removed for publication].
On the basis of these sales, Health       Diagnostics Laboratory inc. has acquired the rights to commercialise this       test in the USh.
Commercial utility is evidenced by the cost of       the test being reimbursed by some private insurance companies and approval       for reimbursement by Medicare.
The test has now also been launched in       Canada, South America and UKi, with samples being sent to       Oncimmune LLC for processing.
[text removed for publication]h.     The key drivers for commercial success are:     i) UoN patentsj which provide Oncimmune with a strong       position particularly in the USA and Europe, the two largest oncology       markets in the world.
169 patents are currently enforceable in 12       Territories, 73% of which have been granted since 2008, with 49 pending.
These patents cover autoantibody assays to any cancer associated antigen.
This width of patent protection provided a strong basis for securing the       investment required to develop the test commercially.
ii) A solid reproducibility and precise EarlyCDT-Lung assay with       a sustainable calibration and control system (which also has IP       protection).
Professor Robertson has played a central role in bringing a new       diagnostic test for lung cancer (EarlyCDT-Lung) to market.
The       technology behind EarlyCDT-Lung is applicable to all solid       cancers.
These relatively inexpensive blood tests could be taken up       readily worldwide, even in resource poor/developing countries, in which       around half of all cancers are diagnosed each year.
