     Our work has led to a paradigm shift in the thinking about and management       of perioperative fluid therapy.
Initially raising awareness within the       professional community, it also informed the development and adoption of       clinical guidelines to change clinical practice, resulting in improved       surgical outcomes, both nationally and internationally.
Increasing awareness       Our surveys of junior doctors and consultant surgeons led to an increased       awareness of the importance of handling fluid prescriptions.
Since 2003,       as a result of our surveys, there have been several conferences debating       this subject and Professor Lobo has been invited to give over 70 lectures       (45 since 2008) at prestigious international meetings and to international       societies in six continents.
He has also written 4 book chapters on the       subject (2 since 2008), as well as a complete book which is now       recommended reading for science and medical students in several       Universities in the UK and worldwide (e.g.
University of Nottingham,       University of Leeds and University College, London; and Universities in       Sweden, Madrid and New Zealand) [a,b].
It is also recommended reading for       members of the European Society for Clinical Nutrition and Metabolism       (ESPEN), and was distributed to all 2,500 delegates at the 2013 Conference       of the Society.
The book has been made freely available with the help of       an educational grant from BBraun.
Universities have now included a fluid therapy module in undergraduate       courses, and fluid therapy forms an important part of postgraduate       surgical examinations [c].
In 2008, Professor Lobo developed an       international educational course on fluid prescription for health care       professionals, with the help of Baxter Healthcare [d].
To date, the course       has trained over 1,000 surgeons, anaesthetists, nurses and Operating       Department Personnel in the UK and Europe, and has received excellent       feedback [d].
Professor Lobo also teaches the fluid therapy module of the       Perioperative Care section of the Life Long Learning Course run by ESPEN,       for which the book is also recommended reading.
Informing clinical guidelines       Our findings have been incorporated into national and international       guidelines [e-h] that serve to inform optimal perioperative fluid therapy.
Our work was instrumental in the set-up of the GIFTASUP and NICE fluid       therapy guideline groups, and also in the formulation of the resultant       guidelines [e,f].
Our research is also quoted extensively in four sets of       clinical guidelines from the Enhanced Recovery After Surgery (ERAS) Group       [g] and in the NHS Diabetes guidelines [h].
Guidelines incorporating the       findings of our research have been endorsed and publicised by major       professional bodies (e.g.
BAPEN, ESPEN, AAGBI, ASGBI, Renal Association),       nationally and internationally.
Professor Lobo has also advised the Renal       Association and the Royal College of Physicians of Edinburgh regarding       fluid therapy in acute kidney injury.
Changing clinical practice       Demonstration of the adverse effects of large volumes of 0.9% saline has       led to balanced crystalloids being preferred to 0.9% saline [e].
This is a       major achievement, considering that until recently the yearly consumption       of 0.9% saline was 10 million litres in the UK and 200 million litres in       the USA [Clin Nutr 2008,27:179-88; Ann Surg 2012,256:18-24].
Now, largely       because of the increased awareness of saline-induced hyperchloraemic       acidosis, as demonstrated by our research and subsequent incorporation       into guidelines, balanced fluids rather than 0.9% saline are the       crystalloids of choice in most hospitals in the UK and Europe.
Patients are less likely to be fluid overloaded now than they were at the       beginning of the 21st century.
Patients who are now maintained       in a state of fluid balance have an average of a 3.4 day shorter stay in       hospital, and a 41% reduction in relative risk of postoperative       complications.
This has led to improved quality of life for patients and       projected financial benefits to healthcare systems in the UK, Europe and       Worldwide.
Based on the fact that each year around 182,000 major abdominal       operations are performed in England, it has been calculated that this       would equate to a total annual saving of &#163;122 million for NHS England [i].
Impact on industry       Professor Lobo has advised industry (Baxter Healthcare and BBraun) on       intravenous fluids and subsequently established research collaborations       with these companies [d].
This collaboration has led to both companies       investing more in research on balanced crystalloids and how optimal fluid       therapy can influence patient outcomes [d].
We are currently collaborating       with BBraun on work on fluid physiology in healthy volunteers, and       planning a 3 year programme grant on fluid therapy in surgical patients       with Baxter Healthcare.
