     In the early 1990s, little research on lymphangioleiomyomatosis (LAM) had       been performed, no effective treatments were available and patients with       LAM were told they would die within 5-10 years.
Following on from       Professor Johnson's two key papers1,2, his group's subsequent       research papers and widely cited reviews continued to increase the profile       of LAM, as shown by an approximately five-fold increase in research papers       on LAM from the 1990s to 2010, and by the setting up of a European       Respiratory Society Task Force (in 2005) and a European LAM Organisation       (in 2009) that has regular research and patient meetings.
The group's work has been instrumental in showing that widely used       treatments are ineffective, and in identifying a treatment that does work.
This, and their role in establishing a patient support group and the       National Centre for LAM, has transformed the outlook for patients with       this disease, and vastly improved the patient experience.
This program of       work at the University of Nottingham has resulted in benefits for patients       with LAM, the pharmaceutical industry and, more recently, patients with       other cancers for which mTOR inhibitors are being trialled.
Informing clinical guidelines     Professor Johnson led a European Task Force, funded by the European     Respiratory Society, to form an evidence synthesis which, in 2010, published     the first international diagnostic and clinical management guidelines for     LAMa.
These incorporated data from Nottingham's clinical research     papers in eight of 112 cited references, including their 2008 study showing     effective treatment of LAM with the mTOR inhibitor Sirolimus.
Sirolimus was     recommended in these guidelines for treatment of patients with progressive     lung, kidney and lymphatic disease, and has been funded by National     Specialised Commissioning since 2011.
Their work has also been cited in US     guideline statements for treatment of LAM (American Thoracic Society LAM     guidelines group) and TSC (Tuberous Sclerosis Alliance guideline group)b.     Johnson represents Europe on both of these groups.
The group's findings that commonly used, anti-oestrogen treatments were       ineffective in the treatment of LAM have also been picked up by       guidelines, such that anti-oestrogen therapy is advised against in the       Europeana and North Americanb guidelines.
Following on from their work highlighting that a definite diagnosis can       usually be made using imaging alone without need for invasive       investigations6, this strategy is now used at the UK LAM Centrec       and other units.
This, and their finding that early surgical management of       pneumothorax can reduce morbidity2, were adopted in 2011 as       quality indicators of patient outcomec, highlighting their       importance in clinical care at the National Centre for LAM.
Changing clinical practice       In the 1990s, two-thirds of UK patients were given ineffective hormone       therapy which caused frequent side effects including osteoporosis.
Johnson       and Tattersfield performed the first clinical trials on mTOR inhibitors in       patients with LAM and TSC, and, in so doing, the group were instrumental       in the development of these drugs as an effective treatment for LAM and       TSC.
In 2008, mTOR inhibitors were not an option for patients with LAM or       TSC.
Following publication of the 2010 guidelines, mTOR inhibitors became       the standard of care for LAM patients with progressive lung and renal       disease in the UK and the USAa,b.
Now, the majority of patients       are considered for mTOR inhibitor therapy, and around 20% of patients with       LAM at the UK LAM Centre, and in other developed countries, are now       treated with these drugs.
As a result of the group's studies, the use of anti-oestrogens in LAM has       fallen from 53% of patientsd to a small minority of patients,       outside of specialist centres.
Improving patient care       Professor Johnson's work has led to a number of improvements for patients.
Rather than being told they have only 5-10 years to live, LAM patients now       have access to an effective treatment.
They are also now spared the side       effects of an ineffective anti-oestrogen treatment, and a definitive       diagnosis can usually be made without invasive investigations.
Complications including pneumothorax are now treated earlierc,       thereby reducing patient morbidity.
In addition, because the group       described the effect of LAM on pregnancy, physicians are now able to       advise more women on the true risks of childbirth in LAM where previously       all patients were discouraged from pregnancy.
The recognition by the advisory group for National Specialised       Commissioning, that LAM is a complex multisystem disease with a variable       prognosis and specific treatments, led to the Nottingham group's       successful tender to establish a National Clinical Centree to       serve the national caseload of patients under National Specialist       Commissioning from 2011.
This resulted in an initial &#163;1 million of       dedicated funding for specialist care for LAM patients.
As a result, the       service now offers clinical care to all UK patients and sees over half of       these patients, and increasingly those with TSCe.
This has       allowed the group to incorporate their research and evidence-based care       into treatment of all patients with LAM in the UK.
The service also       receives referrals of LAM patients from some European countries.
LAM patients also now have the option of participating in clinical       trials, and access to a patient support group (LAM Action), which was       established by Tattersfield and Johnson in 1999.
LAM Actionf is       a registered National Charity that provides peer support to newly       diagnosed patients and is part of the UK Respiratory Alliance, a Pressure       group of respiratory organisations lobbying for improved funding for       respiratory care and research.
LAM Action has raised ~&#163;400,000 since 2008.
LAM research in Nottingham has also extended to patients with TSC-related       conditions.
As mTOR is overactive in all TSC-related lesions, mTOR       inhibitors have widespread application and are being tested across other       TSC hamartomas.
The group's work has been cited in these publications as       part of the rationale for clinical trials of mTOR inhibitors in       TSC-related brain tumours, cognitive dysfunction, angiomyolipoma and       sporadic renal carcinoma.
Acting as a consultant on LAM and TSC biology to       Novartis pharmaceuticals on several occasions since 2008, Johnson has been       involved in designing and performing these studies.
A model for rare diseases       Professor Johnson has led initiatives essential to working in rare       diseases; including establishing a database of patients with LAM willing       to participate in research, and collecting blood and tissue samples from       around half of UK patients.
He ran a work-package of the European Network       Centres of Expertise (ENCE) programme established in 2009 under FP7, which       outlined clinical and research frameworks for the care of rare diseasesg,       and Johnson was also responsible for the use of LAM as a model for       European rare disease care.
This has resulted in discussions with other       rare lung disease groups, including alpha-1 anti-trypsin deficiency and       hereditary haemorrhagic telangiectasia, both of whom wish to adopt this       strategy.
In summary, LAM research at the University of Nottingham has increased       awareness of LAM, and significantly changed clinical practice such that       the majority of patients now receive multidisciplinary care at a National       Specialist Centre.
We have improved patient care with better understanding       of the disease phenotype and demonstration of the efficacy of mTOR       inhibitors, and reduced the use of invasive investigations to make a firm       diagnosis.
Clinical trials have become the standard of care for patients       with progressive disease, with clinical trials running in the USA and       Europe, giving most UK patients the opportunity to participate in clinical       trials if they wish.
