     Scancell Holdings Plc (a) has legitimised an exciting new model for       Biotechnology investment; demonstrating that floating on the stock market       at an early stage can realise good returns for private investors.
This       unlocks greater potential for the private sector to invest in a wide range       of research and development.
In line with the Government's plan to promote       the Biotechnology Industry, this provided a good opportunity to translate       more novel products into the clinic and onto the market.
Scancell out       performed shares in the biotechnology industry as indicated by the FTSE       All-share index for Pharmaceutical and Biotechnology and all shares in AIM       (see graph).
Cancer immunotherapeutics, such as those developed by       Scancell, are predicted to bring in $35 billion in annual sales for the       Pharmaceutical industry (b) and, by 2018, 4 of the top 5 cancer products       are expected to be immunotherapies.
Figure showing the % increase in share price from Jan 2009           until Jan 2013.
Scancell has generated licensing income of &#163;6million from       US/Japanese/Korean companies from its patent portfolio (c).
It filed       patents on the three most promising mabs, SC100, SC101 and SC104.
SC100       was then licensed to a Korean company ISU.
Scancell sold its cancer       killing mabs including SC101 and SC104 to the Australian biotechnology       company, Peptech Therapeutics (now part of Teva).
The lead candidate       antibody, SC104 (CEP-37250/KHK2804), was humanised by Peptech and       defucosylated by Kyowa Hakko Kirin in Japan and both these companies are       co-developing it.
It entered phase I clinical trials in the US in December       2011 (d).
These international deals have all helped to increase the       profile of UK Biotechnology around the globe.
Scancell continues to       develop its vaccine platforms and currently holds four patent families       protecting cancer vaccine platforms targeting solid tumours and infectious       diseases (e).
It filed its initial protein vaccine platform in 2006 and       this was awarded in Europe in 2007 and in the US in 2012.
In 2008, it       filed its DNA patent portfolio.
The first patent on its lead vaccine       SCIB1, which is currently in clinical trial (f), was awarded in Europe in       2012.
In 2012 it developed a novel platform on modified peptides and filed       a patent in August 2012.
Scancell financed its expansion with an innovative approach, which has       legitimised a new model for Biotechnology investment.
After spinning out       and raising private equity funding (&#163;4 million) it acquired a PLUS listing       in 2008 and an AIM listing on the London Stock exchange in 2010 (g).
In       2012, in response to the successful clinical results for SCIB1, Scancell       holdings plc shares increased by the highest percentage on the London       stock exchange, generating significant press coverage for both the company       and the University.
From its initial market capitalisation of &#163;10m it       reached a value of &#163;98 million which provided a tenfold return for       investors (h).
As indicated in the PraxisUnico annual report 2013 (i),       Scancell is one of the few University start-up companies to provide not       only reward for early investors but also a vehicle for further investment       and profit.
As a result Scancell has clearly demonstrated the potential for private       sector investors in small scale Biotech to realise strong returns within       reasonable time scales.
This provided a new successful model for       Biotechnology investments whereby individuals can invest at different       stages of a product's life history and still get value on their       investment.
Additionally, as the companies mature, there remains a large       upside for new investors as the products are licensed/sold to the       pharmaceutical industry.
In July 2013, Scancell raised a further &#163;6.5       million and although the share price dipped it has come back strongly and       its market capitalisation has remained stable at around &#163;80 million during       2013 (g).
Scancell has thus created significant value from modest investments of       &#163;10.5 million.
It has done this through innovative science, a novel       business model and by keeping overheads low.
By listing on the stock       market it has released significant value for its initial investors.
Along       the way Scancell has contributed to the local economy, employing 9-10       highly skilled people during the period 2008-2013 and supporting other UK       businesses through its outsourcing of manufacturing, development and       clinical work.
In line with the Government's plan to promote Biotechnology Industry,       Scancell's model provides an example of how to promote investment in this       sector.
