     Dr Falkner's research has underpinned three distinct impacts on policy       and regulatory debates, in       the UK and in Europe.
These impacts have resulted from systematic       engagement of regulators,       policy-makers and other stakeholders both in the research process itself       and through a targeted       strategy for disseminating research findings.
1) Shaping the Policy Debate on Nanomaterials Regulation     Outreach to the policy community was a central component of Dr Falkner's       work for the       LSE/Chatham House project on the comparative dimensions of EU and US       nanotechnologies       regulation.
The project involved a survey of regulatory and policy experts       and one-to-one meetings       and interviews with 68 regulators, business leaders and civil society       representatives on both sides       of the Atlantic.
The process of drafting and reviewing the project report       included extensive       involvement of key experts from regulatory institutions in London,       Brussels and Washington, DC.
These experts were asked to feed into the research process, and some       participated in a review       workshop or gave written comments on the draft report [Source C].
The       close engagement of the       policy community ensured a high level of awareness about the LSE/Chatham       House project and       trust in its findings.
The final report, Securing the Promise of Nanotechnologies: Towards         Transatlantic Regulatory         Cooperation [A], along with other publications resulting from the       project, was widely circulated to       policymakers, regulators and other stakeholders through a series of       outreach events both in the       UK and abroad.
The report was launched at a major international conference       at Chatham House,       London, in September 2009, which was attended by European and US       policymakers, regulators       and stakeholders from industry and civil society [B].
Four more outreach       events were held in the       autumn of 2009, in order to further disseminate the research findings to       policy-makers and       regulators in the capitals of key countries: Brussels, Berlin, Paris and       Washington, DC.
The       research findings were also presented at a European Commission-sponsored       conference in       Brussels on 16 November 2009, which was attended by representatives of the       European       Commission and European Parliament [B].
The report's findings were reported widely by trade publications and in       international media: The       Financial Times' science editor Clive Cookson drew attention to the       report's call for a mandatory       register [D]; Nanomagazine referred to the project report as `ground       breaking' and reported on the       call for the `establishment of a mandatory reporting system for       nano-enabled products' [E] and       ENDS Europe similarly focused on the call for a nanomaterials register in       its coverage of the       report's findings [F].
2) Impact on UK House of Lords Science and Technology Committee Report         on         `Nanotechnologies and Food'     As a result of the contribution to the policy debate of Securing the       Promise of Nanotechnologies,       Dr Falkner was called to give written and oral evidence [H] to the only       parliamentary enquiry to       date dealing with nanotechnology regulation: the 2009 House of Lords       Science and Technology       committee inquiry into nanotechnologies and food.
Dr Falkner's evidence       shaped the committee's       focus on questions of transparency and information disclosure of       nanomaterials in food and was       used extensively in the committee report as evidence in support of their       call for mandatory       reporting.
In its concluding report `Nanotechnologies and Food' [I],       published on 8 January 2010,       the House of Lords committee relied extensively on Dr Falkner's testimony,       noting his evidence in       13 separate sub-paragraphs, as well as making reference to the underlying       research.
The       committee explicitly endorsed several of the research findings and policy       recommendations, in       particular the need for strengthened international coordination and       information exchange by       international organisations (6.29) and the creation of "a public register       of foods containing       nanomaterials" (7..24).
The latter recommendation is beginning to have an       impact on       governmental thinking and practice as is evident from the UK government's       response to the House       of Lords report [J].
In it, HMG states that, with regard to paragraph 7.24       of the House of Lords       report, the "Food Standards Agency accepts this recommendation and agrees       that there are       benefits in setting up a publicly accessible register of available food       and food packaging products       containing nanomaterials" (page 16).
3) Impact on European regulatory debate on mandatory nanomaterials         reporting     European and international discussions on strengthened regulatory       oversight of nanotechnologies       are at an early stage.
Nevertheless, active dissemination of Dr Falkner's       research to policy       audiences worldwide has contributed to stimulating policy debate       particularly on the need to       strengthen regulatory capacity and enhance transparency about       nanomaterials.
Dr Falkner's       research has been cited by several civil society and science organisations       particularly in the       context of recent calls for the introduction of mandatory nanomaterials       reporting.
A feasibility study       of mandatory nanomaterials reporting commissioned by Germany's Environment       Ministry (BMU)       refers to Dr Falkner's research as evidence of growing scientific support       for the introduction of a       nanomaterials register [K].
There is now growing recognition that existing       voluntary reporting is       inadequate, and momentum is growing in Europe for the introduction of       formal reporting       requirements, with France being the first EU country to establish a       mandatory register in January       2013 [G].
Wider Implications: Manipulating matter at the molecular level to       produce novel `nanomaterials'       has considerable potential commercial and societal benefits, including       improvements in food safety       and storage, enhanced battery performance, water purification and       environmental remediation,       reduced weight and power consumption in electronics, more effective drug       delivery systems, and       stronger, lighter and more durable materials.
Dr Falkner's contribution to       developing robust risk       regulation underpins the establishment of public trust in these novel       technologies that is critical to       realising of these benefits while simultaneously protecting the public       against risk.
