     A diagnosis of DSD can be devastating for patients and their families;       consequently, the clinical       symptoms and psychological consequences of DSD must be managed by       healthcare professionals       with sensitivity and compassion.
This aim is best achieved by a       multidisciplinary team of healthcare       professionals who take a holistic approach to DSD.
Clinical management       plans should focus on the       needs of the patient to ensure that care is individually tailored and       targeted to provision of the       correct services.
In addition, parents and other family members must be       fully involved in the       decision-making process to help support patients.
Ambitious work conducted by the University of Glasgow has successfully       bridged gaps in DSD       healthcare provision by establishing: i) the first set of UK clinical       guidelines for the initial evaluation       and diagnosis of children with suspected DSD; ii) the first managed       clinical network and       telemedicine service for DSD within NHS Scotland; iii) the first national       and international patient       registries for DSD, giving clinicians worldwide unparalleled online access       to medical histories of       patients with DSD; iv) access to clinical expertise for DSD support       groups; and v) an internationally       accessible diagnostic advisory service.
UK guidelines     Given the rarity of DSD, very few experts in this condition exist       worldwide and clinical care can       vary enormously between regions.
The development of guidelines outlining       best practice is,       therefore, paramount to ensuring equality of care.
The Society for       Endocrinology recognised       Ahmed's extensive research and clinical experience in DSD and invited him       to chair a UK taskforce       to define the most appropriate methods for initial evaluation and       diagnosis of suspected DSD.
This       taskforce developed the first UK set of DSD clinical guidelines, which       were published in 2011 in       association with nine other UK organisations.a Key       recommendations included:            a structured framework of evaluation and diagnosis by a         multidisciplinary clinical team         experienced in all aspects of paediatric care, including endocrinology,         urology, radiology         and clinical psychology       access to a regional DSD centre that specialises in this condition       essential psychological support for all patients and their families,         and access to patient         support groups       contribution of patient data to national and international patient         registries          Publication of these guidelines was reported by several health-related       media outlets, including       Medical News Today and ScienceDaily.b     Managed clinical network and patient registries for DSD       The SAGA study led by University of Glasgow researchers directly shaped       the establishment, in       2006, of one of the first managed clinical networks in the UK, the       Scottish DSD network (SDSD;       previously Scottish Genital Anomaly Network).
A managed clinical network       is a virtual clinic       created to increase standards of care through collaboration and       integration of key services.
The       SDSD network is centralised at the Royal Hospital for Sick Children in       Glasgow, with Ahmed as       part of the Executive Group that oversees this enterprise.
The SDSD       network operates a       telemedicine clinic service between its major centres in Glasgow,       Edinburgh and Aberdeen,       accessible by nonspecialist clinicians for advice, case review and as a       referral route to specialist       centres.
The SDSD network also includes a registry that holds data on over       600 Scottish DSD       patients, including their diagnosis, recommended investigations,       treatments and outcomes.
The       clinical network team use the SDSD registry as an invaluable resource to       inform appropriate       diagnosis and treatment of new cases and thereby equalise patient care       across Scotland.
The       SDSD registry has been adopted by the National Services Division of NHS       Scotland within its       national Clinical Audit Systems, which manages the flow of information       through clinical care       networks operating within Scotland.
Furthermore, the SDSD network has       produced a range of       patient information leaflets and a management pathway for the care of       patients with suspected       DSD, all of which are freely available to download from the website.
The       SDSD has also used the       registry to connect families affected by similar DSD conditions.
Internationally, incorporation of data into the I-DSD registry from 23       centres located in 15 countries       worldwide (Europe, Middle East and Africa) has created a common dataset       with clinical information       on the most extreme forms of DSD from 1,161 patients.c The       I-DSD registry has improved the       available knowledge that can be shared on these rare forms of DSD and       provided a platform to       enhance clinical understanding of their underlying causes.
Since 2012, 174       unique visitors have       accessed the I-DSD registry website, with 325 visits in total (202 return       visitors) and 727 page       views; 75 registered users (74 of them return visitors) have logged on to       the secure pages of the       registry.d The I-DSD project page has received 1,162 page views       (906 unique).d In 2013, a survey       of the 134 registered I-DSD users was conducted to assess functionality of       the resource.e       Approximately 30% of respondents were clinicians; around one-quarter of       respondents were       involved in clinical care, while others were specialists in biochemical or       genetic evaluations (27%).
More than 30% of respondents logged on to the I-DSD registry every 3       months, with 20% logging       on monthly.
Some users also provided feedback on their experiences of       using the registry.e       Benefits highlighted included the ability to communicate with other       experts and discuss DSD       cases; the capacity to transfer patients to another registered user within       the I-DSD network should       they relocate to a different country; and the comprehensive clinical data       provided.
Clinical expertise for DSD patient support groups       Given the rarity, social stigma and delay in diagnosis of DSD, the role of       support groups for       patients and parents cannot be overestimated.
University of Glasgow       researchers have enabled       the work of DSD support groups by providing expert advice about these       conditions and       encouraging participation of the affected community in discussions about       education and clinical       care.
For example, in 2011, Ahmed provided both clinical content and input to       the development of       dsdfamilies, an international online resource that provides users with       connections to DSD       healthcare specialists and testimonials of patient and parent experiences       from around the world.f       The website has around 700-800 individual visitors per month of which 25%       are from the UK and       39% from the USA; return visitors account for 20% of all visits.
Users       from Canada, India,       Australia, the Netherlands, Japan, Germany and Spain have also visited the       website.
In June       2013, the I-DSD convened a conference in Glasgow that welcomed the       involvement of patients       and support groups.g The Administrator of dsdfamilies, who is       also a member of the I-DSD       Steering Committee, was the opening speaker at this conference and both       organised and chaired       a parallel session for support groups ("Meet the Experts &#8212; A Joint         Effort").
Ahmed and dsdfamilies       secured funding that enabled 16 members of the affected community       (parents, adult patients and       representatives of other support groups) to attend the I-DSD conference.
As a consequence of this       session, the Glasgow Working Group was initiated to foster relationships       between the affected       community (23 members) and clinical staff (27 members) and to progress       nine key goals across       three functional groups.f The Administrator of dsdfamilies       stated that Ahmed's influence has two       key elements: "[first] by supporting dsdfamilies he gives legitimacy         to the resource which is         invaluable when it comes to reaching stakeholders (in both affected and         medical communities) and         [second] by supporting myself personally and creating the opportunity         for me to speak at medical         events he gives a voice to the affected community."
Ahmed has also worked with other DSD support groups.
As chair of the       Society for Endocrinology       taskforce, he invited AIS Support Group and Living with CAH to participate       in developing the 2011       UK clinical guidelines.a The Society for Endocrinology's       dedicated patient support website `You &amp;       Your Hormones' successfully promoted these guidelines,h       increasing the extent to which reliable       information on DSD was publicly accessible and facilitating discussion of       concerns, questions and       personal experiences of patients and their families online.
Internationally accessible advisory service for DSD diagnosis       Establishing the underlying cause of DSD is vital for directing the       appropriate course of long-term       clinical care; however, no single facility in the UK offered the combined       services of specialist       genetic tests for DSD and their interpretation by both scientific and       clinical DSD experts.
To       address this deficit, in 2012, Ahmed established a team of paediatric       endocrinologists, clinical and       molecular geneticists and clinical biochemists at the Royal Hospital for       Sick Children in Glasgow       who provide diagnostic advice to nonspecialist clinicians worldwide on a       case-by-case basis.
There       have been 30 separate cases discussed at the DSD diagnostic meeting, 27 of       which were from the       UK, two from Nigeria and one from Israel (January-July 2013).i
