     The project used an Open Innovation approach, which involved working with       existing open source software projects hosted by the Apache Software       Foundation.
Project innovations were trialled within the consortium but       then contributed back to Apache, widening their uptake and impact.
Project       members contributed sigificant feature enhancements to both Apache Wookie       and Apache Rave, making the capabilities developed in the project       available to their respective user communities.
The platforms were used       not only by the consortium members &#8212; which included Logica, SAP, Deutsche       Telekom, TIE-Kinetix and Huawei &#8212; but by the respective external users of       the platforms which include US organisations such as MITRE, the Open       Gateways Computing Environments, and also by SURFNet (the equivalent of       JANET in the Netherlands.)
Through its scientific work the project also identified usability       challenges where users are faced with systems that support inter-process       communications; these were described in the unpublished paper "Design       challenges for user-interface mashups: user control and usability in       inter-widget communications" (Wilson, 2012) and explored in several       usability studies conducted by T-Systems (a division of Deutsche Telekom)       and Huawei in both Germany and China.
The results of these studies were       released publicly, and discussed with developers of the Apache platforms       from multiple organisations.
The technologies developed by the project that have been successfully       translated into innovations in use by this range of companies and       organisations include enhanced interprocess communications capabilities       (including critical usability enhancements), the ability to interoperate       with other platforms using an open mashup description language, the       ability to interoperate with telecommunications services both via web APIs       and through device interfaces (e.g.
Android), methods of automatic       composition and pattern recommendations, and connecting platforms with       shared app stores.
The ability to share mashups as reusable workspaces using OMDL is a       notable productivity enhancement, and has also been adopted for use within       other platforms including Moodle and LifeRay, as well as within private       corporate workflows at TIE-Kinetix and SAP.
Since the project concluded,       several other companies and consortia outside the original consortium have       begun contributing to the future development of OMDL, including Ascora       GMBH, EPFL, and ITEC.
The open approach used by the project resulted in increased impact for       technological innovations, and this was recognised by the project       reviewers as a major contributor to impact and project success.
It has       also been the subject of subsequent discussion as a model of best practice       for engagement by research projects with the Open Source community, for       example in an article by OSS Watch at the University of Oxford (2012).
The impact of the project for its consortia members is nicely summarised       by Stuart Campbell of TIE Kinetix: "whilst we have probably been in around       10 projects to date, this is only the second one I can really say I'm sure       we will tangibly benefit from"
