     In 2010, the market for psoriasis treatments alone was valued at $3.9       billion.
Current first-line treatments, including analgesics, oral       non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs and topical steroid creams, are       aimed at symptomatic relief of pain or swelling, but these are often       short-term measures.
As management of psoriasis and psoriatic arthritis is       a long-term issue, several disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drugs that       suppress either growth of new skin cells or inflammation have been       developed.
However, these are often associated with organ toxicity and       other side effects.
Many last resort drugs for patients who don't respond       to the above therapies require weekly injections and are associated with       partial response or non-response in half of all patients.
Houslay's research established a detailed understanding of molecular       components of PDE4-dependent cell signalling, which enabled the       identification of highly resolved molecular targets by drug development       programmes aimed at anti-inflammatory therapeutics.
This was recognised by       Celgene, who engaged Houslay as a consultant at the outset of their PDE4       inhibitor programme.
Houslay's major contribution was recognized by a       Senior Principal Investigator overseeing apremilast at Celgene       Corporation:     "Because of his laboratory's capabilities at U. Glasgow at that time,         and his technical expertise in the area of PDE4 molecular biology, Miles         was able to help us evaluate the biochemical and pharmacological         properties of our leading compounds.
His findings and advice helped us         to select CC-10004 (apremilast) for preclinical development.
"a     With this crucial contribution of Houslay, Celgene was able to proceed to       clinical studies of apremilast as an oral anti-inflammatory therapy for       psoriatic arthritis and psoriasis.
These have been taken from early phase       I trials in 2003 through to phase III clinical trials between 2010 and       2013.
The phase III trials PALACE 1-PALACE 4 (2010-2013) involved patients       with psoriatic arthritis, whereas the phase III trials ESTEEM 1 and ESTEEM       2 (2010-2012) focused on patients with psoriasis.
The four phase III clinical trials that involved patients with psoriatic       arthritis (more than 2,000 patients in total) aimed to meet a primary       clinical endpoint of a 20% improvement of tender or swollen joints, as       assessed by both the patient and the physician.b,c,d In July       2012, it was reported that up to 50.8% of the 495 patients that had been       treated with apremilast in PALACE 1 achieved the primary endpoint by 16       weeks (and maintained at week 24), compared with 19% for those taking a       placebo.b In June 2013, the 52 week long-term data showed       continued improvement in signs and symptoms in about 60% of patients.e       The primary clinical endpoint has also been met by the trials ESTEEM 1 and       ESTEEM 2, which involved 1,250 patients with psoriasisf.
In       ESTEEM 1, psoriasis area and severity were reduced by 75% over 16 weeks in       33.1% of Apremilast-treated patients compared with 5.3% of placebo       patients.g Crucially, the side-effects of apremilast were mild       to moderate, with no serious adverse events.
Based on the combined data from PALACE 1, PALACE 2 and PALACE 3,       applications for the approval of apremilast as a treatment in psoriatic       arthritis were submitted to health regulatory authorities in the USA and       Canada in March 2013.g By the end of 2013, further submissions       to health authorities in the USA, and in Europe are expected to seek       regulatory approval of apremilast for moderate-to-severe plaque psoriasis       and for psoriatic arthritis and psoriasis, respectively.h     Without Houslay's research at the University of Glasgow, it would not       have been possible to select apremilast as an initial hit compound, and       thus develop into a potential oral drug for psoriasis and psoriatic       arthritis.
This fact was formally recognised by Celgene in January 2013,       when Houslay was inducted into Celgene's Joshua Lederberg Society:     `Membership to the Society is extended to external collaborators who         have had a relationship with Celgene for greater than five years and         whose work has changed the practice of medicine...Because of Miles'         invaluable contributions to the field of understanding PDE4 inhibition         at the molecular and cellular level, and his key advisory role in the         selection and preclinical development of Apremilast, he was honored as         one of the few external inductees into the Society.
'a
