     Professor Karen Smith's research has underpinned two distinct impacts on       EU policymaking and practitioner debate.
1) Study for the Directorate General for External Policies of the         Union, `The European Union and the Review of the Human Rights Council'     On the basis of her research in the field of EU human rights policies,       and in the context of a review of the United Nations Human Rights Council,       Professor Smith was commissioned by the European Parliament's       Sub-Committee on Human Rights to analyse the EU's role in the Human Rights       Council since the latter's creation in 2006, and to consider the EU's role       in the review process.
Building on research by Smith that highlighted the       failures of the EU's human rights record within the UN system, the report       [A] argued that the EU urgently needed to improve its capacity for       outreach.
It further emphasised the need to better coordinate the EU's       human rights positions with its other external relations policies, so it       could become more ambitious in its approach at the Human Rights Council.
Professor Smith's report, reinforced by her oral evidence to the meeting       of the Human Rights Sub-Committee [B], was instrumental in determining       how the Sub-Committee evaluated the EU's record at the United Nations, and       shaped the European Parliament's policy response to the review of the       UNHRC.
The study was used extensively by the Committee's political group       advisors in their preparation of the European Parliament's recommendation       to the Council on the HRC review [C].
The resulting resolution [D] to a       great degree reflected the substance of Professor Smith's recommendations,       and endorsed Professor Smith's proposal for the EU to support the use of       `independent triggers' and call for improvements to the transparency and       oversight of Special Procedures.
2) Task Force on EU Prevention of Mass Atrocities     The Foundation for the International Prevention of Genocide and Mass       Atrocities launched a Task Force on EU Prevention of Mass Atrocities to       assess the EU's capabilities in the area of the prevention of mass       atrocities.
As co-Chair, Professor Smith co-authored the report of the       Task Force [E], which has had impact on debate and policy at both EU and       member state levels, as well as at the UN.
The process of drafting the report involved significant collaboration       with the policy community [F].
Three meetings, in Berlin, Paris and       Brussels, attended by national and EU policy officials, were used to       discuss drafts and test and build support for the Task Force's       recommendations.
These meetings built on months of individual discussions       with officials and the wider policy community which provided specific and       detailed input and feedback, both verbally and in writing [K].
A draft of the Task Force's report was circulated widely throughout       relevant units in the European External Action Service and some EU member       states' foreign ministries in December 2012, resulting in substantive       feedback on the report's conclusions [K].
The final report identified core       problems impeding the ability of the EU and its member states to prevent       mass atrocities and made a number of recommendations to strengthen the       EU's capacity for mass atrocity prevention.
Following the report's Brussels launch, a programme of systematic       dissemination and engagement followed, including media op-eds and       interviews, and presentations of the report to the UNHRC and policymakers       in London, Geneva, Rome, Berlin and Budapest, with events in other       capitals scheduled for autumn 2014 and spring 2015 [F].
At the European       Parliament, the Rapporteur of the Foreign Affairs Committee gave comments       on the draft of the Task Force Report [G], which guided the writing of the       Committee's own Report containing a proposal for an EP resolution [H],       which was adopted by the Parliament in April 2013 [I].
At the UN level, Adama Dieng, Special Adviser to the Secretary-General on       the Prevention of Genocide, has publically endorsed the Task Force [J].
Similar pressure has also come from individual states, including the UK       Foreign and Commonwealth Office, which raised the report at EU level,       having been closely engaged with the drafting process and welcoming its       recommendations.
Mark Simmonds, the minister responsible for conflict       issues in the FCO, has asked Professor Smith to brief departmental       officials in person [K].
In tandem, the Report has been extensively utilised by civil society       groups to lobby at member state level.
These governmental impacts have       been buttressed by sustained media coverage of the Report's conclusions       and recommendations, which has generated wider consciousness in the       general public of the issues raised [L].
