     The impact of the research on the education and curating programmes of       three international art       institutions in the UK, Norway and Italy, and on associated public       discourses, has been via a       sustained process of both public engagement (though public lectures and       catalogue essays) and       institutional engagement (via consultancy and curation).
Insofar as the       modes of public and       institutional engagement involved represent innovations in the educational       and artistic       programming of the institutions concerned, they constitute impact on those       institutions themselves.
These impacts occurred between January 2008 and July 2013.
The beneficiaries     The main non-academic beneficiaries of the research have been:     (i) the Adult Programmes Department of Tate Britain, 2008-10;     (ii) the Office for Contemporary Art Norway (OCA), 2009-11;     (iii) the Norwegian Representation at the 54th Venice       Biennale, 2010-11;     What changed?
(i) Adult Programmes, Education Department, Tate Britain, 2008-10     The research influenced adult educational programming at Tate Britain       through the introduction of       a focus on the philosophical aspects of contemporary art, including       specifically, (a) the conceptual       character of contemporary art, and (b) an enrichment of the understanding       of the importance of       broader intellectual contexts &#8212; philosophical and cultural-theoretical &#8212;       to the understanding of       contemporary art.
This represented a break with previous programming       practices, which were       focused more narrowly on art history, connected to Tate Britain's       collection, and more general       introductory topics.
The main means through which this was effected were: (a) consultancy       (Osborne was a consultant       to Tate Britain, Adult Programmes for the international conference,       `Global Modernities', connected       to the Tate Triennial, 2009, and for the talks series that he subsequently       designed, `Anthropologies       of the Present', 2009-10); and (b) public lectures at Tate Britain       in 2008 &amp; 2009.
After the delivery       of his lecture to the October 2008 `What is British Art?'
conference (`To       Each Past, Its Own       Prehistory'), he was invited to conduct an in-house seminar for Tate       Britain Adult Programming       staff on its significance for their programming.
The lecture had an impact       on the institutional self-consciousness       of the programming team.
(ii) Office for Contemporary Art Norway (OCA &#8212; a foundation created by         the Norwegian Ministry of         Culture and Church Affairs and the Norwegian Ministry of Foreign         Affairs), 2009-11     The research influenced the curatorial programme at OCA in 2009, through       its effect on its director       and main curator.
Osborne has a history of collaboration with OCA dating       back to consultancies for       its education programming and publishing in 2006 &amp; 2007, based on       their interest in his research.
In 2009, he collaborated with its director on the exhibition, Sol         LeWitt, Sentences on Conceptual         Art: Manuscripts and Draft Materials 1968-69 (21 Oct.-19 Dec. 2009)       &#8212; visiting the collector       Herman Daled in Brussels and helping to conceptualize and to select       manuscripts for the show.
Osborne gave the public lecture on the occasion of its opening, published       as the catalogue essay.
The exhibition of these manuscript texts as works and their connection,       via the catalogue, to       German philosophical Romanticism of the late 1790s, was a practical public       enactment of       arguments from Osborne's research.
OCA is the body that commissions the Norwegian Representation at the       Venice Biennale,       historically, the world's leading regular international art exhibition.
In       Sept. 2010 Osborne was       appointed by OCA to a 9-month contract as Consultant to `The       Representation of Norway at the       54th Venice Biennale.
The main impact of the research in the       philosophy of art has been via this       consultancy.
(iii) Norwegian Representation at the 54th Venice Biennale,         2010-11     Norway's representation at the Venice Biennale 2011 was the first by a       participating country to       have replaced the centrality of a conventional national artistic       representation by a visual artist, or       artists, with a philosophically based talks programme, framed in terms of       the critical role played by       art within the philosophical discourse of modernity and the emphasis       within contemporary art on       the primacy of diagnoses of the historical present.
Following on from his       role as a consultant for the       representation, Osborne acted as co-curator of the Norwegian programme,       defining the theme       (`The State of Things') and selecting the speakers for the public lectures       in Venice, running June-November       2011.
He introduced the series at the Instituto Veneto di scienze Lettero       ed Arti, in       Venice, 1 June 2011, during the opening of the Biennale.
This curatorial decision subsequently caused considerable controversy in       Norway, regarding the       public policy on national representation and art funding (problematising       OCA's relationship with the       Ministry of Culture and the Foreign Ministry).
It was the subject of a       public debate in Oslo, with the       Head of the Section of Visual Arts of the Arts Council Norway and other       senior members of the       Norwegian arts community, regarding OCA's policy, the funding of the       Norwegian Representation       and the autonomy of the foundation (20 November 2012).
Its effects       continue to resonate within       public debates on cultural policy in Norway.
Osborne has been invited to       address the topic in his       lecture at the event celebrating the 10th anniversary of kunstkritikk,       the online art journal, in Oslo on       22 November 2013.
