     1) Transparency of Voting in the European Parliament: The main       impacts of the research on voting in the European Parliament (EP), backed       up by the VoteWatch website, have been: (a) to change the way recorded       (roll-call) votes work in the EP, and (b) to increase the understanding of       voting in the EP amongst policymakers, the media, interest groups, and       private citizens.
Under pressure from VoteWatch and other actors, in 2009       the EP changed its Rules of Procedure to make all final votes on       legislative proposals by `roll-call'.
Prior to this decision, roll-call       votes were only held if requested by a certain number of MEPs.
This       decision, and VoteWatch's continued tracking of voting in the EP, has       increased public and policymakers' understanding of voting in the EP.
VoteWatch is a good example of how cutting-edge academic research can be       combined with modern information dissemination techniques to increase the       transparency of political decision-making and public understanding of the       actions and behaviour of elected politicians.
VoteWatch is a       not-for-profit organisation co-funded by the Open Society Institute and       The Joseph Rowntree Charitable Trust, with pro bono support from       Burson-Marsteller and White &amp; Case.
VoteWatch.eu receives on average       12,000 visitors per month and has been mentioned over 15,000 times in       print and web-based media each year since its launch.
The BBC, EurActiv,       EUObserver, and EP websites link directly to VoteWatch [Source H].
To promote VoteWatch and its findings, Hix presented his research on       numerous occasions between 2007 and 2012 to MEPs and their assistants,       interest groups and policymakers in Brussels and several national       capitals.
He also gave evidence to the EU Committee of the House of Lords.
After the launch of VoteWatch in 2009, Hix was invited to a day-long       seminar with the EU Ombudsman to discuss ways in which decision-making in       the EP could be made more transparent [J].
The EP also invited the       VoteWatch team to participate in hearings on the transparency of EP voting       and our proposals were discussed by the EP's ruling body, the Bureau.
Some       of VoteWatch's proposals were included in the EP's communication policy       for 2011, such as publishing votes from EP committees.
VoteWatch is now known and quoted in all member states by NGOs,       journalists and citizens when it comes to assessing the performance of       their elected representatives in Brussels and Strasbourg [A].
The       significance of VoteWatch's activities can also be seen by the fact that,       following our criticism of the Council and the European Parliament's       transparency practices, both institutions have invited our team to       participate in public hearings and internal meetings on the subject.
In       the Council, the secretariat has discussed and acted on VoteWatch's       proposals for a more transparent reporting of EU legislative decisions by       making more information on Member State positions public ahead of       ministerial meetings [A].
In the EP, our proposals have been discussed in       its ruling body, the Bureau, and in the full plenary [B].
As a result,       some of our proposals have been included in the Council's and EP's       respective communication policy and tools in 2011 and 2012.
In 2010 VoteWatch was named as an example of best practice for using       e-democracy tools to hold politicians accountable at two prestigious       international conferences: the Personal Democracy Forum (in Barcelona in       October 2010) and the World E-Democracy Forum (in Paris in October 2010).
We have evidence that VoteWatch has had a direct impact on MEPs'       behaviour [C].
First, three cases are known to the VoteWatch team where       MEPs were challenged during the EP elections in 2009 regarding their       records reported on VoteWatch.eu, and where the MEPs ultimately lost their       seats following unsuccessful justifications of their records (1 MEP from       Ireland, 1 MEP from Sweden and 1 MEP from Latvia).
National media made       extensive use of the VoteWatch website and analyses in the run-up to the       elections [D].
Second, MEPs are known to pay greater attention to their       attendance records in voting situations and debates in the EP Plenary due       to the VoteWatch reporting.
Third, other recorded activities on the       VoteWatch website &#8212; such as tabling of questions and involvement in       writing of reports &#8212; have increased dramatically, particularly from MEPs       outside the three dominant centre parties.
2) Reform of the EP Electoral System: The main impact of Hix's       research on the operation of EP elections has been the inclusion of his       proposal for the use of preferential-voting systems in the most recent EP       reform proposal.
Hix was invited in 2008 to present and submit evidence to       EP hearings on the reform of its electoral system.
The research undertaken       for the submission led to the article in Politique Europeenne.
Hix and       Marsh also set up a website to predict the 2009 EP elections (www.Predict09.eu),       which was widely covered by the media [D].
Hix also wrote for the       BBC website during the elections on how to reform the elections [E].
Hix's submission to the EP hearings was cited in the reform proposal (the       Duff Report) [F].
In addition, Hix's proposal that all member states       should use a form of preferential-voting (Open-List PR or STV), was a main       recommendation in the reform.
The proposal is now in the process of being       adopted by the European Parliament and the EU Council.
Even if the       proposal is not adopted before the 2014 European Parliament elections,       there is now an on-going debate about how `preferential voting' in these       elections could force candidates to campaign directly to voters, rather       than leaving the electoral campaigns to parties.
Such a change would       significantly strengthen the relationship between citizens and their       elected representatives in the European Parliament.
3) Election of the Commission President: The main impact of Hix's       research on "democratic reform" in the EU has been the growing acceptance       of his proposal for a competitive election for the Commission President       [C, G, H].
Hix was invited in 2002 to chair a working group to advise the Cabinet       Office during the drafting of the Constitutional Treaty.
The group fed       ideas into UK government strategy, and Hix personally briefed Sir Stephen       Wall, Director of the Cabinet Office's European Secretariat.
Hix was       invited by the British government to speak on the election of the       Commission President at a UK-Dutch government conference in The Hague in       2005, and at a meeting of the chairs of the EU affairs committees of the       national parliaments, in Florence in 2007.
In 2008 President Barroso       invited Hix to a private dinner with Barroso and his advisors to discuss       Commission President election [I].
And, in 2012, Hix was invited to       present his ideas for democratising a `fiscal union' to the European       Central Bank.
During the Convention on the Future of Europe, Hix's proposal for an       "electoral college" for choosing the Commission President was adopted by       several think-tanks [K].
This idea was also taken up by the Swedish and       Irish governments.
But, following the Lisbon Treaty the debate shifted to       how to reform the election of the Commission President within the treaty       rules.
Hix's proposal for rival candidates before EP elections was adopted       by several think-tanks, such as Notre Europe in Paris [L].
Following an       on-going debate, which was in part provoked by Hix's book, in 2010 the       Party of European Socialists set up a working group to come up with a       candidate before the 2014 elections.
If rival candidates for the Commission President are proposed before the       2014 European Parliament elections, this is likely to transform the nature       of these elections, and will also have an impact on the relationship       between the next Commission President and the EP, the EU Governments, and       the EU citizens.
The reach of Hix's impact in these three areas is perhaps best summed up       in a statement by Klaus Welle, the Secretary-General of the European       Parliament [C]: "Overall, Professor Hix's on-going attention to EP       activities and advocacy for reform are important contributions to the EP's       broader efforts to more transparently and effectively relate with its 500       million constituents within an increasingly democratic EU."
WIDER IMPLICATIONS:       The `democratic deficit' is an on-going concern in EU politics.
By       enabling more effective public scrutiny of EU decision-making, and by       analysing alternative ways of selecting MEPs and the Commission President,       Simon Hix's research is helping to address the EU's legitimacy problems.
