     Hallward's book Damming the Flood has been influential on       activists and NGOs working in Haiti,       and on journalists covering the political problems in that country.
It is       widely recommended as the       key text for anyone wishing to understand the political turmoil in Haiti.
The book is credited with       changing the way journalists report on Haiti, ensuring the economic       viability of a campaigning       media organisation, and contributing to political reform in that country.
Activists and NGOs     Damming the Flood is regarded as a key resource by NGOs and activist       organisations working in       Haiti.
The Institute for Justice and Democracy in Haiti requires that new       staff and interns read the       book in order to understand the issues central to their campaigning work,       while Partners in Health       recommends the book not only to new staff and interns (c.50% of staff have       read it) but also to the       partners they work with in Haiti [1].
The Director of the Institute for Justice and Democracy in Haiti has       said:     "Damming the Flood is by far the most detailed and reliable       account of events leading up to       the 2004 coup in Haiti, and we continue to recommend it to researchers,       students and       journalists interested in the period... Anecdotally, many ... journalists       expressed gratitude       for having such a credible and meticulously sourced resource, and I have       seen their work       improved as a result of having studied the book.
Being able to refer people to Damming the Flood saved IJDH       significant staff time, as we       could refer people to the book rather than collecting the information       ourselves ...
It allowed newer staff members and volunteers to get up to speed quickly,       and was a handy       source for more experienced staffers to find the quote or cite they       needed.
This was useful       in a range of activities, including legal filings in international courts,       asylum hearings in the       U.S., academic papers, briefing memos, book chapters, action alerts and       Congressional       briefings.
Damming the Flood was highly influential in the Haiti solidarity       community in the period       before the 2010 earthquake.
We sold several boxes of the books... mostly       to activists in       North America.
The book informed, influenced and inspired a whole range of       activism.
It is       hard to measure this impact, but I believe the book did help hasten the       return of democracy       in Haiti."
[2]     The Haiti Support Group and the Canada Haiti Action Network both       recommend Damming the         Flood as essential background for understanding the challenges       facing Haitian civil society today       and for contributing to the modern struggle to establish political       democracy [3].
The book has been       a hugely important resource for the Center for Economic Policy Research       from the time it was       published to the present day.
The distribution of the book to the activist community on Haiti was also       of crucial economic benefit       to Haiti Libert&#233;, the Haitian weekly campaigning newspaper,       according to one of its journalists:     "We sold several hundred books, and those sales provided critically       needed revenue when       we were just launching both the newspaper and community center in the       second half of       2007.
The sales of the book may have indeed have been the one critical       element that       assured our survival at that embryonic stage."
[4]     Journalists     The wealth of detail and rigour of argument in Damming the Flood       made it a resource that was       prized by journalists.
For example, freelance journalist Reed Lindsay has       said:     "Of great importance, his book is the only one of its kind that refutes       the mainstream       narrative, a much-needed counterweight to Michael Deibert's Notes From         the Last         Testament.
Peter's book has been an invaluable resource, and it will       continue to be so for       years to come.
It is so refreshing to see such a practical and useful book       coming out of a       Philosophy department."
The book influenced the reporting by journalists of the political       situation is Haiti, by improving their       understanding of the context of current events.
A freelance journalist who       was based in Haiti from       2010 to 2011 has said:     "Peter's book was a central influence in our understanding of Haiti's       history and politics.
I       brought Damming the Flood everywhere...
I would also refer       correspondents and other       journalists who flew in for short periods to his book pointing out       chapters and sections they       should read...
I was living ... with dozens of other Haitians,       journalists, activists, advocacy       and NGO types.
There were many books in the house, but Damming the         Flood was the       only one we had multiple copies of.
[It was]...regularly discussed and       recommended as the       definitive history of the Aristide years."
[5]     while Daniel Lak, journalist with Al Jazeera, has stated that:     "I found the book immensely helpful in provoking thoughts and curiosity       about how       international players (Canada, France and especially the U.S.) were       involved in the       downfall of JB Aristide and Famni Lavalas."
Despite activist organisations having put out some similar information       previously, journalists       regarded Damming the Flood as the only publication to have told       this story.
In the assessment of       the Institute for Justice and Democracy in Haiti, this illustrates the       reluctance that journalists often       have in accepting narratives that go against mainstream official sources,       and the key role that a       rigorous academic work can play in changing how the media reports complex       and controversial       stories.
[2]
