     Led by Dr Simon Grennan, the project team included an academic researcher       (Grennan) and five public engagement and youth engagement staff from Great       Places Housing Group, Manchester.
The impacts described below have       occurred during the period autumn 2011 to spring 2013.
Aiming to pilot new oral history methods and present the results publicly       to a stakeholder community, `Memories Materialised' bridged the gap       between practice and cutting-edge theory in the field.
The project       recruited a team of 30 volunteers in two groups: people over 60 years of       age with personal memories of Stockport Road in 1963 and people under 20       currently living in the area.
The young people came from a wide range of       European, Caribbean and South Asian backgrounds, reflecting the changes       brought by migration into Levenshulme and the surrounding areas.
The age       difference between the groups provided insight into these changes, showing       that Stockport Road in 1963 was a very different world to the one we know       now.
Over nine months, the groups worked together to share stories and       document recollections of the street, producing more than 300 documents       for use online and in print.
There has been a lasting impact from the study, particularly in terms of       intergenerational awareness, local cross-sector partnerships and in oral       history process and archive modelling.
Over a year, the project provided       an environment in which 30 people with very different life experiences and       of very different ages worked closely together, identifying aims, creating       and fulfilling strategies and producing the archive, gaining enhanced       understanding of each others' experiences, values and points of view.
As well as the new partnership between research academia and Great Places       Housing Group, the project has engendered new partnerships between local       voluntary and community groups, their facilitators and members,       particularly Levenshulme History Group, Inspire Centre, Northmoor Youth       Group, Inspire Youth Group, totalling another 20 key, secondary       participants.
The new model of an archive presented in `Memories Materialised' is under       scrutiny by research and professional archivists in the UK, at the       Guildhall Art Gallery, City of London, and in Belgium at the KU Leuven.
The impact of the model upon further developments in the fields of,       firstly, digital archiving, and, secondly, public engagement with       archives, is already being felt through uptake of both the conceptual       framework and the model's specific technology by these two institutions:       KU Leuven in terms of the ways in which visualisation techniques can       provide a taxonomic framework for an archive, and Guildhall Art Gallery in       terms of developing a proactive role for remote visitors to its       collections.
The public legacies of `Memories Materialised' also include an online       archive and a free publication presenting a virtual walk-through, map and       searchable archive which comprise the personal memories of this research       project's subjects.
The subject groups also directed the construction of       the website and helped to design the publication.
The site and publication       were launched at a public event attended by 150 people and 3,000 copies of       the publication were subsequently distributed door-to-door to domestic       addresses within a mile radius of the stretch of Stockport Road.
Since       mid-March 2013, the site has averaged 54 views a day.
For at least two       more years, the site will be managed by the voluntary organisation       Levenshulme History Group.
