     Economic impact       The value of the electronics manufacturing industry worldwide is ~US$2tn;       Europe accounts for       ~20% of this.
Advances in electronics components and systems technologies       underpin much       larger markets which include industrial sectors, eg aerospace, automotive,       energy generation,       medical devices etc, and service sectors, eg internet, games,       broadcasting, telecoms etc, which       account for approximately 10% of world GDP.
Our multi-physics(1) and optimisation work(2), in       collaboration with Henkel, DEK Printing machines,       and Celestica, has provided a route to predict the reliability of       sub-100um pitch interconnections       using lead-free solder pastes.
Our work in optimising the refinishing       process of electronic       components for use in high reliability aerospace applications(3)       has been funded by the US       Department of Defense and industry, and has developed a methodology to       reduce dramatically the       amount of physical testing required to prove integrity, where normally       such testing can cost       upwards of &#163;100,000 per component.
The overall cost of saving the Cutty Sark for the nation was &#163;50M of       which the Heritage Lottery       awarded &#163;25m.
Scientific underpinning provided by the university was       instrumental in securing       Lottery funding, and structural health monitoring work by the university       was a condition of the       award.
An aim was to minimise the amount of new conservation work required       for at least 50       years: we developed a decision support tool(6) for       post-restoration maintenance of the vessel,       ensuring that potential future losses due to structural problems with the       ship have been mitigated.
Our overall contribution has also secured local jobs for 20 people who now       work on the Cutty Sark.
This international icon is helping to boost tourism which plays such an       important role in the UK       economy, adding &#163;12bn per year to GDP and supporting over 195,000 jobs.
Environmental impact       European legislation such as the Reduction of Hazardous Substances (RoHS),       and Waste       Electrical and Electronic Equipment directives, have posed significant       challenges for the       electronics industry in finding replacements to a number of materials used       in electronics       manufacturing &#8212; including lead-based solders.
Our work in assessing the       reliability of electronic       components using material replacements such as Tin-Silver-Copper solders(2-4)       has helped our       industry partners meet these challenges as well as avoid the placement of       harmful materials such       as lead in landfill.
Although RoHS only applied to certain sectors (eg       high reliability sectors have an       opt-out) the use of commercial lead-free components in high reliability       systems means that that       most sectors have had to abide with the RoHS legislation.
Our work on       power electronics       modules(4) and the use of our tool &#8212; PowerLife &#8212; by industrial       partners is providing a route for the       adoption of power electronics modules in a wide range of applications       including aerospace, rail and       automotive.
For example our work on glob-top materials clearly identified       this as a process to       increase the reliability of wirebond interconnects in harsh environments.
The adoption of power       electronics has the potential for energy savings of $400Bn annually and       the UK is well placed to       benefit from innovations in this area.
Impact on practitioners       Our work has resulted in design rules for a number of companies who are       using these to ensure       that quality and reliability requirements of their components are met.
Examples include Selex       Electronic Systems, who are using our modelling technologies as part of       their qualification process       for avionics electronics.
In addition to this our expertise in       computational intelligence and       prognostics(5,6) is contributing to the new IEEE Standard P1856       (http://bit.ly/1a2eZy0) &#8212; Prognostics       and Health Management of Electronic Systems.
Our modelling expertise has       also       contributed to the 2013 International Electronics Manufacturing Initiative       Roadmap       (http://bit.ly/1ea0Hjk).
We work       closely with the National Microelectronics Institute and the IEEE       (where Professor Bailey is UK&amp;RI Chapter Chair for the IEEE       Components, Packaging, and       Manufacturing Technology Society, and Reliability Society) in       disseminating our research outputs       to practitioners.
