     The development and maintenance of Rao's close working partnership with       public health authorities both in the UK and in India and emphasis on       needs-led evidence generation, has facilitated the rapid development and       delivery of significant impacts on health service provision and policy in       AP and MP, and on health policy and collaboration between India and the       UK.
Impacts on service commissioning and delivery in Madhya Pradesh.
54% of the population of MP, which is one of India's largest states, live       below the poverty line.
Scheduled Castes and Tribes, recognised as among       the most deprived populations in India, make up 35% of its population.
Consequently, MP has very high disease and mortality rates and is the only       state identified in the India State Hunger Index 2008 as having an       "extremely alarming" hunger problem.
Against this backdrop, Rao's evaluation of the SIAF scheme in MP [1] has       had very significant impacts.
These have particularly included       contributions to the development in 2011-2013 of a more efficient       financial support scheme for care of the seriously ill in MP.
More       specifically, the recommendations made in [1] to improve the efficiency of       the state's financial support scheme resulted in the constitution in       August 2011 of a State Steering Group in MP, tasked with overseeing the       restructuring of the SIAF [a].
That Group has since made further       recommendations based on [1] which were subsequently promulgated in       Government Orders.
These included significant changes between October 2011       and October 2012 to the management of the fund (including a boost to its       overall value); strengthening the leadership and management in the unit       responsible for overseeing the fund delivery; renegotiating treatment       package rates with healthcare providers; devolving powers to authorise       funds at district level; and better verification of patient treatments       funded by the scheme [b].
Other reforms currently underway include       the introduction of better accreditation procedures for providers and       reduction in the bureaucracy around securing funds.
The development and       implementation of this more efficient health financing system is       particularly beneficial to MP's many poor citizens.
The World Bank has       acknowledged `substantial progress' in the management of the SIAF and said       it was `heartened' to see that other reform options were also being       considered in line with recommendations made in [1].
[c].
Recent feedback suggests that these changes are already having a real       effect on the number of recipients of treatment in MP.
Annual total       approvals by the Directorate of Health Services were previously typically       in the order of 2,000 treatments.
In 2012-2013, however, 7,267 cases were       approved, allowing treatment to be offered for serious life threatening       illness [d].
Furthermore, a much greater percentage of those       treatments are actually being carried out: verification of treatments       totalled only 20 or 30 per year in 2011, but 90% of treatments authorised       in 2013 have been verified.
Patient feedback forms, introduced in 2013,       are already achieving a respectable &#8212; and growing &#8212; response rate of 50% [e].
That feedback has, moreover, been linked to the Management Information       System (MIS) to ensure that patient experience informs health care       provider monitoring and evaluation and feeds into decisions about the       selection or de-selection of those commissioned to provide care funded by       this scheme.
In a move marking a significant step towards the eventual       development of a single, comprehensive heath service system, MIS now       integrates the myriad schemes providing entitlements for free medicines,       tertiary level care (the SIAF), and so on [f].
At a meeting in       February 2012 to discuss the 2012 annual review of progress in the       DFID-supported reform of MP's health sector the outputs, the government of       MP highlighted these health financing reforms as among the most important       achievements of that programme [g].
The significance of the       impacts of Rao's work was acknowledged again at a Community of Evaluators       conclave in Kathmandu in February 2013, where a DFID senior manager       showcased the rapid and direct changes in policy and service delivery       resulting from her evaluations [d].
Impacts on health service delivery beyond MP.
Rao's evaluation of       the RACHI scheme in AP [2] has also influenced service delivery in       Maharashtra, where it informed the introduction in July 2012 of a       RACHI-like scheme called the Rajiv Gandhi Jeevandayee Arogya Yojana.
The       use of Maharashtra as the control state in Rao's evaluation has given       those developing this scheme a better idea of the benefits Maharashtra can       expect.
More widely still, the results of Rao's evaluations of existing       health care services in MP and, in particular, in AP have encouraged a       greater focus on and interest among policy leaders in both the UK and       India in developing comprehensive primary care as a basis for 'whole       system' health delivery schemes addressing the full spectrum of community       health needs.
These changes are now being considered beyond AP and MP,       including in Kerala, where the growth of the hospital sector has outpaced       improvements in primary care.
In July 2012 Rao was invited by the       Government of Kerala to help develop a proposal (with support from the       Government of India and DFID) for a new model of primary care across three       pilot primary health centres in Trivandrum, and to evaluate its impacts on       health outcomes, community satisfaction and out of pocket expenditure on       health care.
That proposal recommended the adaptation of UK primary care       best practice to the Kerala context to provide, for the first time, a       comprehensive health service capable of providing appropriate preventive,       promotive, curative and rehabilitative care for communicable and       non-communicable disease.
Rao's recommendations were used as the basis for the development of plans       for a pilot project that will initially benefit 80,000 people resident in       the three catchment areas; if successful, it will be extended across the       state and replicated across the country.
The anticipated outputs include       reduced out-of-pocket expenses for outpatient care, and better and more       systematic care for people with a wide range of medical conditions.
In May       2013, the Government of India approved a grant of INR 2 crores (~&#163;622k),       for the Government of Kerala to implement the proposal in 2013- 2014.
The       influence of Rao's work on this development is corroborated in a concept       note sent to Rao by the Kerala Health Secretary in Feb 2012, with the       purpose of exploring UK support to strengthen primary care in the state;       it is likewise evident in recommendations made by Sujatha Rao (recently       retired Health Secretary, Government of India) in the report of a primary       care workshop held in Delhi, July 2013, that the development of new       primary care systems would benefit from involving people like Rao [h].
Influencing public policy via contributions to policy debate in both         the UK and India.
Rao's work has also led to recognition among       national policymakers in both India and the UK of the central importance       of primary care to efficient and effective health delivery systems.
This       is demonstrated, for instance, by Rao's appointment by Mark Walport (Chair       of the Health Workstream of the UK-India CEO Forum and then Director of       the Wellcome Trust) as the Public Health academic expert leading the       development of a White Paper exploring the benefits and practicalities of       a primary care partnership between India and the UK [3].
That White Paper       has reached a very wide audience of health practitioners when it was       published (accompanied by an editorial co-authored by the Director General       of Health Services, India) in the BMJ in May 2012 [3].
It has since evoked enormous interest, particularly via its use as the       basis for a 2-day workshop in New Delhi in February 2012 to inform India's       Twelfth Five Year Plan.
Hosted jointly by the Wellcome Trust, Government       of India Ministry of Health and Family Welfare and DFID, the workshop was       chaired by the Health Secretary of the Government of India.
Participants       included some 50-60 Indian and UK leaders in health care, health policy       and health research, among them members of the Planning Commission of       India's High Level Expert Group (HLEG) and representatives of the       taskforce on 'Universal Health Coverage' [i].
Workshop outputs       were summarised in a note prepared by the Wellcome Trust, highlighting       recommendations for the two countries to work together to strengthen human       resources, technology and governance, and best practice in primary care.
Along with Rao's ongoing dialogue with Dr Nachiket Mor of HLEG, these       recommendations ensured the influence of Rao's work on the HLEG       recommendation for &#8212; and subsequent inclusion of &#8212; the development of       comprehensive primary care and taxation-based financing as a priority       objective in India's Twelfth Five Year Plan (2012-2017) [j, k, l].
