     Libby Sheldon's research has had impact in three distinct areas.
First,       it has contributed to knowledge of the material and technical constituents       of painting for specialist, but non-academic, professionals such as those       involved in conservation [1, 3, 6], the art trade [9], and auction houses.
Second, it has benefited national cultural heritage by establishing       authenticity and attribution through the analysis of paint conditions of       works in important public and private collections in the UK [3,9].
Third,       it has been disseminated, often extremely widely, to a broad public and       has advanced the public understanding of how paintings are made and how       artists work [4, 5, 7].
Overall, it has enabled the re-evaluation of       important works of art that form part of our world cultural heritage [1].
Sheldon's collaboration with the National Portrait Gallery (NPG) has contributed         to the deepening of this major national collection's understanding and         interpretation of its holdings.
Her findings were of critical       importance to conservators and curators, both at the level of the       specifics of paint sampling and larger research questions into the uses of       technical evidence in art historical interpretation [1].
Impact on both       specialist and large publics has been achieved through her contributions       to Making Art in Tudor Britain (MATB), a five-year NPG project       (2007-12) which included an exhibition and impressive website (in 2012-13       the project pages on the website had 74,044 views [1] and NPG has on       average 1.8m visitors per year [2]).
Through the NPG exhibition and       website, new developments within technical art history were brought to       public attention, contributing a unique picture of the material life of       paintings.
Important ideas about works of art as physical objects made       according to the material and technical constraints of a particular time       and place have been disseminated widely, deepening public understanding of       Tudor visual culture [1].
Sheldon has further strengthened this engagement       through regular public lectures for the project's research forum series.
Her technical and historical insights into the original appearance of       artworks provided the general public with an improved understanding of the       original purpose of the artist.
An example was Sheldon's analysis of paint       samples from Elizabeth I, Darnley portrait [d] where she identified       discoloured blue and red pigments and showed that the orange raised       patterning over the costume was originally purple.
Such discoveries were       used by the NPG to enable viewers to have a fuller sense of what the       paintings would have looked like when painted: in this case of a richer,       more colourful image of the Virgin Queen than we see today; the painting       featured in the Changing Faces of Elizabeth I display [10].
The MATB       project findings using Sheldon's research (e.g.
comparing later copies       after Holbein of William Warham and on the use of the rare pigment       fluorite in two versions of portraits Sir Thomas Gresham) are on show in a       series of displays such as `Double Take: Versions and copies of Tudor       Portraits' in the Tudor Galleries at the NPG as well as at Montacute       House, Somerset [1].
Her research made a significant contribution to knowledge of Sir John         Gilbert's experimental techniques benefiting specialist professionals       in the Conservation Department at the Guildhall Art Gallery.
The discovery       that the artist used aqueous media for many of his large-scale works       which, in past, were thought to be oil paintings, has led to a review of       their increased vulnerability.
This had important implications for their       care and conservation, enabling preventive conservation strategies to be       put in place, reducing rates of degradation, and helping to preserve them       today.
Working in collaboration with the Guildhall and the Hamilton Kerr       Institute, Sheldon's key contribution was her analysis of his watercolours       using microscopy together with non-destructive X-ray fluorescence       analysis, including an experiment in fading.
Her research into his       painting techniques was widely disseminated as part of the exhibition (29       Apr-29 Aug 2011) of Gilbert's work at this important public gallery,       helping to reassess the importance of the artist as a far less       conventional figure than had previously been thought.
Her research       directly fed into and contributed to the public display of the artist's       work (in a display entitled `In the Studio') and so contributed to its       programme of public engagement dedicated to promoting understanding of the       materials and techniques of painting: thus a major part of the Guildhall       display was devoted to a technical exploration of the way in which Gilbert       worked, drawing on his own records and incorporating Sheldon's analysis of       his gouaches and watercolours [6].
Sheldon's research has enabled the critical re-evaluation of artworks         to benefit our cultural heritage.
In addition to changes in their       economic value [10], her research directly contributed to changes in how       specific paintings are publically and professionally perceived and valued.
Building on her expertise in 17th-century painting techniques [8], she was       able to show through cross- sectional analysis of Van Dyck's unfinished       portrait of Queen Henrietta Maria as St Catherine (Private Collection)       that it had been over-painted by a later artist (as shown in the display       at the Banqueting House, 2012 [9]).
Her paint sampling of a neglected,       damaged and unattributed painting found in a storeroom of the Bowes       Museum, County Durham yielded important findings: crystallographic       analysis of pigments and paint additives placed it as from the early 17th       century rather than the 19th century as previously thought.
By       contributing to the complex collaborative process of attribution, her       research has helped to differentiate historic works from later copies or       fakes.
Her research was vital in the attribution of the Portrait of         Olivia Boteler Porter to Van Dyck, rather than it being a work       considered of no great importance.
The discovery of the use of lead-tin       yellow firmly dated it in the period and was characteristic of the       artist's known techniques [3].
It is now considered one of the treasures       of the Bowes Museum.
Thus her work made a significant contribution to the       artistic and cultural heritage of a key national collection; Van Dyck's       painting is now displayed in the early picture gallery for the first time,       with a large text panel that tells visitors the story of the research       project and its discovery eliciting much visitor interest [3, 4, 9].
The `detective work' that this entails has given the public a         fascinating insight into the history of art and how paintings signify as         well as how they are made as material artefacts.
Sheldon's research       reached large audiences e.g.
through an appearance on a Culture Show       special on the Bowes portrait partly filmed in Sheldon's UCL workshop and       viewed by 1.49m people [4], as well as press coverage in the Guardian,         Telegraph and the Daily Mail [5] which collectively reached       a readership of over 10m.
She has raised public awareness of the       scientific research involved in distinguishing fakes and forgeries from       originals, e.g.
her appearance with Philip Mould and Bendor Grosvenor [9]       on the BBC 1 programme `Fake or Fortune' discussing her analysis of Van       Dyck's Portrait of Olivia Boteler Porter (also filmed in the       department and based on analysis conducted before her retirement) in       September 2012 (up to 4.8 million viewers; the 20th most watched programme       that week, bringing technical art history to a vast public [7]).
The work described above comprises a few representative examples of the       wider impacts of Sheldon's research.
During her time at UCL Sheldon was       one of only two people practising easel painting analysis in the country       and the only one doing so in the context of a university's art history       department.
Through specialist technical bulletins, talks and professional       exchanges, her findings were communicated to professionals outside       academia, e.g.
through the conference `Tudor and Jacobean Painting:       Production, Influences and Patronage' hosted by the NPG and the Courtauld       Institute of Art (Dec 2010) and funded by the British Academy and The Paul       Mellon Centre for Studies in British Art.
Sheldon's research was       instrumental in building partnerships with these and a variety of other       non-academic specialists e.g.
in 2011, she received sponsorship of &#163;30,000       from a Dutch private collector to fund technical research on Cuyp and the       Dordrecht School.
Between 2008 and 2012, she advised a host of national       and international bodies, as well as smaller institutions and private       conservators.
She received commissions from Europe, Australia, North       America and Japan, and worked with a wide variety of UK institutions       including the Holburne Museum, Dulwich Picture Gallery, Wallace       Collection, National Trust, the art trade and commercial gallery sector       (e.g.
Philip Mould [9] and Rupert Maas Galleries).
She has contributed to       both specialist and public understanding of world cultural heritage e.g.
by providing analyses of paintings undergoing conservation including by       Van Dyck in the Royal Collection [8].
The prestigious institutions with       which she has worked are an essential indicator of the respect with which       Sheldon's research is held within the field.
