     The participatory nature of the underpinning research helped to ensure       its beneficial impacts on contributing individuals and organisations.
The       access and trust offered to the project's research team by these       organisations &#8212; which are usually closed to outsiders &#8212; are indicative of       the significance of the project specifically, and of the CMRB more       generally, to them.
Increased community participation and cohesion via         co-research: At the end of the research in 2008, special meetings       were organised with each of the participating research communities to       share the results and disseminate a video produced during the research       sessions for them to use for their own purposes.
The participants received       special certificates, some awarded by MP Diana Abbott as part of a Hackney       Migrants' Day.
Several hundred participants, including community theatre       specialists, policy makers, community activists and academics also engaged       with the project's final conference on `Theoretical, Methodological and         Political Implications of Doing Research Among Refugees' (2-8 March       2008).
In addition to theoretical and academic papers, the conference       included presentations by some of the research participants, as well as       Forum workshops aimed especially at the activists and policy-makers in       attendance.
About 20-30 people attended each workshop, which included       enacted scenes relating to refugees' encounters with local authorities,       schools and social security.
Both during that conference and informally and in gathered testimonies,       the co-ordinators of the participating refugee groups expressed their       appreciation for the mutual respect and reciprocal relationships       established between the research team and their own members [a].
They also acknowledged the transformative impacts of the IPSA project on       participants from within their groups, and on their own capacity to       effectively administer the services they provide.
The impacts were often a       result of breaking taboos around discussion of issues such as sexuality       and family relations via their transformation from individual issues to       shared and collective ones.
As the coordinator of the Kosovan youth group       explained: "[As a result of the IPSA project] we realize more about youth       identity and the need to co-create long term processes of engagement and       participation using applied arts."
The encouragement of and support for       participants' reflection on issues within their own community, as well as       the wider society and the state, also affected their professional lives.
As a worker from the advice trainees' group explained: "I've been working       as a group leader for ten years...after my engagement in the participatory       theatre I viewed social relations differently'.
Her own work changed but       she was also "able to articulate that with my colleagues" [a].
Furthermore, the project supported participating community groups in       setting up their own, sustainable group projects.
The Shpresa group, for       example, used the project as a platform to establish an `Alabanian       X-factor', using a combination of Alabanian and British rap and fashion in       a participatory project which has now been running for several years.
Provision of new methodological tools improving the provision of       services by community organisations across and beyond London: The       reach of the research impacts has been extended beyond project       participants and local arts organisations to other community and support       organisations across and beyond London via their use of our participatory       theatre methodology.
The CMRB has received requests from numerous       community organizations for permission to use (and for its provision of       support in implementing) the methodology.
It was, for instance, widely       recognised as an effective tool for disseminating information about and       raising awareness of carers' issues (Enfield Carers Centre); homelessness       among Roma (Roma Support Group); and issues of advocacy for mental health       users (Studio Upstairs).
At Elders Voice it was used in 2010 to support       the development of 'Belonging in Brent' an intergenerational project in a       multi-ethnic area of London and involving Afro-Caribbean and Irish elderly       people and youth [b].
The organisation employed IPSA's Senior       Research Fello (Kaptani) to work with them in using the methodology to       support "older and younger adults to come together to share their stories       and insights in a non-threatening collaborative and enjoyable way".
Within       the Migrant Rights Network, the approach was used in community work with       other migrants groups including Enfield carers centre, Arachne Greek       Cypriot centre and Cecil Housing Trust [b].
The reach of the       impacts of the research methodology has been enhanced by reference to it       in various published resources supporting community development, policy,       social work and education [c].
Development of new artistic and cultural resources engaging public         audiences with issues relating to the research: In 2008 the Kaptani       worked with research participants and research team actors to write,       produce and stage a Verbatim Theatre play titled `Suspended Lives', based       on scenes and interview extracts collated in the original research       project.
Recognising the importance and relevance of the play, a local       London theatre venue, Tara Studios, invited the team to perform there as       part of their `Displacement Week' programme (2-4 October 2008) and brought       in new audiences of community centres, refugees and young people [d].
Each performance was followed by Forum workshops and attracted full house       audiences.
The play was subsequently commissioned by Harrow Migrant and       Refugee Forum for inclusion in its Refugee week (27 June, 2009), and by       Rich Mix for delivery as part of its Identity and Migration season (2-4       July 2009).
Over the course of a total run of 7 performances, the play       engaged more than 500 members of the general public with the important       socio-political issues that it raised.
Although these audiences were not       canvassed at the time, feedback on the performances suggests their       particular impact on audience awareness of and engagement with issues       relating both to migration and to individuals' experiences of that       process.
According to the theatre programmer who invited 'Suspended Lives'       to present the play at Tara Studios, "the interactive workshops with the       audience and the public debate following the play were important for using       theatre as a medium for citizenship" [e].
One cast member (a       participant from the Kurdish group) reported that audience members spoke       of how the play made them realise that there were issues about the refugee       community that they had never thought about before [e].
As such,       `Suspended Lives' played an important role in disseminating the research       findings and providing audiences with deeper insights to the lived       experiences and multi-layered identities of refugees living in London.
The participatory approach developed through the project has also       supported the work of art organizations such as Studio Upstairs, Tara       Arts, Rich Mix, the Geoffrye Museum, and the Museum of Manchester.
Here,       it was used to support an exploration of issues of community inclusion by       providing a way "to broker and facilitate an open and honest conversation       between the institutions and community participants in a way in which the       community members would not be at a disadvantage" [f].
Contributions to policy discussion and debate: As well as a       general public audience, policy makers constituted an important target for       dissemination work relating to the project.
In January 2007 the UEL       Identity and Social Action research programme (headed by Prof. Maggie       Wetherell) made a submission to the Integration and Social Cohesion       Commission based on the contributions of all the research projects in the       programme.
That submission informed the Commission's final report,       released in June 2007 [g], but since used to develop myriad       strategies and policies relating to community cohesion and partnership.
In       addition, members of the research team presented their findings at three       conferences organised by the programme specifically for policy makers       working in the field of migration, social cohesion and belonging.
The       integrative, participatory methods and specific insights developed through       the research have also been used internationally: recent examples include       its use by AKMA, a Greek organisation working with newly arrived Afgani       refugees to Lesbos.
In 2009, Prof. Yuval-Davis was appointed as a       consultant to a local authority in Sweden leading the `Youth in Action &#8212;       Democracy Project', an EU-funded project.
Drawing on her experience in       developing the dialogical approach to participation and integration used       in IPSA, Yuval Davis advised on transversal dialogue and integration       politics.
The project was subsequently declared the 2013 best European       practice example by Sweden's National Youth Agency [h].
