     The research outlined above has stimulated and informed discussion and       debate about the potential legacies of the London 2012 Olympic games and       helped to define the dynamics of Olympic legacy, including the notion of       `legacy momentum'.
It has informed the analysis, planning and evaluation       of urban regeneration policy and practice relating to that legacy by the       Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), UK       Government Department for Communities and Local Government, and Greater       London Assembly (GLA).
Some of these impacts have been delivered via LERI's use of the research       to establish a broad network of collaborative links with external partners       in UK universities (University College London, Queen Mary College) and in       universities in Brazil (the Architectural and Urban Technology Research       Nucleus of the University of S&#227;o Paulo and Gama Filho University, Rio de       Janeiro) and Spain (Centre d'Estudis Ol&#237;mpics i de l'Esport at the       Autonomous University of Barcelona).
In September 2013 UEL hosted the       International Conference on `Olympic Legacies - impacts of mega-events         on cities', at which papers were presented by over 120 academics,       professionals and policy makers from across the world.
Shaping and influencing Local Government policy (London Assembly) on         the assessment and delivery of Olympic Legacy.
The UEL/London Assembly commissioned research review of Olympic Legacy       published in 2007 [2] was presented in autumn 2007 to the then-Major of       London, Ken Livingstone.
It was used between 2008-2012 to brief London       Assembly members, and metrics reported in it were used by Assembly members       to press the Olympic Delivery bodies on outcome measures [a].
It       was also referenced in the Written Evidence presented in January 2010 by       the London Assembly EDCST Committee to the House of Commons Culture, Media       and Sport Committee [b].
In addition, evidence from the report was       reproduced in the London Assembly's own 2009 policy document, `Toward a         Lasting Legacy' [c], many sections of which drew directly on       conclusions from [2].
The findings of the report are, for example,       described (and the report itself referenced) in paragraphs 1.5 (p.8); 3.1       (p.13); 4.1 (p. 21); and 6.1 and 6.2 (p. 28).
The subsequent ESRC-funded evaluation of key indicators of legacy [6]       provided a longitudinal evaluation of the initial impact of the London       2012 Games on the UK, London and local boroughs.
The studies conducted as       part of that evaluation enabled LERI to engage with local and UK       government and LOCOG to fulfill its commitments to the IOC, and to       evaluate government policy performance and the value of investment in the       Games.
This provided an evidence-base to inform public investment       decisions and interventions required to achieve positive outcomes in the       post- games legacy phase.
Working with the Department for Communities and Local Government and         OECD to a review of the UK approach to Legacy.
The international Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development       (OECD) programme on Local Economic and Employment Development (LEED) has       advised government and communities across many countries since 1982 on how       to respond to economic change and tackle complex problems.
Through its       Department for Communities and Local Government (DCLG), the UK Government       invited the OECD LEED Programme to carry out a peer review of the Olympic       legacy arrangements put in place by the Department and local/London       stakeholders.
LERI's 2009 background thinkpiece report, "London's Olympic       Legacy" [7] was produced as part of this process.
That report for the OECD and Department for Communities and Local       Government [7] recommended that the Olympic Park Legacy Company (OPLC)       broadened its remit to include the delivery of socio-economic benefits by       working closely with local authorities and city-wide government, and that       it be given long term assurances about its future funding.
This informed       policy recommendations subsequently made in the London Assembly 2010       document `Legacy Limited: a review of the Olympic Park Legacy Company       Role' [d].
Its influence is evident, for example, in the inclusion       in that policy document of key risks and challenges faced by the OPLC in       the run-up to and aftermath of the 2012 Games (pp.10-12).
This draws       particularly on the risk analysis in [7, esp.
pp.88-89] in relation to the       attainment of the five Olympic legacy commitments.
UEL work published in       [2] and [6] is explicitly referenced under recommendation 2 (pp.
27 and       28), which raises concerns about the relationship between local and       national government.
`Legacy Limited' also refers to LERI's research on       Olympic cities: it includes, for example, comments made by Baroness Ford,       the Chair of the Olympic Park Legacy Company, referring to [5] in stating       that the Company would learn from the experience of previous residential       developments in east London (paragraph 5.3, p. 38).
The UEL report also helped to identify and share `best practice'       guidelines for OECD member/non- member countries and specified areas for       improvement to ensure a strong legacy for East London.
Poynter worked       closely with DCLG analysts and policymakers and was involved in high-level       discussions with DCLG senior officials, including the responsible Director       General, and the OECD LEED reviewers [e].
In combination with       other LERI's research [1-5], the report fed into the evidence base for the       department's approach to London 2012 legacy and its governance.
Thus, for       example, it is referred to directly in the OECD peer review report [f],       and contributed to a positive response from OECD on London's preparations,       highlighting the huge range of potential local benefits of large-scale       regeneration activity.
The recommendations made in the LERI Report (pp.
6-11) included establishing an economic framework or plan for the area to       encourage the development of business clusters, inward investment and long       term job creation and recommended an enhanced role for city-wide       government to assume leadership in collaboration with local authorities       and the (then) Legacy Company in creating such a plan.
These       recommendations were reflected in the OECD publication `Local Development       Benefits from Staging Global Events' and acknowledged by the OECD authors       (p.18).
Government officials and the relevant Minister commented on the OECD       report via a press release (18 October 2010) that referred explicitly to       specific recommendations made [7].
Local Government Minister Bob Neill       (Department for Communities and Local Government) commented:     " It's clear that the OECD share the Government's view that         communities know best how to meet their area's needs and ambitions.
We've already begun to put control of Legacy decisions back into local         authorities' and the Mayor of London's hands..." [g].
Subsequently, MacRury and Brimicombe were invited to become members of       the academic panel for the consortium led by Grant Thornton that undertook       the UK Government Department for Culture Media and Sport       meta-evaluation work (London 2012).
The UEL ESRC-funded evaluation [6] was       one of only 19 key publications referenced in the first Meta Analysis       report produced by the consortium [h].
Brimicombe was also       subsequently been appointed as an adviser to the House of Lords London       2012 legacy committee [i].
