     Biologic DMARDs have revolutionised treatment of patients with PsA.
Even       so, partial responses occur in approximately 60% of patients and over 5       years up to 60% of patients will withdraw from treatment owing to drug       intolerance or loss of effect.
Consequently, there remains a considerable       unmet need for these patients.
Ustekinumab is unique among the biologic       DMARDs that have been approved to treat PsA, as it targets a novel       pathway.
The clinical findings of PSUMMIT1 underpinned Janssen's       application to EMA to extend the European marketing licence for       ustekinumab to include patients with PsA.
This application was approved in       July 2013.
University of Glasgow research has, therefore, exerted       considerable influence by facilitating EU licensing authorisation for a       new use of an existing drug.
Furthermore, the University of Glasgow has a       unique claim to this impact as no other UK institutions were represented       on the PSUMMIT1 steering committee.
PSUMMIT1 provides the evidence base for ustekinumab as a novel           treatment for PsA     Janssen is a subsidiary of Johnson &amp; Johnson, the 2012 market leader       in pharmaceuticals, with sales of approximately $67 billion and a research       and development spend of almost $8 billion.
In July 2009, Janssen invited       McInnes to be Lead Investigator on the PSUMMIT1 trial of ustekinumab       (ClinicalTrials.gov identifier NCT01009086).b       As the sole UK researcher, McInnes was joined on the Steering Committee by       three North American rheumatologists and two dermatologists (from Spain       and the USA).
The preliminary results of PSUMMIT1 were presented by       McInnes at the European League Against Rheumatism (EULAR) annual congress       in June 2012; this meeting was held in Berlin and attracted more than       15,000 delegates from over 115 countries.
The data caught the attention of       online news outlets, including Medscape.c Speaking to Medscape,       the chair of the committee of EULAR for abstract selection explained the       novelty of PSUMMIT 1: "This is a first-in-kind [study]....
They can get         two for the price of one here, because if you can help the skin and the         joints, that's a good outcome."
McInnes remains a key consultant for Janssen in directing their clinical       trials of ustekinumab, including evaluating effects on PsA-related       structural damage to the joints (PSUMMIT 1 and PSUMMIT2).
This aspect is       particularly important as damage to the joints predicts loss of function       and possible disability.
EMA approves ustekinumab as a novel therapy for PsA     On 6 December 2012, Janssen filed ustekinumab for EMA regulatory approval       as a treatment for adults with PsA, citing the results of PSUMMIT1 in       support of this application.
The EMA Committee for Medicinal Products for       Human Use (CHMP) granted Janssen's bid to extend the use of ustekinumab on       25 July 2013.d,e,f Media coverage of the EMA ruling included       FirstWord Pharma.g Janssen summed up the impact of the CHMP       ruling: "It was with the exceptional guidance of Prof McInnes that this         study medication was brought to phase III and CHMP approval for         treatment of PsA ... More importantly for the medical community, it         represents the first new mechanism of action to achieve clinical and         radiographic efficacy for this condition since the approval of anti-TNF         agents approximately one decade ago.
"a Ustekinumab for       treatment of PsA was approved by the Federal Drug Administration in       September 2013.
Conservative estimates suggest that at least 0.5% of the EU population,       approximately 2.5 million people, are likely to have PsA.
Assuming half of       these individuals will require treatment with a biologic DMARD, the       potential uptake of ustekinumab for this novel indication could exceed       1.25 million patients across the 28 member states.
Consequently, EMA       approval of ustekinumab represents a breakthrough for individuals who       might otherwise be left without treatment options for this devastating       disease.
