     The wide areas of research covered by the Unit have resulted in a very       considerable knowledge base, allowing the Unit to provide critical input       to the IGS study which has transformed UK Government Space policy and to       emphasise the underpinning value of academic space science and technology.
The 2010 IGS report [a] resulted in the formation of the UK Space       Agency in 2010 and Government recognition of Space as a key growth area.
The Unit was represented in the IGS by Prof. Mark Sims, co-chair of the       IGS Capabilities, Technologies and Facilities group who also sat on the       executive committee responsible for drawing up the final 16       recommendations.
His knowledge of space science, technology,       instrumentation and mission implementation backed by departmental input       enabled him to play a leading role in the areas of the science and       academic related recommendations i.e.
the need for a National Space       Technology Strategy, Skills Base, Science and ESA missions as well as       others.
The IGS led to the National Space Technology Plan (NSTP) [b]       where as the only academic on the report's editorial board he again       supplied key input, and emphasised the underpinning role of academia.
This       led to the formation of the National Space Technology Steering Group       (NSTSG) where Sims is one of only four academic members in an industry       dominated group totalling 27.
The NSTSG advises the Government's Space       Leadership Council on Space independently of the UK Space Agency.
Similarly Prof. John Remedios has provided the science lead and academic       input as a member of the Steering Committee for the IGS restack/update       process just completed, which has further developed the original       recommendations and will be a key input into future policy.
He has       championed the role of bilateral and science missions to build links for       export markets.
The impact of the IGS and NSTP and their transformation of space policy       are fully acknowledged by the UK Space Agency [c].
In March 2011       the UK Government announced an initial &#163;10M contribution to the NSTP which       resulted in a delivery programme [d] which states that the NSTP is       based directly upon the work and recommendations of the IGS Capabilities       group (co-chaired by Sims).
In 2012 as a result of the change in policy the UK made a ~25% increase       (~&#163;50M/yr) in its ESA subscription [e] securing an estimated       &#163;1Billion in UK industrial contracts which along with the NSTP will lead       to substantial additional opportunities for UK industry and academia.
In       order to further promote growth the Technology Strategy Board has funded a       Satellite Applications Catapult Centre, a successor to International Space       Innovations Centre where the Unit was a founding academic member and Prof.       Martin Barstow was a board member.
Regarding direct work on influencing industry, one example here is the       development (started in 2007) of feature detection algorithms for       autonomous detection of geological features on Mars.
This catalysed in       conjunction with industrial research on autonomy a series of EU and ESA       funded studies which have involved UK industry including Scisys Ltd. a UK       space software company.
These include the ProViScout EU study [f]       and the related follow-on ESA SAFER study [g] where Leicester       supplies the project geologist and consultant regarding the algorithms, a       study critical post.
ProViScout was the first of a number of space       autonomous vehicle projects undertaken by Scisys which has led to further       studies (e.g.
SAFER), income and development research for the company       including a recent study for use of such vehicles in nuclear waste       repositories.
Research impact has also occurred locally.
The SRC has worked with an SME       Magna Parva Ltd (MP) company to develop technology for the LMC instrument,       originally intended for ExoMars and for the Bepi-Colombo MIXS instrument.
MP provided management and technical support to the LMC under a contract       with a total value of &#163;0.9M (2008 to 2013).
Immediate impact to the       company along with ESA contract work for MIXS was an income stream and       increased employment, which helped aid growth of the company and gained it       direct experience in working with ESA on large projects.
In 2010 in an       UL/MP internal case study [h] the collaboration was estimated to be       worth an increased turnover of &#163;650k and 7 new members of staff for the       company (doubling company size).
LMC also led to spin-off developments       such as the ExoLab a stand-alone sample processing system, and recently a       new MP-funded spinoff company MPDx Technologies [i] which aims to       exploit such technologies in other important fields including medicine.
There are many other examples of the Unit producing industrial impact       provided additional income to larger companies including consultancies for       ESA studies on missions and technologies with for example EADS-Astrium and       Systems Engineering Assessment Ltd. For example, the Unit had a preferred       partnership with EADS-Astrium 2007-2012 [j] (currently being       renegotiated).
