     1) Economic Impact: During the assessment period, Greenwich       University Enterprises Limited (GUEL), the commercial arm of the       University of Greenwich, has generated over &#163;837k from licensing the       EXODUS software to 250 licensees in 32 countries and &#163;230k licensing the       SMARTFIRE software to 64 organisations in 16 countries.
These licensees,       ranging from engineering consultancies, regulatory authorities and       national laboratories, use the software to explore the evacuation safety       of complex structures, ensuring that they are safe and fit for purpose       thereby generating considerable consultancy income.
Example projects that       have used the EXODUS software include the Airbus A330-X, A340 and the       initial design of the Airbus A380 [5.1].
FSEG and the airEXODUS software       were used in the preliminary design of the multi-billion euro A380 where       it was used to assist AIRBUS in selecting a configuration for the largest       passenger aircraft in the world that would meet international regulatory       requirements for evacuation.
Towards the end of the design programme,       Airbus again used FSEG and airEXODUS to de-risk the A380 full-scale       evacuation certification trial, saving the manufacturer potentially       millions of euro by identifying possible problems that may occur during       the certification trial and ensuring that the A380 was a safe aircraft       [5.1].
The A380 comfortably passed the evacuation certification trial and       is an aviation success story flying with the worlds leading airlines.
airEXODUS has also been used by the Canadian aircraft manufacturer       BOMBARDIER to assess the evacuation capabilities of a number of their       aircraft while still in the early design stages including the Dash8-400,       C-Series regional jet and the T507 project, ensuring that the proposed       configurations will meet international evacuation certification       requirements [5.2].
Thus airEXODUS is used to save aircraft manufacturers       tens of millions of dollars/euros in wasted development costs and lost       sales revenues by ensuring that the aircraft will pass the certification       trial and thereby also ensures that the design is safe for the travelling       public [5.1, 5.2].
A unique version of buildingEXODUS is being incorporated within the       security system of the Pentagon as part of project Pentagon Shield.
This       makes use of special software features e.g.
parallel computing       implementation, CBRN toxicity model capability (based on the SMARTFIRE       developments) to enable faster than real time determination of optimal       evacuation routes for building occupants during an incident.
Battelle/DoD/Hughes turned to FSEG and buildingEXODUS when US based       evacuation software was found to be inadequate, potentially jeopardising a       multi- million dollar project [5.3].
Up until quite recently, the       SMARTFIRE-EXODUS coupling was the only modelling environment that could       bring together the detailed interaction of people and fire.
The EXODUS and       SMARTFIRE software tools provide fire engineering firms a competitive edge       when bidding for projects, allowing them to win important contracts,       generating significant income for the companies.
An example is the use of       buildingEXODUS, under license, by Hughes Associates to undertake an       assessment of the life safety and emergency management systems within the       Statue of Liberty [5.3].
Following this assessment and remodelling work,       the Statue of Liberty was reopened to the public by President Obama in       2009.
Another example is the use of SMARTFIRE by Fire Engineering firm FDS       on the Greenwich Reach project where it assisted FDS in delivering a       project worth over &#163;1 million to FDS [5.4].
2) Impacts on Practitioners and Professional Services: Work       carried out by FSEG in collecting empirical data to ensure accuracy of the       models of human behaviour utilised in the maritimeEXODUS software [3.7]       also demonstrated that the data used in the International Guidelines on       Ship Evacuation Analysis was incorrect and could lead to an incorrect       assessment of the suitability of a ship design for evacuation.
This led to       changes to the IMO evacuation guidelines and hence to international       practice in ship design [5.5, 5.6].
As already stated under Economic       impact, over the assessment period, the EXODUS and SMARTFIRE software has       been used by over 300 licensees in 32 countries and so has become a       standard engineering design tool for safety analysis, used by fire safety       engineers around the world.
The software is therefore having an impact on       the engineering profession around the world [5.3, 5.4].
3) Impacts on Society, Culture and Creativity: FSEG research into       fire and evacuation has engaged the public, informing them of our       research, educating them concerning risks associated with fire and       evacuation and how they can minimise those risks, as well as informing       future industrial partners and policy makers.
This has been achieved       through several high profile TV and Radio programmes which have featured       our research such as the BBC `Horizon' documentary based on FSEG fire and       evacuation research, entitled, "How to Survive a Disaster" (first       broadcast 10/03/09 on BBC1 [5.7] which attracted a 1.7 million viewer       audience representing 7% of the audience that night [5.8]).
The concepts       presented in this programme were considered so important; the US news       programme ABC Nightline featured a story on its nightly news programme       broadcast on 22/12/09 which drew on much of the material presented in the       Horizon programme [5.9].
Other programs include the Channel 4 documentary       "Terror at Sea" (first broadcast 31/01/12 on Channel 4, [5.10]) which       followed the sinking of the Costa Concordia.
Prof Galea commented on       evacuation issues associated with large cruise ships (the programme       attracted a massive 3.4 million viewers (http://bit.ly/17BJjP1)       which was followed up by an interview on BBC Radio 4 Today (4 March 2012,       (http://bit.ly/GAKPrP).
