     Infantile Nystagmus (IN) is a condition that has both physiological and       psychological effects.
It is associated with reduced vision and decreased       motion perception.
Most sufferers encounter practical difficulties in       everyday life: few can drive a car, and some lose out on education and       employment opportunities.
It has a profound effect on self-esteem and       confidence in social situations.
Foremost centre for diagnosis and treatment       Long considered an untreatable condition with only limited options for       clinical intervention - and therefore largely ignored, IN is now much       better understood by the medical community, sufferers and their families,       following 13 years of collaborative clinical research by the group.
Leicester has become the foremost centre for the diagnosis and treatment       of IN in the UK and has made significant advances in meeting the clinical       needs of the UK's estimated 88,000 sufferers.
The group sees more than 600       patients a year; some 53% of patients, and 66% of new referrals, come from       outside the service area, including private referrals from Europe and       further afield.
The Development Manager for the Nystagmus Network, says: "The Group's         strengths come from the experience, breadth of skills and dedication of         its members...
The combination of clinical and research activities in         Leicester is a huge advantage to the tens of thousands of families in         the UK affected by nystagmus.
Not only is the Group able to provide         patients with much needed information about nystagmus (often not         routinely available elsewhere), they also offer treatment and the hope         of new treatment options in the future."
(A)     Widespread use of the gene test       The discovery of the FRMD7 gene has opened up new avenues for       identifying the mechanisms underlying the development of IN, which are       currently unknown.
The genetic test is used in eight centres in the UK,       US, Israel, Germany, France and Spain (B).
A paper in Nature       Genetics about the gene sparked major interest from the research       community.
There are now a total of 36 publications about mutation of       function in the gene.
The group was asked to write the gene review about       IN in 2009 and updated this in 2011 (C).
Genetic counselling       The group discovered that IN caused by FRMD7 mutations is       inherited in an X-linked manner.
Women who are carriers have a 50% chance       of transmitting the mutation to their sons, and 50% of their daughters       will become carriers.
Once the disease-causing mutation has been       identified in the family, carrier testing for at-risk female relatives and       prenatal testing for pregnancies at increased risk are possible.
This       enables parents and prospective parents to know what to expect from future       pregnancies and plan accordingly.
Use of new technology       Optical Coherence Tomography (OCT) is a non-invasive and safe diagnostic       method, which has resulted in considerable time-saving for the patient and       cost-saving for the NHS.
Measurements and collection of genetic material       can be performed in 20-30 minutes with minimal discomfort.
OCT can be used       to visualise the eyes in 3D, in a way that has not been possible       previously, even in premature infants.
The development has received       considerable interest from the media (D).
Development of drug treatments       Leicester is the leading centre internationally for testing       pharmacological treatments for nystagmus.
The 2007 trial has led to the       prescription of the drugs memantine and gabapentin for control of the       symptoms of IN, and they have been shown to improve visual acuity and       dampen movement, leading to improvements in quality of life, including       enabling some sufferers to start learning to drive.
Gottlob is the only       ophthalmologist in the UK with a licence to prescribe these drugs       (normally available from a neurologist).
She is currently formulating       national guidelines on the diagnosis and management of IN for the Royal       College of Ophthalmologists, aiming at accreditation by NICE.
Insight and support       Nystagmus sufferers reveal almost universally negative feelings about       themselves and their condition.
Many feel abandoned by health       professionals.
"'Go away and forget about it' ...that's basically what         I've been told all my life" and "I went for 40 years and nobody         touched me, nobody discussed it.
It's on my medical records and yet         nobody was out there for me.
So there was no help."
are some of the       responses to a quality-of-life survey.
The group works closely with Europe's leading nystagmus charity, the       Nystagmus Network, in providing crucial information to sufferers and the       general public about how nystagmus affects daily lives.
One parent wrote       via the Network, letter: "Through the Nystagmus Network I came into         contact with Professor Gottlob and her incredible team at Leicester         Hospital.
I have never met anyone more inspiring, and knew from that day         forward my daughter was being seen by the best person in the world on         the subject of Nystagmus."
(A) The group has contributed to a       book commissioned by the Network and available on Amazon: The Challenge of       Nystagmus (E).
