     The research from which the impact was derived was seeded by a       preliminary phase of work       conducted prior to Andrews' arrival at Worcester in 2010, when The Royal       British Legion had       sponsored a series of four multidisciplinary seminars that sought to       explore contemporary and       historical practices of remembrance: a need had been identified by the       then Chief Executive of the       National Memorial Arboretum, Charles Bagot Jewitt, to understand why       remembrance had       achieved such significant popular resonance over the preceding decade.
Andrews organized these       first seminars with psychologist Dr Nigel Hunt (Nottingham University) and       Bagot Jewitt, with three       held at the National Memorial Arboretum and one, at which Andrews spoke,       at the headquarters of       The Royal British Legion, Haig House, London.
Attendees included Chris       Simpkins, Director of       The Royal British Legion and John Farmer, National Vice Chairman of The       Royal British Legion.
As a direct result of the success of The Royal British Legion-sponsored       seminars, from 2010-13       Andrews organized a further five seminars, and four day-conferences at the       National Memorial       Arboretum, in conjunction with the Women's History Network (Midlands       region).
These were self-funding,       with each seminar attended by practitioners working in a range of areas       connected to       remembrance as well as academics and students.
`Non-academic' attendees       worked, for example,       in non-formal education roles with the NMA and The Royal British Legion,       in museum and archive       interpretation and access, in veterans associations and with the War       Widows Association; they       also included members of the general public and members of women's       organisations and attracted       groups campaigning for new memorials including, for example, for a       memorial for the Women's       Land Army.
The most recent conference in the REF period (16 March 2013),       which explored       Women, War and Work, was funded by the Economic History Society.
The seminars, conferences       and the website that supports them (http://www.remembrancereseminars.org.uk)       now thus operate       as a resource for those working in both practical and academic terms in       the field of remembrance.
The seminars provided the foundation for an edited collection, Lest         We Forget: Remembrance and         Commemoration (History Press, 2011), which includes over 30 short       chapters (including two       written by Andrews).
The book was directed as much towards a general       readership and       professionals working in contexts of remembrance, as it was to academics,       and hence its inclusion       both as a reference to the research in section 3 of this study and       as part of the cultural/societal       impact derived from the research.
Publication and reproduction permission       costs were       underwritten by The Royal British Legion and publication was timed to       coincide with The Royal       British Legion's 90th birthday and the NMA's 10th       anniversary celebrations.
The book has since       been utilised by programme makers and media researchers developing       documentaries and       programmes on remembrance &#8212; for example ITV's programme Farewell to         Wotton Bassett (20       August 2011) and the BBC documentary The Falklands: Healing the Wounds       (2 April 2012).
Andrews' work also led to her being interviewed by BBC Herford and       Worcester (eg on the       Falklands War, 2/04/2012, and on WWI centenary preparations, 19/10/2013)       and by Radio 4's       Today programme on remembrance and mourning following the death of Prince       Friso of Holland       (15/8/2013).
Andrews' research on the recent phenomenon of the mediation,       domestication and personalisation       of remembrance, both in the military and populist spheres, informed       developments at the NMA       itself from 2008.
These developments included, for example, the work of       TellTale Co       Interpretations Specialists and The Tourism Company in formulating a       successful Heritage Lottery       Fund bid which secured development of a &#163;2M Remembrance Interpretation       Centre within the &#163;15       million redevelopment of the Arboretum's visitor facilities, due to open       in 2015.
The NMA attracts, at present, approximately 400,000 visitors each year;       these include not only the       general public but also members of the armed forces and their friends and       families.
There is also a       significant number of overtly educational visits, including school visits.
The NMA expects footfall to       grow once the redeveloped visitor facilities and the Interpretation Centre       are completed.
Andrews' ongoing work with the NMA and her associated research and       publication on       remembrance is continuing to grow in impact in the run-up to the 2014       World War 1 centenary: in       the REF period, she led University of Worcester involvement in local       activity to mark the centenary,       in partnership with local museums, archives, and groups including the       Women's History Network,       the NMA and The Western Front Association.
She collaborated with       colleagues at Worcestershire       County Archive &amp; Archaeology Service to produce a book on `Voices of       World War 1' (Amberley       Publishing, forthcoming) for use in Worcestershire libraries and schools.
Her input into the       Worcestershire WW1 Centenary Advisory Group over a period of two years       supported       development of its Worcestershire County Council Archive &amp; Archaeology       Service-led successful       &#163;353,000 HLF bid, `Worcester World War One 100' (HG-12-06354 &#163;353,000) -       the largest such       HLF award made outside London; she also supported a variety of bids to       national funding sources       made by Worcester City Council and Worcestershire County Council for a       project on       Worcestershire war memorials.
She continues to work with the NMA, with its       most recent seminar,       `Interpretation and Remembrance : the challenges of the WWI Centenary'       (held post the REF       period in September 2013) attracting over 50 attendees; her collaboration       with Staffordshire       Record Office and Museums Service's HLF project, `Children on the Move:       Evacuation to       Staffordshire' (2010-12) led to publication of the book, Children on         the Move: Evacuation in         Staffordshire (distributed to libraries, participants and schools),       an NMA event for which she was       keynote speaker, and a paper with Matthew Blake of Staffordshire Archives       Service at the 2013,       IHR-sponsored 'Enhancing Impact: Inspiring Excellence Conference',       University of Birmingham,       organised with the National Archives.
In July 2013, in collaboration with       Prof Karen Hunt of Keele       University, Andrews was appointed as a regional advisor to the BBC for the       AHRC-BBC       Partnership `Our Place in the First World War', to support BBC development       of its programming to       mark the centenary.
http://www.ahrc.ac.uk/News-and-Events/News/Pages/BBC-WW1-at-Home-project-researchers-announced-.aspx
