     The ECG is used routinely in medicine to assess the health status of the       heart.
In addition to       routine monitoring of heart function (e.g.
in the general practice setting       or prior to surgery), the ECG       can provide critical insights into various clinical conditions, such as a       heart attack, disorders of       heart rhythm or an enlargement of the heart (as seen in heart failure).
However, the interpretation       of the ECG is complex and requires the reader to have knowledge, skill and       practice to undertake       the task accurately.
The University of Glasgow's wealth of research on the       normal ECG, showing       the differences associated with age, sex and race, particularly on the       height of the ST segment,       has driven the revision of clinical guidelines defining the ECG criteria       for diagnosing heart attacks.
Influencing international guidelines on heart attack       An ECG is considered to be the single most important clinical test       in the rapid, initial evaluation of       patients experiencing chest pain due to suspected myocardial infarction       (heart attack).
In 2009,       Macfarlane was one of 10 experts who revised the joint recommendations of       the American Heart       Association (AHA), the American College of Cardiology and the Heart Rhythm       Society.
The revised       guidelinesa directly adopted Macfarlane's findings published in       2001, which defined different ST-height       thresholds for men and women and stipulated two sets of age-based       thresholds among       men.1 In 2012, the AHA joined the World Heart Federation and       the European Society of Cardiology       (ESC) to publish the `Third universal definition of myocardial       infarction'.a In this guideline, the ST       segment elevation thresholds for diagnosing heart attacks are again based       directly on the       University of Glasgow's work (Table 3 in the document and reference 38).
This consensus       guideline from the leading global cardiovascular authorities is the most       powerful guidance currently       available to cardiologists and standardises the diagnosis of heart attack       around the world.
Commercial adoption of the Glasgow Program by the medical devices           industry       Correct interpretation of the ECG, particularly in the ambulance or the       accident and emergency       department, is usually the basis for immediate treatment       and/or subsequent diagnostic tests.
Whilst cardiologists are expert at interpreting the ECG, these specialists       are not readily available in       all clinical settings.
Automated ECG interpretation provides a solution to       this problem.
The global market for ECG monitoring systems is estimated to reach more       than US$800 million in       the next few years.
Coupled with the rising incidence of heart disease,       there is a highly lucrative       market for automated ECG interpretation software.
The Glasgow Program is a       major competitor in       this market and remains at the cutting edge of electrocardiographic       research.
As such it has been       adopted commercially by some of the world's leading electro-medical device       manufacturers in       various product formats, all of which have gained approval from the FDA.
Firstly, the Glasgow Program has been integrated into ECG machines that       acquire, read out and       interpret ECGs.
Cardiac Science, a US-based market-leading company with       customers in over 100       countries worldwide, offers this type of product through its Burdick       brand [models 8300 &amp; 8500].
Mindray, a leading Chinese medical device manufacturer, now uses the       program in its R3         electrocardiograph.
Secondly, the Glasgow Program has been embedded       into computer software       packages that accompany Holter monitor ECG systems: Telemed Solutions'       flagship product is the       TM-12 recorder.
Thirdly, Draeger use the software in its patient       monitoring system &#8212; the Infinity&#174;         Central Station.
Finally, the Glasgow Program has been combined with       defibrillator/patient monitor       devices such as the Physio-Control Lifepak&#174;15.b       Physio-Control states that:     "It is important that our product use an ECG analysis program that is         widely used in clinical         practice and is recognized as being among best in class.
The Glasgow         program meets those         requirements.
The Glasgow program gave us an advantage over our previous         generation         product in that the Glasgow program adjusts its STEMI criteria based on         patient gender and,         for men, on patient age."
&#8212; Principal Scientist, Physio-Control Inc.c     [text removed for publication].
Inclusion of the Glasgow Program in the       above devices allows faster       recording and immediate interpretation of ECGs, thereby reducing, and even       eliminating, the need       for routine manual ECG interpretation and filing.
The read-out format of       the Program contains       headline statements (such as `CONSIDER ACUTE STEMI' and `SIGNIFICANT       ARRHYTHMIA'),       which can aid initial diagnosis.
Such headline statements are especially       important for emergency       ambulance services, which need to decide quickly whether a patient should       be taken to a heart       specialist centre, for example.
Furthermore, the Glasgow Program is one of       the few automated       systems that can accurately interpret ECGs from birth, thereby enabling       clinicians to use this       diagnostic tool in a paediatric setting.
Since 2008, over 40,000 devices containing the Glasgow Program have been       sold worldwide to a       range of end-users.d For example, Physio-Control has sold a       significant number of Lifepak&#174;15       devices to UK ambulance services, including around 740 to the       London Ambulance Service (LAS).c       LAS responds to an estimated 1.5 million emergency calls per annum and has       reported an       increase in survival following a cardiac arrest from 12% to 32% in the       last five years.
It is       conceivable that the rapid and reliable interpretation of ECGs with the       Glasgow Program will have       contributed to this improvement.e Similarly, Physio-Control       Inc. has sold devices to fire services as       well as other medical service vehicles, ships and hospitals.c       As each of these 40,000 devices will       undoubtedly be used on multiple patients, the software is estimated as       being used to interpret the       ECGs of millions of patients annually.
Influence on practice-changing clinical trials and epidemiological           studies       The Glasgow Program has been used in a number of large multi-centre       randomised controlled       clinical trials and epidemiological studies.
The dedicated University of       Glasgow Core Labf acts as a       partner to a number of stakeholders in clinical trials by providing a       standardised approach to ECG       interpretation that is used in all centres.
Since 2008, the Glasgow       Program and Core Lab have       been involved in over 12 trials and studies.
These trials have established       major clinical outcomes of       international significance, for example the benefits of statins in       preventing cardiovascular disease,       which have themselves led to changes in guidelines and clinical practice.
