     The Cassini Missions     Cassini-Huygens is a flagship-class NASA-ESA-ASI robotic spacecraft sent       to the Saturn system.
It has studied the planet and its many natural       satellites since arriving there in 2004, also observing Jupiter, the       Heliosphere, and testing the theory of relativity.
Sixteen European       countries and the United States make up the team responsible for       designing, building, flying and collecting data from the Cassini orbiter       and its Huygens probe.
Cassini completed its initial four-year mission to       explore the Saturn System in June 2008 and the first extended mission,       called the Cassini Equinox Mission, in September 2010.
Cassini's discovery of an icy plume shooting from one of Saturn's moons,       and subsequent observations of the spray containing complex organic       chemicals have caused much debate and conjecture on the part of       astronomers.
Brilliantov's work has helped to identify warm, liquid water       ocean encased beneath the surface of Enceladus' moon as being the most       likely cause of the icy geysers.
Evaluation of flightpath     Brilliantov's work was used by NASA in the planning of the Cassini       mission in 2009-2010 in an absolutely fundamental way.
The contribution is       summarised in a statement by one of the Principal Investigators of the       Cassini Mission, Prof. L. Esposito, who wrote that:     "... the model of Schmidt et al 2008 (J. Schmidt, N. Brilliantov, F.         Spahn, and S. Kempf, Nature, 451 (2008) 685) has been used to evaluate         the planned flybys of the spacecraft of the Cassini mission in         2009-2010, allowing the mission designers to calculate the danger of the         Cassini Spacecraft colliding with dust in the Enceladus plumes and jets.
This has allowed NASA's Cassini Project to reduce the hazardous impacts         of the probe with the ice grains within the Enceladus plume."
Economic impact     The total cost of the mission was about $3.26 billion, which was       paid for by the US, the European and the Italian Space Agencies.
Had the       Cassini spacecraft collided with the plumes due to failure to take account       of the research underpinning this impact case, this significant investment       would have been largely lost.
Cultural impact     The team's research enabled the Cassini mission to carry out a very close       sweep of the moon and capture unique data that provided further evidence       of the presence of a subterranean sea and verification of the chemical       composition of the moon's atmosphere.
The significance of the presence of the liquid water sea has implications       for mankind.
Tidal heating is keeping Enceladus warm and hotspots       associated with the fountains have been pinpointed.
With heat, organic       chemicals and, potentially liquid water, Enceladus could be a place where       primitive life forms might evolve.
Questions surrounding Enceladus'       "astrobiological potential" are at the heart of many investigations being       conducted in the Solstice Mission.
Because of its large astrobiological       potential a forthcoming European mission "Enceladus Explorer" is       planned including a base station on the Enceladus surface and ice drilling       to examine the liquid ocean for any traces of microorganisms.
The mission has inspired extensive media and public interest on a global       scale.
The discovery of the underground ocean and potential life in outer       space has, understandably, been the source of widespread media coverage       reaching millions of people (e.g.
New York Times articles reaching almost       2 million readers plus online hits).
Social media statistics also illustrate how inspiring this story is to       the general population.
As of June 2013 #Enceladus had almost 35,000       mentions (76% of which were retweets showing that the stories have gone       viral) and Life on Saturn is searched for by 5,400 people a month on       Google.
NASA has a comprehensive outreach programme and has disseminated the       findings of the Cassini mission to millions of people including well used       teaching materials in schools.
One of the top documentary films of 2010 "7         Wonders of the Solar System "annotates" The seven wonder of our         solar system are discussed: Enceladus' geysers, Rings of Saturn,         Jupiter's Great Red Spot, the Asteroid Belt, Mars' Olympus Mons, the         Surface of the Sun, and planet Earth"; it has been watched by       several hundred thousand people.
