     University of Glasgow research has exerted marked impact on patient care       by improving clinical       management and widening access to thrombolytic therapy.
International and national guidelines for AIS     Integral to the EMEA licensing conditions for alteplase, Lees proposed       the concept of a time-window-extension       study (ECASS III) to explore the wider use and benefits of alteplase among       patients with AIS.2 This study was instrumental in ensuring       that the EMEA extended the approved       timeframe for use of alteplase from 3 hours up to 4.5 hours (2011).
The       SITS-MOST and ECASS       III studies are extensively cited as key supporting evidence directly       driving clinical guideline       recommendations that endorse the safe use of alteplase (rtPA).
The 2008 ESO guidelinea states: "intravenous rtPA (0.9           mg/kg body weight, maximum 90           mg), with 10% of the dose given as a bolus followed by a 60-minute           infusion, is           recommended within 4.5 hours of onset of ischaemic stroke."
(Class         I, Level A,; p53).
The 2009 joint American Stroke Association/American Heart Association         (ASA/AHA)         Science Advisoryb recommended that: "rtPA should be           administered to eligible patients who           can be treated in the time period of 3 to 4.5 hours after stroke."
(Class I Recommendation,         Level of Evidence B; p2947).
The UK National Institute for Health Care and Excellence (NICE) 2012         review of         Technology Appraisal Guidance 122c advised: "Alteplase is           recommended within its           marketing authorisation for treating acute ischaemic stroke in adults           if treatment is started           as early as possible within 4.5 hours of onset of stroke symptoms, and           intracranial           haemorrhage has been excluded by appropriate imaging techniques."
(1.1; p20).
Other UK guidelines influencing treatment practice also align with       international recommendations       on the use of alteplase.
For example, the 2008 Scottish Intercollegiate       Guidelines Network (SIGN)       Guidance 108 recommendation 2.4.1 (p4)d and the 2012 Royal       College of Physicians National       Clinical Guidelines for Stroke recommendations 4.6.1A (xiii) and 4.6.1B       (xiv).e     University of Glasgow researchers are internationally recognised in the       field of acute stroke care.
Professor Kennedy Lees has held key positions in clinical trials,       including the landmark ECASS III       study of alteplase (sections 2 and 3).
Furthermore, as founding member of       the SITS-ISTR Steering       Committee and Chair of VISTA, Lees has driven the creation of patient       registries to aid on-going       assessment of the clinical benefits and safety of treatments for stroke.
Lees currently serves as       President elect of the European Stroke Organisation (ESO) and influences       European guideline       development strategy through chairmanship of this organisation's main       committees.
Audit of alteplase use by the NHS     Clinical guidelines represent the best available scientific evidence and       are considered the gold-standard       in directing clinical practice.
The above revisions to the ESOa       and ASA/AHAb guidelines       encouraged clinicians to adopt recommendations on the use of alteplase up       to 4.5 hours, even       though this recommendation was beyond the scope of the alteplase product       licence at the time       (EMEA only granting an extended use licence in 2011).
The National       Sentinel Stroke Clinical Audit       reportf confirmed the influence of guidelines to encourage       wider use of alteplase.
This audit of NHS       England, Wales and Northern Ireland showed an increased use of       thrombolysis (within 3 hours)       from 1.8% in 2008 to 5% in 2010.
The Sentinel report also highlighted that       levels of alteplase       usage could be improved: 14% of eligible patients were sampled, with only       5% actually receiving       treatment.
Nevertheless, the audit authors predicted that uptake of       thrombolysis would increase as       more centres provided acute stroke services and with the further education       of healthcare       professionals and the public.
They forecasted that use of alteplase would       rise to 16% by increasing       the treatment window to 4.5 hours and to 26% if patents older than 80       years proved eligible.
Extending the treatment window for thrombolysis is cost effective     The 2012 NICE Technology Appraisalc considered whether giving       alteplase within 4.5 hours of       stroke was a cost-effective use of NHS resources.
Within this assessment,       the manufacturer's       submission and appraisal committee were in agreement that ECASS III2       represented the `the only       directly relevant trial' and primary source (respectively) providing       evidence on the clinical-effectiveness       of an extension of the treatment window from 3 to 4.5 hours &#8212; the ECASS       III2 trial is       discussed in detail throughout sections 3 and 4 of this document.
An       economic model containing       data from both SITS-MOST1 (background patient population) and       ECASS III2 (for the 3 to 4.5 hour       window effect) showed an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER, used       to evaluate the cost       impact of medical interventions) of &#163;6,272 per quality adjusted life-year       (QALY, an indicator of       improved health).
The NICE appraisal committee agreed that: "alteplase         either dominated standard         care or had an ICER below &#163;10,000 per QALY gained depending on the         time-to-treatment window         considered," concluding that treating AIS with alteplase within up       to 4.5 hours after onset of stroke       symptoms was a cost-effective use of NHS resources (4.10, p20).
Therefore,       through their key       involvement in the ECASS III study, University of Glasgow researchers have       directly influenced the       expansion of NHS-funded treatment for stroke patients.
Acute stroke care saves lives     The provision of acute stroke care has benefitted patients by reducing       the risk of death following an       event.
The National Sentinel Stroke Clinical Audit found that deaths       within the first 30 days after       stroke dropped from 24% in 2004 to 17% in 2010, while admissions to a       stroke unit rose from 46%       to 88% in the same period.f The 2013 Scottish Stroke Care Audit       states that deaths from stroke       among people aged less than 75 years dropped by 60% in the 15 years to       2010, exceeding the       original target of 50%.g Furthermore, death rates in Scotland       have continued to fall, with a 5.7%       reduction recorded between 2010 and 2011.
NHS Scotland has also set       targets to ensure that       most stroke patients (90%) are admitted to a stroke unit within 24 hours       of being hospitalised.
Early       access to dedicated stroke care increases the possibility that eligible       patients will receive alteplase       within the 4.5 window timeframe defined by University of Glasgow research.
Facilitating education and training     The need for appropriately trained healthcare professionals working       within specialist acute stroke       units and raising of public awareness about stroke were highlighted in the       ESOa (Class II, Level B       p7 and Class I, Level A; p17) and NICEh guidelines (1.4.1.1 and       1.4.1.2; p14-15).
The University       of Glasgow has used its internationally-recognised research knowledge and       pivotal roles with       global collaborative groups to help foster best practice in stroke       treatment to ensure wider adoption       of thrombolysis treatment in accordance with guideline recommendations.
In       collaboration with       Professor Gary Ford (Newcastle), Lees developed an education programme for       stroke specialist       registrars comprising seven thrombolysis training days, as well as master       classes to ensure more       widespread training of UK healthcare practitioners and to establish       thrombolysis treatment as the       standard of care.
Through consultant training, the University of Glasgow       has helped to ensure that       every UK hospital offers a specialist stroke service with regional       thrombolysis.f
