     Moving Memories was inspired by Norris Nicholson's search for       finding ways to reconnect archival visual histories with wider audiences       and the NWFA's expertise in public engagement.
This team- based initiative       involved Nicholson, NWFA Director, Marion Hewitt, and Karen Gabay, an       independent film-maker from Troubadour Cultural Heritage Foundation       (TCHF), a production company committed to strengthening cross-cultural       relations through heritage-related work in schools and communities.
Nicholson, Hewitt and Gabay co-wrote the funding brief for a public       engagement project linking MMU and residents in Moss Side and Hulme       through the use of archive film footage.
It was financed by MMU, which       pioneered support of two-way collaboration to reach out to local       communities [A].
MMU was one of the founding members of the       Manchester Beacon Network [http://www.manchesterbeacon.org]       and Moving Memories won financial support as a result of online       public voting [B].
The project generated considerable public interest and involved fourteen       community organizations.
Nicholson contextualised relevant NWFA archive       material and took part in interviewing, memorabilia events and workshops,       co-run with Gabay.
Gabay devised the shooting scripts and edits.
Hewitt,       as project budget holder and manager, facilitated technical and legal       access to the filmic material and transfer of film-stock for community and       individual screening.
The 30-minute film which resulted used historic BBC       footage from the NWFA and oral testimony from local people of Caribbean,       Sikh and Irish heritage to create a unique visual history of personal       experiences of migration and settlement in Manchester since the 1950s.
Stakeholders were involved as collaborators and beneficiaries throughout       the project.
Research and impact were speculative and evolutionary, as       contacts, events and outreach activities, publicised via word of mouth and       online media networks, escalated.
Informal, loosely structured interviews,       based on open-ended consultation with local people contributed to a       snowballing effect of community enquiries, ensuring trust and interest in       the project before Gabay commenced her camerawork.
About 100 local residents volunteered knowledge, responses and       experiences, including high-school pupils, teachers, teaching assistants       and people from different faith communities.
Approximately 95% were from       BME backgrounds.
The personal was set within wider migration narratives       using images screened on portable equipment at community events like       Jamaica Day, the Jamaican national celebration, in shops, faith centres,       Urbis (exhibition/museum venue), and Trinity High School, a local       secondary school.
Archival outreach introduced hundreds of residents to       material in the NWFA of which they were unaware, connecting them with a       heritage that generated pride in their contribution to the broader       post-war narrative of Manchester's history.
The project encouraged       personal and social confidence by helping local people shape their own       stories about migration and living in Manchester.
Memories inspired by       archive film footage forged relationships between different age groups.
For older residents, the project revived both positive and painful       memories of how the district had changed with redevelopment, re-housing       and road building schemes.
For younger ones, who developed skills as       interviewers and listeners, it raised awareness of the pleasures and       problems an older generation had experienced, settling in a different       culture.
Feedback from both participants and audience members underlines the       powerful impact that the research had on increasing civic pride and       intergenerational understanding.
As one contributor says, "I was         nervous about taking part but you and your team made me feel relaxed.
I         think I earned a little bit of fame for it too as I was stopped in the         Trafford Centre by a shop assistant who saw me on TV" (Moss Side       resident and contributor).
As the Cultural Services and Events Manager at       Manchester Library testifies, "Films like this when they are shot with         such obvious respect have a powerful effect on local people".
Another resident says "The film is a valid and positive snapshot of         the unity and sense of belonging...this film is important because it         challenges negative stereotypes" (Full details of audience and       participant feedback available on file [C])     The Black Screen Heritage Conference, in partnership with the Imperial       War Museum (IWM), showed Moving Memories  as a work in progress,       London, July 2009 [D: 92 participants].
The film then premiered at       Afewe (The Grants Arms) pub in Hulme in October 2009 to great acclaim from       local people, politicians and academics.
[E: 100 people attended.]
Screenings were held during Black History Month (October 2009), at the       Powerhouse Library, Hulme, Styal Prison, Manchester Central Library, the       Zion Arts Centre [http://movingzion.eventbrite.com]       and elsewhere in Moss Side.
It was shown at academic venues, such as the       Texting Obama: Politics/Poetics/Popular Culture conference (MMU 2010) [http://www.hssr.mmu.ac.uk/annual-research-programme/annual-         research-programme-arp/texting-obama/].
It featured on ITV's Granada       Reports on 23 October 2009.
It was broadcast on prime-time television, on       BBC's Inside Out, on 25th January 2010 [F] and was discussed on       BBC Radio Manchester, 25/8/2010.
Other screening venues included: Band on       the Wall, Manchester, 5/7/2010 (93 people); Buxton Film Festival,       Derbyshire, 16/7/2010 (40 people); Gorton Monastery, Manchester, 1/8/2010:       70 people [E].
6 more showings, in July/August 2010, included       Mossacre Housing, Manchester (90 people).
In 2011 it was screened at Zion       Centre, Manchester, 26/3/2011 (80 people) and at Powerhouse Library,       27/10/2011 (18 people).
It was shown in the Media Tent at the Moss Side       Carnival in 2011, 30 years after the riots of 1981 (2,500 people) [G],       and at the Manchester Histories Festival, Manchester Town Hall in 2012 [H].
It is a case study on the website of the National Co-Ordinating Centre for       Public Engagement [I].
It won a "Learning on Screen" award from       the British Universities Film and Video Council [J] and was       shortlisted for a Times Higher Education award, under the `Most       outstanding Contribution to Local Community' category [K].
Impact       generation as an on-going process was integral to the project's design, an       important model of how public engagement should value the knowledge and       experiences of community partners.
The research process helped shape a       methodological model of national and international significance,       illustrating how archive and documentary film, by triggering memories, can       prompt inter-generational dialogue and historical understanding of how the       micro-personalities of places change over time.
The film's effectiveness       in stimulating public engagement was recognized in a successful &#163;60,000       application, by Hewitt of the NWFA, to the Museum, Libraries and Archives       Learning Transformation Fund, which funded two further community-based       initiatives linking visual heritage (archive film) to people's memories       about places and people: Ice Cream: Manchester's Little Italy,       shown at the Buxton Fringe Festival,       http://www.buxtonfringe.org.uk/reviews2011fil.html       and Belle Vue: The Gardens that John Built:       http://www.mmu.ac.uk/news/events/1372/.
[L] The grant also funded training with community groups in       Burnley, to develop cross-cultural and inter-generational response to       archive film, delivered by the Workers' Film Association: http://www.wfamedia.co.uk/index.html       .
This resulted in three short films.
From Pakistan to Pendle:       Muslim women interviewed family members about moving to Lancashire from       Pakistan; Allotments: a film about their allotments, by a group       with mental health problems; Man of Colne: about Wallace Hartley,       band leader on the Titanic, by a local history group.
Each community group       received copies of their films, and a public showing took place at the ACE       Centre, Burnley, May 2010, as part of the Learning Revolutions Festival: http://www.pendleleisuretrust.co.uk/index.php/plt-facilities/the-ace-centre     Nicholson has recently initiated another research project, building on       approaches developed by Moving Memories, in response to the AHRC       call `Digital Transformations in Community Research Co-Production'       (submitted June 2013).
DigiREACH: Digital Repurposing of Archives for         Community Histories aims to explore community histories and heritage       by `repurposing' archival materials.
It is a collaboration between the       University of Huddersfield, the film archive in the Centre for South Asian       Studies, Cambridge [http://www.s-asian.cam.ac.uk/films.html]       and community partners in West Yorkshire, including people of British       South Asian heritage, people with learning disabilities, British Romani       and Travellers.
