 1) Economic Impact: During the assessment period, UoG has generated over &#163;837,000 from licensing the EXODUS software to 250 licensees in 32 countries.
These licensees, ranging from engineering consultancies, regulatory authorities and national laboratories, use the software to explore the evacuation safety of complex structures, ensuring that they are safe and fit for purpose thereby generating considerable consultancy income.
Example projects that have used the EXODUS software include the Airbus A330-X, A340 and the initial design of the Airbus A380 [5.1].
FSEG and the airEXODUS software were used in the preliminary design of the multi-billion euro A380 where it was used to assist AIRBUS in selecting a configuration for the largest passenger aircraft in the world that would meet international regulatory requirements for evacuation [3e].
Towards the end of the design programme, Airbus again used FSEG and airEXODUS to de-risk the A380 full-scale evacuation certification trial, saving the manufacturer potentially millions of euro by identifying possible problems that may occur during the certification trial and ensuring that the A380 was a safe aircraft [3f, 5.1].
The A380 comfortably passed the evacuation certification trial and is an aviation success story flying with the worlds leading airlines.
airEXODUS has also been used by the Canadian aircraft manufacturer BOMBARDIER to assess the evacuation capabilities of a number of their aircraft while still in the early design stages including the Dash8-400, C-Series regional jet and the T507 project, ensuring that the proposed configurations will meet international evacuation certification requirements [5.2].
airEXODUS was also recently (2010) used by JET AVIATION to demonstrate that a private VIP configured B747 and by Mitsubishi (2008) in the design of their new regional jet, would satisfy international evacuation certification requirements [5.3].
Thus airEXODUS is used to save aircraft manufacturers tens of millions of dollars/euros in wasted development costs and lost sales revenues by ensuring that the aircraft will pass the certification trial and thereby also ensures that the design is safe for the travelling public [5.1-5.3].
A unique version of buildingEXODUS is being incorporated within the security system of the Pentagon as part of project Pentagon Shield.
This makes use of special software features e.g.
parallel computing implementation, CBRN toxicity model capability to enable faster than real time determination of optimal evacuation routes for building occupants during an incident.
Battelle/DoD/Hughes turned to FSEG and buildingEXODUS when US based evacuation software was found to be inadequate, potentially jeopardising a multi-million dollar project [5.4].
The EXODUS software tools provide fire engineering firms a competitive edge when bidding for projects, allowing them to win important contracts, generating significant income for the companies.
An example is the use of buildingEXODUS, under license, by Hughes Associates to undertake an assessment of the life safety and emergency management systems within the Statue of Liberty [5.4].
Following this assessment and remodelling work, the Statue of Liberty was reopened to the public by President Obama in 2009.
2) Impact on Public Policy: The AASK database was developed primarily to assist the design of better aircraft evacuation models by providing factual information on how people behave in real emergencies.
It has also been used to inform international legislation on aircraft safety and airline staffing of cabin crew e.g., a paper based on AASK data providing a detailed analysis of cabin crew numbers and their effectiveness in controlling safe evacuation [3.2] was cited in an Australian Senate report as part of the Australian government debate concerning a proposal to reduce cabin crew numbers [5.5].
The research was again cited on the floor of the Australian Senate during the parliamentary debate concerning cabin crew staffing levels [5.6] and again in a House of Representatives Standing Committee report in 2011 [5.7].
The result has been to maintain the number of cabin crew required on Australian passenger aircraft, ensuring that the Australian aviation industry remains amongst the safest in the world.
3) Impacts on Practitioners and Professional Services: FSEG was the first to collect human factors data defining how quickly passengers respond to evacuation alarms on ships at sea during semi-unannounced drills [3.6].
This work demonstrated that the data used in the International Guidelines on Ship Evacuation Analysis in IMO MSC Circ 1033 was incorrect and could lead to an incorrect assessment of the suitability of a ship design for evacuation.
The data and analysis was presented to and accepted by IMO at their Fire Protection subcommittee meeting (FP51) held in January 2007 and now forms part of the revised International Guidelines document, IMO MSC Circ 1238 [5.8].
The data incorporated in MSC Circ 1238 are used around the world in ship evacuation analysis to demonstrate that passenger ships can be safely evacuated [5.9].
As already stated under Economic impact, over the assessment period, the EXODUS suite of evacuation software has been used by over 250 licensees in 32 countries and so has become a standard engineering design tool for safety analysis, used by fire safety engineers around the world.
The software is therefore having an impact on the engineering profession around the world [5.4].
4) Impacts on Society, Culture and Creativity: FSEG research into evacuation has engaged the public, informing them of our research, educating them concerning risks associated with fire and evacuation and how they can minimise those risks, as well as informing future industrial partners and policy makers.
This has been achieved through several high profile TV and Radio programmes which have featured our research such as the BBC `Horizon' documentary based on FSEG fire and evacuation research, entitled, "How to Survive a Disaster" (first broadcast 10/03/09 on BBC1 (http://bbc.in/15noerY) which attracted a 1.7 million viewer audience representing 7% of the audience that night (http://bit.ly/17BHAJx)).
The concepts presented in this programme were considered so important; the US news programme ABC Nightline featured a story on its nightly news programme broadcast on 22/12/09 which drew on much of the material presented in the Horizon programme [5.10].
Other programs include the Channel 4 documentary "Terror at Sea" (first broadcast 31/01/12 on Channel 4, (http://bit.ly/17BIXHU)) which followed the sinking of the Costa Concordia.
Prof Galea commented on evacuation issues associated with large cruise ships (the programme attracted a massive 3.4 million viewers (http://bit.ly/17BJjP1)) which was followed up by an interview on BBC Radio 4 Today (4 March 2012, (http://bit.ly/GAKPrP)).
