     Growth charts are used universally in hospitals and baby clinics to       monitor child health and are also important to parents seeking reassurance       that their child is healthy and thriving.
However, growth charts are       complex clinical tools that can mislead as well as inform.
Successful,       accurate use of charts relies on robust design and unambiguous       instructions for their use.
Professor Wright's research has supported the       adoption of the WHO Child Growth Standard (2006) in the UK.
Moreover, it       has initiated the development of improved Child Growth Charts for the UK,       which are more comprehensible to health staff and parents.
In addition,       this work has provided improved professional guidance and training to       health professionals involved in weighing and measuring babies and       children as well as identifying overweight and obesity.
Introduction of new child growth charts     The new early years child growth charts were launched in May 2009       (England)a and January 2010 (Scotland).b A set of A5       charts is currently distributed to those caring for every newborn in the       UK through their Personal Child Health Record.
The A4 clinical charts are       also widely used in hospitals and primary care, with 500,000 copies       distributed between April 2012 and April 2013.c In May 2012,       charts for school-age children were launched.d By April 2013       around 300,000 copies had been distributed to NHS Trusts and Boards.c       In June 2013 a specialist Childhood and Puberty Close Monitoring growth       chart and a Body Mass Index (BMI) chart were published to complete the       set.e     The UK child growth charts that have been developed by Wright have been       endorsed by, the Department of Health in England,a the Scottish       Government,b the Royal College of Nursing (where they have been       incorporated into new guidance on measuring children)f, the       British Dietetic Association,g the National Child Birth Trusth       and the Breast Feeding Network.i They are also being used       internationally, to assess around 60,000 children born each year in New       Zealand since 2010 and around 72,000 children born each year in Ireland       since 2011.j,k The charts and associated educational material       are free to download and there were over 162,000 visits to the RCPCH       growth chart webpage in the year up to July 2013 alone.
The charts can be       printed locally and have also been used in developing countries, such as       Pakistan.l     Improved information for parents     For the first time, the accompanying instructions for parent-held child       growth charts were explicitly aimed at parents, and parent groups were       actively involved in drafting them.
These instructions inform a section on       growth in `Birth to Five' (2009), a publication by the UK Department of       Health that was distributed to all new parents in England in the years       2009-2011, which is now available to download on the Department of Health       website.
The book is still provided freely in print and online from the       public health departments of Wales and Northern Ireland.m     The new UK child growth charts differ substantially from previous charts       in terms of their layout and graphic presentation.
Discussion with focus       groups of parents revealed that parents tend to expect all `normal'       children to grow close to the 50th centile line, so the new charts place       less emphasis on the 50th centile and encourage parents to understand the       wide range of normal stature.
Moreover, parents often want to know how       tall their child will be as an adult, and while doctors use parent's       height to assess whether growth is within expected limits, the       calculations required for this are complex and not always accurate.
For       this reason, the new charts incorporated a new scale for predicting adult       height, designed by Wright and Cole, which is quicker to use and       statistically more valid than previous methods.
Training of health professionals and improved clinical practice     The new guidance on completing RCPCH growth charts addressed the many       aspects of the old charts that were poorly understood and inconsistently       used by health visitors and paediatricians.
In particular, Wright and       colleagues had observed discrepancies in the plotting of varying gestation       at birth and the assessment of puberty.
As a result they were able to       develop carefully worded, instructions, which were tested in parallel with       the design, and which for the first time provided authoritative,       evidence-based guidance on the use of charts and growth monitoring.
Wright       then led the development and evaluation of more detailed supporting       educational materials, working with Eileen Birks (University of       Northumbria) and Gary Butler (University College London Hospital).n     These have since been incorporated into e-learning packages for NHS staff       that are currently in use throughout the UK.o Wright also       organised and participated in a number of `train the trainers' events in       2009-2010 mainly attended by Nurse trainers: three in London, four English       regional events and four in Scotland.
In 2010, the Royal College of       Nursing issued guidance on standards for measuring children to nurses       working with infants and young people in the acute care setting children       which reference the use of the new charts.f     Making chart use easier     The charts incorporate novel tools that are simple and accurate to use.
Health staff have tended not to use BMI to assess whether a child is       overweight as a matter of routine, as calculating BMI requires the use of       a calculator and separate BMI charts.
The new charts therefore have a BMI       centile `look-up' (designed by Cole) that allows the BMI centile to be       identified without the need for extra calculation.
The 2-18 charts also       have a mid-parental height (average of father's and mother's height)       calculator, designed previously by Wright, which avoid the need for       complex calculation, as well as their new adult height predictor described       above.
