     Ovarian cancer is the fifth most common cancer in women, affecting 6,500       individuals per year in the UK and 22,000 in the USA.
Surgery and       chemotherapy are both used to treat ovarian cancer, and most patients are       considered for both treatments.
At least 55% of women are diagnosed with       stage III or IV cancer.
The survival rate five years after diagnosis is       20% for stage III and only 6% for stage IV ovarian cancer (Cancer Research       UK), although if ovarian cancer is diagnosed early (in stage I) the       survival rate after five years is 90%.
University of Glasgow research has       helped to develop chemotherapy treatment for ovarian cancer, and is cited       in current guidelines around the world, which include:            The establishment of paclitaxel as a key chemotherapy component in         ovarian cancer, which led to an 11% gain in survival rates over previous         drugs;       The establishment of docetaxel as an alternative to paclitaxel with a         different toxicity profile          Adoption of paclitaxel in clinical guidelines     The OV-10 study4, which was co-led by researchers at the       University of Glasgow, established paclitaxel as the most effective       chemotherapy treatment for ovarian cancer, and since publication of the       results, the use of paclitaxel as the preferred chemotherapy for women       with ovarian cancer has been adopted by international clinical guidelines       that influence the treatment of patients throughout the UK and Europe.
These include guidelines written by the European Society for Medical       Oncology (ESMO), The Scottish Intercollegiate Network (SIGN) and the       National Institute for Clinical Excellence (NICE).
The membership of the European Society for Medical Oncology (ESMO)       includes 7,000 oncologists in 100 countries internationally; its biennial       congresses are attended by over 15,000 medical professionals worldwide.
ESMO has published guidelines entitled `Newly diagnosed and relapsed       epithelial ovarian carcinoma: ESMO Clinical Practice Guidelines for       diagnosis, treatment and follow-up' each year since 2005.
Since 2008,       these recommended paclitaxel with carboplatin for advanced ovarian cancer,       as described University of Glasgow's collaborative OV-10 study, and cite       the long term follow-up (2003) survey.a This follow-up study       confirmed that paclitaxel- carboplatin conferred a survival advantage when       compared to cyclophosphamide-cisplatin.
EMSO guidelines are followed       extensively throughout Europe and by oncologists around the world.
The SIGN guidelines inform chemotherapy throughout Scotland.
From       2003-2013, Guideline No.
75, `Epithelial ovarian cancer', has recommended       the use of paclitaxel-cisplatin over cyclophosphamide-cisplatin, citing       Glasgow research5 as Level 1++ evidence, representing the       highest quality data (ref 103, Sections 5.5.3 and 5.5.4).b The       guidelines describe use of taxane combination therapy as being widespread       throughout Scotland.
NICE technology appraisals are the mechanism by which drugs gain approval       for funding and use within the UK National Health Service.
In 2003, NICE       published their recommendation `TA55 - Guidance on the use of paclitaxel       in the treatment of ovarian cancer', which examines the use of paclitaxel       and refers to OV-10 as one of the randomised controlled trials that       demonstrate clinical effectiveness of paclitaxel in the first-line       treatment of ovarian cancer (TA55 Section 4.3.1).c In 2009,       TA55 was added to the static list; guidance is added to the static list       when no new research is available with any material effect on the current       guidance, thereby preserving the NHS funding.c The NHS funds       prescription of drugs that are recommended by NICE and requires that all       NICE- recommended treatments be made available within 90 days in their       formularies (databases of medicines approved for use on the NHS).d     A UK-wide resource for prescription data is not yet launched.
For this       case study, data were requested from the West of Scotland Cancer Care       Network.
Taking into account the comparative low incidence of epithelial       ovarian cancer, since January 2011, 66% of 490 women treated for newly       diagnosed epithelial ovarian cancer within the West of Scotland Cancer       Care Network have received a combination paclitaxel-platinum       (paclitaxel-carboplatin or paclitaxel-cisplatin) therapy.e     Docetaxel as alternative chemotherapy     Studies carried out by the Glasgow CTU demonstrated that docetaxel could       be used as an alternative to paclitaxel, was equally effective and had       different side effects, making it a valuable alternative treatment for       patients who react badly to paclitaxel.
The side effects of chemotherapy       have serious implications on the quality of life and potential recovery of       the patient, and the existence of an alternative therapy enables more       tailored treatment for patients who may react badly to the recommended       drug.
This 2004 study5 has enabled oncologists to safely       prescribe an alternative, yet equally effective, option for patients for       whom the side effects of paclitaxel, particularly neuropathy and alopecia,       present major problems.
The National Comprehensive Cancer Network (NCCN) is a not-for-profit       alliance of 23 leading cancer centres in the USA, dedicated to improving       the quality and effectiveness of care.
Since 2010, the NCCN `Clinical       Practice Guidelines in Oncology' have recommended docetaxel- carboplatin       as an alternative to paclitaxel-carboplatin, citing Glasgow research5       as Category 1 evidence (the highest evidence level indicating uniform       consensus of experts) under Epithelial Ovarian Cancer &#8212; Primary Treatment       (ref 148, Section MS-8 in v.2.2013).f Analysis of the potential       side effects of each therapy also cites the Glasgow CTU trial.
The 2013       NCCN patient guidelines on ovarian cancer specify prescription of       docetaxel-carboplatin as an alternative to paclitaxel with carboplatin or       cisplatin in chemotherapy, describing how docetaxel is more likely to       increase the risk of infection, whereas paclitaxel is more likely to cause       nerve damage.g     The NCCN.org website, aimed specifically at clinicians, received more       than 1.6 million unique visitors in 2012; the full clinical guidelines       (including those for ovarian cancer) are freely available to patients,       relatives and health professionals, and in 2012 were distributed to 97,000       people in paper or flash drive format, while 4.3 million copies were       downloaded as PDF documents.h
