     Informing and influencing UK public policy formulation.
Dawkins drew on the findings of her research with smokers attempting       cessation to co-author a response on behalf of the British Psychological       Society (BSP) to the 2008 Department of Health (DoH) consultation on the       Future of Tobacco.
The BSP consultation report [a] closely reflects key       findings of her research: its recommendations that Government priorities       focus on helping smokers to quit, tailoring interventions to individuals,       and supporting the development of new interventions, drew particularly       strongly on work published in [2].
That consultation represented the first       step in the development of a new national tobacco control strategy aimed       at reducing smoking rates and health inequalities caused by smoking;       protecting children and young people from smoking; supporting smokers to       quit; and helping those who cannot quit.
Publication of the full       consultation report, which has remained freely available on the DH       website, was announced in Parliament on 9 December 2008 by the Secretary       of State for Health, Alan Johnson [a].
It was also the subject of a widely       distributed Department of Health press notice.
The consultation led to the introduction of tobacco control legislation       in the Health Act 2009.
This included the introduction of regulations       ending both the sale of tobacco products from vending machines (from 1       October 2011), and open public displays of tobacco products in       supermarkets and other large stores (from 6 April 2012) and in small       shops/all other places (6 April 2015).
These changes reflected key       recommendations made by Dawkins and colleagues [1, 2] to focus on reducing       tobacco advertising, marketing and promotion and reducing the availability       and supply of tobacco products.
Dawkins' e-cigarette research has also informed national policy via its       use by the UK Government Department of Health Medicines and Healthcare       Regulatory Agency (MHRA), which cited [5] and [7] in its recently       published final report on a review (starting February 2010) of the use,       quality and safety of e-cigarettes, and their potential impact on public       health and regulation.
More specifically, the articles were presented as       evidence considered by the Commission of Human Medicines Expert Working       Group on Nicotine Containing Products in formulating its advice to       ministers to regulate e-cigarettes as medicines [b].
In June 2013, the       MHRA announced t the government's intention to regulate electronic       cigarettes and other nicotine containing products (NCPs) as medicines.
The research has further contributed to UK policy discussion and debate       via Dawkins' invited presentation of the results of [5] and [7] at a       Parliamentary Round Table discussion of e-cigarettes led by Lord Hutton at       the House of Lords in July 2013, and at a London Drug and Alcohol Policy       Forum (LDAPF), where she sat as an expert member of a Panel on       e-cigarettes and tobacco harm reduction.
It has, moreover, informed policy       debate beyond the UK: in the USA, for example, several articles published       by Dawkins - including [7] - are cited in an article on the website of       Americans for Nonsmokers' Rights, the leading US national anti-smoking       lobbying organisation [c].
Engaging public audiences via contributions to international media         discourse.
Beyond their direct influence on policy-makers' discussion, debate and       decisions, key findings of the UEL studies have informed and enhanced       broader public engagement with important issues relating to the research.
This has been achieved particularly through their use to generate and       inform media discourse about nicotine and smoking cessation across a range       of national and international media outlets, including newspapers, TV and       radio.
Dawkins' recent finding that 74% of e-cigarette users have quit       smoking [7], for instance, generated considerable media attention.
It was       featured in more than 30 news articles across the world, including       features for Fox News (5 April 2013) and New York Daily News (5 April       2013).
Closer to home, it formed the basis for stories in the Irish       Independent (25 April 2013) and on the front page of the daily London       paper, The Metro (11 April 2013), which reaches an average readership of       1.9million [d].
Public engagement with the content of that article is       suggested by the fact that more than 100 comments on it were posted on the       Metro's online edition; it has since been shared some 3,000 times on       Facebook and discussed in almost 250 tweets, all of which activity has       also extended the reach of its original impacts on public awareness of the       potential health implications of e-cigarette use.
Increasing the evidence basis for and enhancing the accuracy of         information resources for health practitioners and public audiences.
The finding that e-cigarettes improve withdrawal symptoms, craving and       memory has also been widely cited across electronic information media with       large public readerships - including Wikipedia [e] - and to support the       development of information resources specifically intended to support       smoking cessation.
To that end, research insights have been shared       particularly with e-cigarette users, healthcare providers, practitioners,       and independent public health researchers, as well as with the media.
Recent examples of their use to develop new or improved reusable public       information resources include the inclusion of findings reported in [7] in       an e-cigarette fact sheet produced by Action on Smoking and Health (ASH)       Scotland [f].
The provision of an expert information service is a       prominent objective of this independent charity set up to improve health       and quality of life by limiting the number of young people taking up       smoking, reducing the number of adult smokers, protecting people from       second hand smoke and tackling inequality resulting from tobacco use.
Both       the research behind and the findings published in [7] are also discussed       in detail on the NHS Choices webpage, which had received 4,939 hits (well       above the average of 1-2000) by 31 July 2013 [g].
Dawkins' finding that quitting smoking improves mood [3], has also       informed various widely-used public health information resources,       including on international sites.
It is cited, for example, in an article       about managing the mood changes associated with quitting smoking,       published on the `Virtual Medical Centre' [h]; written entirely by health       professionals, Virtual Medical Centre is Australia's leading source for       trustworthy medical information.
The extent of public interest in and use of these information resources       relating to e-cigarette use is suggested by the fact that they had, by 31       July 2013, prompted more than 40 direct e-mails to the research team.
These included messages from independent e-cigarette advisors,       smokers/e-cigarette users, and health professionals working with smokers,       who have stated that the findings have helped them to advise smokers on       e-cigarette use.
To maximise the reach of public engagement with and       understanding of important health issues relating to e-cigarettes, Dawkins       delivered a public lecture on her research at UEL on 7 July 2013.
The       reach of this pubic engagement event was extended further by the       subsequent upload of a video of the lecture to YouTube; the video had       generated 3000 hits in the three weeks to the end of July 2013 alone.
Benefits to companies: informing staff within and supporting lobbying         by e-cigarette companies.
The research on e-cigarettes has both resulted from partnerships with       e-cigarette companies and subsequently been used by those companies, with       some important benefits to them.
In 2009, DABRG developed its partnership       with The Electronic Cigarette Company (TECC) and Totally Wicked E-Liquids       (TWEL), whose products were used in the research leading to [5].
These       collaborations have been maintained since the end of that research       project, and the research group's work continues to inform activity and       ensure familiarity within the company with up-to-date scientific work on       e-cigarettes.
Thus, TWEL have discussed DABRG work in their newsletters,       and provide links to published papers on their website, which receives       250,000 visits each week [i].
In March 2013, the company ran a competition       encouraging users to read the Dawkins et al.
papers and present a research       proposal [j].
More than 80 people from the UK, Germany and the USA       submitted entries, which were judged by Dawkins.
DABRG and TWEL are       currently seeking grant funding support to implement the winning research       proposal.
Dawkins and Turner have also presented the findings of [7] to       60+ staff members at TWEL's offices in Blackburn (15th May       2013).
Since early 2013 TWEL have, moreover, used the research findings       published in [5] and [7] in their extensive lobbying of the 700+ Members       of the European Parliament (MEPs) involved in the EVNI Tobacco Products       Directive (TPD), in an attempt to remove e-cigarettes from the TPD [j].
DABRG's work with these companies led to an approach in Spring 2012 from       a third e-cigarette manufacturer, SKYCIG, resulting in a funded study on       e-cigarette blood nicotine delivery, which demonstrated that e-cigarettes       lead to consistent measurable levels of blood nicotine [6].
SKYCIG will       use the results of this and previous studies [5, 7] to support their       application to the MHRA for medical licensing.
