     The direct beneficiaries of the research detailed in section 2 are the       Cutty Sark Trust and the Medway Queen Preservation Society.
The nation has       also benefited from our work, which has helped ensure the people can       continue to enjoy these ships, both of which demonstrate our rich maritime       heritage.
1) Economic impact:     The results and recommendations arising from CNMPA's research work,       detailed in the reports made available to the trust, were implemented       throughout 2008-2011.
Our work in 2006 led to a change in direction of how       the ship would be supported.
This saved an estimated &#163;500,000 (the cost if       the original option had progressed further) in particular during the       period from 2008 onwards, when detailed planning for lifting and       supporting the ship was put into practice.
Our research helped minimise       the risk associated with both disassembly (2006-2007) and reassembly       (2008-2011) of the ship.
It also reduced the time in planning the       procedures for disassembly and reassembly.
The overall cost of saving the Cutty Sark for the nation was &#163;50M of       which the Heritage Lottery awarded &#163;25m.
Scientific underpinning provided       by the university was instrumental in securing Lottery funding, and       structural health monitoring work by the university was a condition of the       award.
An aim was to minimise the amount of new conservation work required       for at least 50 years: we developed a decision support tool for       post-restoration maintenance of the vessel, ensuring that potential future       losses due to structural problems with the ship have been mitigated.
Our       contribution has also secured local jobs for 20 people who now work on the       Cutty Sark.
This international icon is helping to boost tourism which       plays such an important role in the UK economy, adding &#163;12Bn per year to       GDP and supporting over 195,000 jobs.
Ian Diamond, Chair of Research Councils UK, following the team being       awarded the Times Higher Education Outstanding Research Team of the year       (2009), said of the university's contribution: "A rare combination of         outstanding research and real impact in an area not normally noted for         engineering.
The application to cultural heritage will have an enormous         impact on the UK's long term economy."
(http://bit.ly/15UsbEg)     The work on the Cutty Sark has exciting implications as our research is       generic, and could be used to conserve and maintain other heritage       structures.
The trust has provided an introduction to a national network       of maritime conservation projects, leading to new application in the &#163;5M       restoration of the Medway Queen, a survivor of the Dunkirk evacuation.
This was a unique ship - fast and light for her day.
She was not built to       the design rules of the day and there are no modern rules for constructing       riveted ships - hence the need for a computational analysis.
Our work       ensured the contractors' riveting process was safe, and able to withstand       the stresses the plating in the ship's hull imposed on the rivets.
We also       identified safe operating conditions in terms of sea conditions and       passenger loading, and the response of the ship's hull to the placement of       heavy critical machinery.
This helped the restoration programme       consultant, a naval architect, ensure the riveted ship would be       structurally sound.
The Medway Queen Museum is now open in Gillingham,       providing training in maritime conservation skills and employing 24       people.
2) Impact on culture and society:     Today the masts of the Cutty Sark stand tall once again over Greenwich.
The Queen reopened the much loved icon in April 2012 and by February 2013       over 320,000 people had visited, half from overseas.
The aesthetic       pleasure of seeing the ship in that setting and the cultural identity it       gives are priceless.
No other group has applied this kind of engineering -       sophisticated computational and numerical models which are based on       detailed physical analysis of failure mechanisms - to the conservation of       heritage artefacts.
The project has become a popular case study for       school, undergraduate and postgraduate students, for instance through       annual Royal Institution master classes and IEEE events.
Wide media       coverage, and prizes awarded to the group, attest to the reputation of the       project regionally and nationally.
These include the Times Higher         Education Award for Outstanding Research Team (2009) and Best         Knowledge Transfer Partnership (KTP) Project for London (2008).
The London Development Agency, following the Knowledge Transfer Awards       2008, said: "The university's experts are using sophisticated computer         models to work out how to dismantle and reassemble the fire-damaged         Cutty Sark.
They are now using their knowledge to understand how the         Cutty Sark's structure will age over the next 100 years.
The university         is developing the technology to be used on other ships, protecting         maritime heritage across the globe."
(http://bit.ly/17XqIKh)     The Medway Queen belongs to the national core collection of historic       vessels.
The aim was for the paddle steamer to gain license to sail once       again, ie to meet latest maritime standards (Maritime Coastal Agency) yet       be rebuilt using the original 1924 design of a fully riveted structure (http://bit.ly/16kKoNU).
Our results       ensured that safety requirements were met and the ship sailed from       Bristol, where she was rebuilt, home to Gillingham.
In fact the amount of       detail we provided goes beyond what is usually required for MCA       certification and could possibly inform future MCA standards for heritage       ships.
The Medway Queen Preservation Society aims to exhibit the vessel at       the 75th Dunkirk Anniversary in 2015, as well exhibiting at       ports around north-west Europe.
