     AF is an enormous and growing medical problem.
AF accounts for 1 in 5 of       all strokes, and doubles an individual's risk of both heart failure and       premature death.
The cost of AF to the NHS in 2000 was conservatively       estimated to be &#163;459 million (approximately 1% of NHS expenditure) with an       additional &#163;111 million in nursing home costs.
Consequently, the treatment       of AF is an NHS health priority.
AF treatment strategies focus on rhythm       control (with antiarrhythmic drugs or interventions that are safe) and       thromboembolism prophylaxis with anticoagulant drugs to prevent stroke       (ideally maximising effectiveness and minimising risk of bleeding).
University of Glasgow research has had an overwhelming influence in the       prevention and treatment of AF.
Impact on international and national clinical guidelines:       Key University of Glasgow studies1-6 have contributed to the       evidence-base for recommendations made by the European Society of       Cardiology (ESC), American College of Cardiology Foundation (ACCF) and       American Heart Association (AHA), the world's most influential       cardiovascular societies with estimated professional memberships of       30,000, 43,000 and 73,000, respectively.
The ESC, ACCF/AHA and Heart       Rhythm Society (HRS) guidelines, as well as Australian and Canadian       Cardiovascular Society (CCS) guidelines on the management of AF and heart       failure (published since 2008) make the following high level       recommendations based on key trials led or co-led by University of Glasgow       investigators as follows:            The use of beta-blockers, ARBs and MRAs for prevention of new onset AF         (primary prevention) in patients with heart failure (ESC AF 2010a,         ACCF/AHA/HRS 2011b, ESC AHT 2013c) based on         findings from CAPRICORN1, CHARM2 and EMPHASIS-HF.
The use of beta-blockers as first-line therapy to control ventricular         rate in patients with AF, heart failure and low LV ejection fraction         (LVEF).
The addition of a digoxin where monotherapy is inadequate to         control the rapid heart rate in patients with AF and heart failure (ESC         AF 2010a, ACCF/AHA/HRS 2011b) based on findings         from Khand et al.3        The contraindication of dronedarone for the treatment of AF in         patients with advanced heart failure (NYHA class III-IV) or with         recently unstable (decompensated within the last month) HF (ESC AF 2010a,         ESC AF 2012d, ESC HF 2012e, ACCF/AHA/HRS 2011f/2013g,         Australia and New Zealand 2011h, CCS 2012i) based         on findings from ANDROMEDA5        The use of apixaban (as one of three NOACs) in all AF patients at high         risk of stroke; and furthermore, due to the superior safety profile of         apixaban (versus warfarin), the use of apixaban (as one of three NOACs)         is recommended in AF patients at lower, intermediate risk of stroke(ESC         AF 2012d, CCS 2012f) &#8212; recommendations based on         findings from ARISTOTLE6           The University of Glasgow led-study by MacDonald et al.4       has also been prominently cited in the leading European guidelines in the       on-going controversy surrounding the use of radio-frequency ablation to       treat AF.
The University of Glasgow findings have exerted considerable       caution within the clinical community that this complex, invasive and       expensive new procedure has limited effectiveness and safety in patients       with AF and HF (EHRA/HRS 2012j, ESC HF 2012e).
Dissemination and implementation of guideline recommendations:       The major international guideline societies have a robust strategy for       disseminating guidelines.
In 2012, the ESC guideline on AF (2010a)       was downloaded 75,151 times and its 2012 focused updated       40,810.
Up to 31 July 2013, these numbers were 25,554 and 39,385,       respectively.k Pocket versions and foreign (non-English)       language versions have been produced and widely disseminated.
Regulatory approval and guidance       Conducting well-designed randomised controlled trials to determine whether       medications are safe and effective is the cornerstone of gaining       regulatory and healthcare provider approval for their use in patients, as       well as ensuring that treatments are targeted to the most appropriate       populations.
ARISTOTLE underpins regulatory approval of apixaban       ARISTOTLE6 was a landmark trial because it demonstrated       conclusively that apixaban was both safer and more effective than the gold       standard (warfarin), causing less bleeding, preventing more strokes and       reducing the risk of death.
As warfarin reduces stroke risk by 60-70%,       these remarkable research findings constitute the only major breakthrough       in anticoagulant therapy in over 40 years of investigation.
Consequently,       ARISTOTLE was pivotal in gaining marketing authorisation for apixaban from       the European Medicines Agency (EMA) and the US Food and Drug       Administration (FDA).
Apixaban (brand name, Eliquis) was originally approved by the EMA in May       2011 for the prevention of venous thromboembolism following orthopaedic       surgery.
The findings of ARISTOTLE prompted the manufacturers of this drug       (Bristol-Myers Squibb and Pfizer) to apply for an extension to the       original indication.
In September 2012, the EMA Committee for Medicinal       Products for Human Use (CHMP) approved apixaban (2.5 mg and 5 mg) for "prevention         of stroke and systemic embolism in adult patients with non-valvular         atrial fibrillation (NVAF), with one or more risk factors.
"l       In the accompanying assessment report, ARISTOTLE (study `CV185030') was       extensively cited as one of two key studies in the supporting evidence for       clinical efficacy and safety.l FDA approval of apixaban for use       in AF followed in December 2012, with ARISTOTLE also underpinning this       licence application.m European and US regulatory approval of       apixaban was widely reported by major international media outlets,       including the New York Times, Forbes and PharmaTimes,       highlighting the pivotal role of ARISTOTLE in gaining these marketing       licences.n     ARISTOTLE prompts NHS funded prescribing of apixaban       Treatment of AF to prevent stroke is a NHS National Priority Project in       primary care.
The UK National Institute for Health and Care Excellence       (NICE) technology appraisals provide guidance on whether new therapeutic       options should be funded within the NHS, focusing on value for money by       weighing up costs and benefits.
The findings of ARISTOTLE6       prompted NICE to approve apixaban as a cost-effective therapy for       preventing stroke among patients with AF (NICE technology appraisal TA275;       February 2013).o ARISTOLE was the sole randomised controlled       trial of apixaban to meet the inclusion criteria for TA275.
An economic       model showed an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER, used to       evaluate the cost impact of medical interventions) of &#163;12,757 per quality       adjusted life-year (QALY, an indicator of improved health) for apixaban       versus warfarin.
The approval by NICE was reported by various media       outlets.p Therefore, through their key involvement in       ARISTOTLE, University of Glasgow researchers have directly influenced the       expansion of NHS-funded treatment for AF patients.
ANDROMEDA highlights need to restrict use of dronedarone       The ANDROMEDA5 trial highlighted a potential danger of the       antiarrhythmic drug dronedarone among patients with heart failure.
This       finding led NICE to restrict use of dronedarone within the NHS in December       2012.q NICE recommended that "dronedarone should not be used         in people with unstable NYHA class III or IV heart failure and to refer         to the recommendation in the SPC about the use of dronedarone in people         with LVEF less than 35%."
The NICE contraindication followed similar       warnings from the EMA and FDA.
Changes in prescribing trends for AF &#8212; patients receive NOACs       Regulatory approval and incorporation into clinical guidelines have led to       rapid uptake of NOACs including apixaban.
The superior safety profile of       NOACs has also supported their use in AF patients at lower risk of stroke,       a group previously considered unsuitable for anticoagulation with       warfarin.
As a result, these new drugs are already being prescribed to       6-12% of eligible patients in Europe and the USA.r,s       Conversely, prescription of dronedarone is decreasing, particularly among       patients with heart failure (4% prescription rate in Europe).s       Underuse of anticoagulation therapy is a recognised problem in the NHS.
However, the availability of NOACs should now increase the proportion of       patients receiving treatment that is both more effective and safe than       warfarin and, in turn, drive a large public-health benefit in terms of       stroke reduction.
