     Improved care for patients with genetic muscle disease: The       finding that mutations in the Protein       Kinase domain of the titin protein were directly responsible for the       muscle disease, HMERF, has led to       a transformation in the perception of the role of titin in acquired and       hereditary muscle diseases, which       has had a significant impact on clinical practice.
Since the prevalence of       titin mutations is high in       dilated cardiomyopathy (a condition where the heart muscles become weak       and cannot pump enough       blood around the body), occurring in 25% of inherited cases and 18% of       spontaneously arising cases.
KCL-informed screening for titin mutations is now routinely performed in       national prenatal genetic       diagnosis clinics across Europe, including France [8], Finland [9], Italy       [10] and Sweden [11].
Improved genetic counselling: Since titin kinase mutations can be       inherited in multiple different       patterns that lead to a broad spectrum of disease symptoms, the improved       understanding of       underlying mechanism by the Gautel lab has been key for estimating exactly       how their combination       will affect muscle function (see [1-5, 7] above), identifying early stages       of disease, and providing       optimal genetic counselling and treatment recommendations for patients and       families.
This research is       also facilitating reproductive counselling, where genetic screening is       performed for in vitro fertilised       preimplantation human embryos originating from carrier or affected       individuals to prevent children       inheriting the same muscle diseases.
Based on our prominence in the field of titin mutations and muscle       disease, the Gautel group at KCL       also serves as a research-based reference laboratory for screening and       characterising unique titin       mutations [12].
KCL research improves clinical diagnostic techniques: KCL's       original biomechanical research into       muscle function led to the identification of new markers for damaged heart       muscles.
Methods to detect       these markers were incorporated into a novel clinical test capable of       rapidly diagnosing patients who       had suffered a heart attack.
Patents on this technique were granted in       2012/3 (USA, Japan, Europe),       assigned to KCL and invented by Professor Mayr (KCL, 2006-present), Dr       Jacquet (KCL, 2005-2010),       Professor Marber (KCL, 1996-present) and Professor Gautel [13].
KCL research shapes international clinical guidelines: KCL       research (see [5] above) has informed       European clinical guidelines for the diagnosis of muscle disease.
This       includes the 165th ENMC       International workshop guidelines written by the European Neuro Muscular       Centre [14], an       international research support organisation that informs networks such as       the Association Fran&#231;aise       contre les Myopathies (France), Deutsche Gesellschaft f&#252;r Muskelkranke       (Germany), Telethon       Foundation (Italy), Muscular Dystrophy Campaign (UK), Muskelsvindfonden       (Denmark), Prinses       Beatrix Fonds &amp; Vereniging Spierziekten Nederland (The Netherlands),       Schweizerische Siftung f&#252;r die       Erforschung der Muskelkrankheiten (Switzerland) and &#214;sterreichische       Muskelforschung (Austria).
These clinical guidelines therefore have a very wide reach across Europe       and beyond.
KCL research (see [1] above) has also been incorporated into clinical       genetic guidelines for the       diagnosis of the titin-induced myopathy, Udd Distal Myopathy, published       online in GeneReviews by       the University of Washington, Seattle [15].
GeneReviews are       expert-authored disease descriptions       focused on clinically relevant and medically actionable information on the       diagnosis, management,       and genetic counseling of patients and families with specific inherited       conditions, and are widely used       as a clinical guideline reference.
Developing partnerships to establish new treatments for genetic muscle         disease: KCL's original       research into titin mutations and their impact on muscle function led       Rigel Pharmaceuticals, a San       Francisco-based "clinical-stage" drug development company, to partner with       the Gautel lab to initiate a       drug discovery programme focussed on titin.
This collaboration has       facilitated the discovery of several       small molecules that target titin kinase, which will be assessed for their       effect on titin-related muscle       and metabolic diseases [16].
KCL research continues to uncover new therapeutic targets: Ongoing       KCL research continues to       identify important new aspects of muscle biology, in particular new       protein interactions, which can be       used to inform patient therapies.
In collaboration with University College       London, the Gautel laboratory       has now identified over 500 new titin mutations.
In the future, it is       anticipated that complementary       biophysical and structural studies carried out in collaboration with other       international researchers will       continue to uncover new therapeutic interventions (see [6] above).
