     Translation of laboratory research to the clinic: Professor Tutt and       colleagues       demonstrated in preclinical and clinical trials that the BRCA1 or       BRCA2 DNA repair defect that       occurs in tumours can be exploited by targeting the DNA repair functions       of PARP-1.
This has       been recognised as a first demonstration of the clinical usefulness of the       long-described       principle of synthetic lethality.
This landmark in the development       of "personalised treatment"       for cancer has been recognised by many high profile articles and       commentaries in leading       journals such as the New England Journal of Medicine, Cell, and       the Lancet (7), which cited       both the preclinical and clinical studies described in Sections 2 and 3       above.
KCL research promotes substantial financial investment in large phase         III clinical trials         of PARP inhibitors: Following the proof-of-concept and Phase II       clinical trials led by Professor       Tutt's team at KCL/GSTFT, PARP inhibition has been recognised as a major       avenue of       research into new treatments for malignancies associated with BRCA1/2.
Stimulated by the       KCL-led trials, five pharmaceutical companies to date are initiating       randomised Phase III       clinical trials of different PARP inhibitors for the treatment of BRCA-related       tumours (8-14).
This amounts to a financial investment of well over $1 billion.
Olaparib,       the PARP inhibitor       studied by Tutt and colleagues, is now being tested by Astra Zeneca in       breast and ovarian       cancer (8, 9).
Other PARP inhibitors in planned clinical trials for BRCA-related       cancers include       rucaparib (Clovis Oncology [10]), niraparib (TESARO Inc. [11, 12]), BMN       673 (Biomarin [13])       and veliparib (Abbvie [14]).
In addition, genetic testing for BRCA       mutations is being       incorporated as a companion diagnostic in many of these cancer trials       [15].
KCL research alters national and international genetic testing         guidelines: The KCL       research by Professor Tutt and colleagues on BRCA-1 and BRCA-2       cancers has been       incorporated into national and international clinical guidelines for the       management of breast       and ovarian cancer which mandate genetic testing for these mutations.
These include national       guidelines in the UK, France, Netherlands and Germany (16, 17); the       European Society for       Medical Oncology (ESMO) Clinical Practice Guidelines (18); and the US       National       Comprehensive Cancer Network (NCCN) Clinical Practice Guidelines in       Oncology (19).
The       US NCCN guidelines are translated into multiple languages and adapted for       use across the       world, including China, Japan, the rest of Asia, Latin America, the Middle       East, North Africa       and Turkey.
There has therefore been a far-reaching impact of this work.
Potential impact on treatment of BRCA1/2 breast         and ovarian cancers: Although only a       small proportion of breast and ovarian cancers are associated with BRCA1       and BRCA2       mutation, the fact that breast and ovarian cancers are common means that a       large number of       patients may benefit from this new therapeutic approach - more patients       than are diagnosed       with Hodgkin's lymphoma or testicular cancer.
Potential impact in triple negative breast cancer (TNBC): TNBCs       account for 12&#8212;15% of       new breast cancers.
They do not carry the oestrogen, progesterone or HER2       receptors that       are the basis of targeted treatments for the majority of breast cancers.
Chemotherapy is       currently the only option for attempting to eradicate TNBC cells from the       body.
There is thus an       unmet need for an effective targeted therapy against TNBC.
Many TNBCs have       key similarities       to BRCA1 mutation-related cancers, and appear to share an impaired       response to DNA       damage.
PARP is also up-regulated in TNBC, suggesting that PARP inhibition       could be used       as part of the treatment of TNBC (20).
In 2008, the Breakthrough Breast Cancer Research Unit was opened at KCL       with a &#163;5 million       award, dedicated to understanding TNBC subtypes and developing novel       therapeutics for this       disease.
The KCL team are collaborating with the Breast International       Group (BIG) and with       pharmaceutical partners to develop clinical trials for TNBC.
