     Impact 1: Recommendations adopted for chlorhexidine-based         decolonisation in preventing MRSA transmission [References 2, 3, 4,       7, 8 and 9].
KCL work on the importance of decolonisation in preventing MRSA         transmission, particularly in critical care areas, had a very considerable impact in       the preparation of the Department of Health's Saving Lives &#8212; High Impact       Interventions care bundles `Screening for MRSA colonisation' that       recommend pre-emptive decolonisation as an integral part of MRSA control       for high-risk patients in all NHS Trusts [10].
Professor Gary French was a       member of the Department of Health committee preparing these guidelines,       and the findings from KCL were instrumental in their development.
Guy's       and St Thomas' Trust is therefore cited in these guidelines, which links       our research to this advice and impact (see p.6).
Subsequent guidance from       the Department of Health [11, p.3] reiterates the previous guidance [10]       on the importance of decolonisation for patients who test positive for       MRSA after screening.
From April 2009, all NHS Trusts were expected to screen all elective       admissions for MSRA in line with Department of Health guidance [11].
In       response, many Trusts published and implemented their own guidelines and       procedures for MRSA screening and decolonisation [12].
A clear pathway can       therefore be seen from the KCL work to the following major impact: a       dramatic fall of 75% in MRSA bacteraemia cases reported by NHS Trusts       between 2008/09 and 20012/13, according to Public Health England (Trust       apportioned cases) [13] (p.1).
Recent data from the Shelford group of 10       leading UK academic healthcare organisations shows a continuing decrease       in incidence of MRSA rates [14].
KCL work showing that some MRSA strains carrying qacA can be       clinically resistant to chlorhexidine has raised concerns and has       led to considerable impact across the infection control community [15-17].
Locally, a 4-fold increase in the presence of qacA in MRSA       bacteraemia cases has been seen at Guys and St Thomas' Hospital, which has       prompted a change from the use of chlorhexidine to an alternative       antiseptic, octenisan.
Octenisan is now being increasingly introduced for       decolonisation in acute NHS Trusts [18].
Impact 2: Identifying that sasX is associated with MRSA       strains that are more transmissible and virulent [References 3, 4,       5, 7 and 8].
KCL researchers filed an EU-wide patent identifying sasX as a         potential diagnostic and vaccine target in 2009 (PCT/GB2010002056;       [19]).
On the basis of the clinical and scientific data described in       Section 2, this patent/finding has had considerable impact and the patent       has now been extended to Europe, Japan, the USA and China.
Novartis       Vaccines took an option to exploit sasX as a component of a       multivalent S. aureus vaccine under a three-year licensing       agreement (Nov 2009-Nov 2012) which has now been extended for a further       year.
Studies have been taking place at Novartis Vaccines, Siena, Italy.
The KCL discovery of sasX has had a significant impact on the         management of MRSA in China.
In a follow-up paper published in       Nature Medicine in May 2012 [20], a US group took up the KCL findings and       investigated the epidemiology of sasX in MRSA strains in Chinese       hospitals.
They found that sasX-containing ST239 clones had spread       rapidly over the past five years to become the dominant       healthcare-associated MRSA clones in Chinese hospitals and that sasX       had spread to other MRSA clones.
They also found that sasX was       highly virulent in animal models.
They called for "vaccine efforts aimed       at sasX to prevent MRSA colonisation and disease".
The       identification of these highly transmissible strains as the major MRSA       clones stems directly from the KCL discovery of sasX, impacts on the most       populous country in the world, and further substantiates the strategy of       using sasX for vaccination.
