     Outstanding impact on US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) review of         prostate cancer drugs: The most notable impact of the research is in       a review of the safety of commonly used prostate cancer drugs by the FDA       in May 2010 (4).
The review was based on the KCL research, as the largest       population-based study of its kind, and six other studies.
The FDA review       concluded that the risk of certain cardiovascular diseases was higher in       men treated with one of the main hormone therapies: gonadotropin-releasing       hormone agonists.
Substantial impact on requirements for drug safety information: In       October 2010, the FDA notified the manufacturers of gonadotropin-releasing       hormone agonists that they should add new safety information to the       Warnings and Precautions section on drug labels (5).
The warning alerts       users to the risk of cardiovascular disease associated with certain       hormone therapies for the treatment of prostate cancer.
The World Health       Organization issued similar advice.
Substantial impact on FDA treatment guidelines: The KCL research       findings provided evidence underpinning FDA guidelines for healthcare       professionals (5) on treatment for patients with prostate cancer:     1) Healthcare professionals should be aware of the potential risks and       carefully weigh up the benefits and risks of gonadotropin-releasing       hormone agonists when determining treatment for patients with prostate       cancer     2) Patients receiving gonadotropin-releasing hormone agonists should be       closely monitored for signs of diabetes and cardiovascular disease     3) Cardiovascular risk factors such as smoking, hypertension,       hypercholesterolemia, hyperglycaemia and obesity should be managed       according to current clinical practice     4) Patients should not stop treatment with a gonadotropin-releasing       hormone agonist unless instructed to do so by a healthcare professional.
Research corroborated by major US bodies: The research finding       "Based on the small absolute risk difference, the high absolute risk of       dying from prostate cancer when undergoing hormone treatment, and the fact       that hormone treatment is currently the only effective treatment for       metastatic disease, these findings indicate that cardiovascular disease       risk should be considered when prescribing hormone treatment, but should       not contraindicate when the expected gain is tangible" was corroborated by       the American Heart Association, the American Cancer Society and the       American Urological Association (6).
Substantial impact on treatment recommendations: Other       organisations making similar recommendations to those of the FDA and based       partly on the research include the Prostate Cancer Foundation, American       Cancer Society, US Too International, Prostate Cancer International,       Prostate Health Education Network, Prostate Cancer Research Institute,       Men's Health Network, Prostate Cancer Roundtable, Patient Advocates for       Advanced Cancer Treatment, and Zero &#8212; The Project to End Prostate Cancer.
Wide implications for management of prostate cancer patients: The       research showed that the risk of non-fatal and fatal cardiovascular       disease increases in prostate cancer patients receiving hormone treatment.
The risk of cardiovascular disease is also greater in patients who are       receiving curative treatment or who are under surveillance.
This finding       supports growing evidence that diseases associated with prostate cancer       are a significant risk and has an impact on management of prostate cancer       patients beyond the original intent of the research.
It also showed that       anti-androgen therapy carries lower risk than other forms of hormone       therapy, and so may affect choice of therapy.
Very considerable public-facing impact: The research has had very       considerable impact in terms of reach.
At the joint European CanCer       Organisation (ECCO) and European Society for Medical Oncology (ESMO)       meeting in September 2009 (7) the researchers were interviewed.
Newspapers       and other media then published more than 600 articles worldwide (e.g.
8-11).
All refer to the research finding that men with prostate cancer       treated with certain hormone therapies have a higher risk of heart disease       and strokes.
The research findings are actively disseminated in news stories on the       KCL website which also provides a link to the initial press conference.
Relevant to treatment of prostate cancer globally: Prostate cancer       is the most common male cancer in Europe, accounting for a quarter of all       newly diagnosed cases, or about 380,000 men every year.
Moreover, prostate       cancer is the third most common cause of death from cancer in European       men, with 94,000 deaths a year.
There are more than 8 million men living       with prostate cancer globally, of whom 2 million live in the United       States.
Wide awareness of this research (such as through the considerable       media coverage generated) thus has a very considerable impact on the       health of a very large number of prostate cancer patients and their       families.
Improvements in the health of prostate cancer patients and fewer         deaths: The impact on the ultimate beneficiaries, patients with       prostate cancer, is significant.
Doctors consider the research findings       when prescribing therapies.
The overall health of prostate cancer patients       has improved and there have been fewer deaths as a result of this and       other research.
