     A new approach to rheumatoid arthritis care: The 2009 National       Institute for Health and Clinical       Excellence (NICE) guidelines for rheumatoid arthritis [7], draw heavily on       research by KCL's       Professor Scott and colleagues, referencing 10 of their publications and       changing the way that       care is delivered for people with rheumatoid arthritis in England.
The guidelines were published by NICE in collaboration with the Royal       College of Physicians and       the National Collaborating Centre for Chronic Conditions.
They include       several key priorities for       implementation, the most important of which was that "people with newly         diagnosed active         rheumatoid arthritis should be offered a combination of         disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drugs         including methotrexate and at least one other disease modifying drug         plus short-term steroids as         soon as possible and ideally within 3 months of the onset of persistent         symptoms".
This recommendation depended on the following research evidence:     a.
Early treatment with disease-modifying drugs is effective at limiting       disability     b.
Intensive combination therapy is more effective than treatment with       one drug only     c. Conventional drugs, including leflunomide, are the mainstay of       treatment.
The evidence favouring intensive treatment was based on a large body of       international research,       and one specific guidance point was a direct consequence of the KCL       group's work &#8212; the       recommendation to use combinations of disease-modifying drugs.
The most       crucial KCL research       contributions were those showing that using two or more conventional       disease-modifying       treatments are effective and that these appear highly cost-effective in       early rheumatoid arthritis.
This approach is also endorsed by the NICE Quality Standard for rheumatoid       arthritis, published in       June 2013 [8].
Impact on treatment in the UK, Europe and beyond: A number of       further measures have been       taken to promote the use of intensive treatment in early rheumatoid       arthritis in the UK as a result of       KCL's work, including the Report from the National Audit Office on       Rheumatoid Arthritis (2009) [9]       and the National Audit for Early Arthritis led by the Healthcare Quality       Improvement Partnership       [10].
The NHS Best Practice Tariff for early inflammatory arthritis in       2013/4 Payment by Results       also emphasises the importance of early awareness, regular follow-up and       appropriate titration       (progressive intensification) of therapy [11].
The British Society for       Rheumatology guideline also       supports this approach [12].
Other national and international guidance, including the Scottish       Intercollegiate Network Guidance       for the management of early rheumatoid arthritis [13], the European       (EULAR) guidance for the       management of rheumatoid arthritis [14, 15] and North American guidance       [16] have also drawn       upon the research of Professor Scott and his colleagues.
Impact on patients: Professor Scott and his colleagues have also       published evidence that the       management of rheumatoid arthritis is improving as a result of their work.
Fewer patients have       uncontrolled active disease, joint replacement needs are declining, and       inpatient care is falling.
However, they have also shown that uptake of intensive treatment       approaches remains suboptimal       and that greater efforts to translate evidence into practice are still       needed [17, 18].
Patients'       organisations' advice makes reference to the benefits of early combination       treatment [19, 20].
The impact of the research undertaken at KCL has been achieved through       the extensive efforts       made by the group to disseminate evidence that intensive therapy is       effective.
These include:     a.
Serving on national bodies overseeing clinical practice and standards:       Professors Panayi and       Scott were both Presidents of The British Society for Rheumatology; Dr       Kingsley chaired its       External Relations Committee     b.
Working with patient groups: Professor Panayi was Chief Medical       Adviser to the National       Rheumatoid Arthritis Society (NRAS).
Professor Scott Chaired the       Scientific Section of the       Arthritis and Musculoskeletal Alliance (ARMA) and co-ordinated its working       group for       Standards of Care in Inflammatory Arthritis     c. Contributing to UK and European Guidelines: Professor Scott served on       two guidelines groups       for rheumatoid arthritis: the National Institute for Health and Clinical       Evidence (NICE) group       and the European League Against Rheumatism (EULAR) group.
