     Marked improvement in the management of anaemia in chronic kidney         disease: The research described above has significantly improved the       management of anaemia in patients with chronic kidney disease worldwide,       through its contribution to national and international guidelines.
Contribution to UK NICE guidelines: The 2011 clinical guidelines       "CG114: Anaemia management in people with chronic kidney disease" (13)       published by the UK National Institute for Health and Care Excellence       (NICE) extensively incorporates the findings of KCL researchers.
Seven       pieces of original KCL research contribute to the guidelines, including       the work on management of iron therapy and the use of a 2-minute push of       intravenous iron sucrose (1,2), target haemoglobin levels in patients on       erythropoietin therapy (4) and treatment of pure red cell aplasia (9).
Global impact: International clinical practice guidelines have       also assimilated the scientific evidence base for the management of renal       anaemia.
The latest of these is the global KDIGO Clinical Practice       Guideline for Anemia in Chronic Kidney Disease (August 2012) (14).
These       guidelines extensively incorporate the findings of KCL researchers, which       contributed 6 pieces of original research to the references cited in the       guideline.
These include the work on management of iron therapy (1,2), the       work addressing normalisation of haemoglobin levels with erythropoietic       therapy (4), work on the relevance of haemoglobin variability (5),       research comparing pegylated epoetin with darbepoetin alfa (6), and       studies on the management of antibody-mediated pure red cell aplasia (9).
Iron supplementation: Iron supplementation is important in the       management of anaemia, but giving iron by oral tablet is ineffective in       dialysis patients.
Professor Macdougall's randomised controlled trial       published in 1996 (1) was one of the first to show that oral       iron was ineffective in these patients.
These patients benefit from       intravenous iron which corrects the iron deficiency and vastly improves       patients' quality of life.
The practice of administering intravenous iron       sucrose (2) has been adopted in numerous kidney units worldwide.
The       recommendations within the KDIGO Anemia guideline (14 - Chapter 2)       reinforce the benefit of this practice as evidenced by the KCL research       and the international standing of the guideline ensures its impact       worldwide.
This relatively simple yet highly effective intervention has       had a major impact on patients' quality of life.
Target haemoglobin level: Although early studies suggested that       variability in haemoglobin level might be harmful, other studies,       including KCL research (4,5) suggested that this had little impact.
The       CREATE study (4) provided especially strong data for the evidence base       supporting the inadvisability of aiming for haemoglobin concentrations       above 13 g/dl in kidney patients.
The KDIGO Anemia guideline states "In       all adult patients, we recommend that ESAs not be used to intentionally       increase the Hb concentration above 13 g/dl (130 g/l).
Evidence level 1A       (ref 14 - Chapter 3).
These quote extensively from the CREATE study.
Comparing alternative epoietins: Since recombinant human       erythropoietin has become available, two longer-acting erythropoietin       analogues - darbepoetin alfa and pegylated epoetin beta - have been       investigated.
International research to which KCL made a major       contribution has shown that when used once-monthly, pegylated epoetin beta       is superior to darbepoetin alfa (6).
The practical benefit to       patients is in the reduced frequency of injections that is now possible       and this is also incorporated in the KDIGO Anemia guideline (ref 14 -       Chapter 3).
Pure red cell aplasia: The finding that the severe condition of       antibody-mediated pure red cell aplasia was transformed by peginesatide       (10) opened a unique treatment option for patients who had developed       antibodies against the conventional treatment, erythropoietin.
It could       therefore be used to rescue patients who had developed this condition.
Before the peginesatide rescue study, there was uncertainty over the       treatment of these patients.
The KCL-led research on peginesatide forms       the basis for the KDIGO global anemia guideline recommendation to consider       peginesatide as the potential treatment of choice for pure red cell       aplasia in patients with chronic kidney disease (ref 14 - Chapter 3).
The results of the studies that assessed the general use of peginesatide       in chronic kidney disease patients with anaemia (i.e.
those without red       cell aplasia) (11,12) led to initial marketing authorisation for general       use of this drug by the FDA in the USA (15).
However, it has subsequently       been withdrawn for this indication by the manufacturers because of cases       of severe allergic reaction (16).
