     Economic impact     The value of the electronics manufacturing industry worldwide is ~US$2tn;       Europe accounts for ~20% of this.
Advances in electronics components and       systems technologies underpin much larger markets which include industrial       sectors, eg aerospace, automotive, energy generation, medical devices etc,       and service sectors, eg internet, games, broadcasting, telecoms etc, which       account for approximately 10% of world GDP.
Flip-chip assembly, originally developed by IBM, is seen as a route to       solve the challenge of reducing the amount of real estate taken up by a       semiconductor package on a printed circuit board, but unfortunately the       adoption of flip-chip assembly resulted in reliability problems.
Our work       in collaboration with Henkel, DEK Printing machines, and Heriot-Watt       University has provided a route to adopt the flip-chip process at       sub-100um pitch interconnections using both lead-free solder pastes and       conductive adhesives.
The project helped to establish MicroStencil Ltd, a       spin-out company formed to commercialise the low cost and high precision       electroforming technology developed from the project.
MicroStencil has       recently moved to Singapore to be closer to its customer base and entered       a partnership with DEK Printing Machines Ltd, a world leading stencil       printing equipment manufacturer, to produce a new brand of stencils.
The university's work supported the successful implementation of Ball       Grid Array (BGA) semiconductor packaged components for Tranche 2 of the       radar signal processor for the Eurofighter Typhoon aircraft.
Each       processor had a value of &#163;300k with a total European buy of 200 processors       of which 66% were exported to Italy, Spain and Germany.
These went into       production in 2008.
Our work in optimising the refinishing process of electronic components       for use in high reliability aerospace applications has been funded by the       US Department of Defense and industry, and has developed a methodology to       dramatically reduce the amount of physical testing required to prove       integrity, where normally such testing can cost upwards of &#163;100,000 per       component.
Environmental impact     European legislation such as Reduction of Hazardous Substances (RoHS) and       Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment (WEEE) have posed significant       challenges for the electronics industry in finding replacements to a       number of materials used in electronics manufacturing - including lead-based 	  solders.
Our work in assessing the manufacturing processes and       subsequent reliability of electronic components using material       replacements such as Tin-Silver-Copper solders has helped our industry       partners meet these challenges, as well as avoid the placement of harmful       materials such as lead in landfill.
Although RoHS only applied to certain       sectors (eg high reliability sectors have an opt-out), the use of       commercial lead-free components in high reliability systems means that       most sectors have had to abide with the RoHS legislation.
Our work on       power electronics modules and the use of our tool &#8212; PowerLife &#8212; by       industrial partners is providing a route for the adoption of power       electronics modules in a wide range of applications including aerospace,       rail and automotive.
For example our work on glob-top materials clearly       identified this as a process to increase the reliability of wirebond       interconnects in harsh environments.
The adoption of power electronics has       the potential for energy savings of $400bn annually and the UK is well       placed to benefit from innovations in this area.
Impact on practitioners     A number of companies are using design rules, which have resulted from       our work, to ensure that quality and reliability requirements of their       components are met.
Examples include Henkel Technologies Ltd, manufacturer       of solder pastes and adhesives, who have adopted our results for       implementation as part of a quality assurance (QA) tool in its production       plant, and Selex Electronic Systems who are using our modelling       technologies as part of their qualification process for avionics       electronics.
In addition to this our expertise in reliability of       electronic components is contributing to the new IEEE Standard P1856       (http://bit.ly/1a2eZy0) &#8212; Prognostics and Health Management of Electronic       Systems.
Our modelling expertise has also contributed to the 2013       International Electronics Manufacturing Initiative Roadmap       (http://bit.ly/1ea0Hjk).
We work closely with the National       Microelectronics Institute and the IEEE (where Professor Bailey is       UK&amp;RI Chapter Chair for IEEE components and manufacturing, and       reliability societies) in disseminating our research outputs to       practitioners.
