     Marked improvements in outcomes for APL patients: Increased       survival is the greatest impact       resulting from this underpinning molecular research.
In UK national       trials, the percentage of APL       patients surviving 5 years after treatment has risen from 56% in 1990 to       over 90% in 2013.
Improved molecular diagnostics and the monitoring of `minimal residual       disease' (MRD) to guide       targeted therapies have made significant contributions to the increased       survival rates &#8212;in both of       which the KCL research has played a major role (Section 2).
In recognition       of this, Prof. Grimwade       was appointed to coordinate molecular screening and MRD monitoring in the       UK National Cancer       Research Institute (NCRI) AML trials.
The improvement in survival is also       due to the introduction of       molecularly-targeted drugs, an area to which KCL research on the       underlying molecular causes of       APL has also contributed (Section 2).
Specific impacts of the strategy developed by KCL for monitoring MRD were       seen in national trial       MRC AML15.
Compared with the previous trial in that series, in which MRD       was not monitored, the       KCL strategy halved the number of patients suffering a full-blown       recurrence of APL.
Importantly,       monitoring MRD led to a significant increase in overall survival,       especially in patients who had       high-risk disease: it gave a 10% survival advantage after 5 years at a       cost of only &#163;1.35k per       quality-adjusted life year gained (see [9] above).
Findings used in international and national treatment guidelines:       Grimwade et al.
's findings       have been used to personalise treatment for APL, based on risks faced by       individual patients [11].
The original risk classification [10] developed by KCL researchers in       national trials&#8212;based on the       chromosome defects found in different subtypes of AML&#8212;has had considerable       impact in shaping       approaches to treatment in the UK and elsewhere (in addition, that paper       has been cited over 2000       times).
The classification system was further refined in 2010 after       analysis of almost 6000 younger       adult patients with AML; this is already guiding decisions about the value       of conducting bone       marrow transplants.
This KCL work has had a very significant impact, informing international       APL treatment guidelines       [12], which recommend molecular diagnostics as mandatory for successful       patient management.
MRD monitoring is now also recommended in the US National Comprehensive       Cancer Network       guidelines [13], with molecular monitoring of disease response recognised       as a standard of care.
Assays based on KCL research used widely in the NHS and across Europe:       The molecular       diagnostic and monitoring assays that were validated by the KCL group have       now been       implemented within the NHS, with Guy's Hospital continuing to serve as a       hub for analysis [14] and       also as the reference centre for the National Cancer Research Institute       (NCRI) leukaemia trials.
Prof. Grimwade is Chair of the European Hematology Association Scientific       Working Group on       AML and leader of the Minimal Residual Disease component of the European       LeukemiaNet [15]       (EU 6th Framework, Network of Excellence), coordinating 28       expert laboratories, spread across 12       countries.
This has extended across Europe the use of the optimised assays       that can be used to       track MRD in patients with blood cancers [15].
It has also fostered the       development of a tailor-made software package to report patient results in       a standardised manner [16].
This software has       also been used to report MRD data in the UK NCRI AML trials.
Assays based on KCL research used in UK and European clinical trials:       Apart from routine       care, these assays are also being employed in the UK's national AML17       trial [17] and in the       European ICC01 trial [18] which is run by I-BFM and which targets children       who have APL.
In       these trials, MRD monitoring is being used as a safeguard to determine       whether drug use in APL       treatment can be cut down, in order to reduce toxicity while still       maintaining high cure rates.
Media coverage and public dissemination of KCL work on MRD monitoring:       The implications       of the KCL research have been disseminated to the public [19-21] and       covered in the lay press       [22-23].
