     Marked improvements in diagnosis and treatment for people with MPN:       Improved diagnosis and treatment of MPN are the greatest impacts resulting       from this research.
The existing WHO diagnostic criteria for these       disorders were difficult to interpret and were not applied consistently by       haemato-pathologists.
KCL research contributed to changes in UK, European       and WHO guidelines for diagnosis as well as treatment.
The research has       also lowered the costs of therapy, improved management of MPN in       pregnancy, and raised public awareness of MPN and MPN treatments.
Findings used to improve international diagnostic criteria: The       studies carried out by the KCL team together with collaborators in       Cambridge have radically changed the understanding (11) of MPN - as       neoplasms or clonal cancers rather than simply "disorders" - and       identified specific mutations and subtypes.
As a direct result, WHO       improved and expanded its diagnostic criteria for MPN, incorporating the       JAK2 V617F mutation testing into diagnostic processes (12).
More accurate       diagnosis directly affects patients, as correct diagnosis ensures that       they receive appropriate treatment and prognosis.
Refining diagnostic       criteria and the criteria for assessing improvements (response criteria)       also leads to better standardisation of clinical trials, and makes it       easier to compare treatments.
Treatment guidelines influenced by KCL research: Findings of the       long-term Medical Research Council clinical trial MRC-PT1, which assessed       the value of a new treatment for essential thrombocythaemia (ET),       demonstrated that hydroxycarbamide with aspirin should be the first line       of treatment for ET rather than a newer, more expensive drug, anagrelide.
These have been incorporated into national and international treatment       guidelines (13,14,15,16).
New class of drugs developed for myelofibrosis and first JAK inhibitor         approved: Trials of a new class of drugs, JAK inhibitors, prompted       by the findings of the biological studies have paved the way for targeted       therapies.
The KCL-led phase III trial, COMFORT II, showed that the JAK       inhibitor ruxolitinib prolonged the life of patients with myelofibrosis       (8).
This is a major advance because patients with myelofibrosis have the       most symptoms and the worst prognosis among the different MPN.
The US Food       and Drug Administration (FDA) approved ruxolitinib in November 2011 and       Europe approved it in 2012 (17,18).
Ruxolitinib is the first approved       medication for myelofibrosis.
Lower costs for health systems: The research showing that       hydroxycarbamide is a more effective treatment than the more expensive       drug anagrelide for essential thrombocythemia (7) has altered management       of this disease and been estimated to save the NHS alone around &#163;20       million/ year (&#163;20k pa treatment costs and a conservative estimate of 1000       high risk ET patients).
Since these changes have been incorporated into       international guidelines, this also means lower costs internationally.
Improved management of pregnant women with MPN: The work of KCL       researchers on pregnant women with polycythaemia vera and myelofibrosis       resulted in a new management strategy that has been taken up in treatment       guidelines nationally and internationally (13,14,15,16).
The KCL       researchers were also instrumental in setting up a European Union-wide       reporting process to gather information on MPN in pregnancy, with the aim       of improving outcomes.
Improved awareness of MPN and patient advocacy: Professor Harrison       and her colleague at GSTT Dr Deepti Radia set up MPD Voice (19, 20), the       UK patient advocacy group for MPN to educate both physicians and patients.
MPD Voice has over 1500 members and the website receives over 100,000 hits       a year.
