     Significant impact on treatment of COPD exacerbations: The       evidence provided by the first- ever randomised clinical trial of NIV in       acute hypercapnic exacerbations of COPD (1) has had a significant impact       on the management of this common critical medical condition.
The trial,       and subsequent research which confirmed the findings, resulted in modified       guidelines for managing acute exacerbations of COPD in the UK, Europe, USA       and worldwide, and an increase in the use of NIV.
Thousands of patients       who would have died or would have suffered complications from invasive       ventilation have survived (8).
Considerable improvement in outcomes for patients with ventilatory         failure in acute exacerbations of COPD: The number of patients       admitted with acute exacerbations of COPD in England each year is 100,000.
The mortality rate in patients with ventilatory failure (high arterial       PaCO2 and acidosis) at the time of admission who do not respond       to conventional treatment (bronchodilators etc.)
is high if they are not       mechanically ventilated (9).
Across England around 7% of all COPD admissions (7,000 patients) are       treated with NIV, saving 800-1,000 lives.
One of the indicators in the NHS       Outcomes Framework 2012/13 is "preventing people from dying prematurely".
NIV is highly effective in preventing premature deaths: NICE guidelines       (12) present evidence for the benefits of NIV, including reducing deaths       (p. 387-389).
The British Thoracic Society (BTS) indicates that "Non-invasive       ventilation in the management of acute type II respiratory failure in COPD       patients represents one of the major technical advances in respiratory       care...with a reduction in mortality of approximately 50% demonstrated in       studies..." (10).
Guidelines recommend NIV: The Joint British Thoracic Society (BTS)       / Royal College of Physicians / Intensive Care Society Guidelines       recommend "NIV should be considered for all COPD patients with a       persistent respiratory acidosis after a maximum of one hour of standard       medical therapy (grade A recommendation) (10).
The National Institute for       Health and Care Excellence (NICE) recommends non-invasive ventilation as       the treatment of choice for COPD exacerbations (12).
Recognition of this       clinical advance by the BTS and NICE guidelines means that more and more       hospitals are now offering NIV (11).
Use of NIV to treat COPD patients rises: One of the quality       indicators in the NHS Atlas of Variation in Health Care for People with       Respiratory Disease 2012 (11) is "Proportion of patients admitted with       COPD receiving non-invasive ventilation (NIV) by Primary Care Trust       (PCT)".
In England, 97% of acute care hospitals now offer NIV for COPD       patients although the proportion of patients admitted with COPD treated       with NIV shows a seven-fold variation between different       hospitals/PCTs/boroughs.
As healthcare commissioners and healthcare       providers are seeking to address this variation, the use of NIV in acute       COPD continues to rise.
BTS indicates that "There has been a rapid       expansion in the provision of NIV services with over 90% of UK admitting       hospitals offering this intervention" (10).
Changes in clinical practice: National and international       guidelines recommending NIV for acute COPD have had a considerable impact       on clinical practice.
The 2010 UK National Institute for Health and       Clinical Excellence (NICE) guidelines (12) recommend: "NIV should be used       as the treatment of choice for persistent ventilatory failure during       exacerbations..." (p.389).
The 2008 national COPD audit (13) (p.23) showed       that 79% of acute NHS units fully met and 18% partially met this NICE       recommendation.
The Department of Health specification on service to manage COPD       exacerbations (14) states that "Facilities for NIV should be available in       all acute care hospitals where people with exacerbations complicated by       respiratory failure are managed" (p.15).
In England, Academic Health       Science Networks (AHSNs), which set out to drive best practice and the       requirement for all NHS providers within AHSNs to comply with       evidenced-based treatments, are further extending use of NIV for acute       COPD admissions where appropriate.
Considerable reduction in costs: The use of NIV has a considerable       impact on costs.
NICE clinical guidelines (12) present evidence that (a)       NIV is cost effective in patients with a severe exacerbation of COPD as it       is more effective and less expensive, than standard therapy alone and (b)       the addition of ward based NIV to standard treatment is cost effective       when compared with standard treatment alone, with an incremental cost       effectiveness ratio of -&#163;645 per death avoided.
Market for NIV devices expands: Success in treating acute COPD       patients with NIV and subsequent wider use has greatly expanded the market       for ventilators.
For example, across KCL- associated hospitals, the number       of ventilators used for acute COPD has increased 10 fold.
At the time of       the KCL research the ventilators were large, heavy and positioned on the       floor; now they are small, light and sit easily on the patient's bedside       locker.
The challenge of devising NIV ventilators acceptable to       breathless, often distressed, COPD patients has driven innovation in       ventilator technology.
Technical improvements have made NIV more       acceptable to patients with acute COPD and have helped extend the use of       NIV to patients with cystic fibrosis and to stable COPD patients with       chronic ventilatory failure.
Global reach of findings: National Institute for Health and Care       Excellence (NICE) guidelines have a considerable impact on treatment in       many countries across the world.
The global smoking pandemic is driving up       the prevalence of COPD worldwide, particularly in China and India.
NICE is       now collaborating with China on chronic disease, with an initial focus on       COPD and stroke (15).
The NICE COPD guidelines are a starting point for       NICE-China discussions.
