     Improved survival times for diabetic patients experiencing         albuminuria: Increased survival rates for patients experiencing       diabetes-related albuminuria must be considered the most significant       impact of this KCL research.
An EU-based analysis into the effect of       prescribing ACE-I drugs to diabetic patients experiencing       albuminuria estimates an increase in life expectancy of 1.14       quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) over an individual's lifetime (8).
A       similar analysis of the impact of prescribing ARB drugs concluded       an increase in life expectancy of 0.555 QALYs per patient compared to the       next best drug.
In real terms, this represents an additional 7 months of       survival in full health (9).
Both treatment approaches significantly       improve survival rates in diabetic patients presenting with albuminuria,       and are directly attributable to the original research carried out by KCL       researchers and translated into clinical therapies (see [2] and [5]       above).
The clinical aspects of KCL research are highlighted by the appointment       of Professor Viberti as the co-chair of the steering committee for the       ROADMAP (Randomised Olmesartan and Diabetes Microalbuminuria       Prevention) study into 2008 (see [4] above), and his full chair of       the steering committee for the ASCEND study scheduled into 2009 (see [6]       above).
Improved cost-benefits following ACE-I or ARB therapy in diabetic         albuminuria patients: In case studies analysing a typical diabetic       patient presenting with albuminuria, the use of ACE-I drugs pioneered by       Professor Viberti (see [2] above) has been associated with incremental       savings of $12,506 compared to the next best drug (8).
Since generic       versions of ACE inhibitors are now available at a modest cost       (approximately $100/year), current cost savings are even higher than this       2011 estimate.
A similar study reviewing the economic benefits of       prescribing ARB drugs (based on research by Professor Viberti (see [3]       above)) to treat diabetic patients newly diagnosed with albuminuria       concluded that significant cost savings would be achieved with this       approach compared to alternative drugs (9).
Thus, KCL research continues       to drive economic healthcare improvements worldwide.
KCL research shapes clinical guidelines worldwide: Original       research performed at KCL has contributed to clinical practice guidelines       both nationally and internationally.
The key patient benefits and       socio-economic consequences of our research on multiple healthcare systems       continue to have long-reaching impact in the current assessment period.
Research by Professor Viberti (see [2] above) has informed national       governmental policies for the management of chronic kidney disease in       patients with type-2 diabetes and diabetes-related high blood pressure for       the National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence (NICE) (10) in       the UK.
The percentage of patients with diabetes, on general       practice registers, with a diagnosis of kidney disease (clinical       proteinuria) or micro-albuminuria who are currently treated with an ACE-I       (or ARBs) [DM06] is embedded in the NICE Quality and Outcomes Framework       2013 (http://bma.org.uk/-         /media/Files/PDFs/Practical%20advice%20at%20work/Contracts/gpqofguidance20132014.pdf,       thereby incentivising best practice in primary care (11).
In Europe,       this research has influenced the clinical guidelines of the European       Society of Cardiology directing the treatment of diabetic patients with       kidney disease (12).
In North America, KCL research has been       incorporated into the current US Veterans Affairs/Department of Defence       (VA/DoD) clinical practice guidelines for management of chronic kidney       disease in primary care version 2.0 (13).
KCL findings have also shaped       the US Kidney Foundation Disease Outcomes Quality Initiative (KDOQI)       Clinical Practice Guidelines on Hypertension and Antihypertensive Agents       in Chronic Kidney Disease (14), and the National Kidney Foundation KDOQI&#8482;       Clinical Practice Guidelines and Clinical Practice Recommendations for       Diabetes and Chronic Kidney Disease (15).
KCL research has also       contributed to the national evidence-based guidelines for diagnosis,       prevention and management of chronic kidney disease in type-2 diabetes in       Australia (16).
KCL research led by Professor Viberti (see [3] above) has also influenced       the guidelines of multiple medical societies for the management of chronic       kidney disease, including the European Society of Hypertension (17), the       Diabetes Australia Guideline Development Consortium (18), the Canadian       Diabetes Association (19) and the Taiwan Society of Cardiology (20).
