     Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) is a major public health       problem.
In 2020, COPD is projected to rank fifth worldwide in burden of       disease.
Three million people in England have COPD and currently there are       100,000 admissions for exacerbation of COPD in England each year.
Mortality is high in patients admitted to hospital (1 in 12 die during       admission and 1 in 6 die within three months of an admission).
By avoiding       re-admissions, early pulmonary rehabilitation &#8212; a combination of       interventions on the respiratory system (i.e.
stopping smoking,       optimisation of medication), psychological support (i.e.
patient       education, psychological and social support) and, importantly, physical       exercise &#8212; stabilises or reverses COPD and avoids premature deaths.
Strong contribution to evidence base for pulmonary rehabilitation in         patients with unstable COPD: A very significant impact resulting       from KCL research is a strong contribution to the Cochrane Review of       pulmonary rehabilitation in patients with unstable COPD (10).
Cochrane       Reviews are highly respected evaluations of healthcare research which       produce evidence-based recommendations that are widely taken up in       clinical practice and policy worldwide (see below).
The pulmonary rehabilitation review (10) assessed six randomised       controlled trials that investigated outpatient rehabilitation begun after       inpatient treatment for exacerbations.
One of the six studies was our work       published in the British Medical Journal, 2004 (1), which reported       the first randomised controlled trial in the world of comprehensive early       outpatient-based pulmonary rehabilitation shortly after hospital admission       for acute exacerbations of COPD.
The update of the review, covering July       2008 to March 2010, took in three extra studies.
One of these was our work       reported in Thorax, 2010 (2), which demonstrated, for the first       time, that early pulmonary rehabilitation &#8212; in addition to improving       quality of life and exercise capacity &#8212; also increased quadriceps strength       and, most importantly, reduced re-admissions for exacerbations from 33% to       7% at three months.
The Cochrane review concludes that early post-exacerbation pulmonary       rehabilitation is effective at reducing future hospital admissions and       leads to large and clinically relevant improvements of health-related       quality of life and exercise capacity (p.15).
It states that one future       admission is avoided for every four patients treated, and one life is       saved for every six treated (p.2).
Uptake of research in national and international guidelines: This       KCL work has had a significant impact on 2010 National Institute for       Health and Care Excellence (NICE) guidelines on managing COPD in adults in       primary and secondary care (11) (data from publication [1] is cited five       times throughout).
The guidelines recommend that "Pulmonary rehabilitation       should be made available to all appropriate people with COPD including       those who have had a recent hospitalisation for an acute exacerbation"       (p.283).
The Global Initiative for Chronic Obstructive Lung Disease (GOLD) reviews       published literature and prepares an annual updated global consensus       report on treatment based on scientific and clinical achievements.
The       2013 report (12), translated into Italian, Japanese, Turkish and Russian       and Polish to ensure wide international readership, finds that "Early       outpatient pulmonary rehabilitation after hospitalisation for an       exacerbation is safe and results in clinically significant improvement in       exercise capacity and health status at three months" based on the findings       of KCL (1) and other research.
GOLD recommendations are particularly       important internationally.
IMPRESS (IMPproving and Integrating RESpiratory Services), a joint       initiative between the British Thoracic Society and the Primary Care       Respiratory Society-UK, provides clinical leadership to the NHS to       stimulate improvement and integration in respiratory services.
The new       IMPRESS Guide to Pulmonary Rehabilitation (2011) for commissioners and       providers of pulmonary rehabilitation services (13) finds that the best       evidence for the cost-effectiveness of pulmonary rehabilitation comes from       four sources, one of which is Seymour 2010 (our Thorax paper) (2).
The British Thoracic Society has just published Guidelines on Pulmonary       Rehabilitation in Adults (14).
These guidelines refer to our work (1,2)       and recommend that "Patients hospitalised for acute exacerbation of COPD       should be offered pulmonary rehabilitation at hospital discharge to       commence within one month of discharge" (p. ii3).
NHS Best Practice Guidance on Pulmonary Rehabilitation Services to       commissioners across the NHS (2012) is that pulmonary rehabilitation       should be offered to patients who have recently had an exacerbation       requiring hospital admission (15).
Uptake of findings and cost-effectiveness in clinical care:       Pulmonary rehabilitation was provided by 90% of primary care trusts in       2008, up from 64% in 2003 (16).
The Department of Health (DoH) COPD       Strategy Document (17) says "As identified in our Consultation Impact       Assessment, ensuring the widespread use of pulmonary rehabilitation would       bring annual savings of around &#163;5.5 million a year."
The DoH has convened       a pulmonary rehabilitation sub-group, with representation from       professional groups, people with COPD and the British Lung Foundation to       advise commissioners on specifications for good quality exercise and       rehabilitation services and to provide practical advice for practitioners.
