     Impacts of King's air quality research include: evidence linking poor air       quality in urban environments to traffic; evidence to inform the policies       to improve air quality; contributing to the design and implementation and       evaluation of traffic control schemes in the UK; informing the development       of schemes in other countries; evidence of measurable improvements in air       quality; evidence of improvements in health outcomes.
Beneficiaries from       the research include the populations of urban centres that have benefited       from control measures directed at traffic related air pollution.
King's research influences air quality strategy in London     In 2000, London's air quality was the worst in the UK and there was       evidence to show that these pollution levels caused serious health       impacts.
Ken Livingstone, as Mayor of London published the `The Mayor's         Air Quality Strategy: Cleaning London's Air,' in 2001 (updated in       2002) which drew heavily on information from King's London Air Quality       Network (LAQN).
The strategy put forward a range of policies and proposals       designed to move London toward the point where air pollution no longer       poses a significant risk to human health.
The underpinning research from       King's, constituted an extensive programme that has delivered innovative       modelling and monitoring methodologies, guiding the design of the       Congestion Charging Scheme and subsequently the world's largest low       emission zone (LEZ).
London's LEZ was proposed in order to "accelerate the       introduction of cleaner vehicles and reduce the numbers of older, more       polluting vehicles" into the capital.
King's researchers engaged in the       LEZ feasibility study and, in 2005, King's was chosen to partner Transport       for London (TfL) in delivering the London LEZ, which became a key       component of The Mayor's Air Quality Strategy.
In the assessment period,       results from King's monitoring and modelling were used extensively by the       Mayor's office.
`The Mayor's Air Quality Strategy' (2010) details current pollution       levels and highlights measures which `will result in significant       reductions in pollution concentrations across Greater London.'
King's LAQN       is specifically identified for the contribution to monitoring of air       quality and emissions.
The LAQN index, developed by King's, is used       throughout the report to `provide a useful picture of the overall       improvements in London's air quality'.
The London Air Quality Network not only informs Transport for London, but can       be used by the public to find, for instance, street-level, interactive       current pollution maps; incidences of high pollution episodes; news,       videos and podcasts pertaining to air quality; interactive graphs by       London borough and yearly reports.
The LEZ was established in 2008 and has continued to the present.
It       operates 24 hours a day, 365 days a year.
It applies to diesel-engine,       heavy goods vehicles (HGVs), buses and coaches, larger vans and minibuses,       using cameras to identify the registration numbers of vehicles and the       Driver and Vehicle Licensing Agency (DVLA) database to identify a       vehicle's emissions.
The impact of the research undertaken by King's in       partnership with TfL, not only encompasses the evaluation the       effectiveness of the LEZ on an ongoing basis, but also ensured that key       projected impacts of the scheme were understood and characterised well in       advance of the implementation date, as part of the monitoring network       design process.
The 2008 TfL report `London Low Emission Zone &#8212; Impacts Monitoring' details the collaboration       with the King's LAQN saying that measurements provided by them "will be       the first point of reference for stakeholders assessing the air quality       impacts of the scheme and are the legal basis for assessing compliance       with UK and European air quality objectives."
This report also discusses       the health impacts of the LEZ, utilising data that contributed to the Tonne et al, (2008)       and Kelly et al, (2011b) research reports.
King's scientists provide expert advice and advocacy to UK         policy-makers     Prof Frank Kelly from King's has actively advocated the merits of LEZs       when giving expert advice to Environmental Audit Committee enquiries into       air quality in the UK.
Prof Kelly gave detailed verbal evidence to the House of Commons Environmental Audit Committee to       aid in the compilation of their Air Quality Report.
This report detailed the government's response to a       previous meeting of the committee that found that "air quality was not       seen as a priority across Government" and as such the UK was "failing to       meet a range of domestic and European targets."
Failure to meet standards       could incur millions of pounds of fines.
The single most important       exposure to harmful air pollutants was known to be caused by transport.
It       was decided local authorities must be involved in tackling poor air       quality.
The government undertook this current enquiry to "assess the       extent to which the Government had implemented the processes outlined in       its response and to assess their results."
Prof Kelly was one of the key       people giving evidence and a reference was also made to LAQN documents       when discussing how, in London, PM10 daily limit values were       being exceeded.
King's researchers have also compiled several reports for       the Department for Environment Food and Rural Affairs (DEFRA).
For       instance, in 2009 they produced a report on `Air pollution and emissions trends in London' that "summarises detailed       and comprehensive assessment of trends in emissions and concentrations of       NOX and PM in London".
They also produced a review of air quality modelling that "identifies specific policy needs for       the use of models and evaluates each model in turn in terms of the       scientific content and credibility of the models, their ease of use and       transparency and their fitness for purpose in delivering DEFRA's needs.
Many UK cities are now investigating LEZs with 15 local authorities being       allocated central government funds to develop schemes similar to the       London LEZ.
King's researchers are members of the Committee on the Medical       Effects of Air Pollutants, the expert advisory group of the Department of       Health in the UK for which Kelly is Chair; Quantification of air pollution       health effects, a sub-group of COMEAP; and the Air Quality Expert Group,       the DEFRA advisory group.
King's scientists provide expert advice to international agencies     Professor Kelly and colleagues played significant roles in the air       quality review process initiated by the WHO in 2005, 2010 and again in       2012.
Members of King's staff are also members of influential national and       international scientific panels including: UN Economic Commission for       Europe Convention on Long Range Transboundary Air Pollution; and the US       Health Effects Institute investigation into the Health Effects of Traffic       pollution.
King's research informs similar interventions throughout Europe     Since the inception of the LEZ, King's has contributed innovative       analysis of pollution concentrations as part of our ongoing assessment of       the impacts of the LEZ on air quality.
This work has been of benefit to       the UK, and other Governments around the globe, as they contemplate       measures to reduce traffic pollution in increasingly congested urban       areas.
The LEZ was designed to move London closer to achieving national       and EU air quality objectives.
The use of traffic intervention schemes to       achieve an improvement in air quality is now widespread.
More than 200       cities in 13 European countries have introduced LEZ's and international teams are       following King's lead in assessing their potential health benefit.
