 The impact of the underpinning research concerns technology transfer to companies mainly in the SME sector, with reach apparent in terms of both the diversity of manufacturing companies and their geographical location (Ireland, UK and Europe).
Significance is through improving the quality of products and sales, as well as the establishment of scientifically based assessment for the substitution of halogenated fire retardants by environmentally compatible fire retardants.
Technology transfer of our methodology to modify, predict and model fire performance has been utilised extensively by industry.
Applications include the development of new high performance fabrics, high fire resistance wall or floor insulation, manufacturing of new fire doors and improved intumescent coatings.
The significance of the research lies in the impact on production systems in these areas and ultimately, has been incorporated into products used in a range of circumstances embracing both domestic and commercial environments.
Thus the reach of the impact whilst initially with specific companies has, through incorporation into products, been extended to other applications.
Examples of manufacturing companies employing the underpinning research are SITEX (high performance fabrics), Pollock Lifts (designers of lifts for disabled people) and Essexford Joinery (redevelopment of doors and core materials for doors).
New designs implemented by these companies are based on FireSERT's research with benefit apparent in reducing weight, whilst at the same time increasing the fire resistance of fabrics (SITEX), floor partitions (Pollock Lifts) and fire doors (Essexford).
Research in FireSERT on flame resistant fabrics for industrial and fire-fighting protective clothing provides an alternative to the traditional meta-aramid fabrics (Dupont Kevlar).
Application of these fabrics by SITEX (corroborating statement 1, source 5.1) has produced a number of benefits in relation to fabric/fibre blends.
Fire barrier research on materials in FireSERT has permitted the assessment of performance levels needed for fabric systems.
This has significance in establishing new coating technology that is environmentally safe and boosts performance.
Specifically this has enabled SITEX to produce fabrics offering a high level of fire protection without using finishes or processes which are chemically negative with significant environmental gain.
Wider societal benefit is the reduction in the level of toxic gas in the event of fire (source 5.2).
Furthermore, the new protective fabrics are competitive in price and quality relative to existing meta-aramid alternatives.
Further evidence of the industrial significance of materials research at FireSERT is the application by Pollok Lifts (corroborating statement 2, source 5.3) which, as a manufacturing and service based company in the SME sector, has utilised FireSERT's research on the use of nano-particles, environmentally safe fire retardants and intumescent paints in the improvement and development of their 20 Series Homelift (Through Floor Lift).
These fire retardants were used to improve the fire resistance of floor partitions and have enabled Pollock Lifts to meet and exceed the requirements of specific clauses in BS 5900:2012 namely "Fire protection" and "Behaviour of homelift in the event of fire".
Use of FireSERT research has facilitated the company (Pollock Lifts) in the development of a market leading, cost effective product with a reach that extends into different market sectors namely shops, offices, hospitals and residential properties.
In the case of Essexford Joinery (corroborating statement 3, source 5.4) a similar procedure was followed transferring FireSERT's research for the design of new doors, through implementation and testing the application of new intumescent coatings.
The significance of these developments is an increase in the fire resistance of doors produced by Essexford which has resulted in an increase in manufacturing output and a product reach across economic sectors (source 5.5).
These benefits, as illustrated by the experience of such companies, have resulted in superior products and an increase in sales as an outcome of applying the research developed by FireSERT.
The methodologies underpinning the research have been applied by companies beyond the UK and Ireland.
As an example, IRIS Vernici (corroborating statement 4, source 5.6), an Italian based SME specialising in production of coatings for the building and manufacturing industry, has used FireSERT's research in improving the fire resistance of intumescent coatings by the inclusion of nanoclays.
The underpinning research has played an important role in the development of several commercial intumescent coatings (CHAR 17, CHAR 21 and CHAR 22) and, more recently, of the unsaturated polyester intumescent system.
Significance is in terms of reducing the weight of components in buildings (for example plasterboard), which facilitates the construction and rehabilitation of buildings and offers less expensive options.
The use of environmentally safe fire retardants has assisted IRIS Vernici in surpassing regulation requirements and increasing their sales.
Flammability research undertaken as part of the ENFIRO project has contributed to the development of a complete Life Cycle Analysis (LCA) for regulating the replacement of currently used fire retardants (so called brominated) with environmentally friendly fire retardants.
The environmental and toxicological hazards of brominated flame retardants (BFRs) means that a number of these BFRs have already been phased out with ecological benefit to society.
Economic benefit from the change to environmentally-friendly fire retardants is substantial with forecasts predicting a global market for fire retardants of US$6 billion by 2018.
In this respect, the significance of flammability research at FireSERT has been to demonstrate cost effectiveness and safety issues regarding the use of HFFRs to replace BFRs in products including application in the cable and electronic industry.
The reach of FireSERT's research on fire retardants has also impacted on product development by multi-national companies, for example CLARIANT has utilised the research at Ulster in the manufacturing and marketing of HFFRs (corroborating statement 5, source 5.7).
n summary, the research undertaken at FireSERT on fire safe materials is having significant industrial impact in terms of product development.
The properties of these materials (lightweight, high strength, excellent fire resistance) are fundamental to their significance to industry and have a reach that is cross-sector in nature with benefit to society through enhanced fire protection.
