     World-wide Standardisation of Caries Detection, Assessment &amp;         Preventive Management     The work of KCL researchers on a way to visually rank caries greatly       informed the development of the International Caries Detection and         Assessment System (ICDAS).
Prior to this, dentists had mostly used       use G.V.
Black's caries lesion classification and disease management       system that is more than 100 years old.
Following from a 2002       International Consensus Workshop on Caries Clinical Trials, where it was       concluded that there was a great need to detect dental caries at the       non-cavitated stages, an ICDAS Coordinating Committee was formed with an       aim to develop a standardized system `to inform decisions about diagnosis,       prognosis, and clinical management of dental caries at both the individual       and public health levels.'
The studies detailed above, along with       integration of other caries criteria systems, formed the basis for       creating a systematic approach to categorising the stage of caries       progression based on the clinical visual appearance: the ICDAS.
The ICDAS was developed with national and international partners to       create a unified, validated approach that detects six stages of the       carious process and is divided into sections covering coronal caries, root       caries and caries associated with restorations and sealants.
The       complementary International Caries Classification and Management         System (ICCMS&#8482;) functionalises ICDAS by adding recommendations for       clinical care based on caries risk- and patient-dependent factors.
It       provides a way for dentists, dental associations and dental schools to       deliver the new approach of `caries as a continuum' in order to improve       dental caries prevention and management (1).
Dissemination of the ICDAS       has been led by the charitable ICDAS Foundation, set up to promote the       system and to keep it open and available (2a).
Outlines of how the ICDAS       was put together include reference to a number of the KCL studies detailed       above (2b).
The beneficial impacts of ICDAS/ICCMS&#8482; can be seen in three main areas       (3a)            Significantly influencing the philosophy of minimally invasive         dentistry to now seek to stop or reverse the progression of early caries         and to preserve as much tooth structure as possible, extending the         probability of the tooth surviving for the patient's lifetime       Providing a shared assessment system permitting world-wide comparisons         of caries incidence and prevalence as well as measuring efficacy of         public policy and treatment modalities       Providing a basis for measuring preventive treatment outcomes for         health care systems (e.g., NHS, insurance systems) thereby influencing         both quality assessments and payment structures.
Towards World-wide Acceptance: an overview of the many       impacts of ICDAS/ICCMS&#8482; and their significance can be gauged by its       worldwide use and integration into healthcare standards and policies       across organisations in different countries and applications.
The figure       below summarises the engagement with stakeholders across the four       ICDAS/ICCMS&#8482; domains of Practice, Public Health, Education,           Research.
Included at the mid points are the two KCL-led       Implementation vehicles for ICDAS/ICCMS&#8482; that feed multiple domains: the       Global Collaboratory for Caries Management and the Alliance for a Cavity       Free Future.
Practice Impacts: ICDAS is integrated into national and       international guidelines and policy.
In 2008, the FDI World Dental       Federation adopted the ICDAS-coordinated glossary of key terms as a global       standard (4) and in 2012 incorporated in into its new Caries Matrix (5).
The FDI comprises 130 national dental association members that represent       the majority of the 1 million dentists worldwide.
The Global         Collaboratory for Caries Management, supported by the KCL Policy       Institute, has brought together an array of dental practitioners and       educators from around the world with representatives from dental       companies; all have agreed to implement ICCMS&#8482; in practice and education       (6).
The Department of Health, scoping new contracts for General Dental       Practitioners, is also participating, as is Denplan insurance; both have       stated the wish to be ICCMS&#8482; compliant.
Public Health Impacts: In addition to EU-wide       standardisation (7) and Alliance for a Cavity Free Future-related work,       ICDAS has been employed in a national survey of oral health in Iceland       (8).
Its enamel caries codes are also now incorporated into the 2013 Child       Dental Health Survey of England, Wales &amp; Northern Ireland (9a), which,       the Chief Dental Officer for England has made clear, has impacts upon NHS       policy (9b).
Education Impacts are evidenced by integration into a       European standardised clinical survey guideline on training (7) and a       European Cariology Curriculum (10) being adopted in an increasing number       of countries worldwide.
Open source materials (eLearning and software       tools) are available at no cost via the ICDAS website (2c, 2d) as a       resource to dentists, educators, researchers and those engaged in public       health and policy formulation.
Additionally, ICDAS features in the latest,       2011, edition of Pickard's Manual of Operative Dentistry, a key resource       for dentists (11).
Research Impacts: As of 1 July 2013, ICDAS/ICCMS&#8482;       has been the subject of 114 peer-reviewed published papers, with 78       different first authors from 22 countries (2e).
ICDAS/ICCMS&#8482; has been       developed with input from the International Association for Dental       Research (12) and formed the basis for a ground-breaking region-wide       programme evaluating the extent of early and late stage caries in young       children across ten Latin American countries to plan care programmes with       Governments.
The Alliance for a Caries Free Future, launched in       2010 and now a UK Charity, is extending the impact of KCL research by       promoting unified caries prevention and management in dental education and       practice worldwide through integrating experts from academia, policy       bodies (WHO and Pan American Health Organization) and industry (13a).
ICDAS/ICCMS&#8482; underpins the measures of success of this Alliance.
Since       2011, Alliance Chapters have been formed in Columbia, Mexico, Brazil,       Venezuela, China and Europe (13b,c).
Chapters work with regional dental       schools, dental associations, public health groups, governments and other       stakeholders.
Impacts achieved include public education and joint       community programmes in poor areas, such as one mounted with the Brazilian       government (14).
