     New Centre to Preserve Glands     Research on minimally invasive treatment (MIT) carried out by the team at       King's College London       (KCL) led to the setting up of a dedicated MIT Salivary Gland Centre at       Guy's Hospital/King's       Dental Institute (GH/KDI), London in the late 1990's to capitalize on the       innovations in treatment to       preserve tissue and reduce trauma (1a-c).
The Centre, highlighted in       national media including a       2010 article in the Daily Mail (1d), draws approximately 14% of the 3500       people/year across the       United Kingdom undergoing treatment for obstructive salivary gland disease       (OSGD).
Before the       KCL-led innovations in treatment, all patients required sialoadenectomy.
By in 2011 only 1 of 490       cases treated at GH/KDI required this type of surgery with the rest       undergoing MIT.
Along with       treatment of salivary stones, MIT is also utilised for duct strictures       (23% of the 3500 cases of       OSGD a year), benign parotid tumours and the much rarer occurrence of       salivary ranulas.
Both       duct strictures, managed by balloon dilation (an average of 59       cases/year), and ranulas, managed       by minimal excision preserving the sublingual gland, are now treated in       the outpatient setting.
As       ranulae can afflict young children, this is a significant advance in       treatment of such, significantly       reducing damage to developing tissues and likelihood of scarring (1c).
Improved Patient Outcomes     Prior to the development of MIT, the standard management of symptomatic       stones and parotid       tumours was gland removal (sialoadenectomy).
This can cause permanent       nerve injury in 1.4-3.3%       of cases and haemorrhage in up to 14% of operations.
In the parotid gland,       complications are more       profound as the main risk is to the facial nerve and facial animation:       permanent injury occurs in up       to 4%, temporary injury in 30-60% of cases.
Additionally, many patients       develop Frey's syndrome       (gustatory sweating) and have temporary or permanent anaesthesia of the       cheek skin and earlobe.
Finally an unsightly depression can occur behind the angle of the mandible       due to the loss of       parotid tissue.
These are nearly all avoided or minimalised by MIT.
Another advantage of MIT is       that sialoadenectomy is undertaken under general anaesthesia on an       inpatient basis, with an       average hospital stay of 3 days.
MIT has shifted treatment into the       outpatient setting for small       stones and strictures to day-case surgery for large stones and from a       3-night to a 1-night stay for       benign parotid tumours.
Thus the development of MIT has not only       significantly reduced morbidity       of treatment for the patient, but also greatly reduced costs of treatment       for the NHS.
GH/KDI is a       supra-regional referral centre for general MIT and a national referral       centre for lithotripsy for       England and Wales.
As GH/KDI is a supra-regional referral centre for       general MIT and a national       referral centre for lithotripsy for England and Wales, significant income       of &#163;250K in 2008-11 was       generated by the provision of these type of procedures (1c).
Educating Clinicians Around the World     KCL researchers use a number of avenues to disseminate their work on MIT       and pass on their       skills.
GH/KDI offers an international training course on MIT, attended by       12 consultants per year       with specialities in oral and maxillofacial surgery, ENT and radiology.
Prof McGurk, alongside       European colleagues, runs similar courses once a year in Paris, France and       Erlangen, Germany       and together they set up the Second International Conference on       Controversies in Management of       Salivary Gland Disease in Paris in 2008 for both dissemination of study       results and practical,       hands-on, teaching of MIT (2).
The GH/KDI Centre is also part of the wider       London Salivary Gland       Centre, run by Prof McGurk, which encompasses both NHS and private       practice (3).
The work of       KCL researchers is the only such cited in the European Association of Oral       Medicine's handbook       chapter on Obstructive Salivary Disease, with references including Drage       2002 and Escudier 2003       (4).
It is also widely utilised in the recently-published clinical       handbook `Controversies in the       Management of Salivary Gland Disease', co-edited by Prof McGurk, aimed at       oral surgeons and       nominated for a 2013 British Medical Association award (5).
Minimally invasive salivary techniques are slowly being adopted       throughout the world with an       increasing list of publications from Europe, USA and China.
For instance,       Dr David Eisele at Johns       Hopkins Hospital was one of the first surgeons to bring the technique to       the USA following       observation of the successes of MIT in Europe (6).
Additionally, a number       of reviews of MIT cite       KCL work as being influential papers as being influential (e.g.
7).
The       KCL team also introduced       micro endoscopy and minimal therapy to China in 2005 by holding practical       demonstrations and       teaching sessions and arranging for the manufacturers of micro endoscopes       to meet up with       Chinese surgeons.
Since then, a number of publications indicate the       adoption of MIT into their       health system (e.g.
8).
Improving Devices     Researchers at KCL have worked closely with the German company       PolyDiagnost, who produce       the micro endoscopes used during MIT, to help guide them in the       development of their specialised       instruments.
The firm attests that this couldn't have been done without       the expertise of the KCL       team.
This is reflected in the company website noting the ENT department       at GH/KDI as among       their "selection of innovative hospitals with centers for minimally       invasive imaging diagnosis and       therapy" and in their citing of Karavidas 2010 and Iro 2009 as referenced       on their website.
They       also attest to Prof McGurk's overseas demonstrations of MIT being a major       reason for technique       dissemination and micro endoscope sales in Europe, India and China (9).
