     This body of research undertaken by King's College London (KCL) has       fundamentally changed how patients at `high risk' of trigeminal nerve       injury (TNI) in relation to dental procedures are identified and has also       provided alternative surgical and assessment techniques to assist in       preventing TNI in relation to the most common surgical procedures       undertaken in the NHS: third molar surgery (TMS).
Helping Patients     KCL research led to the setting up by Prof Renton and Dr Yilmaz of a       specialist TNI clinic at King's College Hospital Foundation Trust.
This       has become a nationally recognised service with around 150 UK patients a       year being referred for assessment and treatment they could not receive       elsewhere.
As well as treating patients on an individual basis, the clinic       also provides patient workshops to help alleviate the pain and social       trauma associated with TNIs (1a).
With a donation of &#163;50K from a patient       with TNI who was keen to address an unmet need for information for other       such patients, Prof Renton's team developed a website &#8212;       trigeminalnerve.org.uk &#8212; using the knowledge they had gained through       research to provide accurate and timely information for both clinicians       and patients regarding the aetiology (1b) and management (1c) of TNI.
From       its launch in August 2012 to July 2013 it received nearly 230,000 site       visits and 156 clinicians signed up for onsite Continuing Professional       Development.
With the ability for patients and clinicians to directly       email the KCL team for advice, in its first year the expert KCL team       behind this site has expedited urgent care and facilitated prevention of a       TNI for over 1200 national and international enquiries.
Use of Coronectomy     TNI is the most problematic consequence of dental surgical procedures and       those related to TMS are a common cause for NHS Litigation Authority or       trust settlement compensation.
If the injury is caused by NHS trust staff       then compensation is usually between 5-20K; if caused by private       practitioners, pay-outs have reached nearly &#163;1m.
Thus, minimising TNI is       paramount both for patient care and medico-legal reasons.
Development of       the coronectomy technique by KCL oral surgeons has underpinned recognition       of the benefits of re-evaluating standard surgical protocols for TMS.
Coronectomy is now an accepted procedure in the NHS (for example, by       Oxford Radcliffe Hospital NHS Trust) (2a) and in private healthcare (for       example, by Love Your Smile Dental Care Practice) (2b) in the UK and is       recognised internationally.
That coronectomy has become an accepted       alternative to extraction in suitable cases is shown via a number of       reviews/opinion pieces aimed at oral surgeons.
One such piece posited that       "coronectomy should be considered for mandibular third molars when it is       felt there is an increased risk of injury to the inferior dental nerve"       (2c).
Another review, from China, said that coronectomy has shown to be       "superior to total removal for reducing inferior alveolar nerve damage"       (2d).
These reviews both found only four suitable studies on coronectomy,       one of which was Renton 2005.
The practice of coronectomy has also been       disseminated via journal articles such as those in the British Journal of       Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery, which utilises Renton 2001 and a review by       Renton that discusses Khawaja 2009 and Renton 2005 (2e,f).
Enhancing Clinician Awareness     The body of KCL research has significantly influenced clinician's       awareness and modification in assessment of the patients' risk of TNI.
For       instance, the Royal College of Surgeons `Guidelines for Selecting       Appropriate Patients to Receive Treatment with Dental Implants,' which was       co-written by Prof Renton, includes Renton 2012 when discussing using       advanced imaging to "reduce the chance of collateral damage to vital       structures" (3a).
In addition, Prof Renton has recently produced       guidelines on diagnosis, risk management, treatment and prevention of IAN       injuries for the Association of Dental Implantology, a UK charity       dedicated to providing both professionals and the public education on       implants (3b).
Prof Renton also co-authored, the British Dental       Association's `Clinical Guide to Oral Surgery, which includes a number of       the references detailed above when discussing minimising and managing       nerve injuries and complications (3c).
Dissemination of best practice for       TMS detailed in this clinical guide has been included in a series of       British Dental Association continuing professional development seminars       led by Prof Renton (3d).
KCL-led work has also been incorporated into       clinical handbooks aimed at dental professionals and students such as       `Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery,' which includes treatment-decision       algorithms for clinical practice and risk-management (3e), and in       `Clinical Problem Solving in Dentistry,' which includes a number of       KCL-authored chapters utilising KCL research (3e).
Further, in 2013, a series of countrywide Dental Commissioning Workshops       were hosted by NHS England.
Here, specialists including Prof Renton       participated in discussions with and presentations to NHS England staff       and key providers together to ascertain how the commissioning of dental       services should develop in the future and how they can work together to       achieve the best outcomes for everyone.
Part of this included presentation       of the new Gold Guide NHS commissioning for Oral Surgery, which is       co-authored by Prof Renton and references KCL's risk management research       (3g).
National and International Dissemination to Professionals and the         Public     Since publication of the prospective randomised study on coronectomy this       novel technique has been adopted internationally.
In the USA, the American       Association of Oral and Maxillofacial Surgeons initially produced a White       Paper on TMS in 2007, which cited Renton 2005 when discussing coronectomy,       and then a further White Paper in 2011 that states that "appropriate       treatment options include coronectomy" (4a).
Recognition of the use of       coronectomy in the US was sealed when in 2011 the American Dental       Association added it to its list of recognised, billable procedures (4b).
The work of KCL has also featured in news items, spreading awareness to       the public.
For instance, their 2012 study on the risks of implant surgery       was featured in a BBC News Health article (4c).
