     KCL Researchers Form OSspray     The initial concept of bioactive glass air polishing therapies was       developed in 2002 as a collaboration between Prof Timothy Watson and Dr       Richard Cook of the Dental Institute, King's College London (KCL) and Prof       Larry Hench and Dr Ian Thompson at Imperial College London.
The hypothesis       was that bioactive glass particulates could be tailored to allow selective       removal of dental tissues, i.e.
enamel, dentine and decay.
This concept       was filed as two patent applications in 2002 (1a, b).
Intellectual       Property from the project was granted in 2004 and the spin out company,       OSspray Ltd, was formed by Dr Ian Thompson with seed funding from a       government scheme (2a).
Dr Thompson then moved from Imperial College       London to KCL to catalyse the movement of the technology from concept to       clinic.
A series of minor investment rounds between 2004 and 2008 resulted       in a clinical trial based at Guys Hospital London (part of the King's       Health Partners network) (published as Banerjee 2010).
This trial verified       the additional claims around the product, principally faster cleaning and       desensitisation of dental tissues, allowing regulatory clearance in the       USA and EU in 2006 (2b).
Launch of Sylc and Development of Second-Generation Powders     OSspray's first major investment round in 2008 from Imperial Innovations,       Yorkshire Fund Managers and NESTA resulted in the first product, Sylc, to       be launched in early 2009 (3a-c).
Sylc is marketed as having several uses       including dental hypersensitivity treatment; fast removal of extrinsic       stains; surface preparation prior to bonding and sealants; before and       after scaling and root planing procedure to reduce sensitivity; plaque       removal prior to fluoride treatments and for pre- and post-whitening       treatments.
These claims are backed-up in promotional material for Sylc by       the above-discussed KCL research (3d).
The continued collaboration between KCL and OSspray has resulted in a       prestigious i4i award in 2010.
This new funding has allowed the research       team to complete the search for a second generation of prophy powders       which will take the clinical technique into a minimally invasive       self-etching system, thereby making the process a more general therapy       treatment for dental decay.
This second generation powder was patented by       the KCL/OSspray team in 2009 (1c).
International Use of Sylc and Sale of OSspray     OSspray continued to expand from 2008 to 2012, with rented premises on       the KCL estate.
The company employed 12 people and supported a number of       KCL-based research projects that utilise its core technology, Sylc.
By mid       2012 the KCL-based technology treated its 700,000th patient       with a turnover of &#163;500,000 per year (3e).
By July 2012 OSspray was       supplying products to all European countries (for instance, in Italy [4a]       and Germany [4b]), as well as to North America (4c), the Middle East and       Australasia, with independent professional trade articles both in the UK       and abroad highlighting the clinical importance of the technology in       treating dental hypersensitivity.
For instance, in an article from the UK       magazine `Dental Hygiene and Therapy,' aimed at dental professionals, it       is recognised that Sylc "uniquely repairs dental tissues and brightens       teeth" (4d).
The US magazine RDH (Registered Dental Hygienist) uses Sauro       2010 and Banerjee 2010, to illustrate how "bioactive glass is a more       effective desensitizer than sodium bicarbonate in both good and poor oral       hygiene groups" (4e).
In December 2012 OSspray sold the Intellectual Property and `know how'       assets to Denfotex Research Ltd (DRL).
DRL is a UK-based company with over       10 years experience in the dental market.
It has continued to grow the       OSspray Sylc technology by moving the technology into China and Japan.
Their website contains a number of details of Sylc including development       and use, aimed at dental healthcare professionals.
These are backed-up by       the use of many of the KCL references discussed above (3d).
Further Impact     The skills developed by the academic staff, particularly Dr Ian Thompson,       during the development of OSspray as a spin-out company has allowed the       KCL Dental Institute to run an Intercalated BSc programme in Innovation       Technology.
This course has been run by Dr Thompson for the past 4 years       and has graduated over 40 students who have specialised in the innovation       process and gained the knowledge required to translate technologies from       academic projects to clinically approved devices/treatments (5).
