     Research at King's College London (KCL) to assign numerical values to       clinical signs has led to       development of oral disease severity scoring systems (ODSS) that provide       objective measures of       disease severity for recurrent aphthous stomatitis (RAS), mucous membrane       pemphigoid (MMP),       pemphigus vulgaris, oral lichen planus (OLP), orofacial granulomatosis       (OFG) and oral dryness.
Routine use of ODSS in clinics has provided quantitative and reproducible       measures of disease.
In       contrast to more descriptive approaches, disease progression can be       objectively measured and       the efficacy of treatments monitored.
Scoring Systems in Clinical Use at GSTT: The RAS scoring system       has been used in the       multidisciplinary clinic at Guy's and St Thomas' NHS Foundation Trust       (GSTT) over the last 10       years and the other scoring systems were quickly adopted as they       developed.
All of the systems       are available for free download by clinicians from the GSTT website (Oral       Medicine section) (1).
GSTT has also trained a number of UK healthcare professionals in the use       of ODSS in their clinical       practice including Specialist Registrars in Oral Medicine, Dermatology and       Gastroenterology.
ODSS training is also incorporated into KCL's MSc in Clinical Dermatology       for medical graduates       wishing to specialise in dermatology.
Scoring Systems in Clinical Use in UK: ODSS have been adopted for       use at various UK       locations and adapted to suit an even further range of patients.
For       instance, since 2009, both       Birmingham and Midland Eye Centre (2a) and St Paul's Eye Unit at Royal       Liverpool University       Hospital, have been using an adapted MMP scoring system for       ophthalmologists who may       encounter this problem (2b).
The latter published a comparison of this and       other scoring systems       that widely cites Escudier M 2007 and Setterfield J 1998.
Glasgow Dental       Hospital uses a modified       form of the OLP scoring system (2c).
ODSS are also embedded within the       templates of the SALUD       package, a comprehensive dental information management system developed in       Dublin, Ireland by       the company Two-Ten Health.
This system is being installed in several       Dental Schools and       Hospitals in the UK, including KCL and GSTT, as part of the National       Programme for IT (2d).
Scoring Systems in Clinical Use Internationally: As well as in the       UK, SALUD is used in dental       schools and hospitals in North America, Europe, Asia and Australia (3a).
Since 2011, ODSS have       been included in the European Association for Oral Medicine (EAOM)       guidelines for good practice       and can be downloaded from the EAOM website (members section).
Guidelines,       written by       Setterfield J, cite Escudier M 2007 and Tappuni A 2005 (OLP) as well as       Osailan SM 2011 and       2012 (Oral Dryness) (3b).
ODSS for OFG is used regularly in Oral Medicine       Clinics in the Zagreb       University Hospital, Croatia while OLP scoring is used in trials both in       Zagreb and in the       Copenhagen University Hospital, Denmark(3c)     Scoring Systems in Clinical Trials: ODSS have been essential in       numerous clinical trials and       studies to assess the efficacy of treatments.
For instance, the oral       dryness score was used in a       clinical trial funded by GSK to compare new and established saliva       substitutes (4a).
The MMP       severity scoring system is currently in use in a multicentre international       research study coordinated       by Moorfields Eye Hospital, `Autoantigen &amp; genetic determinants of       disease in mucous membrane       pemphigoid' (4b).
ODSS have additionally been utilised in a number of clinic-based trials       investigating treatments for       oral inflammatory diseases.
For instance, the RAS scoring system was used       by The London       School of Medicine and Dentistry at Queen Mary University of London to       show a significant       decrease in severity and pain scores following 3 months of topical       steroids (4c, which cites       Escudier 2007 and Osailan 2012).
In a St John's Institute of Dermatology       and Department of       Gastroenterology at GSTT clinical study, ODSS were used to demonstrate       significant improvement       in disease severity following treatment of patients with recalcitrant       ulcerative OLP (4d, which cites       Escudier 2007).
In another study, by the Diabetes and Nutritional Sciences       Division at KCL, ODSS       were used to show significant improvement in patients with OFG following a       low phenolic acid diet       (4d, which cites White A, et al.
2006).
More nuanced findings on the       efficacy of anti-TNF-&#945;       treatment were shown with ODSS in a clinical trial at the Department of       Gastroenterology at GSTT,       where short term improvement was evident in those refractory to other       treatments (4f, including       White 2006) (4).
A.S. Pharma Launch of Oral Dryness "Challacombe" Scale: The Oral       Dryness Scale (ODS)       has also become part of the company A.S. Pharma's (part of CCMed group)       educational and       promotional material for their natural, mucin-based saliva substitute       known as Saliva Orthana (5a).
They use and promote the ODS (which they launched as the `Challacombe       Scale' in September       2011) as a means to assess dry mouth and determine treatment plans (5b,c).
A.S. Pharma has       widely distributed this scale to dental health professionals throughout       the UK for adoption in clinical       practice.
It can be independently downloaded from their dedicated website.
A Portuguese version       of the scale is also available for download from the same website (5b).
Translation of the scale was       requested by Dr Jose Barbarosa Porto, President of the Brazilian       Association of Dentistry for       publication in the Brazilian Dental Journal.
The ODS has been endorsed by       the British Society of       Dental Hygiene &amp; Therapy as "easy to interpret and understand for the       whole dental team" (5d).
