     The impact of King's College London (KCL) research on oral cancer and       oral potentially malignant disorders (OPMDs) has been in targeting at-risk       communities and practices, introducing novel diagnostic tests and in       providing diagnosis and treatment information and education to healthcare       professionals and the general public.
Areca Nut Usage/Targeting at-risk Communities and Practices       KCL's work on oral cancer risk associated with areca nut use has been       widely used in documents aimed at both healthcare professionals and       patients.
For instance, 2012 NICE guidance on `Smokeless Tobacco       Cessation: South Asian Communities' utilised Prabhu 2001 and a review by       Prof Warnakulasuriya containing both this paper and Warnakulasuriya 1999       when highlighting the use of areca nuts as stimulants in the UK by South       Asian communities (1a).
The Committee on Carcinogenicity of Chemicals in       Food, an independent advisory committee that provides advice to Government       departments and agencies on potential carcinogenicity of chemicals       released a statement in 2008 on `Betel Quid, Pan Masala and Areca Nut       Chewing' that utilised Warnakulasuriya 1999a when coming to the conclusion       that "there was sufficient epidemiological evidence to conclude that areca       nut, when used in the form of betel quid or pan masala, is carcinogenic to       humans" (1b).
This paper was also cited to highlight oral cancer in South       Asian migrants in a 2012 report on `Tobacco and Oral Health' by ASH       (Action on Smoking and Health), a campaigning public health charity       established by the Royal College of Physicians that works to eliminate the       harm caused by tobacco (1c).
Screening for Oral Cancer and OPMDs: From local service to worldwide         resource       Underpinning research from KCL showed that the most accurate cancer       predictor is DNA ploidy analysis.
Based on this, there is now a routine       ploidy analysis service at Guy's and St Thomas' Hospital (a King's Health       Partner).
It is the only such service in the UK and since its inception in       2005 has tested over 2,500 patients.
A guidance leaflet that utilises the       findings of Sperandio 2013 explains to clinicians how the test result can       be used (2a).
Patients with a high risk lesion are now more accurately       identified and directed to treatment.
Those with low risk lesions can be       discharged to primary care, saving and focusing NHS resources and avoiding       many years of recall appointments.
Diagnostic ploidy analysis is marketed       commercially through GSTS Pathology LLC (2b) and the service is being used       by external units such as Queen's Hospital, Romford, Essex (2c).
KCL has       hosted visits from representatives of dental services from around the       world, including from the University of Malaya, Malaysia; Kaohslung       Medical University, Taiwan and the University of Toronto, Canada, with       knowledge gained from KCL's experience being used to create other       diagnostic ploidy services (2c).
KCL's research has been integrated into NHS UK-wide policy.
The 2010 NHS       UK National Screening Committee evaluation on oral cancer screening, which       helped dictate UK-wide screening policy and was co-authored by Prof       Warnakulasuriya.
This utilises a number of KCL papers regarding risk       factors for oral cancer (citing Llewellyn 2004b) and dentist-led smoking       cessation (citing Smith 1998) and includes several reviews containing KCL       studies when discussing epidemiology of oral cancer (2d).
Education for Diagnosis, Management and Prevention of Oral Cancer in         Europe       Research by KCL regarding diagnosis, management and prevention of oral       cancer and OPMDs has impacted Europe-wide guidelines and education.
In       2011, the European Association of Oral Medicine (EAOM) produced a       consensus European protocol for diagnosis and management of oral       leukoplakia and erythroplakia aimed at oral healthcare practitioners.
Co-authors include those from the KCL team and the report utilises Poate       2006 when discussing tobacco habits of patients (3a).
This paper is also       cited as a useful reference material with regard to ending tobacco use by       the Swiss organisation The Oral Health Network on Tobacco Use Prevention       and Cessation (3b).
KCL has a long history of professional education and support through the       development of Cancer Research Campaign's fact sheets on oral cancer aimed       at the general public.
Their fact sheet on incidence utilises       Warnakulasuriya 1999a when discussing areca nut or betal quid chewing       (4a); their one on prevention includes Warnakulasuriya 1999b and Llewellyn       2004a when discussing screening by dentists and late presentation (4b);       their one on risk factors includes a number of KCL reviews regarding       causes of oral cancer including areca nut use and Llewellyn 2004b when       discussing risk and protective factors for patients under 45 (4c).
Information from a number KCL studies (both those discussed here and a       range of others) regarding causes, incidence and screening has also been       disseminated through continuing professional development (CPD) packages       for dentists and professions allied to dentistry written by KCL       researchers and funded by the Department of Health.
The first CD-ROM was       sent free to every UK NHS dentist in 2005 (5a) and a second edition on       DVD, entitled Early Detection and Prevention of Oral Cancer, was available       free to UK dentists on request from 2008 (5b).
Through a grant application       to the EU Lifelong Learning Programme this CPD resource has been       translated into Italian and Greek.
It has been available free in an       adapted Web resource for patients and healthcare workers since 2011 (5c).
