     Tracking progress of Time to Change (TTC): TTC, launched in       January 2009, is England's biggest ever programme to tackle stigma and       discrimination against people with mental health problems (1a).
TTC       includes a social marketing campaign and both large-scale and       locally-based initiatives aiming to bring together people with and without       experience of mental illness.
King's College London (KCL) research greatly       contributed to the development of TTC from initiation of the first phase       in 2008, led by the mental health charities Mind and Rethink Mental       Illness (1b).
KCL's Institute of Psychiatry continues to be TTC's       evaluation partner, collaborating with TTC to track the progress and       impact of the campaign and to allow the charities to improve their       interventions (1c).
Between 2009 and 2011, KCL and Rethink Mental Illness       carried out a series of national phone surveys using the DISC scale with       3,579 mental health service users.
They found high levels of experiences       of discrimination in the previous 2 months, that significantly reduced       over the first 4 years of the TTC programme (91% in 2008, 88% in 2011)       (1d,e).
KCL research influences Time to Change campaigns: A KCL-led TTC       survey of nearly 7,000 people using the KCL measures (MAKS and RIBS)       indicated that for 2009-12 there were improvements in intended behaviour       and a positive trend in attitudes.
They also showed that social contact,       the core active ingredient to reduce stigma, is increasing.
In 2008, 52.5%       of the general population sample stated they did not know anyone with a       mental illness compared to 37.7% in 2012 (2a).
KCL evaluations of TTC       social marketing campaigns shows consistently positive relationships       between campaign awareness and more favourable knowledge, attitudes and       intended behaviour, such as `willingness to live with someone with a       mental health problem' (2b).
These were key areas of focus highlighted by       previous KCL research (Evans-Lacko S et al.
2010)     KCL's evaluation of TTC media campaigns offers insights that then allow       TTC to target audiences more specifically for each phase of the programme.
In their 2012 project report, TTC state that "the evidence from KCL       research that...some bursts had more impact with Black and Minority Ethnic       audiences while some had less [made it] possible to adapt the number of       radio ads aired and media buying to resonate better with [this] audience"       (2c).
KCL research (Pinfold V 2003, Kassam A 2011) highlighting the       strength of the association between outcomes and social contact influenced       the messaging of later campaign bursts and TTC's social contact programme.
By July 2013, more than 41,000 people had pledged via the TTC website to       help end prejudice and more than 119,000 people `like' the TTC Facebook       page.
A KCL survey on these Facebook fans found that "social media       empowered people to speak out about their mental health and challenge       stigma and discrimination."
As a result the project was able to count       people engaged through Facebook and Twitter towards its targets (2c).
Research by KCL (Goulden R, 2011) also led to the inclusion of a media       target in the TTC campaign.
Indeed, KCL analysis showed that press       coverage of mental illness had improved over the course of the campaign,       with TTC achieving a higher proportion of anti-stigmatising coverage (2d).
Since then, TTC has held events for journalists on coverage of mental       health.
Building on KCL research (Pinfold 2003, Kassam 2011), TTC's       Education Not Discrimination (END) project, run by Rethink Mental Illness,       targets medical students and trainee teachers (2e).
The intervention       produced short-term improvements in stigma-related knowledge, attitudes       and intended behaviour (2f).
Contribution of KCL to TTC's sustainability and Department of Health         measures: In 2010 TTC cited KCL's evaluation findings in its bid to       the Department of Health (DH) for continued funding (3a).
In 2011, the DH       announced &#163;16m funding for TTC Phase 2 (3b) and the work of TTC was       commended during the Mental Health debate on June 14th 2012,       during which four MPs disclosed their experiences of mental health       problems (3c).
In 2011, the Government, in its `No health without mental       health' strategy, pledged to work with TTC "to agree the best ways to       assess improvements over the lifetime of this strategy" (3d).
In the       subsequent `Implementation Framework' for this strategy the three main       components of KCL's evaluation of TTC Phase 2 are listed as the methods of       assessing progress towards the objective in the strategy that "fewer       people will experience stigma and discrimination."
KCL staff liaised with       the DH on inclusion of KCL measures in its national Dashboard assessing       progress towards this objective.
Implementing the strategy will include       encouraging "a range of organisations [to] sign up to the TTC Campaign, to       raise the profile of mental health and to address stigma among staff"       (3e).
KCL research evaluating the Cambridge pilot trial (Evans-Lacko S et       al 2010) is also cited in the evidence supporting the Government's       commitment to reducing mental health stigma (3f).
Further use of KCL measures: In collaboration with KCL, in 2010       DISC was adapted for use in New Zealand as part of the government's `Like       Minds Like Mine' national anti-stigma campaign to survey 1,135 mental       health service users.
The authors highlight how the model provided by KCL       was the only similar project in the world they could identify (4a).
Additionally, MAKS, RIBS and DISC are being used to evaluate Sweden's       anti-stigma campaign (4b) and DISC is being used by the company Ethnos to       conduct a TTC-commissioned survey of mental health related discrimination       among 750 Black and Minority Ethnic people with mental health problems       (4c).
