     King's College London (KCL) research has led to at least 192,000 children       receiving effective treatment for a distressing and impairing condition,       thus preventing 50,000 cases of Conduct Disorder (CD), with estimated       25-year savings of &#163;875m (2c).
In 2005, following consultation that       included three separate presentations of KCL research by Prof Scott to the       Prime Minister, the Cabinet Office published its `Respect Action Plan'       with a key proposal that the Government should establish a National       Parenting Academy to deliver and support high quality parent training;       this cites KCL research on the economic impact and effectiveness of parent       training (1a).
In 2007, KCL won the bid to run the National Academy for       Parenting Practitioners and Research (NAPR), with funding of &#163;20m to       implement evidence-based programmes, and &#163;10m for research (1b).
Training practitioners in evidence-based interventions: From 2008       to 2010, NAPR organised a large, country-wide training initiative,       selecting only proven, evidence-based parenting programmes that were       either evidenced by KCL research detailed above, or met the quality       criteria developed by KCL researchers.
Free training places, and ongoing       supervision to refine skills, were allocated to all Local Authorities.
Each programme focused on play, praise, incentives, setting limits and       discipline, thus promoting sociable, self-reliant child behaviour.
The       programmes were delivered using a collaborative approach with support       provided for parents to practise new approaches during the sessions and       through homework, observations of parent and child interactions and       ongoing supervision to the therapist to develop their skills (1c).
In       2010, the Department for Education (DfE), evaluated the training; the       report cites KCL research including Scott et al.
2010a, 2010b (1d) as key       evidence supporting the benefits of parenting programmes.
Over the       evaluation period (Dec 2008 to Mar 2010), 3,162 practitioners from 147 out       of 154 Local Authorities attended and completed primary training.
Over 95%       of participants rated their course as `good' or `very good' and the       training resulted in a dramatic increase in the availability of       evidence-based parenting interventions across England.
Conservatively       estimated, by July 2013 at least 192,000 disturbed children have       benefitted from this (1,000 trainees delivering 3 groups a year over 4       years to 8 families per group with 2 children per family; figures based on       DfE-cited training rates (1d)).
This model of dissemination is held to       have world-wide relevance, as seen by the leading text on evidence-based       therapies for children (editor: John Weisz, Harvard) devoting a chapter to       the NAPR training initiative, authored by Prof Scott (1e).
Helping transform practice to become evidence-based: From 2009,       each Local Authority in England had appointed a Parenting Commissioner       tasked with drawing up a local parenting strategy.
Because there are over       150 parenting programmes available in England, NAPR identified the need       for each to have an evaluation of its validity and effectiveness in order       to inform Commissioners about which are `fit for purpose'.
Therefore, KCL       researchers at NAPR developed detailed criteria to rate programme quality,       evidence-base and dissemination procedures.
They then intensively reviewed       all programmes available in England in 2009 and found that only 10 were       convincingly effective.
The ratings are easily accessible on a DfE-hosted       website aimed at both Commissioners and parents, which receives 30,000       hits a year, suggesting substantial impact (1f).
Rolling out and evaluating effective programmes for vulnerable groups:       KCL research therapists and researchers have developed and tested new       parenting programmes.
Thus in 2009, the NAPR revised and updated its       training for foster parents, a programme called `Fostering Changes',       to reflect KCL research findings on how best to develop literacy (Scott et       al 2010a), and to reach minority ethnic groups (Scott et al 2010b).
Practitioners in 150 out of 154 Local Authorities in England have been       trained in the programme.
KCL researchers at NAPR evaluated the       effectiveness of this training through a randomised controlled trial, and       found significant improvements in behaviour problems and attachment       security in the children whose foster carers who had received the       programme compared to controls (1g,h).
The NAPR's Fostering Changes       programme has also been disseminated internationally for instance in       Austria and New Zealand and their manual translated into German (i,j).
In       another example, KCL's trial demonstrating the effectiveness of their       programme on child literacy (Scott 2010a) contributed to the Education       Endowment Fund awarding &#163;1 million to roll out the programme in 45 primary       schools affecting 8,100 children in Plymouth and Cornwall (1k).
Impact on national guidance and services: In 2010, the National       Institute for health and Clinical Excellence (NICE) invited         Prof Scott to chair the development of the Guideline on Antisocial       Behaviour and Conduct Disorders.
Published in April 2013, it includes       repeated references to KCL research, including the parenting trials (Scott       et al.
2010a,2010b) and cost-benefit analysis of parenting programmes       (Scott et al.
2001 and Romeo et al.
2006) (2a).
The Guidelines are       effectively mandatory across the NHS, thus having widespread national       impact.
To give but one example of how they are already being implemented       in services by local Health Authorities, the NICE Guidance and KCL       research on the cost-effectiveness of parent training programmes (Scott et       al.
2001) are cited in the Tower Hamlets Mental Health Strategy published       in 2013 (2b).
The 2012 Annual Report from the Chief Medical Officer also       cites the economic analysis by Scott et al.
2001 as evidence supporting       the need for prevention of child mental health problems (2c).
Children and Young Person's Increasing Access to Psychological         Therapies (CY-IAPT): CY-IAPT was set up by the Department of Health       in 2011 as a service transformation project for Child and Adolescent       Mental Health Services to improve collaborative practice between       therapists and children, young people and their families with a budget of       &#163;54m.
Only two therapies are included in the CY-IAPT curriculum: parenting       programmes for conduct disorders and cognitive-behaviour therapy for       emotional disorders (3b).
In 2013-14, 24 new sites will join the CY-IAPT,       meaning the programme will reach 54% of the 0-19 population in England.
The CY-IAPT website cites NICE Guidance as the principle for selecting       parenting programmes for inclusion in the initiative (3c).
