     KCL research affects policy and practice: In 2013, stroke care       without stroke units is inconceivable, but this was not always the case.
In early 2000, UK health policy favoured the management of acute stroke       patients in the community using a Hospital at Home model.
Research,       including that led by KCL, showed that this strategy was associated with       poor outcomes and high costs.
In 2005, economic modelling figures provided       to the National Audit Office (NAO) by KCL (including Kalra et al.
2004)       and colleagues helped to show that deaths could be prevented if more       stroke patients spent the majority of their time on a stroke unit.
This       led to the 2007 National Stroke Strategy which clearly stated that "stroke       unit care is the single biggest factor that can improve a person's       outcomes following a stroke" (1a).
It set out a ten point action plan to       improve early access to high quality stroke unit care which is currently       being implemented, for example in London from 2009 (1b).
The Stroke Unit Trialists Collaboration (which includes KCL) published a       Cochrane Collaboration report, initially in 1997, and updated several       times, most recently in 2009.
This drew heavily on KCL research including       most of the papers discussed above.
Their conclusion was that "acute       stroke patients are more likely to survive, return home and regain       independence if they receive organised stroke unit care" (1c).
A 2010       follow-up report by the National Audit Office, with the help of Prof       Kalra, cites the findings of the Cochrane report and of Patel et al, 2004       which are used to illustrate different costs for health, social and       voluntary services, and specialised accommodation for the first year       following a stroke (1d).
The pivotal importance of stroke units in improving survival and       disability after stroke is reflected by the fact that all hospitals in       England now have a stroke unit.
In the UK, the 2013 National Institute of       Health and Clinical Excellence (NICE) clinical pathway for stroke       recommends direct admission to a stroke unit for all suspected stroke       patients (1e) as the preferred strategy for initial investigations and       treatment.
This recommendation is based on the 2008 NICE guideline which       discusses findings from Patel et al.
2004 and Kalra et al.
2005 about the       efficacy and cost-effectiveness of stroke unit care above any other (1f).
The pathway also cites the NICE guidance on stroke rehabilitation which       draws on KCL research to support the recommendations that stroke patients       with disability should receive rehabilitation focusing on the relevant       functional tasks on a dedicated stroke inpatient unit (1g).
KCL research has international reach and has influenced services and         policy: The European Stroke Organisation is a society of stroke       researchers, societies and lay organisations that aims to reduce the       incidence and impact of stroke by changing how stroke is viewed and       treated through professional and public education.
Their 2008         guidelines state that "admission to a stroke unit is recommended for         acute stroke patients to receive coordinated multidisciplinary         rehabilitation."
This is supported by several KCL references, for       instance, they use Harraf et al.
2002 when discussing how people seek help       in the first instance of stroke and Patel et al.
2004, to help illustrate       how "although stroke unit care is more costly than treatment on general       neurological or medical wards, it is cost-effective."
Further, they use       Evans et al.
2001 when discussing how "organisation and quality of care       may be more important than absolute hours of therapy" and Kalra et al.
2004 when discussing how "formal training of caregivers in delivery of       care reduces personal costs and improves quality of life" (2a).
The Canadian Stroke Network (CSN) is a non-profit collaboration of       researchers, government, industry and non-profit sector that supports       research and provides high-quality training for scientists and clinicians.
They produced a series of guidelines including their 2010 `Best Practice       Recommendations for Stroke Care.'
CSN uses a number of KCL references         to illustrate best practice, for example, using Evans et al.
2002 to       say that "comprehensive stroke care delivery in the early days and weeks       following an acute stroke has been shown to have significant positive       impact on stroke outcomes."
They use Evans et al.
2001 to show how stroke       units can provide better supportive care and monitoring during the first       week and Kalra et al.
1995 when discussing how "patients treated on a       stroke rehabilitation unit are more likely to be discharged home and less       likely to require institutionalization."
Additionally, they use Harraf et       al.
2002 when discussing symptom recognition and reaction and Kalra et al.
2005 when discussing stroke rehabilitation unit care (2b).
Their report on       the `Fifty most important clinical studies in stroke rehabilitation'       includes Kalra et al.
2000 and Kalra et al 2005 (2c).
The CSN website `Evidence-Based Review of Stroke Rehabilitation' provides       reviews and guidelines for clinical use or teaching purposes (2d).
Again,       these resources make good use of KCL research.
For instance, their 2012       guidelines `The Elements of Stroke Rehabilitation' use Evans et al.
2001       when discussing factors associated with decreased mortality and dependence       and Evans et al.
2002 when looking at differences in the processes of care       between a stroke unit and a stroke team (2e).
Their review on `The       Efficacy of Stroke Rehabilitation' also uses these references, along with       Kalra et al.
1995 and 2004 in concluding that "interdisciplinary       specialized sub-acute stroke rehabilitation is associated with reduced       mortality and combined death or dependency" (2f).
Evidence from KCL research was also used by the American Stroke         Association in a statement regarding `Nursing and Interdisciplinary       Rehabilitation Care of the Stroke Patient.'
Here, Kalra et al, 2004 was       used extensively to provide evidence for the need for family caregiver       education and they cite Evans et al.
2002 when saying that "there is       strong evidence that organized post-acute, inpatient stroke care delivered       within the first 4 weeks by an interdisciplinary healthcare team results       in an absolute reduction in the number of deaths" (2g).
