     King's College London (KCL) research on the prevalence of Chronic Fatigue       Syndrome (CFS) and       its treatment led to the key conclusion that general fatigue can be       managed in primary care and       CFS can be treated in secondary care with either Cognitive Behaviour       Therapy (CBT) or Graded       Exercise Therapy (GET).
Prior to this work chronic fatigue was thought to       have a poor prognosis       but KCL research led to the more optimistic view that patients can recover       and that the effects of       treatment can be sustained.
KCL research drove National Institute for Health and Clinical         Excellence (NICE) guidelines:       Current NICE recommendations, developed in 2007, on the management of CFS       state that all       patients without severe disability should be offered CBT or GET.
The       recommendations, including       the health economics, are based on several KCL papers including Ridsdale       et al.
2004; Deale et       al.
2001 and McCrone et al.
2004.
The guidelines also include mention of       the Chalder Fatigue       Scale (Chalder et al.
1993), which is used routinely by clinical services       to collect outcomes (1).
KCL research changed UK clinical practice: The work of KCL       researchers is directly translated       into clinical practice at a specialist CFS unit at the South London and       Maudsley (SLaM) NHS       Foundation Trust.
This unit includes specifically trained psychologists       and physiotherapists who       offer up to 20 CBT or GET sessions to an average 250 people per year (2c).
NICE guidelines have       been adopted widely by NHS services, where currently around 8,000 adults       are treated each year.
One study showed that outcomes for fatigue (using the Chalder Fatigue       Scale), anxiety and       depression for patients at six UK treatment centres are similar to those       in clinical trials (2b).
The PACE trial (White et al.
2011) treatment manuals are available to       download for free from the       trial website which receives an average 5,000 page views per month.
These       are used by clinical       psychologists, psychiatrists, occupational therapists, physiotherapists       and behavioural nurse       practitioners (2c).
The British Association for Chronic Fatigue       Syndrome/ME (BACME), formed to       "champion evidence-based approaches to treatment of CFS," represents all       UK NHS specialist       services and members include healthcare professionals and researchers.
BACME welcomed the       findings of the PACE trial, saying it "provides convincing evidence that       GET and CBT are safe and       effective therapies and should be widely available ... as per the NICE       guidelines."
BACME       evidence is supported by the National Outcomes Database that currently       holds clinical assessment       and outcome data on nearly 7,500 CFS patients.
The PACE trial provides the       gold standard       outcomes for National Outcomes Database thus allowing bench-marking of the       effectiveness of       clinical services (2d).
Telephone CBT has been adapted by KCL researchers from the original face       to face trials and       CBT has been adapted for adolescents, approaches that have both been shown       to be effective in       recent clinical trials (2e,f).
Telephone CBT is offered by some services       in the UK, for example the       SLaM National Chronic Fatigue Service (2g).
The self-help booklet       developed by KCL researchers       was published as a book in 2005, with an update in 2009 (2g).
This is one       of only two CFS books       on the `Reading Well Books on Prescription' core list, a national scheme       for England where a       range of CBT self-help books are recommended by GPs or other health       professionals and are       available in all public libraries (2h).
KCL research highlighted on patient-focused websites: KCL research       features on a number of       patient-focused websites.
For instance, the NHS Choices website       specifically recommends       GET/CBT for CFS (3a).
The website also provides a link to the Map of       Medicine care pathway for       CFS that provides guidance for best-practice treatments for people with       CFS.
The Map uses as its       evidence base several documents that cite KCL work including the NICE       guidance (3b).
The       highly-commended website Patient.co.uk also discusses CBT and GET and       cites a number of       these resources as well as the PACE trial (3c).
KCL research affects worldwide clinical practice: The results of       the PACE trial and other KCL       studies, have been used worldwide by government organisations and       healthcare practices when       discussing the utility of CBT/GET for CFS.
For instance, in the US, White       et al.
2011 is cited by the       Mayo Clinic, a leading medical care and research organisation, to back       their therapy choices (4a).
The Norwegian Knowledge Centre for the Health Services, which "supports       the development of       quality in the health services by promoting the use of research results,       contributing to quality       mprovement [and] measuring the quality of health services," has recently       published a CFS       treatment guideline also citing the PACE trial when recommending CBT/GET       and including the       Chalder Fatigue Scale to assess treatment (4b).
The US Government Center       for Disease Control       (CDC) provides an online educational module on `Diagnosis and Management       of CFS' that cites       the PACE trial and Deale et al.
2001 when discussing CBT/CET and Wessely       et al.
1997 when       discussing CFS prevalence (4c).
The Deale et al.
study is also utilised by       the Chronic Fatigue and       Immune Dysfunction Syndrome Association of America when discussing       therapy.
This is one of the       largest and most active charitable organisations dedicated to CFS with a       number of resources       including a large, healthcare professional-aimed e-learning module on CFS       supported by the CDC       (4d).
In Australia, the University of New South Wales houses a Fatigue       Clinic and their information       page references Deale et al.
1997 and McCrone et al.
2004 to justify why       they use CBT/GET (4e).
