     Direct impact of KCL research at the Maudsley Eating Disorders         service: The KCL research       detailed above has been, and continues to be, developed in collaboration       with the South London       and Maudsley (SLaM) NHS Foundation Trust.
SLaM's specialist Child and       Adolescent Eating       Disorders Service (CAEDS) provides comprehensive care at all levels of       severity of the illness       centred on the Maudsley family-based treatment.
CAEDS currently provides       treatment for seven       London boroughs (population 1.8 m) and sees approximately 110-120 young       people a year (1a).
A       recent audit of 316 consecutive SLaM CAEDS cases showed that the KCL       research findings       (Eisler et al 2000; 2007) of high recovery and low hospitalisation rates       translate well when the       service model is implemented in clinical practice.
After 9-12 months of       typically 18-25 family       sessions at CAEDS, 64% had recovered and were referred back to primary       care with no further       treatment and a further 16% recovering from the eating disorder but       referred to their local Child       and Adolescent Mental Health Services (CAMHS) for problems such as       depression or anxiety.
Only 13% were transferred to adult services at 18 years of age.
The       majority of those seen in the       service were treated as outpatients, with only 12% requiring more         intensive treatment (7.5%         day care and 4.5% inpatient treatment) (1a) compared to 40% rates of         hospital admission for         adolescent anorexia typically found in non-specialist CAMHS services         (1b).
In September 2010, SLaM was awarded the Tier 4 CAMHS contract for Kent       and Medway and the       SLaM CAEDS team is now screening all eating disorders referrals for       hospital admissions and       providing family therapy as an alternative where appropriate.
Over the         following year hospital         admissions for eating disorders were reduced by approximately 50%       (1c).
Research findings influence therapy provided in the UK: A growing       number of regions are       adopting this family based outpatient specialist service model.
Prof       Eisler and colleagues run       regular training sessions and service development consultations in family       treatments for eating       disorders.
Over the past 10 years they have trained over 800 eating       disorders specialists in the       Maudsley approach.
Participants include individuals or small groups of       clinicians, managers and       commissioners, with team-based outreach training for larger groups (2a).
As a result of KCL       research on the efficacy of family therapy, and training delivered by Prof       Eisler and colleagues,       many UK services have altered their service provision and treatment       approach for eating disorders,       including services in North Essex, North East London, Dorset, Oxfordshire       and Buckinghamshire       (2b).
Underpinned by KCL research, the service model has recently been adopted       by the Department of       Health for inclusion in the Children and Young People's Project of the       NHS's Improving Access to       Psychological Treatments (CYP IAPT) programme as a specialist module in       Systemic Family       Practice IAPT training.
KCL research, including Eisler, et al.
1997, 2000,       2007, is cited as evidence       of the efficacy of family therapy in the Eating Disorders module (2c).
Worldwide take up of the Maudsley family therapy approach: The       Maudsley family approach       has also been widely adopted by Eating Disorders services in many other       countries.
In part this is       due to the SLaM CAEDS team also providing training to overseas       participants.
A recent survey of       the two largest international Eating Disorders professional organisations       (Eating Disorders       Research Society and the Academy for Eating Disorders) indicated that       approximately 60% of the       350 respondents use the treatment with children and adolescents suffering       from anorexia nervosa       (3a).
Prof Eisler has also disseminated KCL research including preliminary       evidence of the efficacy       of MFT to various professional audiences, including to both of these       organisations in 2010 and       2013 (3b,c).
In Europe, Prof Eisler and the CAEDS team provide ongoing       consultation to the       Eating Disorders Service in Prague, Czech Republic, who have recently       published on the success       of the approach there (3d).
They also have a contract with the Ministry of       Health in Cyprus for a 2       year training and service consultation to develop a Cyprus-wide specialist       Eating Disorders service       based on the Maudsley service model (3e).
In North America, the CAEDS team have also provided consultation and       training to the Hospital for       Sick Children in Toronto, Calgary and Vancouver in Canada (3f) and they       have an ongoing training       collaboration with the University of California San Diego, USA (3g).
A       number of other services in       the USA highlight on their websites how they use the Maudsley family       therapy model including       Comer Children's Hospital in Chicago (3h), the Stanford School of Medicine       Child and Adolescent       Psychiatry service (3i) and the Children's Hospital in Colorado (3j).
Guidelines show Maudsley family therapy is a key treatment for child         and adolescent AN:       Findings from KCL research are reflected in and quoted by the current NICE       guidelines for eating       disorders (confirmed as current in 2011), which widely cite Eisler et al.
2000 as part of the       evidence for a key recommendation that children and adolescents with AN       should be offered       focussed family therapy (4a).
Similarly, 2011 guidelines from the American       Psychiatric Association       on eating disorders use Eisler et al.
2007 when discussing how "the       practice guideline strongly       recommends family treatment for children and adolescents with eating       disorders" (4b).
In 2010, the       Canadian Paediatric Society published family-therapy guidelines aimed at       community physicians.
Here Eisler et al.
2007, along with a review by Prof Eisler containing       Dare et al.
2000 and Eisler et       al.
1997 and 2000, are used when discussing how "the evidence to date       suggests that family-based treatment is the most effective treatment for children and teenagers       with AN" (4c).
Additionally, 2009 Spanish Clinical Practice Guidelines for Eating       Disorders use Eisler et al.
1997       and 2000 to highlight how scientific evidence supports the use of family       therapy (4d).
Impact on individual patients and their families: The evidence of       the effectiveness of the       Maudsley family based treatment approach has led to a growing demand from       family carer groups       for making the treatment more widely available.
FEAST (Families Empowered       and Supporting       Treatments for Eating Disorders), an international group founded in 2008,       quote a leader in the       field who said that this approach "should be the gold standard or       first-line outpatient treatment for       medically stable teens" (5a).
Maudsley Parents, an independent eating       disorders organisation       founded in the US in 2006 cite Eisler et al.
2000 when discussing this       model and say that "the       Maudsley Approach holds great promise for most adolescents who have been       ill for a relatively       short period of time" (5b).
This growing `bottom up' demand has had a       particularly notable effect in       North America and Australia.
A number of accounts have been published       describing the       experience from the perspective of families who have undergone Maudsley       family therapy (5c,d).
KCL research is also used in patient-centred resources.
For instance, the       Royal College of       Psychiatrists in their information page about eating disorders say that       "the best researched form of       family therapy for anorexia is known as the 'Maudsley Model'" citing       Eisler et al.
1997, 2000 (5e).
