     King's College London (KCL) research demonstrated that during the 1990s       methadone was routinely prescribed and dispensed without supervision in       Scotland and England and that it was implicated in as many drug related       deaths as heroin.
This research triggered policy change and improved       clinical practice leading to a reduction in methadone overdose deaths to       less than a quarter of their previous levels.
Direct impact on government health policy: The KCL research       discussed above contributed to the political and professional debate about       methadone maintenance treatment.
KCL researchers have contributed       centrally to change in national policy, chairing and otherwise       contributing to relevant committees.
Chaired by Prof Strang, the 2007 `Orange Guidelines' (1a) on drug misuse       jointly produced by Department of Health (England), the Scottish       Government, Welsh Assembly Government and Northern Ireland Executive,       stated that "supervised consumption (of methadone) should be available for       all patients for a length of time appropriate to their needs and risks"       and recognised that the decrease in methadone-related deaths partly       reflected the implementation of supervised methadone prescriptions in the       initial stages of drug treatment.
The guidelines cite KCL research on       national patterns of methadone supervision (Strang et al.
2007; Strang et       al.
1996).
As a result, in 2008, the National Treatment Agency (NTA)       provided a range of documents and activities to support the dissemination       and implementation of Orange Guidelines, including an explanatory note       from Prof Strang on dosing in drug misuse treatment (1b).
Since their       release, the Orange Guidelines have informed local policies and practice,       for example in Lothian NHS (2009) (1c) and Devon County Council (2013)       (1d) guidance for community pharmacists.
The NTA's 2012 report on `Medications in Recovery' chaired by Prof John       Strang states that "our work has involved a re-examination of treatment       methods and objectives that can help the recovery of those with addiction       problems.
This is an important step in meeting the ambitions of the people       who use our services and of the Government's Drug Strategy 2010.
We have       embarked on this work with the advantage of the considerable expertise of       the group's members and a substantial international scientific       literature."
It concludes that "we strongly support continued reference       and adherence to the existing NICE drug misuse guidance (reviewed and       unchanged in 2010-11) and to the more practitioner-orientated 2007       Clinical Guidelines" (2).
This report on supervised consumption, along       with KCL research demonstrating the reduction in methadone-associated       deaths has influenced the protection of this budget expenditure despite       prevailing austerity.
The impact of KCL research on the benefits of supervised methadone       consumption to prevent methadone overdose deaths is explicitly stated in       the attached letter from the NTA (now Public Health England), dated June       2012 (3):     "The NTA recognises the significant impact that research by Professor         Strang has had on the area of substance misuse treatment and, more         specifically in this instance, to the reduced risk of methadone-related         deaths following the introduction of supervision of consumption of         prescribed methadone.
[...] Evidence from these papers by Professor         Strang were key in the Department of Health recommending and resourcing         the necessary changes in professional practice by dispensing pharmacists         as well as by prescribing doctors, and this incorporation of necessary         supervision, particularly during the early stages of treatment, is now a         key component of recommendations from the DH/NTA `Orange Guidelines'."
Dissemination of scientific understanding: KCL researchers       collaborated with Sheila Bird from the Medical Research Council       Biostatistics Unit for the group Straight Statistics, a campaign       established by journalists and statisticians to improve the understanding       and use of statistics by government, politicians, companies, advertisers       and the mass media.
They demonstrated that quality-prescribing of       methadone has prevented over 2,600 methadone-only deaths in Scotland and       England between 2001 and 2008 (4a).
KCL researchers were lead contributors to the important book `Drug Policy       and the Public Good' prepared for the general public on the scientific       evidence for addictions policy and practice which cites several of the       papers discussed above (Strang et al.
1996; Strang et al.
2007) and lists       supervised dosing of methadone as one of the three service system changes       to make a difference.
The book won First Prize in the BMA Book Award in       the Public Health category (4b).
As of July 2013, the book had sold more       than 1,900 copies.
It has been translated into Spanish and is currently       being updated and adapted for a scheduled publication from the World       Health Organization.
In addition, KCL researchers published an associated       Lancet paper in 2012, reviewing the evidence surrounding international       drug policies to outline the likely effect of fuller implementations and       highlighting the importance of policies promoting public health, including       the provision of opiate substitution therapy for addicted individuals       which has strong evidence of effectiveness (4c).
