     Work at King's College London (KCL) led to the development of a skills       training intervention for       carers of people with an eating disorder that has been shown to have a       positive impact on anxiety       and depression.
Depending on delivery methods, this is known as       Collaborative Care Skills       Training, The New Maudsley Method or Expert Carers Helping Others.
KCL research led to worldwide use of the Collaborative Care Skills         Training Workshop     The Collaborative Care Skills Training Workshop is recommended and used       both nationally and       internationally.
The 2013 NHS England `Standard Contract for Specialised       Eating Disorders       (Adults)' says in its Best Practice Guideline that both in- and outpatient       services should include       provision of "expert family interventions specifically focused on the       eating disorder."
Here the       `Maudsley Collaborative Care Skills Model' was the only named example of       this approach (1a).
Most directly, this intervention forms the basis for current practice at       the South London and       Maudsley (SLaM) NHS Foundation Trust which offers help in both in- and       outpatient settings.
Around 80 carers a year participate in this workshop (1b).
The       Collaborative Care Skills Training       approach is also the basis for Empowering Families workshops, set up by       and for carers by the       charity BEAT (the largest UK eating disorder charity) (1c) and run by       local carer groups throughout       the UK, for example, by the eating disorder charity First Steps in       Derbyshire (1d).
This form of family work is also used in international centres.
For       instance, in 2012 the Center for       Eating Disorders at Sheppard Pratt in Baltimore, Maryland, USA introduced       the Collaborative Care       Skills Training workshops, saying that "family members and caregivers of       our patients will be       provided with an additional level of support and engagement in the       recovery process" (1e).
Additionally, following training by the KCL/SLaM team, researchers at       Deakin University in       Geelong, Australia, provided the Collaborate Care Skills Training       workshops to a group of carers       and examined their utility.
As part of their assessments they used the       KCL-developed Eating       Disorders Symptom Impact Scale measure and found the workshops to be       "effective in reducing       carer distress and burden as well as modifying unhelpful emotional       interactional styles when caring       for family members with an eating disorder" (1f).
The New Maudsley Method book disseminated and used by many charities         and services     In 2007, KCL researchers adapted the intervention to a self-help book for       carers called `A Skills-based learning for caring for a loved one with an eating disorder.
The New       Maudsley Method.'
As       of July 2013, nearly 16,000 copies of the paperback version of this book       have been sold (2a).
This       was followed in 2010 by a clinician's guide that describes the model and       interventions.
This has so       far sold nearly 1,500 copies (2b).
These books are on the reading list of       a large range of services       both nationally and internationally and are recommended by a number of       user groups.
For       instance, the London Carer's Group says the book "is a great resource         for carers, giving them       an insight into some of the skills needed when caring for someone with an       Eating Disorder."
It is       also recommended by NHS Eating Disorders Services in South Yorkshire,       Oxford and       Cambridgeshire.
In the USA, the book is recommended by the Webster         Wellness         Professionals Centre in St. Louis, Missouri and the Eating Disorders       Recovery Centre of Western       New York, who say it holds "easy-to-understand guidelines and tips for       parents and carers about       facilitating and supporting recovery" (2a).
This Webster Wellness Professionals Centre also provides a link to the       KCL-developed website       detailing The New Maudsley Approach and containing tools for families and       for professionals       working with families (2c).
A downloadable `Toolkit for Carers' is also       provided by SLaM (2d), with       a version also provided by F.E.A.S.T., an international organisation based       in the USA set up by,       and for, parents and caregivers to help loved ones recover from eating       disorders (2e,f).
Scenarios       from the carer's book have also been turned into easily-accessible       cartoons available through       YouTube.
Two of the videos - `modelling support' and `modelling effective       parenting' - have       received 1,151 and 2,727 views respectively (2g).
Additionally, KCL       researchers have developed       training DVDs for carers with SUCCEED, an eating disorders charity that       promotes the       dissemination of evidence based treatment and prevention.
These are       subtitled with several       languages (Chinese, Spanish, Greek, Italian, French) (2h).
Public Dissemination     In addition to publications, the results of KCL research have been       disseminated via plenary       lectures and workshops to international professional and carer meetings.
For instance, in May       2013 Prof Treasure spoke at an Australian conference with over 200 carers       (3a).
KCL work and       researchers have also appeared on the radio, e.g.
on Radio 4's All in the       Mind (3b) and in       newspapers, e.g.
in The Times Magazine (3c), that have helped the general       public in their       understanding of eating disorders and the role of carers.
