     On return from deployment in Iraq or Afghanistan, all UK Armed Forces       personnel spend 36 hours       in Cyprus (termed decompression).
Decompression involves a range of       briefing sessions about       transition to home-life.
Evidence from King's College London (KCL) has       informed and altered how       these briefings are delivered.
Reduced number of deaths due to road traffic accidents       As a result of KCL research, the British Army and the Central Office of       Information in collaboration       with Edge Pictures developed the Grim Reaper film/DVD.
Since 2007, the DVD       has been a       mandatory part of the post-deployment decompression briefing sessions with       an estimated 20,000       returning service personnel having watched it.
The film was part of a       wider campaign involving       radio broadcasts and posters, aiming to change service personnel's       behaviour towards risky       driving.
During the development of the film, KCL researchers shared       pre-publication findings from Fear NT       et al.
2008 about exposure to traumatic events being independently       associated with risky driving,       with the Ministry of Defence (MoD).
The Army used this finding to develop       the film's tagline `You're       tough but you're not invincible'.
MoD statistics show that the number of deaths from road traffic accidents       among the UK regular       Armed Forces has decreased.
The Grim Reaper was one of three Armed Forces       road safety       campaigns introduced between 2006 and 2008, but is the only film/DVD on       road safety to be       mandatory shown during decompression.
Recent statistics show that during       2009-2011, rates of       road traffic accident deaths were at their lowest since 1984 at 12 per       100,000 regular service       personnel (1a).
In 2012, road traffic accidents accounted for only 12%       (n=15) of all deaths (1b),       compared to 33% (n=52) in 2005, when road traffic accidents were the       single largest cause of       death in the UK regular Armed Forces (1c).
Risky driving is one of the outcomes measured in the KCL-led Phase 2       military cohort study which       includes 5,020 UK Armed Forces personnel who were included at Phase 1.
Early results (currently       in submission) demonstrate that the prevalence of risk driving behaviour       has decreased to 13.6%.
Since March 2009, the film has had over 29,000 views on YouTube (2a) and,       in 2008 the Grim       Reaper film won the highest award from the International Visual       Communications Association (2b),       an organisation that promotes effective business and public service       communications.
Improving post-deployment mental health briefing       KCL research (later published as Mulligan et al.
2012) demonstrating the       impact of the UK-adapted       Battlemind intervention on binge drinking led to changes in       post-deployment briefings.
Since 2011,       elements of Battlemind have been routinely used in the two standard       post-deployment briefings       provided for all troops who return from operational deployments.
This       includes one session at       decompression, the other 6-12 weeks after returning home, both sessions       cover mental health and       alcohol use.
These changes were recommended by the MoD's Armed Forces       Mental Wellbeing       Steering Group, which is responsible for the tri-service policy on stress       management training (3).
