     As a result of the research conducted at King's College London (KCL),       personality disorders (PD) are now recognised as major mental health       problems associated with considerable public health burden.
The body of       epidemiological research into these disorders led by KCL has been       influential in helping to shape Government policy and service development       for people with PD.
KCL research impacts national treatment guidelines     Research by KCL contributed to the two current NICE guidelines on       personality disorders.
The 2009 NICE guideline on the treatment of       Borderline Personality Disorder cites the research on the prevalence of PD       in primary care, the levels of service use and economic impact (Moran et       al.
2000; Moran et al.
2001; Rendu et al.
2002).
Dr Moran was also a       member of the Guideline Development Group (1a).
In addition, the       epidemiological research of Moran et al.
2000 is cited in the 2010 NICE       guideline on the treatment, management and prevention of Antisocial       Personality Disorder (1b).
Both guidelines have had a significant impact       on the treatment and care that individuals with PD receive from the NHS       and have been used to implement services, for example the NHS Forth Valley       Integrated Care Pathway for Borderline Personality Disorder (1c) and the       Norfolk and Suffolk personality disorder strategy which references both       NICE guidelines (1d).
KCL research impacts on policy     In 2008, Dr Moran authored the UK Government's `State of Science Review'       on personality disorders as part of the Government's Office for Science       Foresight project on Mental Capital and Wellbeing.
The KCL primary care       research and the accompanying economic analysis (Moran et al.
2000; Moran       P et al.
2001; Rendu et al.
2002) were all cited in the Foresight review       (2a).
This document provides an independent review of the latest       scientific evidence to help policy makers tackle complex issues.
For       example, the review of personality disorders, commissioned by the Health       and Social Care Board at the Public Health Agency in Northern Ireland       cites the State of Science Review as evidence (2b).
In 2008, the King's Fund, a leading UK healthcare think tank, published a       major review of mental health expenditure in England to 2026.
The Report       uses KCL research on the economic impact of PD in primary care (Rendu et       al.
2002) to calculate the projected total service costs for PD which they       estimate to rise from &#163;704m for those in contact with primary care to       &#163;1.1b in 2026 (3).
KCL measures improve screening for Personality Disorders around the         world     On the basis of its ease of administration, good psychometric properties       and clinical utility, the Standard Assessment of Personality Abbreviated       Scale (SAPAS) has had a significant and wide reaching impact on       practitioners and services.
It has been translated into Danish (4a), Dutch       (4b) and French (4c) and has been used in the 2013 Danish National         Health Survey (4d).
It has been recommended by BMJ Evidence         Centre Best Practice (4e) as an appropriate PD screen for primary       care patients with co-morbid psychiatric conditions.
Following a study by       colleagues at the University of Lincoln, the SAPAS was tested for validity       in a probationer population (4f) and recommended by the UK Ministry of         Justice in its practitioner's guide for personality disorders (4g).
The SAPAS is also used in continuing professional development for         nurse practitioners, for example in the USA (4h) through RN.com, a       nursing resource provider whose training material cites KCL research       (Moran P, et al.
Br J Psychiatry, 2003).
Established in 2008, the UK's Improving Access to Psychological Therapies       (IAPT) aimed to improve access to NICE compliant psychological       interventions for people with common mental health problems, principally       depression and anxiety disorders.
In 2011, the programme broadened its       remit to include the management of severe mental illness (SMI) including       PD.
Nearly a million UK patients a year are seen under the remit of IAPT.
Chaired by the IAPT National Advisors for SMI, an event for 120       stakeholders highlighted the need for an appropriate screening tool, such       as SAPAS, for practitioners to use.
SAPAS was already in use in IAPT sites       in London and the South West (5a) and was subsequently recommended as         the ideal tool for adoption by the IAPT SMI national demonstration sites       (5b).
