     Up to 220,000 people in the UK a year will experience psychosis, at a       cost of around &#163;11.8 billion.
Only 8% of people with psychosis are likely       to be employed and the impact of their difficulties affects close family       members.
Research at King's College London (KCL) demonstrated that new       cognitive behavioural approaches for psychosis (CBTp) together with       antipsychotic medication are helpful, as well as cost-effective and       popular with service users.
KCL research affects clinical guidelines: In 2010, the National       Institute for Health and Care Excellence (NICE) published an updated       Schizophrenia guideline (1a).
One of its 10 key recommendations is that at       least 16 one-to-one sessions of CBTp should be offered.
Underpinning       evidence for this recommendation included several KCL-led trials (Kuipers       et al.
1997, 1998; Garety et al.
2008, along with a number of reviews by       Prof Garety).
The definitions for CBTp that Profs Garety and Kuipers       developed for the 2010 NICE guideline were also used for the 2013 NICE       guideline for children and young people with psychosis and schizophrenia       (1b).
Similar recommendations are made by the USA Patient Outcomes       Research Team (PORT), with reference to the research studies of Garety et       al.
1994, 2008; Kuipers et al.
1997 and Wykes et al.
2008 (1c).
Both NICE       and PORT schizophrenia guidelines are rated as among the best in the world       (1d).
A November 2012 Schizophrenia Commission survey found that 43% of those       questioned (including practitioners, service users and their families)       said that CBTp was the most valued intervention alongside medication.
They       recommended to NHS Clinical Commissioning Groups that they "should ensure       that they commission services for people with schizophrenia and psychosis       in line with NICE ... including CBT for psychosis" (1e).
KCL research helps implement CBTp: Once a treatment is recommended       by NICE guidelines there is a requirement for local services to consider       how to deliver this.
In 2011, widening access to CBTp was included in the       Department of Health (DH) strategy for mental health, where it was stated       that "local commissioners and providers need to realise the benefits of       talking therapies for people with ... severe mental illness" (2a).
To       advise on best ways to implement such priorities, in 2011 the DH expanded       the Increasing Access to Psychological Therapies to include Severe Mental       Illness (IAPT-SMI), which aims to "increase public access to a range of       NICE-approved psychological therapies for psychosis, bipolar disorder and       personality disorders" (2b).
In order to ensure that therapy is delivered       to a uniformly high standard, the IAPT-SMI programme developed a       competencies framework which included input from Profs Kuipers and Garety.
One of the competencies is to have "an ability to draw on knowledge of the       theory and principles underpinning therapeutic models commonly applied for       people with psychosis and bipolar disorder ...
e.g.
: cognitive behaviour       therapy" (2c,d).
Implementation of CBTp has been steered by an Expert Advisory Group which       has drawn on Profs Garety and Kuipers' research and expertise.
Garety is the clinical lead for the South London and Maudsley         Foundation NHS Trust (SLaM, one of KCL's NHS partners) National         Demonstration Centre for IAPT-SMI, one of just two such sites (2b)       IAPT-SMI has adopted a `Ten Point Charter' developed by Garety and         colleagues in SLaM, which shows how to improve access to CBTp in NHS         settings (2e)       A measure for assessing outcomes of CBTp from the perspective of         service users, CHOICE (Greenwood et al.
2010), developed at KCL, was         selected in 2012 as the key patient reported session-by-session outcome         measure for the IAPT-SMI Demonstration sites (2e)          KCL research underpins a model service and international training and         dissemination: Following successful trials at KCL, a CBTp clinic was       opened in 1999 at the Maudsley Hospital, with DoH funding to Prof Kuipers       to develop a model service.
The Psychological Intervention Clinic for       outpatients with Psychosis (PICuP) investigated the effectiveness of CBTp       in routine service settings and found improved outcomes.
PICuP is now part       of the SLaM IAPT-SMI demonstration site (3a).
These models have now been adopted internationally.
For instance, the       Voices Clinic at Alfred Hospital in Melbourne, Australia provides CBTp       based on KCL researchers' therapy manual.
Significant improvements have       been shown by their published research (3b).
In another example in the       USA, the CBTp Program at Weill Cornell Medical College, New York       established the Institute of Cognitive Therapy for Psychosis in 2008,       based in part on the KCL model.
This provides CBTp training throughout the       USA (3c).
The therapy manual is also used by the Canadian Prevention and       Early Intervention Program for Psychoses, a community focused mental       health programme (3d) and both the manual and improvements to the therapy       method have been adopted in a German multicentre randomised controlled       trial (RCT) (3e) and an Italian multicentre RCT of early intervention in       psychosis (3f).
KCL CBTp experts have also disseminated their approach by       training professionals under the auspices of the World Congress of       Behavioural and Cognitive Psychotherapies, most recently in Peru in July       2013 (3g).
Public dissemination of CBTp: The impact and effectiveness of CBTp       has also been communicated to the wider public.
It was featured in an ITV       news programme in Dec 2012 (4a) and is also discussed on the KCL-led       psychosis carer and patient-centred website mentalhealthcare.org.uk.
In       May 2013 it had 26,000 hits (7b).
