     As a result of KCL research, take-home naloxone is now part of regular       treatment provision in several parts of the world.
Lives are being saved       when previously death occurred in the interval between initial discovery       of heroin overdose and the eventual arrival of ambulance or medical staff.
KCL research impacts on services: KCL research has had an       especially substantial impact in Scotland (1a).
Following meetings of KCL       experts with the Scottish Minister and the Scottish Health Department, the       pre-provision of emergency naloxone (alongside training in overdose       management) has been introduced as part of regular clinical care for those       at risk.
In 2011/12 3, 445 `take home' naloxone kits were issued in       Scotland through the National Naloxone Programme (2,730 issued in the       community; 715 by prisons).
Of these, 90% were supplied to people at risk       of opioid overdose and the remainder to consenting family members and       friends.
Around 10% have been used for actual overdose resuscitation       (1b).Take-home naloxone programs have also been established in Wales from       2011 (1c).
Beyond the UK, from 2012 such programs have also been introduced in the       Australian Capital Territory (ACT) in Australia (1d) where KCL research       (including Strang 2008) is cited in the case for naloxone (1e).
Provision       of take-home naloxone is now in the health strategy of the state of       Victoria and its provision is currently being planned from 2013 onwards       (1f).
KCL research impacts on national and international policy: The       Government's Advisory Council on the Misuse of Drugs (ACMD) in 2012,       concluded that "naloxone provision is an evidence-based intervention which       can save lives," and recommended wider provision of take home naloxone.
KCL research, and evidence provided by Prof Strang, were central       contributions to this report, both in its discussion surrounding community       use of naloxone (Strang 1999, Strang 2008b) and in the increased risk       following imprisonment (Farrell 2008 and the N-ALIVE trial) (2a).
KCL research has also had an impact at the international level.
For       example, as a result of a presentation by Prof Strang, the Danish       government identified the need to develop plans for provision of take-home       naloxone to prevent heroin overdose deaths (2b).
In March 2012, a new       United Nations resolution was passed as part of the work of the Commission       on Narcotic Drugs to `promote measures to prevent drug overdose, in       particular opioid overdose' and a commitment `to collect and circulate       available best practices on the prevention and treatment of and emergency       response to drug overdose, in particular opioid overdose, including on the       use and availability of opioid receptor antagonists such as naloxone and       other measures based on scientific evidence' (2c).
There has been much interest expressed in the outcomes of the N-ALIVE       trial by the ACMD (2a) and organisations including the World Health       Organization &amp; United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime which cite the       trial in discussions on preventing and reducing opioid overdose mortality       (2d).
Wider provision has recently been recommended by the UK Government's       Advisory Council on the Misuse of Drugs (2012).
KCL work triggers naloxone training initiatives: KCL research       (Strang et al, 2008) created the stimulus for the National Treatment       Agency (NTA) to set up a network of training projects for families and       carers.
In 2009-10, the NTA expanded the training programme originally       conceived by KCL and selected 16 pilot sites in England where 495 carers       were trained to respond to an overdose.
In 15 sites participants were also       trained to administer naloxone.
The results of the pilot, reported in 2011       by the NTA, showed 18 overdoses where carers used naloxone and two where       carers applied basic life support.
All the drug users survived the       overdose (3a).
The methodology explicitly cites KCL research (Strang       2008b) identifying the unmet training needs of carers when detailing the       rationale for the programme (3b).
The impact of KCL research on overdose training and naloxone provision to       develop improved methods of preventing heroin overdose deaths is stated in       a letter from the National Treatment Agency, dated June 2012 (3c):     "The NTA recognises the significant impact that research by Professor         Strang and colleagues has had on the area of substance misuse treatment         and, more specifically in this instance, to training in overdose         management and provision of take-home naloxone.
[...] He was the first         researcher in the UK to investigate the possibility of providing         naloxone as a take-home medication to service users and their carers         [...] Preventing drug-related deaths is a key outcome of the         government's Drug Strategy 2010.
The NTA therefore looks forward to the         forthcoming results of the current N-ALIVE randomised controlled trial         of naloxone on-release to prisoners at risk of opioid overdose."
KCL research also led the development of training materials for       non-governmental organisations including the British Red Cross.
For       example, by 2012, Red Cross staff and services users from the Service User       Support Team and South Gloucestershire Drug and Alcohol Service had       delivered naloxone training to 249 people locally.
A video (3d), to which       Prof Strang contributed, and supporting booklets, are distributed to       Operations Directors throughout the UK to set up local training       programmes.
Dissemination of research: KCL researchers have communicated the       rationale behind the provision of take home naloxone to public and       professional audiences in the UK.
This includes an article in The Guardian       (4a) and an interview on Film Exchange on Alcohol and Drugs (FEAD), a       public engagement initiative of the Lifeline Project, a charity delivering       a range of drug addiction services in the UK aimed at services users, the       workforce and the wider community (4b).
