     Researchers at KCL developed the non-motor symptoms questionnaire       (NMSQuest), the Non-Motor Symptoms Scale (NMSS) and the Parkinson's       Disease Sleep Scale (PDSS).
Non-motor symptoms are key determinants of       quality of life in Parkinson's Disease, yet prior to KCL work, there were       no bedside tools to address the impact of these symptoms, no tools to       allow self-declaration of symptoms or any grade-rating tools for overall       non-motor symptom scoring.
Parkinson's disease associations recommend the use of NMSQuest and         NMSS: Parkinson's UK, the country's foremost Parkinson's Disease       support and research charity, recently commissioned a survey of 10,101       Parkinson's Disease patients using NMSQuest.
They confirmed that non-motor       symptoms increase with disease duration; that younger people are more       greatly impacted by them and that high NMSQuest scores are correlated with       worsening quality of life scores (1a).
Parkinson's UK found the NMSQuest       so useful that it champions the scale on their website with       recommendations that patients complete it ahead of visiting a health care       professional (1b).
Also their `Professional's Guide to Parkinson's       Disease' recommends use of NMSQuest to health care professionals including       GPs, nurses, physiotherapists and social workers (1c).
Both NMSQuest and NMSS are highlighted in an article on `Life With       Parkinson's' aimed at healthcare professionals, patients, carers and the       media, written by KCL researchers for the European Parkinson's Disease       Association, an organisation which "advocate for the rights and needs of       people with Parkinson's Disease and their families."
An accompanying       article discusses how non-motor symptoms lead to disability and an overall       increase in the cost of Parkinson's care (1d).
Following a systematic       assessment by a professional review panel, all 3 scales are recommended to       clinicians, scientists and health care professional by the Movement       Disorders Society, an international professional society with over 4,100       members from over 90 countries (1e).
Use of NMSQuest in practice: The Scottish Intercollegiate       Guidelines Network (SIGN) 2010 guidance regarding `Diagnosis and       pharmacological management of Parkinson's Disease' discusses how non-motor       symptoms contribute "to a very significant curtailment of social       activity."
The NMSQuest is included as an appendix and they recommend that       healthcare professionals should highlight its availability to patients       (2a).
These SIGN guidelines provide reference points for clinical practice       in England and Wales.
For instance, the Parkinson's Disease Map of       Medicine cites them when listing identifying non-motor symptoms (2b).
While Commissioning Pathways were in effect in England and Wales (up until       Spring 2013), the Department of Health (DH) included NMSQuest to assess       quality of life in its `Elective Care Commissioning Pathway for       Parkinson's Disease' and the `18-week Commissioning Pathway for Tremor in       Parkinson's Disease' (2c).
The NMSQuest is more recently included in the       DH's Payments by Results Guidance to all Trusts in the UK for 2013-2014       (2d).
Worldwide use of NMSQuest: In 2010, the American Academy of       Neurology, an international professional association of more than 26,000       members, produced Practice Guidelines that recommended the NMSQuest be       used to "assist in screening and early identification of non-motor       symptoms" (3a).
NMSQuest and NMSS are also recommended in an e-textbook on       Parkinson's Disease aimed at US healthcare professionals produced by       Projects in Knowledge, a certified Continuing Medical Education company       who provide approved professional development tools (3b).
The Parkinson       Society Canada also produces English and French versions of a non-motor       symptoms guide, aimed at family physicians, which highlights the use of       NMSQuest.
Physicians are "encouraged to copy the questionnaire and use it       for patient care" as it can help "pick up important treatable       manifestations of the disease" (3c).
Reflecting international demands for       the scales, the MAPI Institute, an international company that advances the       worldwide use of patient-reported and clinical assessments, has translated       and linguistically validated PDSS (14 European, 2 Asian languages and       Afrikaans) and PDSS-2 (4 languages).
These are available free for       non-profit researchers and healthcare professionals and for a fee for use       in for-profit trials (3d).
KCL scales improve the chances of new treatment &#8212; use of NMSS in         clinical trials: Before the development of the scales the importance       of non-motor symptoms was unknown and therefore not a treatment target.
Following the rigorous development of the scales, the efficacy of a       patient valued target could be measured and non-motor endpoints are now       incorporated into international clinical trials for Parkinson's Disease       medications.
The leading US funder of neurological clinical studies, the       National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke, recommends all 3       scales for Parkinson's Disease research (4a).
In the recent RECOVER study,       sleep and nocturnal disability measured by PDSS-2 became the target for a       new skin patch version of the dopamine agonist rotigotine.
In the same       study fatigue and apathy were measured using NMSS.
The skin patch for       nighttime problems is now recommended for this previously identified but       unmet problem (4b,c).
Wide reaching international dissemination: Dissemination of     information about the non-motor symptom tools has occurred in the UK and     abroad, to patients, carers and the wider public.
For instance, the     Parkinson's Disease Foundation, a leading US charity funding research and     providing information for patient's and carers, broadcast a seminar by Prof     Chaudhuri to 16 countries on the recognition, assessment and treatment of     under-recognised non-motor symptoms.
As of June 2013 it had received 885     listeners (5a).
Additionally, Prof Chaudhuri is featured on the Parkinson's     UK website as an expert in non-motor symptoms and he participated in an     online Q&amp;A where NMSQuest and PDSS are recommended (5b).
KCL research on     non-motor symptoms of Parkinson's Disease was also discussed by Prof     Chauduri on BBC Radio 4's `Inside Health' programme on Feb 12th     2012.
This nationwide broadcast is available online as a podcast (5c).
