     Prior to KCL research, in collaboration with ReNeuron, regulatory       approval had not been reached for any stem cell product in the treatment       of a neurodegenerative disorder.
This is despite the UK being often cited       by Government bodies as having a strategic advantage in stem cell research       and despite considerable funds being committed to UK stem cell research.
KCL research led to regulatory approval, made significant impact on the       life science industry and has led to improved outcomes in the treatment of       stroke.
Regulatory approval for first UK stem cell therapy trial for         neurodegeneration       KCL's pre-publication research provided the core of the regulatory       submission for the first stem cell therapy trial.
Approval is given by the       Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) who consult an       expert committee followed by interim approval.
Full approval is only given       once the application has been approved ethically by the Gene Therapy       Advisory Committee (GTAC).
No clinical trial on humans can begin without       these approvals.
In 2009, Prof Jack Price presented at the MHRA Expert       Advisory Group as part of the process of acquiring the preliminary MHRA       approval.
The evidence presented included the technology underpinning the       stem cell production process and the efficacy and safety data (Pollock et       al.
2006) (1a).
GTAC requested further research on safety and efficacy and       these new data (Smith et al.
2012; Hassani et al.
2012) were presented at       GTAC meetings in April (1b) and July 2009 (1c), as evidenced by the       minutes of those meetings and the GTAC Annual Report (1d).
These       presentations led directly to the first approvals for a stem cell therapy       trial in neurodegeneration in the UK, a major breakthrough for       regenerative medicine.
The research that led to the approvals also secured       the future of the KCL spin-out company ReNeuron (1e) as an SME (1f), which       holds the patents for the cell line (1g,h).
Of further impact is that the       process of meeting the regulatory standard developed during these       presentations and meetings now acts as a model for other technology       developments in this area.
First industry sponsored trial in stroke shows improvements in         patients       Following these approvals, the stem cell line CTX0E03 became the first,       and so far only, fully regulated neural stem cell line (named ReN001) for       disabled stroke patients to reach a clinical trial in the world.
The       ReNeuron sponsored PISCES (Pilot Investigation of Stem Cells in Stroke)       trial, which began in November 2010 in Glasgow, involves injecting 2, 5,       10 or 20 million ReN001 cells into the brains of 12 stroke patients (three       at each dose) with moderate to severe functional neurological impairments       following an ischaemic stroke 6-60 months previously.
This is carried out       using MRI brain imaging to guide the injection to the areas neighbouring       the stroke damage (2a).
At this stage, the primary aim was to test the safety and tolerability of       the treatment, and indeed, there were no cell-related or immunological       adverse events reported in any of the patients.
Additionally though, the       majority of the nine patients who had received treatment by January 2013,       some of whom had had considerable disability, showed reductions in       neurological impairment and spasticity compared with their pre-treatment       baseline performance.
Improvements were sustained, and in some cases       increased, in the first five patients treated in 2010-2011 who have been       followed-up for a year.
Functional MRI data indicated improved signalling       in parts of the cortex related to movement (2b,c).
These are vital       improvements which herald faster recovery pathways for stroke victims       reducing the disability and care burden and improving quality of life.
These promising results have led to the approval of the next set of larger       studies (2d).
Government and public dissemination       With their expertise in regenerative medicine research, representatives       from both KCL and ReNeuron recently provided evidence to the Government's       Science and Technology Committee whose aim was to "pinpoint the UK's       strengths in regenerative medicine, identify barriers to translation and       commercialisation and recommend solutions."
The findings of the committee       were presented in their First Report in June 2013, which concluded that       "Regenerative medicine has the potential to save lives and to help support       the UK economy ... accordingly, we recommend that the Government appoint       the chair of the independent regenerative medicine delivery expert working       group as the UK's regenerative medicine champion (with) a budget and       support from a Government office (3a).
The results of ReNeuron's first trial have been widely highlighted in the       media, including in reports from the BBC (3b), Channel 4 (3c) and Scottish       Television (3d), which feature one of the patients in the trial who       reported improvements in balance and mobility and activities of daily       living such as being able to tie his shoelaces and play the piano.
Overseas, in the USA ReNeuron was highlighted by the Alliance for       Regenerative Medicine (ARM) in their 2012 `Biotech Showcase.'
ARM is a       Washington, DC-based global advocacy organisation that promotes       initiatives to accelerate the development of safe and effective       regenerative medicine technologies and works to increase public       understanding of the field and its potential to transform human healthcare       (3e,f).
