     KCL research on the role of cannabis use in the aetiology of psychotic       disorders has led to public awareness of the connection between patterns       of cannabis use and mental health and to the UK Government considering and       incorporating the issues surrounding cannabis use into policy and       information.
KCL research has also had industry impact by helping to       advance the development of new medicines that act on the brain       endocanniboid system to ameliorate psychiatric symptoms.
Public awareness: KCL research has had a major impact on the       public's perception of the risks of cannabis use on mental health and has       helped in the understanding of why the drug can have adverse effects in       some users but not others.
These studies generated a high level of media       interest and KCL experts have conveyed the importance of their findings in       a number of interviews in high profile UK television programmes, e.g.
BBC1       Horizon (1a), BBC3 How Drugs Work (1b) and Should I Smoke Dope?
(1c), BBC       News on Cannabis and IQ (1d); radio programmes, e.g.
The Life Scientific       (1e) and newspaper articles, e.g.
The Daily Mail (1f), The Independent       (1g) and The Guardian (1h).
Dissemination of information: In addition to increasing public       awareness of the potential effects of cannabis use on psychosis, KCL has       also disseminated the effects of the increasing strength of cannabis being       sold on the street and its specific detrimental effects.
Although it       cannot be certain that KCL research has had a direct effect on cannabis       use, Home Office figures show that use has declined by about 15% in the       last decade.
In 2012 the Schizophrenia Commission, established by Rethink       Mental Illness, published a report in which they recommended several       changes "that need to be made to transform the lives of those with       schizophrenia or psychosis," one of which was the need for "a stronger       focus on prevention including clear warnings about the risks of cannabis."
This utilised evidence provided by Di Forti et al, 2009 and a review paper       (2a) that widely cites the KCL research discussed above (2b).
Dissemination has also been through continued professional development       (CPD) activities aimed at psychiatrists.
For instance, a CPD podcast for       the Royal College of Psychiatry features Prof Murray discussing his       research (2c).
Changes in the law: In 2007-9, the UK Government re-considered the       issue of the legal categorisation of cannabis, following its 2004       downgrading from Category B to Category C. One of the main reasons given       by the Prime Minister during his announcement was that this was "because       of concerns about stronger strains of the drug, particularly Skunk, and       the potential mental health effects they can have."
Evidence from KCL       researchers to the Advisory Council on the Misuse of Drugs resulted in       their 2005 and 2008 reports accepting the effect of cannabis on psychosis       and emphasising that education concerning the risks of cannabis was       important.
The 2008 report utilises Arsenault et al.
2002 and Caspi A et       al.
2005 and was compiled with the help of written evidence by Prof Murray       and verbal evidence from Dr Paul Morrison.
Although these reports did not       recommend re-classification, in 2009 the evidence given by KCL researchers       formed part of the 2009 government decision to alter the legal       classification of cannabis from a Category C drug to Category B, which       holds greater legal penalties for someone caught holding the drug (3a).
Government Information: Initially Government information on       cannabis on their website `Talk to Frank' contained no information on the       adverse effects of cannabis on mental health.
However, as a result of KCL       research, in 2009 the Department of Health launched a major TV, radio and       online campaign to demonstrate the role cannabis can play in the       development of mental health problems.
The 'Talk to Frank' television       adverts, aimed at young people who might not be aware of possible dangers,       illustrated how cannabis can contribute to paranoia and damage mental       health.
Launching the campaign, the then Home Office Minister Alan       Campbell said: "We are extremely concerned about the use of stronger       cannabis and the harm it can cause to mental health" (3b).
Recognition of KCL research beyond the UK: A number of countries       have utilised KCL expertise with regard to the relationship between       cannabis and psychosis; for instance, both public and government sources       in Canada.
The Controlled Substances and Tobacco Directorate for the       government organisation Health Canada produced an information summary of       the potential therapeutic uses and harmful effects of cannabis that       utilised the majority of the KCL research papers discussed above (4a).
Additionally, a set of `Knowledge Notes' distributed by the Canadian group       Alberta Addiction &amp; Mental Health Research Partnership Program cites       Arsenault et al.
2002 and Caspi A et al.
2005 when discussing current       research on cannabis use and its association with psychosis (4b).
Prof       Murray provided a direct contribution to a 2010 documentary for the       Canadian Broadcasting Corporation investigating the link between Skunk use       and schizophrenia (4c).
Industry sponsored clinical trial: By studying the effects of       cannabidiol (CBD) on healthy volunteers, KCL work has facilitated the       development of new medicines that act on the brain's endocanniboid system       that have the potential to ameliorate psychiatric symptoms.
In partnership       with GW Pharmaceuticals, the main manufacturer of medicines from the       cannabis plant, KCL researchers have piloted the effectiveness of CBD as       an antipsychotic medication, and have recently been appointed as Chief       Investigator for a Phase II trial of CBD as an adjunctive antipsychotic in       patients who have not responded to conventional treatment (5a).
Similar       trials are being carried out by the University of Cologne (5a).
GW       Pharmaceuticals are also sponsoring a trial of the role of CBD and another       cannabinoid (THCV) on preventing weight gain in patients taking       antipsychotic medication (5b).
Weight gain is a serious side effect of       taking anti-psychotic medication and often leads to other conditions such       as Type 2 Diabetes.
The new drug has the potential to reduce these side       effects which are implicated in the early mortality of people with a       diagnosis of schizophrenia.
