     In England, care for people with schizophrenia and psychosis costs around       &#163;11.8 billion a year.
To       help people experiencing psychosis, researchers at King's College London       (KCL) developed and       tested the cognitive behavioural psychological therapy family intervention       for psychosis (FIp),       which involves both the service user and their family.
FIp in Guidelines       A major impact stemming from KCL research on FIp is that this therapy is       now a recommended       treatment for service users with psychosis in contact with carers in       current National Institute for       Health and Care Excellence (NICE) guidelines on interventions for       schizophrenia (2010).
This       recommendation means there is a requirement for services to consider how       to deliver this.
This       guideline cites both a meta-analysis from KCL as background information       (Bebbington et al.
1994)       and uses more recent work as a basis for their recommendation (Garety et       al.
2008).
The       Guideline Development Group for this NICE publication was chaired by Prof       Kuipers (1a).
A recent       NICE scoping review confirmed that there is no new evidence that will       contraindicate the efficacy of       FIp and thus the recommendation that it should be offered to those with       schizophrenia who are in       contact with carers will continue for the next update, due out in 2014 and       also chaired by Prof       Kuipers.
These conclusions are supported by an influential Cochrane review       (1b) and by updated       Patient Outcomes Research Team recommendations in the USA that include       reference to Pilling et       al.
2002; Garety et al.
2008 and Szmukler et al.
2003 (1c).
FIp in Practice       As a result of the work of KCL researchers, FIp is now part of early       intervention services for       psychosis in the UK and it is standard practice to offer families help and       support from first onset.
To implement their research on FIp, Prof Kuipers was the Founding Director       of the Psychological       Intervention Clinic for Outpatients with Psychosis (PICuP) at the Maudsley       Hospital, part of South       London and Maudsley NHS Foundation Trust (SLaM) (2a,b).
In 2011, the Department of Health (DH) produced the document `No health       without mental health,'       which included objectives such as that "more people who develop mental       health problems will       recover."
One of the ways they proposed to aid this was to champion "work       with the whole family,       using whole-family assessment and support plans where appropriate."
They       pledged that "from       April 2011 local agencies ... will be able to create a Community Budget       freeing up money to be       spent on innovative types of family intervention services that address the       needs of the whole       family" (3c).
To advise on best ways to implement such priorities, in 2011 the DH       expanded the Increasing       Access to Psychological Therapies &#8212; Severe Mental Illness (IAPT-SMI)       initiative (first set up in       2006), which has the aim to "increase public access to a range of NICE       approved psychological       therapies for psychosis, bipolar disorder and personality disorders."
In       2012, SLaM was one of only       two places chosen to be IAPT-SMI demonstration sites for psychosis (3d).
In order to ensure that       therapy is delivered to a uniformly high standard, the IAPT-SMI programme       has developed a       competencies framework that included input from Prof Kuipers.
Here, one of       the competencies is       to have "an ability to draw on knowledge of the theory and principles       underpinning therapeutic       models commonly applied for people with psychosis and bipolar disorder ...
e.g.
: family       interventions" (3e,f).
Wider Use of Flp       FIp is endorsed by the Schizophrenia Commission, an independent body of 14       experts set up by       Rethink Mental Illness to which Prof Kuipers was asked to provide       evidence.
In their 2012 report,       they noted that FIp is one of "eight treatment areas where the evidence       base suggests that       increased investment will generate cost savings through reducing the       probability that an individual       will need to be admitted to hospital" (3a).
Internationally, the Flp       manual is currently forming the       basis of new early intervention services in Northern Italy in the GET UP       PIANO Trial (3b).
Training Programmes in FIp       As a result of the development of FIp, training courses have been set up       such as the NHS's       Meriden Family Work Programme, hosted within Birmingham and Solihull       Mental Health       Foundation NHS Trust (Director Dr Grainne Fadden, formerly a DClin Psy and       PhD student at       KCL).
This programme trains and supports clinical staff in the skills       needed to work with families.
Their work is based on a number of studies into FIp, including Kuipers et       al's 2002 guide on family       work and Pilling et al.
2002 (4a).
FIp is also offered to healthcare       professionals by the Florence       Nightingale School of Nursing &amp; Midwifery at KCL as part of their       continuing professional       development (4b) and as a postgraduate Diploma or Certificate at the       Institute of Psychiatry (4c).
Family intervention, including FIp, has become part of the Doctorate in       Clinical Psychology course       at KCL's Institute of Psychiatry, leading to a professional qualification       to practice (4d).
Help for Service Users and Families       Research at KCL has shown that carers of people with psychosis have an       unmet need for       accurate, research-based information about psychosis and answers to their       questions.
This led       Prof Kuipers to develop the website mentalhealthcare.org.uk, which       includes information on       psychosis for both service users and carers.
It also has a series of short       films and an `Ask the       Expert' section that features a Psychiatrist, Psychologist (Prof Kuipers       and a colleague),       Pharmacist and Social worker (all from KCL and/or SLAM) replying to       questions on psychosis and       therapy posed through the website.
Part of the website is dedicated to       family therapy and includes       details of FIp.
It has had very positive feedback from carers, service       users and staff both in the UK       and internationally.
It had been accredited by a DH Quality Standard and       received funding from the       Wellcome Trust, the British Psychological Society and the Maudsley       Charity.
The site had 26,000       hits in May 2013 (5a,b).
