     KCL research improves care for patients with familial motor neurone       disease (MND): The discovery of new genes has dramatically influenced the       care of patients with familial MND and at risk family members enabling       rapid diagnosis, predictive gene testing and pre-implantation genetic       diagnosis (PGD).
In 1997, KCL researchers identified a novel SOD1 mutation       in a family with MND, providing a keenly sought explanation for why the       disease affected their family and an opportunity for counselling.
In 2010,       their son aged 30 developed symptoms raising the spectre of MND.
Clinical       examination and SOD1 gene testing rapidly confirmed the diagnosis,       avoiding months of expensive and often invasive investigations.
The same       year, their eldest daughter was shown to be a carrier by predictive gene       testing.
With the input of KCL researchers, the PGD service at Guy's       Hospital (a King's Health Partner) was granted the first UK licence from       the Human Fertilisation and Embryology Authority (HFEA) to undertake PGD       for SOD1 gene (1) and in 2013 she delivered a healthy son free from the       fear of developing MND.
KCL's gene discoveries are in widespread use in diagnostic and         research laboratories:       Since the discovery of SOD1, KCL researchers have worked with the       Diagnostic DNA Service at Guy's Hospital, rapidly translating research       discoveries into robust clinical tests, helping them set up, optimise and       validate their genetic assays as well as interpret unexpected results (2).
In 2012, the UK Genetic Testing Network (UKGNT) recommended that all UKGNT       Laboratories should provide genetic testing for FUS and SOD1 for MND to       their local populations (3).
There are currently 75 diagnostic       laboratories in 20 countries that test for the SOD1 gene, and       approximately 35 laboratories in 12 countries that test for FUS, TDP-43       and C9ORF72 (4).
KCL's database is an invaluable resource for clinicians, researchers,         patients and families:       Genetic variation is common and not all mutations are pathogenic being       able to cause MND.
In 1995, KCL researchers launched the ALSOD database as       a common source of information on SOD1 mutations.
It is continuously       updated by registered clinical and research laboratories and now includes       a comprehensive account of mutations in all MND genes linked to anonymised       clinical data.
This enables clinicians to establish whether any variant       they have identified is associated with MND.
It also gives patients and       families general information about MND genetics and specific information       on the gene affecting their family, if known.
Since 2009, ALSOD has been       cited in 389 publications, and has been viewed 842,226 times by 49,563       unique viewers from 152 countries, averaging ~700 visits a day in 2013       (5).
KCL's research promotes international collaboration: Success in       the discovery of new MND genes has enabled KCL to lead major collaborative       gene hunting efforts.
In 2009, the Medical Research Council (MRC) and the       Motor Neurone Disease Association (MNDA) funded the use of cutting edge       gene hunting technologies including exome capture and next generation       sequencing.
Early results have identified five new candidate genes       (unpublished) but the genes responsible for 30-40% of familial MND cases       remain unknown.
Prof Shaw leads an international consortium of key MND       researchers, working with Dr Benjamin Neale from the Broad Institute at       MIT/Harvard (US) to undertake the first meta-analysis of 1,000 familial       MND cases.
Prof Al-Chalabi leads several European Union-funded       international consortia on genetic and environmental causes of sporadic       MND ("Euromotor", "ALS-CarE", and "STRENGTH") (6).
KCL's research advances understanding of disease and therapeutic         prospects: The discovery of two ALS genes involved in RNA processing       (TDP-43 and FUS) has provided novel insights into fundamental disease       mechanisms through the generation of novel cellular and animal models.
KCL       research insights, especially the highly cited papers in Science (2008,       2009), and research developments from a Wellcome Trust and MRC Strategic       Grant Award, have led to a collaboration with Vertex Pharmaceuticals, to       map novel drug targets and conduct high-throughput compound screening (7).
KCL's research is widely disseminated influencing political and public         understanding:       KCL's new gene discoveries and novel experimental techniques were widely       publicised raising political, professional and public awareness.
In 2008,       Prof Shaw presented his research findings (Sreedharan J et al.
Science       2008) at a press conference in London (8a), resulting in articles in the       UK and international media, e.g BBC News (8b) and Reuters (8c).
Prof Shaw       also communicated subsequent findings (Vance C et al.
Science 2009) to the       media, e.g.
BBC News (8d).
In 2011, Prof Shaw was part of the expert working group for the Academy       of Medical Sciences policy report on animals containing human material,       examining the scientific, social, ethical, safety and regulatory aspects       of research involving animals containing human material (9).
He was also       the sole scientific advisor to the MNDA in meetings with Prime Minister       Gordon Brown in 2008 (10), which led to the MRC committing to an       additional &#163;7.5 million on motor neurone disease research over the next       five years, to be matched by funds from the MNDA (11).
Prof Shaw has spoken to the Science and Technology Select Committee       (2007) (12) on the use of hybrid embryos in research.
Evidence from this       Report influenced the House of Commons vote in May 2008 which defeated an       attempt to ban human animal hybrid embryos (13).
He has also spoken to       several Parliamentary Groups on MND, Stem Cell and Hybrid Embryo research       (2008, 2009).
This has contributed to legislation being rewritten and       passed into law allowing hybrid embryos to be generated for research into       conditions such as MND (14).
