     KCL research impacts on the National Dementia Strategy: The case       for, and implementation of, early, effective diagnosis and intervention       for people with dementia and their carers has been supported by KCL data.
It is at the core of the 2009 National Dementia Strategy (NDS) for       England.
As a Senior Professional Advisor to the Department of Health (DH)       (2006-10) Prof Banerjee was intimately involved in the production of this       strategy.
The NDS report sets out a number of ambitions and cites seven       key documents that it aims to build on, including KCL's Dementia UK       report, which it uses to highlight the number of people living with       dementia and service costs.
The NDS also cites Banerjee et al.
2007, 2009       when stating that "the evidence...points strongly to the value of early       diagnosis and intervention to improve quality of life and to delay or       prevent unnecessary admissions into care homes."
It also refers to the       Croydon Memory Service Model (CMSM) to show that "a `spend to save'       approach...can both increase the quality of care and save hundreds of       millions of pounds...over a 10-year period" (1).
The development of the NDS was stimulated by a highly critical 2007       National Audit Office (NAO) report, which, in establishing that dementia       represents a significant and urgent challenge to health and social care,       took as its starting point the evidence from KCL's Dementia UK report       (2a).
Prof Banerjee was an expert witness to the 2008 Government Public       Accounts Committee considering service development for dementia care in       the context of the NAO report.
Their development document details Prof       Banerjee's oral evidence and utilises the Dementia UK report when       providing background information on the unmet need for service improvement       (2b).
Subsequently, the DH published the 2008 report `Transforming the       quality of dementia care' that provides a summary of best evidence and       priorities for change and says how the Dementia UK publication "has given       us clear estimates of the number of people with dementia now, as well as       projections of future growth."
It also utilises the CMSM and cites several       KCL papers when proposing specialist memory assessment for all new cases;       commissioning of a single point of referral for diagnosis in each area;       simple referral processes, rapid response and immediate and direct       provision of treatment and support (2c).
KCL research affects Government policy: The Croydon Memory Service       Model (CMSM) has been used by a number of DH follow-on documents to the       NDS.
The 2009 Impact Assessment of the NDS, which aimed to investigate       possible consequences of a range of actions, stated that their estimation       of the development of memory clinics nationally was based on CMSM       evaluation (3a).
Their `Joint Commissioning Framework for Dementia'         report used the CMSM as an example of best practice and cites       Banerjee et al.
2003 when discussing the role of the carer in people with       dementia (3b).
Subsequently, early diagnosis and intervention was one of       only two NHS areas given increased priority by the incoming coalition       government.
As such, extra money was given to Primary Care Trusts for       dementia services as part of their annual revenue allocation in 2009/10       and 2010/11.
An NHS Information Centre report suggests widespread new       investment in and uptake of memory services in England with the         establishment of at least 447 memory services in this period (3c).
To investigate whether suggested NDS changes were being implemented, a       2012 All-Party Parliamentary Group on Dementia report discussed both the       personal and societal need for early intervention, using written evidence       and oral reports from KCL experts.
Report recommendations include that       "public health directors ... should make early dementia diagnosis a       priority;" that "commissioners should invest in appropriate memory service       resources" and that "adequate information and one-to-one support should be       provided to patients and their families immediately following diagnosis."
KCL research was used to provide background information regarding the       financial benefits of early diagnosis in delaying admission to hospital       and to care homes (3d).
KCL experts provide guidance on setting up memory services: In       2011 Prof Banerjee chaired the DH group to deliver detailed commissioning       guidance on the contracting of memory services.
Here, the CMSM was       endorsed, enabling this network of services to be further maintained and       model fidelity improved.
This Dementia Commissioning Pack aims to "bring       together... a range of tools, templates and guidance in order to make the       process of commissioning easier" (4a).
A key document in the pack cites       KCL's Dementia UK report when discussing current and predicted numbers of       people with dementia and cost of services.
It references Banerjee et al,       2009 when discussing that "the benefits of commissioning a memory service       for the early identification and care of people with dementia       include...reducing total care expenditure by delaying the time to nursing       home admissions and other costly outcomes" (4b).
A central feature of the 2012 Prime Minister's challenge on dementia is a       requirement for a quantified ambition for improving diagnosis rates across       the country, underpinned by robust local strategic plans, commissioning       and service improvement.
In 2012, the DH commissioned NHS South of England       to produce a new model for understanding prevalence with Prof Prince as       technical consultant for the project.
The resulting NHS Dementia       Prevalence Calculator online tool uses prevalence data from KCL's Dementia       UK report applied at the small area level, accounting for local factors,       to generate estimates of numbers of people with dementia at general       practice level, then aggregated to Clinical Commissioning group, Local       Authority and Local Area teams.
These are then compared against numbers of       cases recorded on the Quality Outcomes Framework data.
The national       dementia diagnosis rate (currently 46% diagnosed, hence a diagnosis gap of       54% lacking a formal diagnosis) is published annually through the NHS       Information Centre.
The tool, informed by KCL research, is now a         central plank of the Government's strategy to benchmark, and set       trajectories for improvement in diagnosis rates (4c).
Wider reach of KCL research: KCL work has also been used to       educate people beyond those in government and health services.
The       Alzheimer's Society, a UK organisation with 20,000 members, highlights the       CMSM calling it `a model service' (5a).
Both the 2011 World Alzheimer         Report on `The benefits of early diagnosis and intervention' (5b) and         the 2012 World Health Organization (WHO) dementia report (5c) make use         of KCL research and are co-authored by Prof Prince.
They discuss the       CMSM and utilise Banerjee et al.
2007, when highlighting the need for       "effective coordination between primary and secondary specialist care       services...to ensure accurate early diagnosis and access to appropriate       early and continuing care."
They also quote from Banerjee et al.
2009 when       discussing "the value of early diagnosis and intervention in delaying or       preventing transitions into care homes" and utilise these papers to       highlight the potential costs and savings of care using the CMSM.
The       World Alzheimer Report cites the Dementia UK paper when discussing       concerns about the growing incidence of dementia and the WHO report calls       this paper "the most sophisticated analysis of dementia subtype", using it       to illustrate the rising prevalence of dementia and gender differences in       incidence.
They also refer to Schneider et al.
1999 when discussing       spousal carers and Banerjee et al.
2009 when illustrating an "invest to       save" approach to dementia care.
