     Studies by KCL researchers demonstrated that reducing patient-rated unmet       need causes, rather than is just associated with, outcome improvement.
The       findings empirically justify a needs-led approach to care planning       utilising their Camberwell Assessment of Need (CAN) set of measures.
KCL research led to national use of CAN in services: The CAN is       extensively used nationally, as confirmed by a number of sources.
For       instance, the book `Outcome Measurement in Mental Health: Theory and       Practice' states that CAN is "the most widely used instrument for       assessment of needs in mental health settings" (1a).
The KCL group have       actively supported dissemination into clinical practice internationally.
This included liaison with colleagues, development of quality assurance       and copyright protection systems and development of a comprehensive       on-line resource: Research Into Recovery (1b).
The CAN is used across         regions in England.
For example, in 2013 the Gloucester Caseload       Project used CANSAS to compare staff and patient perceptions about changes       in need across three assertive community treatment teams (1c).
KCL research produced international use of CAN in services: Under       the direction of KCL, the CAN has been translated into 26 languages,       including many European, Asian and African ones, with published       psychometrics papers on versions in several of these languages (e.g.
Romeva et al, 2010 discuss the Spanish translation of CANFOR: 1d).
Translation of the CAN allowed it to be introduced across large catchment       areas in several countries.
For example, in Ontario, Canada, there are       more than 300 Community Mental Health (CMH) agencies that, as a sector,       identified "the need to enhance the assessment process and make it more       effective for both the consumer and CMH staff."
From December 2007, the       Government-funded CMH Common Assessment Project (CMH CAP) was developed       and is currently "delivering on the sector's vision of a streamlined       assessment process that will standardise current practices across the       province" (1e,f).
Out of 80 candidate measures, the CAN was chosen as         the best measure upon which to base the Ontario Common Assessment of         Need (OCAN) which is used as the main measure throughout (1g).
Their       2012 report detailed how all of the 294 CMH organisations eligible to       implement OCAN would be doing so by the end of 2012, with, at that time,       20% of the organisations having completed all of their OCAN assessments       (1f).
In the Netherlands the CAN is part of the Cumulative Needs for Care         Monitor (CNCM) database, a psychiatric case register system       developed to standardise and improve needs-based diagnosis in use       throughout a defined catchment area in the south of the country       (population 660,000) (1h).
Here, the CAN is described as "the core       instrument of the CNCM."
This project is producing clinical findings       directly informing service development, for instance, they found that       compared with a control region, out-patient care consumption in the CNCM       region was significantly higher regardless of treatment status at baseline       (1i).
A further example is that CANSAS has been chosen for use in the         Minimum Data Set of the Partners in Recovery (PIR) five-year national         programme in Australia.
This is a &#163;343m programme involving 300       consortium partner organisations to provide co-ordinated support for       24,000 people with severe mental illness and complex needs.
The aims are       to facilitate better coordination, strengthen partnerships, improve       referral pathways and promote a community based recovery model (1j).
Dissemination into national policy: The CAN is recommended in a       range of evaluation and policy documents in the UK.
For instance, it was       recommended "for clinical use to identify need" in the National Institute       for Mental Health in England's 2008 `Outcomes Compendium,' which       aimed to "provide information on ... measurement tools, their properties       and their use" (2a).
Similarly, in 2011 the Royal College of Psychiatrists       published their `Outcome Measures Recommended for Use in Adult       Psychiatry,' saying of the short version of the CAN that it "has the       advantage of showing how a service improves a service user's proportion of       met needs (versus unmet needs)" and that "it may be especially important       for rehabilitation services to evidence the degree to which they are       addressing service users' complex problems" (2b).
KCL measure is used in international policy: A priority of the       Mental Health Commission of Canada for Mental Health Strategy is to       "improve mental health data collection, research and knowledge exchange       across Canada."
It cites Ontario's CMH CAP as a best practice example.
They         propose the countrywide adoption of OCAN, adapted from the CAN, which         they call "the most internationally recognized and researched assessment         tool available" (2c).
In New South Wales, Australia, in 2009 the       Network for Alcohol &amp; other Drug Agencies, the main organisation for       the over 100 non-governmental drug and alcohol services, produced a guide       to `Assessment and Outcome Measures for Drug and Alcohol Setting.'
Here       they provide a thorough review of the development and use of the CAN,       citing a number of KCL papers including Phelan et al.
1995 and Slade et       al.
1996, and describe it as "one of the most widely used instruments for       ... needs assessment and treatment outcomes" (2d).
Dissemination into community and third sector: The CAN is widely       used by non-governmental organisations (NGOs), in fact, one source says       that "of all the outcome measures, CANSAS has had the strongest uptake         by NGOs" (3a).
For example, Neami National is an Australian non-       government mental health organisation that provides support services       within a recovery framework for 2,300 consumers with a serious mental       illness across five states.
Since 2009, the organisation has adopted the       Collaborative Recovery Model (3b), which involves using CANSAS with all       consumers as the basis for care planning (3c).
