     Increased training of health care professionals in the UK and abroad       Prior to 2011, reference to domestic violence in the training of health       professionals in mental health was primarily in the context of child       safeguarding.
KCL research on the prevalence of domestic violence       experienced by mental health service users, barriers to identification and       how to safely detect and respond to domestic violence contributed to       training materials for mental healthcare professionals.
For instance,       after consultation with Prof Howard, the Royal College of Psychiatrists       now include such topics in the psychiatric core curriculum for medical       students (1a).
Prof Howard also co-edited a 2013 Royal College of       Psychiatrists-commissioned book: Domestic Violence and Mental Health that       gives "practical guidance on how mental health professionals can identify       and respond to domestic violence experienced by their patients."
This       training manual contains first-hand expertise, refers to KCL studies and       describes how to develop safe care and referral pathways (1b).
KCL research also contributed to training materials developed by AVA       (Against Violence &amp; Abuse) Project, a UK second tier service working       to end violence against women and girls.
Their course on domestic       violence, and toolkit for professionals, references KCL papers, including       Trevillion et al.
2012 and Rose et al.
2011 when discussing the       relationship between domestic violence and poorer mental health, and       professionals' anxiety when enquiring about domestic violence.
It also       highlights Trevillion et al's 2013 pilot study of a domestic violence       intervention for mental health services including training for       professionals (3b).
Widespread dissemination of the KCL research as part of training of       mental health professionals is occurring.
For instance, using KCL research       findings, Prof Howard contributed to `Directions in Psychiatry,' a US       Continuing Medical Education programme for mental healthcare professionals       that provides credits needed to retain a practice licence (1d).
Prof       Howard and Dr Trevillion have passed on their expertise through workshops       for mental healthcare and domestic violence sector professionals, such as       at the 2010 conference held by Woman's Aid, a national domestic violence       charity (1e) and the Sexual Assault Referral Centre conference 2013 (1f).
National and international policy influences       Reference to KCL research is included in national and international policy       guidelines.
Findings from Oram et al.
2013 and Trevillion et al.
2012       contributed to National Institute for Health and Care Excellence       (NICE)/Social Care Institute for Excellence draft guidance recommending       routine enquiry and training about Domestic Violence by mental health       professionals (now out for consultation) (2a).
Further afield, the       Canadian Psychiatric Association's position paper (2013) on Intimate       Partner Violence (IPV) draws on Trevillion et al's, 2012 research when       discussing why IPV should be of vital interest to mental health       professionals (2b).
Recent World Health Organization policy guidelines       cite a KCL review as evidence for recommendations that "Health-care       providers should ask about exposure to IPV when assessing conditions that       may be caused or complicated by intimate partner violence" and that "Women       with a diagnosed or partner violence-related mental disorder ... who are       experiencing IPV should receive mental health care delivered by       health-care professionals with a good understanding of violence against       women".
The 2010 review paper uses several KCL studies including       qualitative research (in press at that time, published in Rose et al 2011)       and findings of high prevalence with under-detection by professionals       published in Howard et al.
2010 (2c).
Effects on the NHS and improved outcomes       Prof Howard was a member of the domestic violence subgroup of several NHS       and Department of Health (DH) Taskforce and Implementation Groups between       2009 and 2013.
These working groups, drawing on KCL research, highlighted       the role of the NHS and mental health services in responding to violence       experienced by women and children and led to commissioning guidance on         identification and care pathways and recommendations for further       research.
This led to the DH asking NICE to develop guidelines (see above)       and secure research funding from the Policy Research Programme in 2012 for       programmes on Violence Against Women (3a, b).
The first evidence of the success of training on the ground in a mental       health trust has now been published.
The training intervention provided to       Community Mental Health teams, with a care and referral pathway to       domestic violence advocacy for service users (1b), significantly improves       domestic violence knowledge, attitudes and behaviours for clinicians and       leads to significant reductions in violence and unmet needs for service       users (3c).
In this same audit there was also an increased rate of       referrals (1-2 per year to 6-8 per year) to local borough Multi-Agency       Risk Assessment Conferences (MARACs: borough level meetings for high risk       victims of domestic violence shown to reduce agency costs) (3c,d).
Improvements in practice have persisted &#8212; rates of referral to local       domestic violence advocates from the South London and Maudsley (SLaM) NHS       Foundation Trust adult mental health services increased from two per year       previously, to more than 45 per year in the 2 years since the pilot.
In       the last year, SLaM revised its domestic violence policy; added prompts       with regard to domestic violence; developed care pathways with the local       domestic violence sector across the Trust; developed domestic violence       e-learning and allocated named nurses from each borough covered by the       Trust to attend MARACs (3e).
Other Mental Health Trusts are following with       new strategies and policies e.g.
Surrey and Borders Partnership NHS       Foundation Trust; North East London NHS Foundation Trust and South       Staffordshire &amp; Shropshire Healthcare NHS Foundation Trust.
Increasing public awareness       The public's understanding of the link between domestic violence and       mental health increased through a number of media outlets that have used       KCL research or expertise.
For instance, the weekly magazine New Statesman       (with a circulation of 25,000) used both Rose et al.
2010 and Trevillion       et al.
2012 when discussing the occurrence of domestic violence in people       with mental health problems and how mental health professionals are       reluctant to enquire about such issues (4a).
The study by Flach et al.
2011, highlighting the link between antenatal domestic violence and       postnatal depression, was discussed in an article in The Telegraph (4b).
Additionally, the University of California Los Angeles-based organisation       Psychology in Action used Oram et al.
2013 in an article discussing facts       and figures associated with domestic violence (4c).
Prof Howard has spoken       personally about domestic violence and mental health on Radio 4's All in       the Mind, a programme dedicated to mental health issues (4d) and on Policy       Review TV, an internet-based company that provides quality broadcast media       services and specialist knowledge and expertise to offer intelligence       based solutions for business, trade and professional associations (4e).
