     Practitioners have probably always suspected that Looked After Children       have high rates of emotional and behavioural disorders, but until recently       the research evidence was weak and the mental health of Looked After       Children was a low priority on the policy agenda.
The development, use and       dissemination of mental health assessments by King's College London (KCL)       researchers changed that, with a positive impact at several levels.
KCL measures are disseminated to professionals, young people and         families across the world     From the outset, the Strength and Difficulties Questionnaire (SDQ) was       designed to meet the needs of researchers, clinicians and educationalists.
Studies across the world have provided normative data so that the SDQ         can be used within specific populations, with recent studies taking       place in Italy (involving 3,302 children and young people aged 3-17) (1a)       and in Spain (with a sample of 1,341 children from 54 schools) (1b).
The       SDQ has been translated into over 70 languages, with all versions being       downloadable without charge for non-commercial use.
The dedicated website       provides free scoring and analysis of the SDQ (used for half a million       children per year) as well as a downloadable computerised scoring and       report-writing program (1c).
The Development and Well-Being Assessment       (DAWBA) is also available for researchers and clinicians.
This has been       translated into 28 languages as a paper version and 17 as an online       version, with a full data recording and assessment service offered for a       small fee (1d).
These are all provided by YouthInMind Ltd, a private,       family-run company website edited by Prof Goodman of KCL and aimed at       professionals as well as young people and families who want psychological       advice (1e).
KCL research influences UK policy     The findings of the 2002 and 2003 British surveys of the mental health of       Looked After Children (Ford et al.
2007) have had an enduring influence on       policy makers because valid measures were applied to large and nationally       representative samples.
In 2007, the Department for Education (DfE)       produced the white paper `Care Matters: Time for Change,' which       highlighted the need to improve the mental health of children and young       people in care and provided the policy foundation for the current approach       to looked after children.
This report discussed the work KCL had carried       out with the Office for National Statistics, published as Ford et al.
2007       (2).
Following this, in 2009 the DfE and Department of Health (DH)         published `Statutory Guidance on Promoting the Health and Well-being of         Looked After Children,' referring to Ford et al.
2007 when       discussing the evidence for the "prevalence of emotional and behavioural       difficulties among Looked After Children" (3).
KCL work has also been used       at local level with regard to policy, for instance, the `Lewisham's       Children and Young People's Plan for 2012-2015' uses figures from Ford et       al.
2007 when discussing the high rate of mental health problems in looked       after children (4).
KCL research impacts on monitoring the quality of services at Local         Authority level     As Local Authorities' services to the children in their care can be       variable it is important to monitor the mental health of Looked After       Children at this level.
From April 2008, all Local Authorities in England       were required to provide information on the emotional and behavioural       health of children and young people in their care.
The Government's       `Statutory Guidance' states that "the SDQ is a reliable and valuable       screening tool for mental health problems" and discusses how Local         Authorities "are responsible for making sure that an SDQ is completed         for every child they look after aged between 4 and 16 inclusive"       (3).
The collection of data by Local Authorities through use of the SDQ       was set out in a 2008 DfE guidance document that also provides the       rationale and method of routine SDQ monitoring of Looked After Children       (including links to the SDQ website) and advice on the use of the SDQ to       guide referral for specialist treatment.
Local Authorities have to report       the mean SDQ score to the DfE (the SSDA903 return), with the intention       that trends can be monitored over time and comparisons made between       demographically matched Local Authorities (5).
National SDQ data on Looked After Children were first published in 2012       when SDQs were collected on 24,270 participants.
This found overall a       higher proportion of boys who scored 17 or above (39.6% compared to 31.6%       of girls), which indicates a cause for concern with regard to emotional       health.
The fact that more than a third of Looked After Children were in       the "cause for concern" range is a powerful antidote to complacency (6).
Local Authorities can now set themselves targets in terms of an intended       year-on-year change in the mean SDQ scores of their Looked After Children       and obtain feedback on whether they meet this goal, as exemplified by       Lewisham's 2012-15 plan (4).
KCL research impacts on assessing individual needs of Looked After         Children     SDQ data also provides social workers with access to annual SDQs on       children in their care which facilitates the recognition and referral of       high-risk individuals for assessment and treatment (3).
Independent       evidence, for instance as detailed in a report from the Development Centre       of the South West Region of England, has shown that "the development         of an SDQ care pathway for Looked After Children can provide a framework         for a more coordinated and thus effective approach to identifying       and improving emotional health and wellbeing of children in care" (7).
The SDQ, along with the DAWBA, are used by the Centre for Excellence and       Outcomes in Children and Young People's Services (C4EO), a best practice       hub for 'what works' in children's services used by all Local Authorities       across England (8a).
C4EO present several examples of Local Authorities       using these measures in practice.
For instance, in Islington, the       Adolescent Multi-Agency Support Service team used the SDQ to see how their       interventions improved emotional well-being (8b).
In Kent, the       Multi-dimensional Treatment Foster Care team discusses how it uses DAWBA       and SDQ "for every child prior to joining the programme" to give "a clear       understanding of mental health difficulties" (8c).
In Birmingham, Foster       Care Associates &amp; Core Children's Services used the SDQ to measure       changes in the young people's functioning following training of foster       carers in understanding the psychological reasons for children and young       people behaving in the way that they do in foster care (8d).
KCL research impacts on the development of effective interventions     Objective research by KCL demonstrating high levels of mental health       problems in Looked After Children led the DfE to launch an ongoing       initiative to introduce therapies that reduce the level of difficulties in       Looked After Children.
SDQs played a key role in the evaluation of a new       intervention called "fostering changes" for Looked After Children with       significant problems; the randomised controlled trial of this intervention       &#8212; which was carried out by KCL researchers and cites Goodman et al.
2000       and Ford et al.
2007 &#8212; showed that the SDQ problem score decreased more in       the intervention than in the comparison group of this trial (9).
