     The only licensed drugs for Alzheimer's disease (AD) are       acetylcholinesterase inhibitors that enhance central cholinergic       neurotransmission by inhibiting the degradation of acetylcholine, or       treatment with an NMDA antagonist.
Both provide modest symptomatic relief       for relatively short periods of time.
King's College London (KCL)       scientists have developed selective retinoid acid receptors&#945; (RAR&#945;)       agonists as a highly innovative new treatment for AD and validated the       target using a range of culture and transgenic animal models.
Importantly,       the RAR&#945; agonists have been shown to stimulate numerous beneficial       pathways in the diseased brain and as such have the potential to restore       function as opposed to simply providing symptomatic relief.
Wellcome Trust and Industry investment in the program       KCL scientist's academic work in the late 1990's led to the hypothesis       that RAR signalling would have therapeutic potential in AD and other       conditions with patent protection first sought in 2001.
In 2008 KCL set up       the Drug Discovery Unit based in the Wolfson CARD under the direction of       Prof Jonathan Corcoran to bring industry-ethos into an academic       environment to translate these academic findings into new treatments for       neurodegenerative diseases.
Prof Corcoran secured a highly competitive       Wellcome Trust Seeding Drug Discovery award to develop orally available       brain penetrant selective RAR&#945; agonists for AD.
The success of this       program underpinned a second ongoing Seeding Drug Discovery award to       develop selective RAR&#946; agonists.
As part of the RAR&#945; program, Prof Corcoran's team created two lead       series, a clinical candidate and a number of potential backup compounds       (1, 2).
This portfolio provided the basis for the Wellcome Trust to seek a       commercial partner to take the work forward.
Despite a difficult economic       climate Advent Venture Partners, one of Europe's most successful venture       capital investors in life sciences, provided funding in March 2013 to form       a new UK biotechnology company, CoCo Therapeutics Ltd to progress Prof       Corcoran's work into Phase IIA clinical trials in man (3-5).
To this end,       CoCo Therapeutics has recruited highly skilled people such as Project       Managers, Medicinal Chemists and Clinicians to develop and commercialise       the research generated in the KCL labs.
The underpinning research has several far reaching interrelated impacts.
Firstly, a highly innovative new target for AD based on a restorative       therapy has been validated in tissue culture and transgenic animal models,       and a novel, orally available, clinical candidate drug has been developed.
Secondly, the underpinning research has led to the formation of a new UK       biotechnology company that will invest considerably in new AD research and       provide employment opportunities in the life sciences.
Finally, the       Wellcome Trust's Seeding Drug Discovery initiative has the aim of       encouraging small molecule drug discovery in a variety of settings       including academia with a key measure of success being the attraction of       follow-on funding from the commercial sector to take the discoveries into       clinical trials.
The successful formation of CoCo Therapeutics Ltd., as       one of the first Seeding Drug Discovery funded projects to be partnered,       validates this innovative Wellcome Trust program and is likely to impact       positively on this funding model.
