     Scientists from King's College London (KCL) directly contributed to the       development of a highly innovative and novel `peptide-pipeline' of       N-cadherin antagonist and agonist peptides, demonstrating that this class       of adhesion molecule is capable of being turned into a clinically-useful       pharmaceutical compound.
This includes the N-cadherin antagonist       Exherin&#8482;/ADH-1, manufactured and trialed by Adherex Technologies Inc.,       which was awarded FDA organ drug designation in Melanoma in 2008 (1).
Dr       Orest Blaschuk, the co-founder of Adherex Technologies Inc. says of the       KCL research detailed above that "these studies unequivocally         demonstrated that the cyclic peptide CHAVC (designated as ADH-1) was an         N-cadherin antagonist."
He goes on to say that "these findings         led to subsequent Phase I and II clinical trials to determine the         ability of ADH-1 as an anti-cancer drug" (2).
Only around one in a thousand compounds discovered in the pre-clinical       stage finally gain FDA approval.
The vast majority of drugs tested for       efficacy in animal models do not make it into human clinical trials as       they need to pass a very rigorous evaluation process that scrutinises all       aspects of the drug including the logic underpinning its development, the       results obtained in animal models of disease, the manufacturing conditions       and the clinical trial design (3).
The success of ADH-1 is shown in that       it has been trialled in five Adherex Technologies Inc.
Phase I or Phase       IIa studies in patients with either advanced in-transit malignant       melanoma, advanced extremity melanoma, advanced solid tumours or       N-cadherin-expressing solid tumours.
Patients were administered ADH-1       either in conjunction with standard chemotherapy or, in cases refractive       to all other therapy, as a single therapy (4).
Four publications have       reported on the outcomes of trials involving a total of 116 patients       during the impact period.
This work has definitively shown that this new       intervention for cancer is safe and tolerable in man.
Importantly, as       progression to Phase II indicates a well tolerated treatment in healthy       individuals, in the Phase I studies no maximum tolerated dose of ADH-1 was       reached (5).
There remains considerable interest in ADH-1 as evidenced by development       of an anticancer drug with additional preclinical studies recently showing       good efficacy against neuroblastoma (6).
The excellent saftey data with       ADH-1 is leading to strategies where it is being evaluated as a       combination therapy alongside other anti-cancer agents.
For example,       recruitment has recently opened for a Phase I trial of ADH-1 in       combination with gemcitabine hydrochloride and cisplatin in treating       patients with metastatic pancreatic or biliary tract cancer that cannot be       removed by surgery, sponsored by the University of Nebraska, the National       Cancer Institute and Adherex Trechnologies Inc (7).
The identification of ADH-1 has also had a commercial impact underpinning       a $10 million public offering that established Adherex as a listed company       on the Toronto Stock Exchange.
The company to date has invested $70       million in cancer research.
Their `Cadherins in Oncology' brochure       detailing `therapeutic opportunities through cadherin targeting' includes       discussion of the development of ADH-1 N-cadherin antagonist, citing       Williams E, et al.
J Biol Chem, 2000 as well as other work from the KCL       lab (8).
