     Laser eye surgery is the most common and most successful form of surgery       in the world.
For       example, with photorefractive keratectomy (PRK) carried out using modern       advanced Excimer       lasers, over 98% of eyes with corrections between +4.5 and -8 will be       within +/-1 diopter of zero,       allowing patients to see clearly in the distance without the use of       spectacles or contact lenses.
King's College London (KCL) researcher Prof John Marshall was one of the       pioneers of laser eye       surgery and while the ground work was carried out in the 1980s-90s,       current best practices have       also been substantiated and informed by KCL work refining both the       technique and aftercare.
Laser surgery guidance uses KCL research     Research carried out at KCL has contributed widely to both national and       international guidelines on       laser eye surgery.
Current National Institute for Health and Care       Excellence (NICE) guidance on       `Photorefractive (laser) surgery for the correction of refractive errors'       (developed in 2006 but       checked for updates in 2012 and affirmed current) (1a) is predominantly       based on a systematic       review that included Rajan et al.
2004 when looking at the evidence for       long-term PRK       effectiveness.
This paper was not only used when assessing overall       effectiveness, but was also       among a select group of references picked to help identify long-term       benefits and complications of       PRK for myopia (1b).
As NICE guidance provides best practice it is widely       used in professional and       patient-centred literature, for instance in a Patient.co.uk piece aimed at       healthcare professionals       discussing outcomes of PRK (1c) and on the NHS choices website information       on laser eye       surgery (1d).
While at KCL, Prof Marshall was also on the board of several       key organisations,       including being a member of the Royal College of Ophthalmologists' Working       Group for Laser       Refractive Surgery, which produced a number of guidelines aimed at both       patients and       professionals (1e).
KCL research is also extensively used in the 2008 clinical handbook       `Management of       Complications in Refractive Surgery.'
This was the "first book devoted to       refractive complications"       and contains "practical hints and case reports on outcomes providing       ophthalmic surgeons with the       most adequate solutions for the most frequent problems."
As an example,       Rajan 2006a is used       when discussing complications of PRK (2a) and O'Brart 2005 and Rajan 2006a       and 2006b are       used when discussing complications of LASEK (2b).
Further afield, the American Academy of Ophthalmology (AAO) recently       published `Preferred       Practice Pattern' guidelines on `Refractive Errors &amp; Refractive       Surgery' that cite a number of KCL       papers.
For instance, Jaycock 2005 when discussing how LASIK "is       associated with more       regression in hyperoptic procedures than in myopic procedures" and Rajan       2006a when discussing       long-term PRK studies (3a).
The Jaycock paper is also used in AAO's       continuing medical       education exercise on managing complications of LASIK and PRK to discuss       how regression can       occur following these procedures (3b).
Similarly, the American Academy of       Optometry uses       Jaycock 2005a, along with O'Brart 2005, in their 2009 `Position Paper on       Refractive Surgery' when       discussing how there are "excellent outcomes reported for PRK" (3c).
From policy to practice     A number of the team who worked with Prof Marshall on refining laser eye       surgery at KCL practice       both within the NHS and in their own private surgeries.
For instance,       Bristol Laser Vision, part of       University Hospitals Bristol NHS Foundation Trust, is run by Consultant       Ophthalmologist, Mr Philip       Jaycock.
He uses a large amount of the work he was involved in to provide       an evidence-based       website for patients and healthcare professionals, especially Rajan 2004       and O'Brart 2005, which       he cites when discussing the long-term effectiveness of laser eye surgery       (4a).
Similarly, Mr David       O'Brart, who carried out pivotal work with Prof Marshall, is a Consultant       Ophthalmic Surgeon in       private practice and at Guy's and St Thomas' NHS Foundation Trust (a       King's Health partner).
His       website also provides a thorough overview of laser eye surgery, using the       majority of the above-discussed       references (4b).
Another big success of laser eye surgery is allowing people to enter       professions where there are       stringent requirements regarding eye sight such as in the military.
A       recent article in the Review of       Ophthalmology includes input from a Navy ophthalmologist who recommends       laser surgery saying       that "for the best chance at a good result, surgeons should use the latest       technology."
He goes on       to say, citing Knox Cartwright 2012 that "if someone elects to perform       LASIK, create the flap with a       femtosecond laser, preferably with one that allows a reverse-bevel side       cut, which has been shown       to be stronger than an externally angulated side cut" (4c).
KCL research used by Industry leaders     One of the big factors in laser eye surgery is the machines used to carry       out the procedures.
These       are predominantly made by Zeiss, AMO (now owned by Abbott) and Alcon.
KCL       research has       been used by all of these companies to help develop their latest       technology.
For instance, one of       the newest techniques launched by Zeiss in the last year is ReLEx       (Refractive Lenticule       Extraction), where corneal correction is performed without creating a       flap.
Their product literature       discusses how applying the findings of Knox Cartwright 2012 regarding       cutting techniques proves       that with ReLEx "since no anterior corneal sidecut is created, there will       be slightly less increase in       corneal strain compared to thin flap LASIK and a significant difference in       corneal strain compared       to LASIK with a thicker flap" (5a).
The work of KCL researchers on aftercare following laser eye surgery led       to the development by       the company Avedro of Lasik Xtra, a 3 minute procedure used in conjunction       with a standard       LASIK or PRK surgery to add biomechanical strength to the cornea through       accelerated corneal       cross-linking using ultraviolet light and riboflavin to strengthen bonds       between collagen strands       (5b,c).
Prof Marshall helped develop this technique and Corbett 2001       appears in the patent for this       technology (5d).
Lasik Xtra is now become standard procedure worldwide at,       for instance, the       London Eye Hospital in the UK (5e) and in the Jerry Tan Eye Surgery centre       in Singapore (5f).
