     Research from King's College London (KCL) has highlighted the important       role that Bruch's membrane plays in maintaining homeostasis in both normal       and diseased eyes.
Based on this underpinning research, Prof Marshall       entered into an agreement with the Australian-based company Ellex R&amp;D       Pty Ltd to develop a highly novel and innovative treatment for retinal       disease.
This company has a background in designing, manufacturing and       marketing lasers and diagnostic ultrasound systems used by       ophthalmologists to diagnose and treat eye disease.
They have subsidiaries       in the United States, Japan, Germany and Australia and a network of       distribution partners in more than 100 countries (1a).
The breakthrough with regard to retinal disease was based on the       hypothesis developed by KCL and colleagues at the South Australian       Institute of Ophthalmology that extremely short pulses of nanosecond laser       energy to the retinal pigment epithelium (RPE) would stimulate the       releases of enzymes that are usually in place to digest accumulated waste       products within Bruch's membrane.
This would improve the energy supply to,       and waste removal from, the retinal photoreceptors, thus promoting their       health and preventing degeneration.
As described in two patents filed in       2007/8 and published in 2009/10, which together cite the majority of the       KCL-led references discussed above, this sequence of laser pulses improves       the hydraulic conductivity of Bruch's membrane without causing       irreversible damage to adjacent retinal structures and layers (2b,c).
This procedure is now known as Ellex Retinal Rejuvenation Therapy or       Ellex 2RTTM.
It was proposed that it could halt, or even       reverse, the natural age-related decline in the hydrodynamic properties of       Bruch's membrane that limit vision impairment in normal aging and in       disease states such as Age-Related Macular Degeneration (AMD) and diabetic       neuropathy.
AMD, which causes irreversible central vision loss, is the       leading cause of blindness in those over 50.
It affects millions of people       worldwide and costs hundreds of millions of pounds in direct health-care       costs.
The more aggressive `wet' form can be treated with highly invasive,       very expensive, intraocular injections of anti-VEGF molecules that aim to       stop growth of abnormal blood vessels.
However, as such treatment is only       approved for advanced or end-stage disease it only addresses disease       complications, not formation.
Diabetic retinopathy, caused by blood vessel       changes that result in bleeding in the eye or fluid leak, can cause vision       impairment and blindness.
Laser based thermal retinal photocoagulation is       the standard treatment, but the "trade-off" for the prevention of       blindness is that this often painful treatment can cause irreversible       collateral thermal damage.
Marshall and his team have led on extensive laboratory investigations to       establish the therapeutic effect and safety profile of Ellex 2RTTM       and to determine its mechanism of action.
Research conducted at St Thomas'       Hospital, London (a King's Health partner and part of KCL) and the South       Australian Institute of Ophthalmology demonstrated that Ellex 2RTTM does       indeed influence the transport properties of Bruch's membrane, most       probably via an MMP dependent mechanism (1b, c).
Ellex has also undertaken       a series of randomised control trials to validate the safety and efficacy       of Ellex 2RTTM.
These suggest that this novel treatment has the       potential to significantly improve the quality of life of people suffering       from AMD and diabetic retinopathy.
For instance, in 2008, Prof Marshal       carried out a study of 17 patients (28 eyes) with diabetic macula oedema       at St Thomas' Hospital treated with Ellex 2RT&#8482;.
At 6-month follow-up they       demonstrated signs of an improvement in retinal function and a partial       reversal of disease progression.
In 71% of patients there was an       improvement in vision of at least one line, and sometimes two or more       lines of visual acuity, changes significantly different from baseline.
They also showed a reduction in central macular thickness (an occurrence       associated with retinal disease) of more than 5% in 46% of patients (3a,       b).
In 2010, results of a clinical trial of 48 patients with diabetic       retinopathy treated at the Royal Adelaide Hospital, Australia found that       at 6-months follow-up, Ellex 2RT&#8482; treatment produced similar reductions in       macular oedema as conventional retinal photocoagulation, while using       approximately 500 times less laser energy and with no collateral damage.
In 2011, interim results of 24 patients with bilateral high-risk early AMD       treated by a team at the Victorian Eye and Ear Hospital in Australia show       that by 12 months, central visual function improved in 64% of treated       eyes, predominantly in the regions of greatest dysfunction that have the       highest likelihood of progressing to wet AMD.
Retinal imaging confirmed       that there was no evidence of laser damage to photoreceptor cells.
In many       cases the yellow deposits known as drusen, which are present in the       retinal tissue of people with AMD, were eliminated (3a).
The demonstrated safety and efficacy of retinal rejuvenation therapy,       along with the non-invasive, pain-free nature of the procedure, has given       ophthalmologists the potential to treat a wide range of retinal diseases       much earlier, halting disease progression and preserving functional vision       before irreversible physical damage and vision loss occurs.
These positive       results have led to Ellex securing FDA approval for 2RT in the treatment       of `clinically significant macular edema' in July 2013 (4).
Ellex 2RT&#8482; has       featured in news articles, such as a TV report from ABC News Australia in       2010 (5a) and patient-focused websites such as Diabetic Retinopathy.org       (5b).
Prof Marshall was also featured in the trade-focused magazine       Retinal Physician in 2008 following the initial results of the KCL-led       trial (5c).
