     Research by Profs Walsh and Doherty at King's College London (KCL), in       collaboration with Hunter College, New York, USA, provided identification       of the first inhibitory molecule on myelin and a proof-of-principle that       an anti-MAG antibody might have therapeutic potential as a       biopharmaceutical based on its ability to promote a regenerative response.
Walsh moved from KCL in 1997 (while maintaining a visiting Professorship)       to become head of Neuroscience drug discovery at SmithKline Beecham, now       GlaxoSmithKline (GSK), then went on to Wyeth (2002- 2007).
Doherty       remained at KCL, but served on the GSK Neurology-CEDD (1997-2002) and then       the Wyeth scientific advisory boards to advise and collaborate on the MAG       and related programs (2002-2007).
The above discovery has led to a long-standing KCL/industry partnership       that has resulted in over &#163;2.5M in grants being awarded to Prof Doherty       from GSK and Wyeth to pursue MAG and related molecules (e.g.
the NgR1) as       therapeutic targets for regenerative medicine.
This has generated a       pipeline of compounds that range from anti-MAG monoclonal antibodies,       biologically active peptides derived from NgR1 and small molecules that       bind to a functional pocket on the NgR1 receptor.
KCL scientists have       identified and developed most of these and shown that they can all       function as MAG antagonists and thereby promote axonal growth in an       inhibitory environment.
As a direct consequence of the research carried out by KCL, Walsh       initiated a clinical development program to "humanise" a MAG antibody, as       a novel first-in-class biopharmaceutical for stroke, and an anti-Nogo       antibody, as a first-in-class biopharmaceutical for amyotrophic lateral       sclerosis (ALS) when he took up his position at GSK.
This was very       significant as it was the first time that a biopharmaceutical program had       been undertaken within the Neurology group at GSK and very much reflected       a "sea-change" in their approach to drug discovery that until that point       had been based on the traditional small molecule approach.
The KCL       pre-clinical work assisted greatly in staff scientists in GSK being able       to make the case for a paradigm shift and move to biological approaches in       areas where small molecule approaches predominated and as such could be       regarded as transformational.
To date GSK has invested at least $33M in the pre-clinical and clinical       work.
The furthest forward program for the clinic is the development of a       humanised monoclonal antibody (GSK249320) against MAG aimed at the       enhancement of recovery of function poststroke.
A `first in man' Phase I       study involving 48 healthy subjects was conducted between 2007 and 2009       and results showed the biopharmaceutical to be safe to use in man and the       justification for the clinical study was directly linked to the KCL work       (1a-d).
A Phase IIa study between July 2009 and Jan 2011 in patients with       stroke was then conducted building on the positive Phase I data (2a,b).
The study reported that "while not powered to demonstrate efficacy, gait       velocity data from MAG111539 suggest a trend toward benefit with GSK249320       treatment which warrants further exploration" (2c).
This project is       currently in the GSK portfolio of clinical drugs and should proceed       further very soon.
It should be noted that the vast majority of drugs that       are tested for efficacy in animals models do not make it into human       clinical trials as they need to pass a very rigorous evaluation process       that scrutinises all aspects of the drug including the logic underpinning       it's development, such as the results obtained in animal models of       disease, the manufacturing conditions and the design of the clinical       trial.
It is estimated that only around one in a thousand compounds       discovered in the pre- clinical stage finally gain FDA approval (3).
A program to develop humanised antibodies to block the function of a       second myelin inhibitory molecule called Nogo-A was also initiated by GSK       based on the KCL work on MAG.
This has led to the development of an       antibody to NOGO A called Ozanezumab/ GSK1223249.
Three Phase I trials in       patients with multiple sclerosis and ALS have been successfully completed       between 2009- 2011 (4a-c).
Phase II trials are currently being undertaken       with the Motor Neurone Disease Association and the ALS Therapy Institute,       a nonprofit biotechnology organization dedicated to developing effective       treatments for ALS.
They have highlighted Ozanezumab in a news report and       podcast interview of one of the clinicians involved in the study (4d).
Importantly, the anti-MAG and anti-Nogo-A monoclonal antibodies are listed       as assets in the current GSK pipeline at Phase II with indications of       stroke and ALS respectively.
There are no other NOGO compounds listed as       being developed for these devastating conditions.
To date GSK has invested       up to $28M on this project in pre clinical and clinical studies based on       the KCL work (5).
