     KCL research leads to the development of tanezumab     King's College London (KCL) scientists contributed to the identification       and validation of nerve growth factor (NGF) as a peripheral pain mediator.
Collaborative work with Genentech led to this San Francisco-based       biotechnology company developing a neutralising antibody to NGF for the       treatment of pain: tanezumab (RN-624).
Genentech established as spinout       company &#8212; Rinat &#8212; to take tanezumab forward and in 2006 the drug was       acquired by the pharmaceutical company Pfizer.
Pfizer have invested       heavily in tanezumab and sponsored a large number of Phase II and III       clinical trials involving over 10,000 patients for a variety of conditions       including osteoarthritis (OA) pain, low back pain and visceral pain.
The       successful results of these trials have been published in a number of       peer-reviewed journals.
For example, Phase II and III trials using       tanezumab to reduce joint pain and improve function in people with OA of       the knee, involving 450 and 690 people respectively, have shown superior       analgesic efficacy of tanezumab compared to a placebo.
These studies also       showed that tanezumab was well tolerated, something essential in pain       management therapy as current treatment options can be limited by their       adverse event profiles (1a,b).
Both of these papers draw on KCL research       when discussing the background to the discovery of the role of NGF in       causing or augmenting pain, including McMahon 1995 and a 1996 review of       NGF by McMahon that includes the early studies detailed above (1c).
More recently tanezumab has been shown to be an effective treatment for       OA hip pain in a trial involving over 600 patients that used McMahon's       2006 review to paint the background of tanezumab's development (1d).
Other       studies, involving over 1500 patients in total and citing Andreev 1995       when discussing how NGF administration results in hyperalgesia, have shown       tanezumab to be safe and efficacious in the treatment of chronic low back       pain (1e,f).
The contribution of KCL work to the development of tanezumab       is also reflected in the inclusion of this research in a number of       patents.
For instance, Crowley 1994 is one of the first references cited       in two of Pfizer's patents for anti-NGF antibodies, published in 2009 (1g)       and 2010 (1h).
The second of these also cites Andreev 1995, McMahon 1995       and McMahon's 1996 review.
KCL research spurs development of other NGF-blocking compounds     Since the trials of tanezumab established the translatability of the       preclinical work pioneered at KCL several other companies have invested       heavily in clinical trials for compounds blocking NGF's actions.
For       instance, PG110 (ABT-110) a humanized mAb developed by the company       PanGenetics, was acquired in 2009 by Abbott Labs for $190 million (2a).
The patent for this product cites the majority of the above-discussed KCL       studies as well as McMahon's 1996 review (2b).
Other NGF products in       development include fulranumab, a fully human mAb by Amgen for OA pain       (2c); fasinumab, a fully human mAb by Regeneron/Sanofi-Aventis (2d) and       MEDI-578, a monoclonal single chain variable fragment for OA of the knee       by Medimmune/AstraZenica (2e).
This reflects considerable investment by       each company in the first important new class of drugs for general pain       for around 100 years.
Following reports that a small number of OA patients in these trials       needed early joint replacement, the FDA recently halted all trials of NGF       blockers and reviewed the data to assess potential side effects of the       treatments.
Subsequently their Arthritis Drugs Advisory Committee voted       21-0 that anti-NGF agents should continue to be developed to treat OA       pain.
The panel also voted 20-1 that anti-NGFs should be studied in       indications for which there are no products with demonstrated analgesic       efficacy, such as interstitial cystitis or chronic pancreatitis.
The green       light was given based on the fact that this is an entirely new and very       effective treatment for pain and many studies have resumed (2f).
KCL studies impact knowledge of pain therapy     NGF blocking agents have been heralded as the `next big thing' in pain       management in several recent reviews that cite KCL research when       discussing the background to their development (e.g.
3a,b).
Research from       KCL is also highly cited in the book `The Senses: A Comprehensive       Reference' in chapters about `Pharmacological Modulation of Pain' (citing       Andreev 1995) and `Neurotrophins and Pain' (citing the majority of studies       discussed above), among others (3c) and in `The Human Nervous System,' the       standard reference book for the anatomy of the central and peripheral       nervous system, in the chapter on `Pain Systems' (citing Averill 1995,       Bennett 1996, McMahon 1994) (3d).
