     Genapta Ltd. was founded in December 2000 to develop a high performance       optical platform for biochemical screening.
Seed-funding for the company       was obtained from Cambridge Enterprise (then the Cambridge University       Challenge Fund), through one of the co-founders, David Richards, who moved       from the University of Cambridge to King's College London in September       2000.
Following development of the company's underpinning technology, from       2003 Genapta developed a collaboration with the technology development       team of Glaxo Smith Kline (GSK) for the first stage development of a next       generation fluorescence screening platform to quantify the transient       binding of potential drug compounds to protein targets within a       microfluidics developmental drug discovery platform.
The further       successful development of this technology with GSK and other customers led       to the sale in December 2007 of Genapta to a large north American       instrument manufacturer, to enable its further commercialization in the       competitive drug discovery instrumentation market.
The sale of Genapta involved two hold-back payments.
The first holdback       was contingent on the successful validation in 2008, which was achieved,       of the functionality, fitness for purpose and compliance with agreed       technical specifications of prototype fluorescence assay instruments.
The       second hold-back payment, due in December 2008, was contingent on further       terms.
Both hold-backs were paid in full, demonstrating the successful       validation of the technology and transfer to a major corporation.
The sale       provided a 20% internal rate of return (IRR) to the early-stage investors.
In total the University of Cambridge (through shares held by the       University, The Challenge Fund Trading Company Ltd and Cambridge       Enterprise Ltd.) received and undisclosed sum from the sale, the majority       of which was recycled via the evergreen Seed Funds and used to support new       spin-outs emerging from the University.
As Chief Scientific Officer of Genapta, Richards brought to the company       his expertise and knowledge in low-light level optical detection and       spectroscopy, through his ongoing research on fluorescence spectroscopy       and imaging during the period 2000 to 2008.
This fed into Genapta's       fluorescence assay technology and product development.
This was       strengthened further by the expertise he developed during this period in       the application of fluorescence techniques in biomedicine, built up       against a strong research activity in this area at King's College London.
The strength of Genapta's underpinning technology was the decisive factor       in the attractiveness of the company to a major international       instrumentation manufacturer.
