     The underpinning research has produced tangible impact by influencing the       policy decisions of international organisations and the practices and       understanding of national governments, associations of public water       operators, international NGOs and trade unions.
This impact was the result       of a two-pronged outreach strategy including the dissemination of the       research outputs through the internet and presentations; and the provision       of policy advice to organisations listed in Impact 4.
These organisations       have in turn facilitated policy diffusion resulting in Impacts 1, 2 and 3.
This strategy has led to the production of the following impact.
Impact 1.
Launch of the European Commission's ACP-EU Water         Partnerships initiative       In 2010, the EU earmarked &#8364;40million to support not-for-profit partnership       projects and PUPs in African, Caribbean and Pacific (ACP) countries,       aiming to develop capacity, and enhance governance and sustainability in       the ACP water and sanitation sector.
PSIRU's research has influenced the       launch and informed the design of this international programme,       particularly in relation to the not-for-profit nature of partnerships as a       determinant of the success of PUPs, and the possibility to achieve       replication and scaling up thanks to the multiplier effect of PUPs       (European Commission, 2010: 10, 21).
In a meeting with public water       utilities and international NGOs, a European Commission official       acknowledged that Lobina and Hall (2006) was a key reference informing the       design of the programme.
The European Commission official can be contacted       to corroborate this.
Impact 2.
Launch of the United Nations' Water Operators Partnerships         initiative       In 2006, the United Nations Secretary-General's Advisory Board on Water       and Sanitation (UNSGAB) called for the adoption of Water Operators       Partnerships as the key policy for the development of capacity in the       global water and sanitation sector.
In 2009, the United Nations agency       UN-HABITAT responded to UNSGAB's 2006 action plan by establishing the       Global Water Operators' Partnerships Alliance (GWOPA) with the remit to       promote and enable impactful Water Operators Partnerships (UN-HABITAT,       2009).
UNSGAB's initiative was influenced by our findings on the benefits       produced by the not-for-profit nature, cost-effectiveness and multiplier       effect of PUPs, and was promoted by a member of UNSGAB to whom PSIRU had       provided policy advice on PUPs since 2000.
In a letter sent to Emanuele       Lobina to corroborate this impact statement, said UNSGAB member stated       "PSIRU's research on PUPs was key in influencing the launch of GWOPA".
Impact 3.
Adoption of PUPs as coordinating principle by conference of         state water authorities in India       In January 2011, the Indian-based think tank Centre of Excellence for       Change - http://www.waterandclimatefuture.com       - organised a high level conference on "Water partnerships towards meeting       the climate challenge" in Chennai, India.
The conference was attended by       representatives of Indian state water authorities and launched the Water       Organisations Partnerships platform of India, based on the concept of       PUPs.
The conference was addressed by David Hall whose presentation       influenced the final decision adopted by the conference.
"David Hall,       director of PSIRU, contributed tremendously to the understanding of why       PuP is the way forward to tackle water crisis in India and elsewhere"       (RPW, 2011).
Impact 4.
Adoption of policy supporting PUPs by international NGOs,         associations of public water operators and trade unions       The underpinning research has influenced international NGOs, associations       of public water operators and trade unions to support PUPs in the water       and sanitation sector.
Three examples are given below:     (a)Established in 2005, the Reclaiming Public Water Network (RPW) is a       multi-sectoral network that connects NGOs, researchers, community       activists, public water operators, trade unionists, and community water       systems from around the world.
A primary objective of RPW is to promote       PUPs in the global water and sanitation sector (RPW, 2010).
This policy       decision has been influenced by exposure to the underpinning research, as       evidenced by the fact that key RPW members co- authored Hall et al.
(2009).
(b)Established in 2009, Aqua Publica Europea is an association of       European public water operators - http://www.aquapublica.eu.
It decided to support the European Commission's ACP-EU Water Partnerships       initiative as a result of PSIRU presentations made at events organised by       Aqua Publica Europea and informed by the underpinning research.
A member       of Aqua Publica Europea has corroborated this statement in a letter to       Emanuele Lobina.
(c)Public Services International (PSI) is the global federation of public       service trade unions bringing together more than 20 million workers,       represented by 650 unions in 148 countries and territories - http://www.world-psi.org.
PSI's continued support for PUPs has been influenced by the underpinning       research and by policy advice received from PSIRU since 2000.
A PSI       official has corroborated this statement in a letter to Emanuele Lobina.
