     In 2010 Carey Young, a contemporary visual artist, approached Fairbairn       to consult him on a       project she was developing in which she planned to explore issues around       law which was       established to apply to outer space.
Young's idea was to create artistic       works which featured legal       agreements but which also explored ideas in theoretical physics such as       dark matter.
She turned       to Fairbairn for scientific advice and guidance in order to make them       scientifically credible.
Over       several meetings in 2010, conversations between Young and Fairbairn about       his research into       dark matter and cosmology led to the development of two artistic works       which featured Fairbairn's       calculations and advice.
In particular, "Missing Mass" is a sculptural work, of an open-top       perspex container, said to contain       5,461 dark matter particles, the number calculated by Fairbairn to be       present within the 18 x 18 x       18 inches volume, based upon a 10GeV WIMP dark matter particle which       Fairbairn and Schwetz       showed was predicted by the DAMA experiment.
As with a number of the       artist's works, the piece       uses "a legal disclaimer which proposes the particles as the only truly       free entities in existence,       since they can pass through any material entity on the planet".1       This work focuses on the fact that       since the dark matter constantly flows through the Perspex, it is both       ephemeral and unobtainable,       yet it is also physical; as indicated in the disclaimer, "any collector of       this work should not expect to       own the same 5,461 dark matter particles at any one time".2     The second piece, "Terminal Velocity" informs the observer how       quickly the Earth is moving       through the Universe.
It shows vinyl text of the wording `1,404,000 miles       per hour' on the gallery       wall with a spotlight, this representing the speed (calculated by       Fairbairn) of the gallery in space       relative to the Big Bang.
These works inspired by Fairbairn's research are a tangible demonstration       of the increasing       concern to examine the interrelation between art and science and explore       their mutual impacts.
They have been exhibited in a number of high profile galleries around the       world including the Paula       Cooper Gallery in New York, Marianne Boesky Gallery (New York),       Cornerhouse (Manchester)       and Le Quartier (Quimper, Brittany).
Young's exhibition in Manchester       attracted around 12,000       visitors and she estimates that in total the works have been viewed by       50,000 to 100,000 visitors       so far, a number which is still rising.1     Gallery visitors have shown considerable engagement with the pieces and,       from the positive       feedback Carey Young has received, she considers that the resultant impact       has demonstrated       that "the works made people aware of scientific and legal issues they       would not normally       consider".1 Through the medium of her artistic work, and the       associated gallery marketing       publications and press exposure, Fairbairn has been able to reach members       of the public who       normally might have little or no exposure to some of the contemporary       ideas of astrophysics and       cosmology.
Fairbairn's commitment to public engagement is integral to his academic       endeavour.
Following his       arrival at KCL, he launched a number of activities to engage school pupils       in London and       developed outreach activities specifically aimed at members of the public.
The majority have       related to the subject of dark matter, with the aim of increasing public       interest in physics research       and to make lay audiences feel less distanced from it.
A key aim is to       motivate students to go on to       study Physics at university.
Since 2008 Fairbairn has given around 35 dark matter talks in various       forums.
Fairbairn began by       giving talks in individual schools but this soon evolved into him       instigating physics evenings at the       KCL Strand campus in central London, where school parties of enthusiastic       students come from all       over the South East.
Using contacts built up through Fairbairn's       administration of the department's       University Ambassador Scheme, between 120 and 160 students attend each of       these events,       which now run two or three times a year.
At Physics taster days, when       students deciding what to       study at University visit King's College London, students often report in       feedback forms that       Fairbairn's talk on Dark Matter was the highlight of their visit.3       Fairbairn has worked to engage       members of the public giving evening courses on cosmology at the Royal       Institution, presenting six       evening lectures over the course of two months to communicate the basics       of current, cutting edge       research into cosmology, dark matter and dark energy.
Testimonies from school teachers report that Fairbairn's talks have fired       their students'       imaginations, providing them with significant inspiration and aspiration       and made many think       seriously about Physics as a degree subject, when previously they had not       considered this.4,5 As       one Head of Science has stated: "It is always possible to judge the       success of talks like [that given       by Fairbairn] from the discussion that takes place afterwards, and the       range and sheer number of       questions was a powerful indicator of how successful the talk was ...       Those of us who work in       schools are always very grateful when people like Malcolm appear, who are       working physicists at       the cutting edge of their subject and who are not only willing to share       their enthusiasm and       expertise with young people but do so with such insight, interest and       energy."
4 Another has written       that the talks, "have provided an enormous amount of inspiration and       aspiration to the students       from Ilford County High School and is one of the factors leading to a       general increase of interest in       Physics and university applications at the school."
5
