     The application of NQR for the improved detection and classification of       explosives, drugs and pharmaceuticals, has a worldwide impact with       applications in security, military and humanitarian sectors:            detection of landmines in post war countries       detection of improvised explosive devices (IEDs) in regions of         conflict       scanning of luggage and detection of explosives at borders, airports         and other check points       forensic analysis of explosives to determine the origin of explosives         used for mines and IEDs       authentication of medicine       detection and identification of illicit drugs, such as narcotics.
Much of the NQR technology development within KCL was performed within       programmes for military/security and drug authentication applications       where the requirement was for explosives, narcotics or pharmaceutical       detectors to be small enough and rugged enough for deployment on the       battlefield, at border check points or pharmacies, simple enough in       operation for use by untrained users, easily maintainable in a range of       environments, resistant to radio frequency interference and robust enough       to deal with a range of threats under a range of ambient conditions.
Research and consultancy projects funded by Her Majesty's Revenue and       Customs (HMRC), the Defence, Science and Technology Laboratory (DSTL), the       Ministry of Defence (MoD), the Home Office Scientific Development Branch       (HOSDB), the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) and, the China       Institute of Atomic Energy (CIAE) demonstrate the direct applicability of       KCL's intelligent sensing and detection methods in a homeland security,       military and humanitarian context; the outcomes impact on the important       topics of security and the public's health in the UK and internationally.
The work has been published widely; patents protecting intelligent       explosive detection techniques and fake drug detection methods were filed       and granted.1     In the field of medicine authentification, the KCL NQR Group has worked       closely with the Italian NMR instrument manufacturer Stelar S.r.l.
to       develop a prototype for a commercial product, opening up a potential new       market for the company.
The relationship between KCL and Stelar began       within the framework of a Wellcome Trust Translational Award2       (2010&#8212;13) to KCL to create a system capable of distinguishing between       genuine and counterfeit pharmaceuticals.
Through a tendering process       within this programme, Stelar was identified as the industrial partner to       take the technology forward, with the EU Framework 7 Project `Counterfeit       Pharmaceuticals Interception using Radiofrequency Methods in Realtime'       (CONPHIRMER, 2011&#8212;present) providing further support for this project.
Stelar have produced a prototype medicine authentication device based on       KCL underpinning research.3     In low-to-middle income countries, 10-30 per cent of medicines are fake,       placing patients at extreme risk.
The system developed by Stelar uses the       NQR signal from medicines (or their imposters), even through packaging.
It       provides a portable, cheap solution to medicine authentication with       virtually no radiation hazard in personnel inspection, improved       sensitivity, shortened inspection times and reduced false alarm rates.
In addition to a new medicine authentication product, as a result of the       interaction with the KCL NQR Group, Stelar has developed a capability in       NQR, with its existing marketed product lines allowing NQR spectroscopy.4       While the company had theoretical knowledge of NQR before collaborating       with King's, it had no practically applicable NQR knowledge/expertise.
The       KCL NQR group provided expertise and know-how to Stelar on how to use the       Stelar systems for practical NQR applications including: pulse sequence       methods to optimise the signal to noise ratio; approaches to       radiofrequency interference reduction/cancellation; simplifying,       automating, deskilling the NQR process for specific application;       algorithms for signal processing, classification and decision making, to       distinguish between different materials.3     The NQR technology developed by the KCL NQR Group also has application in       the field of explosives detection.
Technology development for such       applications has been pursued in a project "Laboratory RF spectrometer       construction and NQR sensor integration" funded by the CIAE (coordinated       by IAEA, TC Project CPR/1/006), for the creation of a functional       explosives detection system capable of scanning hand luggage.
This       included training of CIAE staff by the KCL NQR Group.
The KCL expertise       and acquired know-how from the underpinning research was incorporated by       the CIAE into a prototype airport security system.5     More broadly in the field of security, as noted by the President and       Founder of Bagtronics Ltd. (previously R&amp;D Director EU Rapiscan       Systems, USA, formerly also of Quantum Magnetics Inc., USA, InVision       Technologies Inc., USA, and QR Sciences Ltd.): "The work of the KCL NQR       Group on the detection of NQR signals from explosives and narcotics ...       has had a major impact and influence on my own activities, for example on       instrumental methods and the choice of the optimum conditions for       detection such signals".6     Bagtronics is a UK based SME with extensive experience in developing       security equipment and in particular equipment based on NQR.
Similarly,       the Chief Technology Officer of Quasar Federal Systems Inc., USA, notes,       "the importance of [Smith's] pioneering work in nuclear magnetic resonance       (NMR) and nuclear quadrupole resonance (NQR)" and comments that, "at my       previous company, Quantum Magnetics,... [Smith] kept us on the right path       by demonstrating that a particular application was feasible, no matter how       improbable it seemed at first."
7 One example of this was the       KCL NQR Group's work on the detection of explosives in vehicles, i.e.,       large vehicle bombs of the kind used in terrorist attacks.
"For those of       us working in the field, [Barras et al.
`Detection of ammonium nitrate       inside vehicles by nuclear quadrupole resonance' Applied Magnetic         Resonance 25,411-437 (2004), DOI:10.1007/BF03166538]       included an invaluable discussion of the NQR parameters of ammonium       nitrate detection.... Just the knowledge that such a vehicle scanning       system is possible was enabling and very important".7
