     The research described in section 2 has generated two instances of       impact.
It has been used by a Swiss biotechnology company to validate       principles underlying the construction of a knowledge based approach that       allowed the discovery of patterns connecting a certain set of peptides       with the occurrence of a set of rare diseases, and it has led to       consultancy work done for the Financial Services Authority (FSA) in a       drive by the FSA to improve their tool-kit used to carry out market       cleanliness event studies.
TDM's consultancy work for the FSA can be understood as a consequence of       the fact that she is acknowledged as one of the leading experts in       Econophysics, the theory of complex systems, the analysis of financial       markets using techniques of statistical physics, network theory and       numerical methods, and in particular on the specific information filtering       techniques she developed since joining KCL.
The recent financial crisis has led financial institutions to rethink the       proper methodologies implemented at that time.
In this context, TDM was       approached by the Financial Services Authority (FSA) in 2010 to provide       advice for a project to strengthen their toolbox used in so called market       cleanliness event studies, specifically to test whether new techniques       from Econophysics could help to improve the accuracy and diagnostic power       of such studies.
The cleanliness of markets is important for London as a       financial centre.
Therefore the FSA undertakes and publishes market       cleanliness studies annually, and provides a measure indicative of the       level of suspicious trading activity (insider trading) in the London stock       market by detecting anomalous trading and price- movement patterns which       occur ahead of the release of important information, such as announcements       of takeovers or regulatory changes.
TDM's work on network-based filtering has been used by the FSA to       cross-validate the analysis of a set of financial events about its       cleanliness.
The work done by TDM within a consultancy project at the FSA       was to provide advice on the methodological correctness and suitability of       Econophysics techniques applied to such market cleanliness event studies;       this included advice on coding and interpretation of results.
Feedback       received from the FSA suggests that TDM's contribution to the project was       regarded as very valuable in enhancing the FSA's methodical awareness, and       that TDM's network based filtering techniques in particular could be used       to refine the FSA standard market cleanliness indicator.
A second instance of impact has been generated in the biotechnology       industry.
In 2009, Ruggero Gramatica (RG) contacted KCL's Financial       Mathematics group, to study towards a PhD in Econophysics under the       supervision of TDM.
After joining KCL in 2010, RG was appointed CEO of the       Swiss biotechnology company mondoBIOTECH AG, now THERAMetrics Holding AG,       and he quickly realized that the network-related tools and techniques       pioneered by TDM and co-workers could be generalized and fruitfully       applied to the data-analysis problems of concern to his company, dealing       with the discovery of drugs for rare diseases via a knowledge based       process of repurposing already existing drugs.
Specifically, THERAMetrics was looking for an inferential methodology       that could validate their line of research, which deals with automatically       extracting bio-medical information on human physiology provided in       published works of biochemists or physicians, which would allow the       discovery of new Mechanisms of Action (MoA).
While biochemists will refer       to proteins, receptors, genes and biochemical processes, physicians and       health practitioners will mention symptoms, clinical tests, diseases, body       organs, tissues, and drugs available for treatment.
The central task is to       combine such unstructured and dispersed information in a manner that       allows relating, for instance, information about biochemical processes       with diseases, symptoms and treatments discussed by clinicians.
More than 10 man-years of research were invested at THERAMetrics,       starting from the original model proposed by RG, where a knowledge based       graph derived from more than 3 million scientific publications, and made       of hundreds of thousand of nodes with a very dense set of correlated       information is provided, with the aim to search for the non-obvious paths       connecting certain molecules to certain diseases, stepping through a       number of biological pathways (i.e.
new MOAs).
TDM's research and       expertise, described in section 2, was instrumental to extract such       emerging patterns and create new bio-mathematical tools.
Using these       tools, RG and the scientific team of THERAMetrics have been able to       validate a number of the molecules-disease relations that had been present       in their candidate pipeline, and in so doing were able to reinforce the       scientific foundations of THERAMetrics' drug-discovery platform.
Indeed,       RG has meanwhile filed IP protection for the general semantic and       mathematical model underlying this research.
THERAMetrics Holding AG has been loss-making in the past.
However,       amongst other factors related to the Company's restructuring plan, the       successful results obtained by the above-mentioned methodology helped the       company to outline a proper research platform which became a valuable       asset in the recent business combination realized by means of a reverse       merger with Pierrel's Contract Research International with THERAMetrics       Holding AG adding an innovative element in the drug rescuing and       repurposing strategy.
The takeover/merger was concluded in September 2013       and thanks to such business combination THERAMetrics Holding AG has       significantly increased its market capitalization.
