     R K&#252;hn and P Neu's cooperation on risk was triggered by questions on       operational risk that arose       in Neu's risk control work at Dresdner Bank, Frankfurt.
It resulted in the       formulation of a first       interacting-processes model of operational risks inspired by statistical       physics.
When Neu and       K&#252;hn generalised their ideas to cover credit risk [1], this was apparently       regarded as an advance by       practitioners.
It triggered, among other things, an invitation for RK to       explain his ideas to a group of       Economists and Mathematicians of the Macro-Prudential Risks Division at       the Bank of England       (BoE), very soon after Neu and K&#252;hn had posted their first results as a       preprint on the Gloria Mundi       web-site [A] (letters refer to sources listed in Sect 5).
Since then RK       has attended several further       informal discussion meetings and given seminars to wider audiences at the       BoE to explain progress       in his credit risk modelling efforts [2,5].
As the Bank of England stepped up their efforts in network-oriented risk       modelling with the onset of       the financial crisis, they asked RK whether there was a suitable candidate       from his group who       would be able to support these efforts as an intern.
This resulted in RK's       PhD student Kartik Anand       spending several months at the Bank, to implement and calibrate an       expanded and more detailed       version of the Neu-K&#252;hn model to specifically assess risk in the British       banking system.
The study       was to be one of the first calibrated network models developed at the BoE       to highlight the       propagation of economic shocks through networks of claims and obligations       and to illustrate       amplifying effects of asset fire sales.
In its course, and with contagion       through networks of financial       exposures becoming to be recognized as one of the main mechanisms       responsible for the       unfolding of the crisis, RK was also contacted specifically to share his       views and expertise on       network-oriented research on risk [B].
One of the important outcomes of       this line of research was to       support the usefulness of its methodology for stress testing.
Not in small       part due to this aspect,       network-oriented approaches to the analysis of systemic risk have now       become firmly established       as part of the research tool-kit at the Bank and other key policy       institutions internationally (see       Haldane, 2009; Haldane and May, 2011 [F]).
The importance of RK's recent work on the influence of CDS trading on       systemic risk (with Heise)       was quickly realized by practitioners, and resulted in an invitation to       present these results at the       2011 Global Derivatives Trading &amp; Risk Management Conference &#8212; the       world's largest industry       conference of its kind &#8212; and at the 2nd Annual Conference of the       Macro-Prudential Research       Network (MaRs) at the European Central Bank [D], as well as in an       opportunity to present them in a       seminar at the BoE in 2012.
Finally, the Financial Stability Department of       the Bank of Canada       recently decided to use RK's CDS model, and calibrate it on real market       data in one of its future       policy projects aimed at creating tools to facilitate systemic stress       testing of over-the-counter       derivatives markets.
As one of the originators of that model, RK was       invited to lend his expertise to       this enterprise by participating in the project.
Concerning appreciation by practitioners of RK's results and insights on       collective effects in       financial risks, P Neu, BCG's Head of Risk Practice Area, in a supporting       letter [E] states that       "[RK's] .. results and insights have informed our discussions with         regulators and our clients.
Moreover, his techniques allowed us to gain a better understanding of         the underlying collective         effects and to create transparency and processes for mitigation measures         regarding operational         and credit risk management".
In 2013, Neu also spent part of his       sabbatical from BCG with RK at       King's College London with the specific aim of exploring one of the most       important new forms of       systemic financial risks and collective effects arising from a recent       decision by G20 states to move       substantial parts of financial derivatives trading away from       over-the-counter markets and replace it       by a system where such trades are conducted via central clearing houses.
Further evidence for the visibility of RK's work on risk in professional       circles derives from the fact       that the risk papers of RK and co-authors have between them had over 4600       downloads from the       Gloria Mundi web-site [A], and that his risk modelling web page is very       highly ranked in popular       search engines: e.g., a Google-search for the generic search term "risk       modelling" currently lists his       page second only to Wikipedia (in 2nd non-sponsored position).
