     We have applied our risk management techniques to several financial       institutions in Finland       including the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, the State Pension         Fund, and the Bank of Finland.
In the UK, we are developed an Asset-Liability Management (ALM) model for       the Pension Policy       Institute (PPI) to study the risks associated with variable annuity       pension contracts.
Consultations       with the Ministry as well as with the Bank of Finland were initiated by       them, after they had heard       about our earlier work with pension insurers in Finland.
Consultation with       the State Pension Fund       started after development of a pilot model of the state pension       liabilities.
Collaboration with the PPI       was initiated when we contacted them and described our earlier work with       Finnish pension insurers.
Our consulting for the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, the State       Pension Fund, and the Bank of       Finland was done through Quantitative Solvency Analysts (QSA), which is a       company founded by       Pennanen and his collaborators as a spin-off of their research projects.
The collaboration with the       PPI is a joint project aiming at developing computational tools for       quantifying long term uncertainties       in the UK pensions industry.
The models and computational techniques produced for the Ministry of       Social Affairs and Health       address the Finnish private sector pension system as a whole.
Our models       build on the actual cash-flows       of both the assets and liabilities and it avoids many problems (most       notably pro-cyclicality)       associated with traditional accounting standards.
The models' outputs have       led to many discoveries       concerning the financial risks of the pension system.
The discoveries are       described in reports [A], [B]       and [C] the publication of which was funded by the Ministry.
These reports       also include new       recommendations and guidelines for the financial risk management in       pension insurance companies       and in their regulation.
The findings were widely recognised by the       pension industry and the media,       see for example [E,F,G,H].
Report [D] uses our asset-liability model to study how individual income       generated in the UK       automatic enrolment pension system compare to an income that might be       considered adequate in       an uncertain investment environment.
Once automatic enrolment into       workplace pensions is fully       implemented in 2018, it is estimated that there could be between 6 and 9       million new savers into       workplace pensions.
The simulation studies conducted with our model       suggest several possibilities       to improve the likelihood of achieving adequate retirement income [D].
The consultation provided for the State Pension Fund includes risk       analysis of their annual strategic       investment plan as well as a long term analysis of their funding ratio.
The modeling project started in       the fall of 2012, and some of the computational work is still under way.
The analyses have been       used by the management and the board of directors to asses financial risks       of the Fund.
The funding       ratio is the key variable used in defining the targets of the State       Pension Fund set in Finnish law.
The ALM-based funding ratio is currently used in risk reporting together       with traditional actuarial       valuations.
The analyses are based on models and computational techniques       developed by       Pennanen and his research team.
The consultation done for the Bank of Finland focused on the risk       analysis of the bank's reserves.
The work included the development of a stochastic model for the       investments of the bank as well as       a computational analysis of the bank's investment strategies.
Our analysis       covered currency risk,       interest rate risk, and credit risk of the banking reserves in a dynamic       multiperiod setting.
The results       produced by the models were used by the board of directors of the Bank in       the analysis of the       strategic investment plan.
