     The unit's research and its presentation in court clearly informed the       Permanent Court of       Arbitration's pronouncement on the boundary evolution process, the latest       in international law to       define (and distinguish between) allocation, delimitation and demarcation.
Schofield's evidence       wholly informed the definition of delimitation provided by the PCA in its       Final Award of 22nd July       2009:     "As explained by Professor Schofield, there are three stages in a       boundary's evolution:       allocation, delimitation and demarcation.
Allocation deals with allocating       territory and not       the actual boundary, while demarcation simply physically marks out the       boundary on the       ground.
Delimitation, quite differently, is when the line is established       and specified.
It       requires "an executive act" of determining where the actual boundary line       should be, and       calls for a detailed description of the location of a boundary line"       (source ii).
Arriving at a defensible territorial definition for Abyei was crucial to       Southern Sudan's peaceful       emergence as an independent state.
In both the unit's joint expert report       of February 2009       (reference c) and in his testimony before the PCA during April 2009       (sources iii and iv), Schofield       provided the principal expert defence against arguments made by the       Government of Sudan that       the Bahr al Arab river should today constitute a northern boundary for       Abyei province on the basis       that this constituted an inter-provincial colonial delimitation in 1905.
Had these claims succeeded,       Abyei might well have been left with a massively diminished territorial       extent and prospects for the       emergence of a sovereign south hugely complicated.
Ultimately they were       blunted by arguments,       defended by Schofield in court (sources iii and iv), that highlighted the       geographical uncertainty       that prevailed in the early twentieth century and the confused colonial       knowledge of the time       (source v).
Detail and context:       Schofield's has advised governments (including Barbados, Bahrain, Jordan       and Yemen), emerging       states (Palestine), law firms and international oil companies on       territorial questions.
His       publications have been base references for the settlement of significant       and complex territorial       disputes &#8212; notably the UN Secretary-General's 1991-1993 treatment of       Iraq-Kuwait (reference d)       and others such as Saudi Arabia-Yemen (summarised in reference e).
This expert track record, reinforced during 2009 with Cambridge       University Press's publication of       Schofield's major documentary anthology on Middle Eastern boundaries       during decolonisation       (reference g), led leading law firm, Wilmer Cutler Pickering Hale and Dorr       LLP to approach the unit       to undertake specific historical and geographical research on behalf of       the SPLM/A in autumn       2008.
Its resultant study on boundaries and hydrology was undertaken via       the specialised       research consultancy, Menas Borders Limited (reference c).
Schofield's       characterisation of the       vagaries of British policy towards boundary questions at the turn of the       twentieth century came       under scrutiny during the PCA hearings, convened at the Peace Palace in       The Hague during April       2009.
Here he presented and defended his arguments under cross-examination       as the expert       witness on imperial boundary-drawing for the SPLM/A (sources iii and iv).
More than just a territorial case, the Abyei arbitration had been unusual       in a number of ways.
The       PCA's decision of July 2009 on the territorial extent of Abyei has       foreshadowed the future       international boundary between Sudan and Southern Sudan.
The case       effectively revolved around       defining the territorial extent of a people (the Ngok Dinka) as they       existed back in 1905, only 7       years after the Anglo-Egyptian Condominium Government was formed.
The GoS       tried to argue that       a provincial boundary existed along the Bahr al-Arab river at this time       that should define the Abyei       region today.
Relying upon Schofield as its expert witness on delimitation       questions (sources iii       and iv), the SPLM/A countered that there was far too much uncertainty to       make such an assertion.
The available historical record showed that Britain had been confused as       to the identity of the       various water courses, that it was unfamiliar with the pertaining physical       environment (highlighted       in court by fellow SPLM/A expert witness, Allan [source iv]) and that the       evidence for Sudanese       arguments remained flimsy and contradictory.
Certainly, no executive act       of delimitation had been       enacted by 1905.
Ultimately, in an effective vindication of Schofield's       arguments concerning       uncertainty (source v), virtually all the riverain systems of central       southern Sudan (including those       to the north of the Bahr al-Arab) were recognized as belonging within the       Abyei region defined by       the PCA's Abyei judgement of 22nd July 2009.
The live broadcast       of the hearings stage via       streaming on the PCA website (for the first time in its history) was       watched by a sizeable audience       in Sudan, both in the north and south.
The Permanent Court of Arbitration's arrival at a more sustainable and       equitable territorial formula       for Abyei province, one that would be welcomed instantly by both sides in       the summer of 2009,       clearly derived from its regionally-sensitised treatment of delimitation       and its critical assessment of       the historical and colonial record.
Not only did the Abyei award       materially advance the prospects       for regional peace and security by establishing the territorial framework       for Southern Sudan's       emergence as an independent state, but its considered treatment of       historical delimitation       questions may point the way forward for the settlement of future,       analogous postcolonial disputes.
