     Virtual water's conceptual impact has been both far-reaching and       profound.
The concept produced a paradigm shift in how water, the       production of goods, trade and water security are understood and used by       consumers, industry, governments and NGOs.
This impact was acknowledged       with the award of the prestigious Stockholm Water Prize, awarded by       Stockholm International Water Institute, in 2008.
The citation for Allan's       award confirmed this global impact:     "Virtual water has major impacts on global trade policy and research,       especially in water-scarce regions, and has redefined discourse in water       policy and management... Because of his work, policy makers, scientists,       water professionals and the general public have greater awareness of the       role of water in the production of different types of products and its       impact on global trade and economy.
Virtual water remains a central and       active component of scientific research and policy formulation, and has       empowered individual consumers to affect water management on a global       scale".
(Ref.
i)     The virtual water concept has reshaped how governments, professional       bodies and industry, and NGOs understand water usage, security and risk.
The concept generated and underpins the related notions of embedded water       and water footprint, used to measure virtual water consumption, as the       Royal Academy of Engineers and the World Wild Life Fund recognise in       reports (the latter acknowledging Allan's development of the concept):     "The concept of `virtual' water has become a key concept in the       understanding and communication of water issues and how they are linked to       international trade, agriculture, climate change, economics and politics       and is the basis of water footprint assessments being carried out by       businesses (such as SABMiller) both in their own direct use and through       their value chain."
(Ref.
ii:28-29)     "When there is a transfer of products or services from one place to       another, there is little direct physical transfer of water (except the       real water content in the product which is quite insignificant in terms of       quantity).
There is often, however, a significant transfer of virtual       water."
(see Reference to the Research above, Ref.
v:9)     The U.S. State Department's Intelligence Community Assessment on Global       Water Security (Ref.
iii) contains 10 mentions of virtual water and       concludes: "We judge that, from now through 2040, improved water       management (e.g.
pricing, allocations, and "virtual water" trade) and       investments in water-related sectors (e.g.
agriculture, power, and water       treatment) will afford the best solutions for water problems."
The UK House of Lords Select Committee on the European Union Agriculture,       Fisheries and Environment (Sub-Committee D) Inquiry on EU Freshwater       Policy in a 2011 report offered extensive discussion of the concept with       21 references to it, concluding, that the `virtual water issue requires an       EU approach...' (Ref.
vi: 24).
The UK government's official response to       the House of Lords Report reaffirmed the significance of virtual water,       agreeing that `greater recognition of the amount of water used in the       products that we consume will be increasingly necessary' and urging the       European Commission to `consider the role of "virtual" water in EU policy,       particularly in terms of achieving the objectives of the EU Resource       Efficiency Roadmap.'
(Ref vii: 1).
The virtual water concept has directly changed government and business       policy.
A 2012 Report from the Netherlands Environmental Assessment Agency       states "On 12 April 2012, the Dutch House of Representatives approved a       resolution about the large amount of `virtual' water imported into the       Netherlands.
The resolution proposed that the Dutch Government, in its       economic policy, will advocate that Dutch enterprises reveal their water       footprint as well as reduce this footprint in countries with water       scarcity."
(Ref viii:4).
The UK House of Parliament Water in Production and Products Postnote (ref       viiii:4) highlights the impact of the virtual water concept in businesses:       Marks and Spencer are "working with WWF-UK to better manage the water       consumed in products sourced from UK farms (such as meat and dairy       products), the production of cotton and the import of flowers from Kenya."
Virtual water footprinting has had conceptual and instrumental impact,       resulting in global businesses changing their practice and corporate       strategy, as reports by Nestl&#233; and Coca-Cola testify:     "... world food trade indirectly moves considerable volumes of "virtual       water" already; today, nearly one-quarter of food trade occurs from       water-abundant to water-scarce areas... At a farm level, "virtual water"       also offers a good opportunity to improve water use and management through       an assessment of the total water footprint of a crop."
(Ref.
iv: p. 39)     "To understand the true extent of the water that is used to make our       products we need to understand the water footprint of our whole supply       chain.
A product water footprint considers both direct (operational) and       indirect (supply chain) freshwater use.
This includes `embedded' water &#8212; the water used to grow ingredients or produce packaging &#8212; in addition to       the water used in production and in the drinks themselves."
(Ref v: 13)     Virtual water's conceptual and instrumental impact of global reach and       scope has changed the way the world thinks about water and its management.
The virtual water concept and its measurements enables governments,       business, engineers, NGOs and practitioners to better manage the water       security of nation states, environmental protection, the sustainability of       businesses and global agriculture.
