     Wooster's research on fire radiative power (FRP), and the algorithms and       data products resulting from it, have had, and continue to have, major       instrumental impacts on the European capacity to map, quantify and monitor       global wildfires and their effects, including through (1) the near-real       time mapping of fire location, FRP and fuel consumption rates; (2)       quantification of wildfire smoke emissions to the atmosphere; on abilities       to map global atmospheric concentrations of greenhouse gases, reactive       gases, and aerosols in real-time, and (3) on public-early warning       capabilities in relation to reduced air quality episodes.
This research       gained this impact in particular through its application in Stages 1 and 2       of the European Commission's operational global Earth system monitoring       scheme Copernicus (formally known as GMES: Global Monitoring for       Environment and Security), generating four discrete instrumental impacts.
1.
Under Copernicus Stages 1 and 2, the GEMS project (Global and       Regional Earth-system Monitoring using Satellite and in-situ data)       and its successors MACC (Monitoring Atmospheric Composition and Climate)       and MACC-II, a Global Fire Assimilation System (GFAS) "based on       satellite-based fire radiative power products (FRP)" (Ref i: 528) was       developed for the operational Copernicus Atmosphere Service that       will provide users real-time atmospheric monitoring and forecasting data.
Wooster's FRP was used because, "FRP has been quantitatively linked to the       combustion rate (Wooster et al., 2005)..." (Ref i: 528).
Describing GFAS' development at the European Centre for Medium-Range       Weather Forecasts (ECMWF), Ref i (p.528) state that: "In order to provide       accurate estimates of aerosol, reactive gas and greenhouse gas emission       fluxes to the atmospheric systems, a global fire assimilation system       (GFAS) based on satellite-based fire radiative power (FRP) products is       being developed".
The GEMS `Copernicus Atmosphere Service Phase 1' final       report (Ref ii:15) confirms that GFAS is based on the FRP approach of       Wooster et al.
(2003) and Roberts et al.
(2005) (Refs b       and e, see Section 3).
2.
As a result of the application of Wooster's FRP concept to existing       satellite technologies, and via his instrumental role within Europe's       Meteorological Satellite Agency (EUMETSAT), EUMETSAT now offers two       publically accessible services for which Wooster is named author of both       the algorithm descriptions (ATBDs &#8212; e.g.
Ref iii) and user manuals       (FRP_PIXEL;       http://landsaf.meteo.pt/algorithms.jsp?seltab=12&amp;starttab=12       and FRP_GRID;       http://landsaf.meteo.pt/algorithms.jsp?seltab=13&amp;starttab=13).
Together these form the "FRP products from [the current Meteosat 2nd       Generation] SEVIRI" (Ref iv: 2), that offer "the potential to       significantly reduce the uncertainly of fire emissions estimates" (Ref       iv:.2).
Further, Space Agency EUMETSAT commissioned Wooster to review the       next [3rd] generation Meteosat satellites Mission Requirements Regarding       Fire Applications (Ref v), leading to the introduction of an "extended       dynamic range for fire monitoring applications" (Ref vi: 6).
The impact       involved EUMETSAT confirming the presence of dedicated fire observation       channels for the planned 3rd generation satellite, and in accordance with       Wooster's (Ref v) suggestions physically re-designing the 3.8 &#181;m channel       of the new Meteosat's Full Disk High Spectral Resolution Imagery Mission       [FDHSI] to deliver a maximum 450 K brightness temperature measurement,       rather than the previously planned 400 K. Wooster's work therefore had a       significant, direct and instrumental impact on the design of next       generation of European geostationary weather satellite technology.
3.
There is a clear, and increasingly documented, public benefit (e.g.
to       asthma sufferers) from information systems supported by the Copernicus       Atmosphere Service.
To help plan the GMES development, in 2006       PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC) undertook a socio-economic analysis into the       benefits expected from GMES, including that of the Copernicus       Atmosphere Service (Ref vii: 112).
The analysis states that "GMES services       could potentially help to measure and predict air quality, and as a       consequence the prospective benefits could be two-fold.
First, through       prediction, the information gathered from short and medium term       forecasting of air pollution levels could provide a `poor air quality'       alert system directly to people susceptible to poor air quality, such as       those with asthma.
Second, they will then be able to make decisions to       reduce the impact of the air quality on their health, resulting in reduced       detrimental health impacts.
Trials of such a system, using cell phone       messages to alert vulnerable users, are already being undertaken within       GMES".
The expected benefits identified by PwC are now being realised.
Impact is being projected by a number of public health information       services, such as MyAir (www.myair.eu/)       and AirText (www.airtext.info/),       powered by the outputs of the Copernicus Atmosphere Service.
These       services supply air quality forecasts and warnings direct to the public       via web, email and SMS-text messages.
Many European citizens have signed       up to these services, including for example over 7000 asthma suffers in       London alone, with "80 per cent of users saying it has helped them manage       their symptoms better and reduce their exposure to air pollution" (Ref       viii: 1).
Outside Europe, the Beijing Environmental Monitoring Centre (http://zx.bjmemc.com.cn/) has also       made use of Copernicus Atmospheric Service products to support       similar initiatives.
Furthermore, Ref vii (page 110) outlines the use of       the Copernicus [GMES] Atmosphere Service within a series of       'European Environmental Protection Policy Domains', including the       Convention on Long-Range Transport of Air Pollutants, the Gothenburg       Protocol (that set emission ceilings for 2010 for four pollutants, three       of which are substantially emitted by biomass burning), and the new Air       Quality Directive implemented in 2008 (ec.europa.eu/environment/air/quality/legislation/existing_leg.htm).
Taking into account its use in health applications, and in treaty       verification and international negotiations, for the period 2006-30, PwC       (Ref ix: 16) assessed the benefits of air quality information delivered by       the Copernicus Atmosphere Service, supported by the Global Fire       Assimilation System, to be &#8364;4.1 billion.
4.
In addition to air quality and health applications, of further       relevance to treaty verification and international negotiations is the       designation of FRP as part of the 50 'Essential Climate Variables' (ECVs)       identified by the Global Climate Observing System (GCOS) as required to       support the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change and the       Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change [www.wmo.int/pages/prog/gcos/index.php?name=EssentialClimateVariables].
The Fire Disturbance ECV explicitly embraces FRP (Ref x: 10), and the new       Sentinel satellite programme of the European Space Agency (ESA) has the       aim of supporting both ECV production and the EU's Copernicus/GMES       programme (www.esa.int/Our_Activities/Observing_the_Earth/The_Living_Planet_Programme/ESA_s_Living_Planet_Programme)       and www.esa.int/Our_Activities/Observing_the_Earth/GMES/Sentinel-3.
The specifications and physical design of the Sentinel-3 satellites SLSTR       instrument, currently being readied for a 2014 launch, were significantly       altered on advice from Wooster (Ref xi), changing the middle infrared (3.7       &#181;m; F1) "fire channel" maximum signal and removing a 27 Kelvin gap in       radiometric coverage that would otherwise have prevented the detection of       many fires.
These contributions demonstrate that, as well as the existing       use of Wooster's FRP algorithms and products highlighted above, Wooster's       work continues to have an ongoing instrumental impact on satellite       instrument design, in this case with regard to Europe's next generation       operational polar-orbiting system.
After launch of Sentinel-3, the       European Space Agency will generate an FRP data record by processing data       from the SLSTR though a new algorithm (Ref f) developed by Wooster under       contract to the Space Agency.
