     The NMW was introduced in 1998 to protect the most vulnerable workers,       usually working in low-pay sectors with minimal trade union activity.
However the government did not know if its enforcement strategy and       mechanisms were working or not.
This research revealed in 2004 that where       HMRC compliance officers found a worker to have been underpaid and issued       a notice to the employer to pay the arrears, the majority of workers were       still not receiving their legal rights in full and without detriment.
There was little incentive for employers to pay arrears with the effect       that very little protection was extended to the workers.
The research       informed the changes in the statutory enforcement provisions of the       National Minimum Wage in 2008 (effective from 2009), which were along       lines it recommended.
In detail the impact of the work can be demonstrated       as follows:     Resulting change in the law       The research was discussed in the Low Pay Commission report for 2005 and       used by the commission to recommend changes in the enforcement of payment       of arrears to the government.
This LPC recommendation in turn led to a       change in the law.
In 2008 the National Minimum Wage Act 1998 was amended       by the Employment Act 2008 and incorporated new requirements concerning       arrears of payment.
The Act was enacted in April 2009.
These provisions       meant that workers not paid the minimum wage would receive arrears at the       current rate (as opposed to the NMW rate which applied at the time they       were underpaid, which had been the rule) and that employers who had not       paid the minimum wage would pay a fine of half of the amount of arrears       identified up to a maximum of &#163;5,000.
This financial penalty represents       the legal provision to ensure payment of arrears recommended by the       research team.
Under the 2008 amendment, an HMRC Officer can now serve a       notice of underpayment which requires an employer to pay arrears due to       specified workers in respect of any pay reference period within the       preceding six years.
Payment must be made within 28 days of the notice.
An       employer has a right of appeal against a notice of underpayment to an       employment tribunal on the ground that either no arrears were due or the       amount of the stated arrears is incorrect.
Impact on low-paid workers       he new penalty regime has now been in place for three years.
The       statistics produced by the government and published in the Low Pay       Commission annual reports for 2011 and 2012 show that &#163;722,000 in arrears       has been paid and some 1,417 workers have benefited from this change in       the law (LPC 2011, p.126-7 and LPC 2012, p.120).
Change in employer attitudes       The new requirement and better publicity and increased awareness has led       to some change in employer attitudes.
Research conducted by BIS in 2011 on       employers' attitudes towards compliance found that those who expressed a       view now accepted that a mechanism was needed to ensure workers were not       out of pocket.
There were, however, divergent views about whether the       arrears should be paid at the current rate or whether there should be a       financial penalty for non-compliance (BIS 2011).
Continuing impact of the research       Despite the changes in the law in 2008, the payment of arrears continues       to be problematic.
The Low Pay Commission has recently suggested that the       &#163;5,000 penalty for late payment of arrears may not be sufficiently high,       especially where there are substantial amounts of arrears due.
It stated       in 2012 that `a higher penalty, which may require the use of criminal law,       will be necessary in some cases' (LPC 2012).
The principles established by       the research, that employers in arrears need incentives to pay including a       sufficient financial penalty, are therefore embedded in the enforcement       strategy of the minimum wage.
