     King's research changed thinking at the Department of Health and the       RPSGB, leading them to       focus on the issue of workforce planning for the first time.
This       subsequently led to action to       address a shortage of pharmacists identified in the research.
This action       included the       establishment of eight new Schools of Pharmacy, the generation of       sufficient numbers of       pharmacists by 2013, and changes to regulations on the hours that       community pharmacies could       open.
There was engagement with beneficiaries from the outset, because the       research in question was       commissioned by the Department of Health through the RPSGB.
The academic       team placed great       importance on establishing a constructive dialogue and there was extensive       involvement of a wide       range of stakeholders in an adivisory group from research design through       to presentation of       results, with initial results communicated to the RPSGB and the Department       of Health ahead of the       resulting academic publications.
The findings were presented in a detailed       report, a workforce       model and in a summarised, accessible form to the advisory group.
In       addition the research was       presented in full and formally to the RPSGB and Department of Health.
King's research provided the Department of Health with a carefully       developed and tested workforce       model for pharmacy and also drew their attention to the generalisability       of this approach for other       parts of the health workforce.
For relevant policy-makers in the       Department, the quality of the       analysis provided a specific benefit in that it provided a strong analytic       evidence base for policy       decisions.
As the Head of Education and Training, of the Department of       Health wrote:     ... real impact came from making people think about workforce at all.
Being able to show       what happens if participation rates go up or attrition in universities       goes up, for example,       was incredibly powerful.
(Source A)     Specifically, the model and its findings underpinned and provided crucial       evidence in support of the       decision to open eight new Schools of Pharmacy and strengthen some       existing ones.
Findings in       2004 had already identified a shortage of pharmacists that was likely to       get worse for some years       unless the supply of pharmacists improved.
In addition, the study also       provided an assessment of       the risk of relying on the goodwill implied by the finding that       pharmacists typically worked an       average of four hours longer than they were formally paid to work.
The       survey revealed evidence       of the strong desire to reduce work commitments, including working hours,       suggesting that this       goodwill should not be taken for granted, and further confirming the need       to increase supply of       pharmacists.
Three direct changes resulted in the assessment period after       2008.
(1) The       anticipated shortage of pharmacists and the strain identified on the       existing workforce was       considered sufficiently serious to lead to support for the opening and       accrediting of eight new       Schools of Pharmacy at UK universities, initially including East Anglia,       Keele, Kent Medway,       Reading and Wolverhampton as well as some expansion of provision at       existing Schools of       Pharmacy.
The new schools started to operate in 2009.
(2) A report from       the Centre for Workforce       Intelligence, which updated the forecasts of workforce demand and       potential supply up to 2040,       confirmed that in 2013 supply of pharmacists now broadly matches demand       (Source B).
Thus, as       an impact of King's research, the significant shortfall in pharmacists had       been addressed by the       generation of additional new capacity in the new Schools.
(3) King's       findings additionally confirmed       the need to change the national regulations to extend the hours that       community pharmacy services       could operate.
In addition, the regulations affecting opening hours of       pharmacies were changed in       2008 following a related OFT study (Source C).
There were four significant contingent impacts of King's pharmacy       workforce research.
1.
The       universities that received support and accreditation to open new Schools       of Pharmacy benefitted       by being able to introduce popular new courses in high demand from       potential students.
2.
The       public at large benefitted through improved capacity and the availability       of more pharmacists to       meet the expanding demands for pharmacy services to protect and promote       the health of the       nation.
3.The RPSGB benefitted from King's research as a research sponsor       and key stakeholder       through its strengthened ability to contribute to policy decisions through       the research.
4.
The       decision to increase the number of individuals entering pharmacy also       benefitted the RPSGB by       increasing its membership.
The Head of Professional Development confirmed       this impact on the       RPSGB and the wider impact of the research in correspondence.
She wrote:     This research programme was the RPSGB's first attempt [at modelling the       demands for       pharmacists] and the Society was able for the first time to understand the       workforce       projections under different policy assumptions.
As a result the Society       now employs a       dedicated policy officer to carry forward its workforce policy programme       using the       methodology developed for this research project.
The workforce survey identified important factors concerning pharmacists'       professional       identity and the importance they place on participating in Continued       Professional       development.
As a result, the Society has made this a central part of its       support for       pharmacists and underpinned the development of the Society's role for the       future.
(Source D)     This confirms the transformation of understanding, policy, educational       provision and capacity       regarding the pharmacist workforce, as well as indirect wider healthcare       impact in society, resulting       from the King's research.
