     The `dialogic evaluation' theoretical model had a direct impact on VAGO's       performance audits.
As noted in Box/Section 2, the direct research that       underpinned this impact was developed and conducted in collaboration with       VAGO and the University of Sydney.
Laughlin and Broadbent's earlier       research and impact on the National Audit Office (NAO) in the UK was       influential, enabling the Auditor-General of Victoria (Des Pearson) and       VAGO to work with the Australian Research Council (ARC) funded research       team between 2006 and 2008.
That earlier research, which introduced the       theory of `dialogic evaluation', reshaped the thinking and practice of the       UK's Auditor-General and the UK National Audit Office.
Laughlin and Broadbent's research indicates that the adoption of       `dialogic evaluation' provides the framework for necessary changes       involved in moving away from a more reactive `watchdog' emphasis in       value-for-money audits and audit thinking.
Evidence that this change in       thinking was linked to the work of Laughlin and Broadbent is confirmed in       Public Sector Auditing by Sir John Bourn, written as he was       preparing to retire as Comptroller and Auditor General of the UK (Source       B: 73):     `I use the terms effectiveness audit and evaluation interchangeably as in       essence they are broadly the same, particularly with what has come to be       known as `dialogic evaluation'.
Indeed, Richard Laughlin, Jane Broadbent       and Jas Gill in their research on evaluating Private Finance Initiative       deals highlight the close similarities in approaches adopted by evaluators       and value for money auditors.'
Performance Audits to judge value-for-money of PFI projects in the UK had       been a constant problem for the NAO (Source C).
It was recognised that       judging the effectiveness of the operational stage of PFI projects was       particularly problematic and that a new audit framework to fill this gap       was needed.
Laughlin and Broadbent were invited to present their       CIMA-funded research, along with others to the NAO.
The NAO embraced       `dialogic evaluation' as a methodology and replaced the 1999       value-for-money audit practice guide with the NAO's highly influential       2006 Performance Audit guidelines (Source D).
These guidelines, informed       by `dialogic evaluation', provided the foundation for the research funded       by the Australian Research Council and the work with VAGO, which led, as       with the UK precedent, to the development of new thinking and practice       founded on `dialogic evaluation.'
The three-year long Australian Research       Council project was presented and extensively discussed in December 2008       at a two day meeting with the Auditor-General and VAGO senior staff.
The       `dialogic evaluation' theoretical model and the research in the Australian       context for the Performance Audit of the operational stage of PPPs were       adopted by VAGO.
A letter dated 25 March 2009 from the Auditor-General to each of the       researchers, confirmed that the research `will assist our future       endeavours in this important area.'
(Source F).
On 28th       September 2010, the Auditor-General of VAGO commended the 2010 publication       and confirmed impact and operationalisation of the model by linking the       research and this publication to a recently completed Performance Audit of       the operational stage of a PPP for the provision of prison accommodation       services:     `On 15 September 2010, I tabled before Parliament a performance audit       report on "Management of Prison Accommodation Services Using PPPs".
This       audit focussed on the operational stage of four prisons across Victoria       and found that an ongoing challenge for the public sector is the delivery       of anticipated value-for-money proposition over the life of these       long-term contracts.
In contrast to the more positive findings in regard to the early stages       of PPPs in Victoria, we observed a number of weaknesses in the monitoring       and management of contractor performance during the operational stage of       the reviewed PPPs.
The Department of Justice acknowledged that as a result       of this audit, it has initiated changes to its contract management and       administration of prison PPPs.
The Department of Treasury and Finance is       re-examining the extent to which it provides guidance and support to       agencies managing PPPs; to date its focus had been on the procurement       phase of these contracts.'
(Sources F and E).
This impact was clarified further and developed with indications of       future influence in May 2013 by Jacquie Stepanoff, Manager &#8212; Policy and       Co-ordination, VAGO:     `....your work went beyond the scope of that Prisons audit, and has       stimulated us to think differently about what is and what is not feasible       in these evaluations.
Paul O'Connor, Director, Policy-Co-ordination comments that whilst your       research encouraged him to consider more carefully the concept of whole of       life VFM during the planning for the Prisons audit, in many cases, the       actual phase of the project defines just how far an audit can       realistically go in forming that judgement, as it's impossible to conclude       on VFM after only 5 years of a 30 year contract.
So, although its application was limited in the prisons audit, your       research stimulated Paul to nominate for our forward program a review of a       "mature operational" infrastructure PPP instead of the typical       post-transaction review we had done in the other cases.
This topic is       still under consideration but looks likely to be added in later years.
This is a direct reflection of the way your work stimulated VAGO's       interest in whole of life cycle VFM.'
(Source G).
The impact of `dialogic evaluation' on the thinking of all those involved       in the operational stage of PPPs, not just in Victoria, is captured in a       paper written by the Former Auditor-General of Australia (Source A).
Commenting on Reference 6 he pointed out:     `The evaluation and audit of PPPs have received little attention in the       literature in recent years, particularly in any analytical way......
The       article is a very worthwhile contribution in drawing attention to the       issues associated with assessing the longer-term efficiency and       effectiveness of PPPs particularly in a changing environment.
It should       encourage more thoughtful analysis and development by all those involved,       not least from audit offices.
In particular, there is a need to focus on       assessments of Value for Money (VFM) over long periods of time as results       are actually achieved.'
(Source A: 99).
In this regard Des Pearson, Auditor-General of VAGO, had indicated in his       letter of 25 March 2009 that he was going to refer the research to the       Auditors-General in other States in Australia: `Due to the recent       endorsement of the National Public Private Partnership Policy and       Guidelines by the Council of Australian Governments, I intend to refer the       research outputs to the Australasian Council of Auditors General (ACAG)       for further comment and action.'
(Source F).
Jacquie Stepanoff, Manager &#8212;       Policy and Co-ordination, VAGO, in her email of 12 May 2013, made clear       this did occur and implies that the research and VAGO's performance audit       experience will be influential when evaluating PPPs over the operational       stage of these long term contracts becomes more of a pressing problem in       other States in Australia.
(Source G).
Taken together the `dialogic evaluation' theoretical model has had       comprehensive impact on and reshaped VAGO's audit/evaluation of the       value-for-money of the operational stages of PPPs.
