     King's research changed thinking and led to new approaches being adopted       regarding absenteeism at Metropolitan Police 999 Call Centres, and, as a       result, to significant reductions in absenteeism.
Longer-term research on       interactive service work by the King's researchers, led the Metropolitan       Police to commission research on absenteeism at its emergency call       Centres.
There was engagement from the outset with the benefitting organisation       and there was continuing dialogue throughout the project, from research       design to the presentation of results.
A number of presentations and       meetings were held with senior management at which policy options and       organizational initiatives were proposed.
The research team emphasised       both the health-related causes of absenteeism &#8212; the 12 hour shift       arrangements, emotional exhaustion, work-to-family conflict and the role       of poor supervisory skills &#8212; as well as the more discretionary forms of       absence which appeared to serve a restorative function.
Consistent with       our earlier research (Ref.
7) we also sought active employee participation       in the development and formulation of possible approaches to the better       management of absence.
The imposition of senior management `solutions' are       invariably unsuccessful because of the lack of `buy-in' from the       workforce.
Our project therefore placed considerable emphasis on the       involvement of front-line employees and team leaders in the analysis and       consideration of the survey results and the development of strategies to       reduce absenteeism.
A report was prepared for the employees and discussed       within the centres.
This generated a wide range of policy ideas including       proposed changes to management style, modifications to work practices and       a widening of the processes of communication.
Research findings presented to the Metropolitan Police focused on three       issues: 1.
The 12-hour rotating shift arrangements, which were clearly       associated with high levels of work fatigue; 2.
The `command and control'       style of attendance management, which prevented the development of a more       engaged and responsive form of supervision; 3.
Active employee       participation in the development and implementation of absence management       strategies.
As a result, there was a transformation of thinking, which resulted in       three new approaches and initiatives being adopted.
1.
Senior management       initiated an extensive training programme for its supervisors to improve       their people-management skills.
A strong emphasis was placed on the       development of more constructive interpersonal relations.
2.
The       Metropolitan Police also undertook an examination of the 12-hour rotating       shift arrangements.
3.
In association with our work a consultant's report       was commissioned and following the organizational involvement of employees       and their unions the Met Police introduced a new eight hour shift       arrangement to assist with work-family issues and to help reduce work       fatigue.
King's research and the associated policy initiatives undertaken by the       Central Communications Command had a significant impact on absence.
The       level of absenteeism was substantially reduced, by around one third,       across the entire emergency services operation involving the three       Metropolitan Police Service 999 call centres.
The major changes to the       shift patterns were implemented in the period May &#8212; August 2011.
The table       below provides information on the pattern of absence in the period April       2011 - April 2013.
Table: Police staff absence per head April 2011-April 2013 (in days)       (Source A)                                April 2011           17.47                             January 2012           18.98                             April 2012           14.41                             January 2013           13.30                             April 2013           11.13                          In this two year period absenteeism was reduced by 36 per cent.
This       added over six working days to the yearly attendance of the average police       staff member and involved very major budgetary savings of over &#163;1 million       to the Central Communications Command's operations at its three centres &#8212; Bow, Lambeth and Hendon.
It is also important to note that during this       period service levels (the percentage of response units that arrive at       emergencies within 15 minutes) improved (April 2011: 86.0%; April 2013:       94.2%).
(Source A).
Reduced sick leave and more consistent attendance       levels enabled the Metropolitan Police to deliver a safer and better       performing service to its customers.
In this context it should be pointed       out that the 999 emergency call centres deliver services to over seven and       a half million London residents potentially and many more tourists and       visitors, and are part of one of the largest emergency service operations       in the world.
The research project undertaken for the Metropolitan Police Service was       associated with a substantial improvement in employee attendance.
The       emergency call centre operations employ 1700 staff and deliver a 24-hour       service to more than seven million people.
Reduced absenteeism enhanced       organisational productivity and contributed to improved operational       performance.
These outcomes also yielded very important cost savings for       the Metropolitan Police and benefits to the general public across the       whole of London.
