     In 2011 the law on general election timing in the UK was reformed from a       'floating date' system, based on the ancient royal prerogative power of       dissolution of Parliament of the monarch exercised by unwritten convention       on the Prime Minister's request, to that of a 'fixed' five year statutory       interval laid down by the Fixed-term Parliaments Act.
Two years later, the       Succession to the Crown Act was passed, reforming the law to remove male       preference in the line of succession, to remove disqualification from the       throne arising from marriage to a Roman Catholic, and to limit the       requirement for the monarch's permission to marry to the six persons next       in line to the throne.
These reforms are of exceptional benefit to the UK       public.
The 2011 Act adds overdue stability and fairness to the political       process, while strengthening economic planning in the public and private       sectors by providing certainty over when the next election and possible       change of government will occur.
The 2013 Act in turn modernises and       stabilises an institution that is a cornerstone of the UK's constitution       and holds significant symbolic meaning for many UK and Commonwealth       citizens.
For both these important statutory changes, Blackburn's research       and interventions had a significant impact on policy makers, by providing       clarity and authoritative analysis in a complex and little understood area       of law and convention, and by contributing to public and Parliamentary       debate on reform and helping shape the legislative framework.
A senior       parliamentarian describes Blackburn's contributions to both Acts as being       `material and valuable contributions' to some of the `most important       constitutional reforms in the history of the UK' [16].
Contribution to policy debate     Blackburn has participated directly with the royal household, government       and parliamentary bodies to help inform and shape thinking on how the       monarchy can modernise and evolve.
In 2004 he gave a lecture at the       Department for Constitutional Affairs (subsequently published as an       article [2]) which was attended by the Queen's Private Secretary, and made       the case for reconfiguring conventions governing the monarch's exercise of       prerogative powers, including election timing.
Blackburn further put into       the public domain his analysis of the role of the monarch in hung       Parliament situations in a prominently placed letter to The Times       in 2009 [10] and in a co-authored Hansard Society pamphlet [8]       launched in the House of Commons in early 2010.
Regarding the law on royal marriages and succession, Blackburn's research       and writings (including King &amp; Country) were quoted in House       of Commons Library papers [9] given to MPs and peers prior to       parliamentary debates on the subject during the six years between       publication of his 2006 book and preparation of the Succession to the       Crown Act 2013.
During this period, Blackburn also presented his research       in public talks, including a public lecture in March 2007 at the Institute       of Advanced Legal Studies, and at a joint Kings College London/Ipsos-MORI       conference on the monarchy in November 2012 attended by over 100 people.
He also spoke in the media on royal succession and modernisation issues on       numerous occasions [10].
Shaping legislation     When the House of Lords Constitution Committee examined the Coalition       government's constitutional reform programme in the early months of the       new Parliament, Blackburn gave oral evidence on the proposal for       fixed-term Parliaments [11].
During the Bill's passage, Lord Lloyd (the       former Law Lord) stated that Blackburn's evidence was "important because       he is the man who has made a particular study of this very issue", while       Lord Norton (himself a constitutional law expert) observed that       Blackburn's work The Electoral System in Britain was one of just       two works to have considered the issue in detail since the 1970's [14].
When the Fixed-term Parliaments Bill was introduced shortly afterwards,       Blackburn was the sole expert invited to give oral evidence to the House       of Commons Political and Constitutional Reform Committee to inform second       reading debate [12].
He also prepared written evidence for the Committee       which was published in the report and was explicitly mentioned in the       Government response [12].
During parliamentary consideration of the       legislation, Blackburn was invited to several meetings and gave a number       of lectures to audiences comprising politicians, government and       parliamentary officials, and academics [13].
These informed discussion and       built support for the reform and how it might be framed.
He or his       research was cited on several occasions in parliamentary debates on the       Bill [14].
Through these interactions, Blackburn's research had a distinct       and material impact on parliamentary opinion, scrutiny and debate leading       to the passage of the Fixed-term Parliaments Act 2011.
The Succession to the Crown Act 2013 reached the statute book on 23 April       2013.
Blackburn's research and writings were persuasive factors in       parliamentarians and ministers taking up the case for modernising the law       on succession to the Crown and royal marriages, and in influencing how the       reforming legislation was framed so to achieve its social and political       objectives.
Shortly after the Coalition government announced its intention       to introduce the Succession to the Crown Bill, Blackburn was requested to       give oral evidence to the House of Commons Political and Constitutional       Reform Committee on 10 November 2011 as one of only two experts [15].
Remarkably he was author of the only written memorandum of evidence for       the Committee on the subject published in its Report [15].
The final       provisions of the Act reflect closely the detailed research, analysis and       proposals in Blackburn's book [5].
In particular Section 1 superseded the       common law doctrine of male primogeniture, which reflected Blackburn's       argument that the law relating to the royal Head of State was of great       symbolic importance and must evolve to reflect changing social values.
Section 2 retrospectively applied removal of disqualification from       marriage to a Catholic where the person concerned is alive.
The Royal       Marriages Act of 1772 was repealed and Section 3 introduced a new       statutory provision limiting the need for such consent to a small number       of persons closest in line to the throne, whilst removing the requirement,       as Blackburn had argued, for all descendants of George II to have       the Monarch's permission.
All these provisions were highlighted to       policymakers on the basis of Blackburn's research and substantive       engagement.
