     Since 2008, Bowling's research has contributed to public debate on stop       and search and has made a wide-ranging substantial impact on police policy       and practice.
Through his engagement with policymakers and his       contribution to the EHRC's ground-breaking report Stop and Think       in 2010 [6], Bowling's research has contributed materially to a change in       behaviour by some of Britain's worst offending police forces.
The       beneficiaries include (i) the EHRC, (ii) UK police forces, (iii) members       of minority communities, and (iv) the general public, through fairer, more       efficient, effective and economical use of police power.
The impact of Bowling's research builds on a foundation of more than a       decade of public engagement in this field.
He has disseminated research       findings widely in professional journals, national newspapers, radio and       television broadcasts and public lectures to various audiences including       senior police officers.
He has been a member of, or advisor to, numerous       local, national and international bodies including the Metropolitan Police       Racial and Violent Crime Task Force (1999-2001), the UN World Conference       Against Racism (2001), Home Secretary's Stop and Search Community Panel       (2004-8) and the Home Affairs Select Committee (2006-7).
His research was       cited in key policy documents including the 2005 APCO Stop and Search         Manual and he has written expert witness opinions in stop and search       cases.
Stopwatch-impact on public debate.
In March 2010 Bowling, with       others, identified the need for a vehicle to disseminate research on stop       and search.
Funded by the Open Society Foundation, Bowling organised a       conference at King's College London entitled `Where Now for Stop and       Search' chaired by cross-bench peer Lord Victor Adebowale.
More than 100       people attended, including leading academics, lawyers, police chiefs, the       Independent Police Complaints Commission, Liberty, Association of Police       Authorities and civil society groups.
Building on the momentum of the       conference, Bowling co-founded and launched StopWatch (www.stop-watch.org),       a coalition of researchers, policy-makers, lawyers and young people       working for fair and effective policing.
The launch of StopWatch at King's       College London by the Reverend Jesse Jackson in October 2010 was attended       by over 200 people and widely reported in national and international news       media [14].
Bowling is an active contributor to the organisation, chairing       meetings, drafting documents and delivering keynote speeches at various       events [9, 13].
Today, StopWatch plays a significant role in informing and shaping public       debate using research evidence and working directly with the police to       help improve their use of stop and search.
It has used a variety of       innovative mechanisms, including a theatre play (performed at Catford       Broadway Theatre 26 April - 27 May 2012 and positively reviewed in the       national press including The Times, Sunday Times and Time Out [14]) and       video and flash mobs (&gt;4,000 hits) produced by young people to       stimulate discussion about alternative ways to achieve good policing.
The       theatre play, for example, concluded with Q&amp;A sessions to engage the       audience with researchers in the field (including Bowling), police       officers and the cast.
In the last three years StopWatch, has grown to become a coalition of 75       organisations and individuals.
It undertakes legal and policy analysis,       political advocacy and supports litigation.
It drafts fact-sheets and       policy briefings, submits evidence to national and international       organisations and contributes articles to national newspapers, all of       which are available on its dynamic and interactive website [9, 13].
A       national journalist describes StopWatch as `one of the most proactive and       prominent community advocacy groups working in this field' and its       advocacy as `credible and sober' [11].
Impact on police practice.
In 2009-10 the EHRC appointed Bowling       as its sole external advisor to a major project aiming to reform police       stop and search.
Working closely with the EHRC, Bowling indicated sources       of data, scrutinised the use and interpretation of that data, and helped       the Commission to draw conclusions and to develop a robust narrative.
According to a senior EHRC official, Bowling's research [3, 4] provided       the foundation for the approach taken in the report that       disproportionality in stop and search was de facto indicative of unlawful       racial discrimination thereby giving the EHRC the confidence to proceed       against offending police forces on this basis [8].
Moreover Bowling's       concept of `good enough policing' provided the EHRC with the conceptual       framework required by it to work constructively with offending police       forces [8].
In addition to providing the report with its underpinning       conceptual foundation and framework, Bowling's research is drawn on       extensively in the final report [6], including seven direct references and       explicit acknowledgement of Bowling's contribution.
Stop and Think       concludes with a `vision of `good enough' policing', thereby placing       Bowling's concept at the heart of the analysis and advocating a method of       engagement inspired by this approach [8].
Following its publication in April 2010, the impact of the EHRC report       has been wide-ranging and significant.
Based on the report's findings, the       EHRC entered into negotiations with five poorly performing police forces,       initiating legal enforcement action against two forces using its powers       under the Equality Act 2006.
Following negotiation with the EHRC, and the       implementation of training and development packages based on Stop and         Think, all five forces committed to take steps to improve their stop       and search practice.
Their progress was tracked by the EHRC and reported       in its follow up report, Stop and Think Again, published in May       2013 [7] and widely reported in the UK press.
This report shows that in       all police forces targeted by the EHRC, levels of disproportionality fell       and the `hit-rate' for stops rose.
Use of the power fell in all five       forces by between 20% and 50% concurrent in some forces with downward       crime trends.
Senior officers from both the EHRC and the police       acknowledge Bowling's significant contribution to this result [8, 12].
In March 2011, the government introduced changes to the Police and       Criminal Evidence Act (PACE) Code of Practice A allowing police forces       discretion to choose whether or not to record `stop and account'       (introduced following the Lawrence Inquiry).
Bowling worked with StopWatch       to produce a briefing note, based on his research [3, 4], arguing that the       evidence showed that recording was important to inform people why they had       been stopped and hold the police to account [10].
This was submitted to       the Metropolitan Police Authority consultation and Bowling spoke at the       hearing.
The consultation concluded that recording was important for       fairness, effectiveness, transparency and accountability and       overwhelmingly supported by the public.
Following this intervention, the       Metropolitan Police decided to continue to record stop and account.
In recent months there have been welcome new developments.
In July 2013,       the Home Secretary launched a public consultation on use of stop and       search powers.
Reporting on this announcement, the BBC referred to Stop         and Think Again noting that the reduction in stop and search as       reported by the EHRC had not compromised crime reduction [14].
The Home       Secretary's announcement foreshadowed the release of a report by Her       Majesty's Inspectorate of Constabulary (HMIC) later the same month on the       use by police of stop and search powers.
This report cites both EHRC       reports and a senior officer within the HMIC confirms that the HMIC's       thinking in preparing its report had been influenced by the 2010 EHRC       report and Bowling's research in particular [12].
