     King's research had direct impact on gender and human development policy       and practice and       implementation in the ECOWAS Conflict Prevention Framework.
Specifically,       in two ways: (1) the       formal concept of `youth' used by ECOWAS was changed in response to       research findings, and       policy and practice were extended to those between 25 and 35, which had       previously only applied       up to the age of 24; and (2) policy and practice regarding women in peace       and security was       transformed and new policy and practice adopted, with researchers from       King's being invited to       translate findings directly into policy formation and implementation.
In       this latter role, King's       researchers drafted parts of policy documents subsequently adopted by       ECOWAS, and drafted the       Plan of Action for implementation.
Research was designed and developed in cooperation with ECOWAS, with       continuing       engagement throughout, meaning that findings could be presented well ahead       of academic       publications and final reports reflecting the research, including showing       commissioned short films       made to illustrate research findings, and also that ECOWAS could make       changes.
Research findings on youth, militancy and violence were presented       directly, by arrangement, to the       Meeting of Experts on Youth and Sports of ECOWAS Member States, in       Cotonou, on 23 July       2008.
The presentation on `vulnerability of youths in West Africa' was       noted in the Final Report of       the Meeting.
The report concluded that `the youths of the sub-region       constitute a huge potentiality       to be exploited' and decided that `the documents presented be communicated       to Member States       for exploitation.'
(Source (i), VI, p.7) Following this, research was       presented at the ECOWAS       Council (equivalent of the European Council, the executive level of the       organisation) Meeting of       Ministers of Youth and Sports, in Cotonou, 25 July 2008.
As a result of       these presentations, the       age range covered by the label `youth' was extended by ECOWAS.
The       significance and reach of       this impact is indicated by the ECOWAS Council's adopting this conceptual       change and new       approach to `youth' in policy and practice designed to address alienation       and potential violence;       thereby widening conflict prevention activities to the vast and vulnerable       cohort of 25-35-year olds.
ECOWAS signed a Memorandum of Understanding under which King's shared       research on youth       and violence and assisted implementation of Youth Policy.
(Source (ii),       paras.
15 and 16) The       ECOWAS Political Director, in correspondence, noted that the `Conflict       Prevention Framework at       ECOWAS benefitted enormously from this research and affected the way in       which we framed       aspects of our programmes.'
(Sources (iii) and (x)).
Research on women, peace and security involved policy engagement from an       early stage.
Presentations of initial findings were made to the Directorates of       Political Affairs and Gender and       Social Development at ECOWAS.
The research findings on the need for more       women in posts of       importance and responsibility, as well as on the need for resources to       support capacity building       (training and education of West African women from in peace and security       affairs) were presented       to the Consultative Meeting of Experts of ECOWAS Member States on the       Draft ECOWAS Conflict       Prevention Framework, in Ougadougou, 3-6 November 2007, (Source (iv),       p.2), where researchers       contributed directly to revision of the ECOWAS Conflict Prevention       Framework, which was adopted       as policy.
Specifically, King's researchers wrote the final versions of       Paragraph 82 articles (ii), (vii)       and (viii) of the final ECOWAS Conflict Prevention Framework (source (v)),       which became policy.
These researchers were subsequently invited to prepare a Plan of Action       for implementation,       which was presented to and adopted by the Framework's Coordination       Committee in January       2010.
(Source (vi), p.6 and Annex III, references to Funmi Olonisakin).
This contribution specified a       requirement to increase the number of women in decision-making roles on       peace and security       issues in the ECOWAS commission; and the need to develop peace and       security capacity building       for women.
King's has assisted in this process by training young African       women in peace and       security under the ECOWAS-King's Memorandum of Understanding and placing       them in ECOWAS       and other institutions (Source (ii), paras.
5, 6 and 8; Sources (vii),       Annex I, Items 20 and 21, and       (viii), Annex II, Item 6, give examples of these placements).
In February 2012, the ECOWAS Gender and Human Development Department       Director       approached King's to support implementation of the Plan of Action.
King's       started work in       partnership with ECOWAS (and other international bodies) by creating a       programme to educate       and train women in matters of peace and security, and to give them       practical experience working in       one of these organisations.
An official Strategic Overview in 2013 noted       that the Plan of Action       prepared by King's had been `widely disseminated and utilized in ECOWAS       member states' and       that the associated research `used within ECOWAS institutions, national       governments and civil       society in West Africa.'
(Source (ix), p.17, Programme 1, Output 1.4).
By       July 2013, 41 women       have benefitted from this scheme and (a double impact) have worked on       making policies.
The       initial impact on women seeking to work in the field of peace and security       has the potential, over       several years, to reach and benefit all women in West Africa who wish to       work in these fields.
This       continuing capacity-building implementation confirms research impact as       full and as extensive as       possible.
