     Employment Tribunals (ETs), originally known as Industrial Tribunals,       have been determining disputes between employers and workers for almost 50       years.
Cases include unfair dismissal, discrimination, wages and working       hours.
The Employment Appeal Tribunal (EAT) hears appeals on decisions       made by ETs on points of law only.
ETs and the EAT were originally       tripartite: a professional judge with two lay members, one representing       employers and the other representing workers.
Since 1994, successive       governments have been incrementally limiting the types of cases on which       lay members are legally required to sit.
It was in this context that Susan       Corby decided to research whether and how lay members add value.
While the       project was still at an early stage in 2011, the government announced its       proposal for the biggest and most controversial limitation yet - the       default exclusion of lay members from adjudicating unfair dismissal cases       and from all cases at the EAT.
These government proposals were without a       basis in empirical evidence.
The research therefore not only generated a fresh understanding of these       important labour market institutions in Great Britain, and widespread       interest from policy makers, practitioners and the general public; it also       provided empirical evidence which informed responses to the government's       consultation on its proposals, the surrounding debate, and the       government's own understanding.
The impacts are presented by audience:     Policy makers     Department of Business, Innovation and Skills (BIS)     The research is acknowledged in the government's document responding to       its proposals, Resolving Workplace Disputes, Despite the       research's findings, the government implemented its proposed reduction in       the use of lay members in unfair dismissal cases in April 2012.
Nevertheless, it said:     We will use the research to evaluate the findings of the first year of       operation, once judges have begun to sit alone in more cases, to see       whether a reversal or extension of the policy is necessary.
(BIS,       2011:31).
House of Commons General Committee     13.3.2012 Debate: There were several references to the research, when       Parliament was debating the statutory instrument removing employment       tribunal lay members from unfair dismissal cases, by Norman Lamb M.P.
(Minister for Employment Relations in 2012), and Ian Murray M.P.
(shadow       minister).
Normal Lamb, who introduced the order, acknowledged the       findings: he was aware that they supported the continuation of lay members       on unfair dismissal cases, but justified the proposals on the grounds of       reducing expenditure.
Advisory, Conciliation and Arbitration Service (ACAS)     ACAS in its response to the Government's consultation exercise asked it       to stay its hand in order to consider fully the research`s findings.
Practitioners/practitioner organisations     a) The Employment Lawyers' Association, which has nearly 6,000       members, publishes a regular newsletter.
In November 2011, it published a       500-word piece summarising the questionnaires' findings.
b) Incomes Data Services (IDS) publishes a twice monthly journal,       Employment Law Brief, taken by employers, trade unions, government       departments, lawyers and the judiciary.
Each issue has an introductory       page commenting on a current issue.
The December issue page 1,       entitled `The importance - or not - of lay members', was devoted to       describing the context and findings from the surveys which it said       provided `a unique insight'.
Beforehand IDS's email alert had drawn       attention to the research, reporting it briefly.
c) Michael Rubenstein, editor of Industrial Relations Law Reports,       publishes a blog, which reported the results of the EAT administrative       data analysis, including the finding that the increase in success rates is       more pronounced for employee-instigated appeals than for       employer-instigated appeals.
d) New Law Journal which is read by lawyers and has 48 issues per       year reported the survey in its news section: "Lay employment tribunal       members add value according to study".
e) Bond Pearce (commercial law firm), which issues a newsletter       electronically, reported the survey's findings in November 2011.
(Bond       Pearce merged with Dickinson Dees, adapting the latter's computer systems       so this newsletter no longer exists.)
f) Turbervilles solicitors, which issues a newsletter       electronically, reported the survey findings and said they were `very       timely'.
g) Industrial Law Society London: 21 February 2012 - presentation       by Corby and Latreille to judges and legal and lay practitioners of       findings from the surveys and interviews.
h) Council of Tribunal Members Association: Birmingham 23 April       2012 - presentation by Corby and Latreille to lay members as above.
i) Seminar: University of Warwick 5 June 2013.
Audience included       legal and mediation practitioners and a government representative;       presentation by Corby and Latreille on analysis of EAT administrative       data.
General public     BBC Radio 4 World at One 5.4.2012 included an interview with       Susan Corby about the default exclusion of lay members from unfair       dismissal complaints.
