     The report was commissioned by DG-COMM for use by a cross-departmental       Screening Group led       by the General Secretariat, which is comparable to the UK Cabinet Office.
It contained 25 key       findings, which were the basis for 50 distinct recommendations (hereafter       R01 - R50) (see source       [1]).
In response, the European Commission agreed on 15 recommendations in       a Communication       adopted in May 2008 [2] and whose implementation was monitored in a       progress report (source       [3]).
Nine of these recommendations, including the most central ones, are       virtually identical to the       recommendations made in the report, three are closely related, while three       are new (sources [3] &amp;       [4]).
As discussed below, the report also influenced the Commission's       first Corporate       Communication Statement of 2009 (source [6]).
This meant that the research       had a significant       impact on the communication activities of more than 1900 officials and       &#8364;250 million annually       spending on communication activities targeted more than 500 million EU       citizens as well as some       foreign publics.
It also impinged at least indirectly on the intensified       cooperation with member       states as 14 new management partnerships were concluded between 2007 and       2009 (up from 3)       (source [7]).
Specific impact can be seen in the following areas:     (A) One central recommendation of the report was the creation of a       communication steering board       (R3) to address the problem of insufficient top-level coordination.
In       response, a communication       steering board was created, which meets on a weekly basis and identifies       the challenges at stake       with a regular participation of the secretary general of the Commission       (source [4]).
More broadly,       the Corporate Communication Statement of 2009 elevates the strategic       importance of       communication as integral to the institution's mission (reflecting closely       the wording and thrust of       the introduction to the recommendations R3 to R5) and clarifies the       respective roles of the       Commissioner's Cabinets, Spokesperson's service, DG COMM, the       Representations and line DGs.
(B) The study also recommended reducing the number of annual Commission       communication       priorities, which amounted to 19 in 2007.
It advised that "in an ideal       scenario, the Commission       would adopt no more than five communication priorities.
A small number of       priorities will make it       more likely that the priority status can translate into a meaningful       allocation of resources.
Moreover, the objectives should be more clearly elaborated in terms of       intended effects and based       on genuine research of stakeholders, including targeted surveys of the       various publics' interest in       and need for information about specific issues".
The reduction of       priorities was mentioned as a key       goal in the implementation report [3] and was implemented gradually from 7       (2007), to 2 (2009),       and 3 (2010), not counting inter-institutional priorities.
The       implementation report also echoes the       report's language as the "definition [of priorities] should be based on       research among stakeholders,       including targeted surveys of the various audiences" (source [3]).
(C) Thirteen of the report's recommendations (primarily R43-50, but also       R10-12) focused explicitly       on different ways in which EU representations communication activities       could be strengthened,       most importantly by giving them additional resources for a range of tasks,       some short, others more       long-term.
The report thus helped to make the case for continuing an       already existing pilot-scheme       for some key representations and extending it further political reporting       level and contacts with the       media (source [4]).
The progress report highlights as a corporate       objective to redeploy 10 percent       of the posts currently devoted to communication activities and make them       available to the       Representations, to corporate communication activities, and to the general       redeployment pool [3].
This resulted in the redeployment of 5 posts to representations and 25       translation posts to support       the `going local' (report's recommendations R2, R43 and R50).
(D) In order to address the substantial skills shortage across the       Commission given the legacy of       institutional neglect, the report made a number of recommendations       (R27-30) to improve the       professionalization of communication through training and career       progression as well as through       targeted recruitment of communication specialists.
This translated       directly into the Commission's       overarching recommendation 9 "Develop Communication Skills" and specific       recommendations       focused on an increased range of tailored staff training with both short       and long-term opportunities       (e.g.
`part-time degrees') and the need to make training sessions       sufficiently attractive in terms of       career progression and time-management (source [3]).
As a result a working       Group within DG       COMM has been set up to develop training paths per job function in the       area of communication of       DG COMM and to develop a 'communication professionalization programme' for       the whole       Commission.
In order to recruit more communication specialists DG COMM       organised a       competition for a temporary posts (33T/COMM/08), and further competitions       were run for a number       of posts in 2008 on "Information, Communication and Media" (EPSO/AD/94/07)       at AD5 level and in       2009 on "Communication et information" organised at AST3 level       (Competition EPSO/AST/37/07).
