     Pant's published work on India's changing foreign and security policy has       attracted wide attention in India and in particular, the US where a       reinvention of the US-India partnership is underway.
The US-India nuclear       pact was one of the most significant foreign policy moves made by the       George W. Bush Administration to strengthen the partnership with India.
But it was a highly contentious move and provoked a lot of debate in India       and in Washington.
Pant was involved in this debate through his extensive       writings in the Indian and global media (ref (b)).
His research on the       role of China and the changing regional balance of power was one of the       factors that ultimately emerged as a reason for the dampening of       opposition to the nuclear deal in New Delhi and Washington.
His book, Contemporary Debates in Indian Foreign and Security Policy       (ref (a)), was a required reading for senior members of the US President       Barack Obama's team during his visit to India in November 2011 (email       communication from a former US State Department official).
A number of       issues raised in the book as significant for US-India ties were reflected       in the Obama Administration's outreach to New Delhi.
These include       America's open support for India's permanent membership in the UN Security       Council, the downgrading of the role of Iran in US-India ties and the       centrality of China in Indian foreign policy.
Pant was invited by the US       State Department to brief the US Ambassador-Designate to India in February       2012.
He was also asked to attend a US-India strategic dialogue organised       by the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FICCI),       which is the largest association of business organizations in India.
India's ties with Iran became a major stumbling block in New Delhi's       attempt to enter into a nuclear rapprochement with Washington.
Pant's       research into this vital relationship (ref (c)) sheds new light on the       underlying weaknesses of this relationship and continues to shape policy       thinking in Washington on this score.
Pant was requested to write a       briefing for the India Caucus in the US Senate.
Evidence of the impact of       Pant's research can be found in the way in which senior officials of the       Obama Administration, including the Secretary of State and the US       Ambassador to India have dealt with the issue of India-Iran relations by       underscoring that contrary to media portrayals, India-Iran relations are       very close.
According to most political observers, the centre of gravity of global       politics is shifting from the Atlantic to the Pacific in recent years with       the rise of China and India, gradual assertion by Japan of its military       profile, and a significant shift in the US global force posture in favour       of the Asia-Pacific.
The world seems to be entering into a "post-American"       era and the international system is trying to come to grips with the rise       of China and all that it implies for global peace and stability.
India and       China are two major powers in Asia with global aspirations and some       significant conflicting interests.
As a result, some amount of friction in       their bilateral relationship is inevitable.
Pant's research on this very       important bilateral relationship (ref (a) and (d)) has led to commissioned       media writings, media comments and briefings to the various arms of the       US, the UK and the Indian government.
Pant's contributions on the future       of US-China-India triangle have shaped the policy debate in China as       reflected in the commentary in state-owned media outlets.
Pant's research on the impact of the war in Afghanistan (ref (e)) on       Indian security resulted in his views being sought by various governments       and the US Army War College's Strategic Studies Institute funding.
He was       invited to address the Cabinet Office Annual Conference in 2009 on this       issue and was invited to be a part of the report on Afghanistan in 2009 by       the Swedish Defence Research Agency, the research arm of the Swedish       Ministry of Defence.
He was then invited by the Swedish Defence Research       Agency to a follow-up policy roundtable on Afghanistan-post-2014.
Pant's       research has highlighted how New Delhi's own inability to articulate its       policy position on Afghanistan has led to its marginalisation in the       evolving policy frameworks of the West vis-a-vis Afghanistan.
Pant's       suggestion that India will have to up its game in Afghanistan if it wants       to retain any credibility in post-2014 scenario was reflected in the       signing of the Strategic Partnership agreement between New Delhi and       Kabul.
