     The first major report by ICSR, launched in Feb. 2009 on the subject of       online radicalisation,       helped inform UK government thinking on a new area of concern.
On 17 Feb.       2009, Neumann met       with the then UK Home Secretary Jacqui Smith to brief her about the key       findings.
Smith       subsequently mentioned the report several times in a speech at the Annual       Community Security       Trust dinner on 2 March 2009.
There was a further briefing with senior       civil servants from the UK       Home Office on 2 March, and on 12 March there was an Early Day Motion in       the House of       Commons recommending that the government take up the four main       recommendations proposed       by ICSR.
ICSR's research has also informed parliamentary scrutiny of government       policy.
On 1 June 2010,       ICSR launched a report on prison radicalisation which was jointly funded       by the UK Home Office,       Australian Foreign Office, the National Coordinator for Counter-Terrorism       Netherlands, and the US       Department of Homeland Security.
On 30 November 2011, Richard Pickering,       Head of the Security       Group in UK Prisons, was questioned extensively at a UK Home Affairs       Select Committee Inquiry       on the Roots of Radicalisation about the findings of the ICSR report on       prisons, and the problems       that it highlighted.
On 6 December 2011, Neumann also gave evidence before       the same Home       Affairs committee about the report.
ICSR's research was prominent in the review and revision of the UK       official strategy for Preventing       Radicalisation that was undertaken by the government in 2011.
In June       2011, both ICSR's reports       on online radicalisation and on prison radicalisation were cited in the       revised official strategy for       Preventing Violent Radicalisation, alongside an earlier report co-written       by Neumann and ICSR       Associate Fellow Brooke Rogers on Recruitment and Mobilisation for the         Islamist Militant         Movement.
Our impact has also been notable outside the UK.
Peter Neumann presented       the findings of the       report on online radicalisation at a meeting with the German Federal       Criminal Office (BKA) in Berlin       on 25 February 2009 and then at a Council of Europe Conference on       Terrorism and Cyber Security       in Madrid on 16 April 2009 (after which the report's findings were       included in the resolutions of the       conference).
Our 2010 report on prison radicalisation informed: a review       of procedures for holding       terrorist prisoners in the Dutch prison system (Dr. Hans van Miert of the       Dutch National       Counterterrorism Coordinator stated it was `influential we were       considering changes to our       detention system for terrorist prisoners in 2010-2011'); the US State       Department's outreach and       training for foreign partners on de-radicalisation and prison       radicalisation (Michael Jacobson of the       U.S. State Department Bureau of Counterterrorism stated it was `helpful in       shaping my thinking on       the subject'); and the Australian Dept.
of Justice's Intervention       Programmes to deal with radicalised       prisoners (Australian Ambassador for Counter-Terrorism, Bill Paterson       stated it had been `used by       the State Government of Victoria in the development of rehabiltation       programs for convicted       terrorists currently in detention in Victoria' and circulated to other       state authorities).
An important aspect of ICSR's work has been to draw on the UK example to       inform efforts by other       governments to develop prevent strategies for violent extremism.
In late       2010, Neumann was       commissioned by the Bi-Partisan Policy Center in Washington DC to write a       policy report on       Preventing Violent Radicalization in America: blueprint for a national         strategy in the United States,       alongside Lee Hamilton and Thomas Kean, former Co-Chairs of the 9/11       Commission.
Following       the report's publication, Neumann testified before the US House Select       Subcommittee on       Terrorism on 27 July 2011 and most of the recommendations made in the       report were incorporated       in the US government's subsequent Strategic Implementation Plan for         Empowering Local Partners         to Prevent Violent Extremism in the United States.
This included       recommendations on the structure       and scope of counter-radicalisation efforts, their organisation within       government, and the       separation between community policing and counter-radicalisation, which       the ICSR strongly       emphasised.
Indeed, we were subsequently informed by Arif Alikhan, former       Assistant Secretary of       Homeland Security, that the ICSR report was important in helping to       `adjust' and `fine tune' the       Department of Homeland Security's policy on counter-radicalisation.
Finally, as concerns about Far Right extremism have also grown in recent       years, ICSR's       pioneering work in this area has received attention from government.
In       March 2013, ICSR's       report, A Neo-Nationalist Network: The English Defence League and         Europe's Counter-Jihad         Movement, was launched by the Home Office Minister for Crime and       Security, James Brokenshire       MP.
In his address, he noted that `the International Centre for the Study       of Radicalisation has a first       class reputation in the field of counter-terrorism studies'.
