     Members of FORESIGHT were invited to co-chair (Meyer) and co-ordinate (de       Franco) the work of an expert task force on how the strengthen the EU's       capacities to prevent mass atrocities and genocide.
This task force work       was initiated by the Budapest Centre for the International Prevention for       Genocide, a newly created NGO and chaired by a former official of the       Council of Ministers.
The final report identified core problems impeding       the ability of the EU and its member states to prevent mass atrocities and       made a number of recommendations to address them.
In particular, its first       substantive chapter on warning and response was closely informed by       Foresight research and to a large degree written by Meyer and de Franco,       but research also influenced other parts of the report as warning and       response are closely linked (see source [1]).
The process of drafting the report attracted considerable interest,       advice and feedback from the policy community in Brussels and national       capitals in the run-up to and at three major workshops in Berlin, Paris       and Brussels (source [8]).
A draft of the Task Force's report was       circulated widely throughout relevant units in the European External       Action Service and some EU member states' foreign ministries in December       2012, resulting in substantive feedback on the report's conclusions.
Similarly, the European Parliament's rapporteur on the `Responsibility to       Protect' (R2P) commented on the TF report and used it to inform the       Parliament's own resolution, which was adopted in April 2013 (source [5]).
The resolution recommended, for instance, "to strengthen linkages between       early warning, policy planning and high-level decision-making in the EEAS       and the Council" (1-f) which is a verbatim passage suggested to the       Rapporteur by the Director of RG FORESIGHT in an email (source [6]).
These       suggestions were also taken up when the EP resolution stresses the need,       to "include a systematic assessment of the risk factors of genocide, war       crimes, ethnic cleansing and crimes against humanity in regional and       country strategy papers" (1-g) and "to ensure that EU Special       Representatives uphold R2P whenever necessary and broaden the mandate of       the EU Special Representative on Human Rights to include R2P issues"       (1-h).
The final report was endorsed in writing and in person by leading       practitioners in the field such as the former EU-Commissioner and current       Italian Foreign Minister, Emma Bonino, Elmar Brok, Chair of the European       Parliament's Foreign Affairs Committee, and the former UN Deputy       Secretary-General Lord Malloch-Brown (source [1]).
Moreover, the current       UN Special Advisor on Genocide Adam Dieng attended the launch and praised       the report as a `fabulous contribution' toward the strengthening the       prevention of mass atrocities (source [2]).
The Chair of the UK's All       Parliamentary Group on Genocide Prevention wrote to the Foreign &amp;       Commonwealth Office in support of the report.
In response, FCO Minister       Simmonds confirmed that FCO officials had been `closely engaged with the       process of finalising the report' and `agreed' with much of its       recommendations, specifically `strengthening the EU's warning response'       (source [11]).
The report was downloaded almost 50,000 times, featured in       media reports and welcomed by NGOs as strengthening their advocacy in the       field (source [3] &amp; [10]).
Some of our recommendations, for instance       on recruitment of country experts from outside of government, were       subsequently taken-up by NGO in the field such as the European       Peacebuilding Liaison Office (EPLO), an umbrella organisation of 32 NGOs,       networks of NGOs and think-tanks from 14 European countries (source [7]).
Similarly, a briefing paper emerging from an Expert Roundtable on R2P       organised by the United Nations Association in the UK in April 2013       reflected key insights about the `[t]he packaging of information,       credibility of the source, the access and empowerment of the "warner"' in       its analysis and recommendations (source [10]).
Since its inception in 2008, FORESIGHT members closely collaborated with       EU and national officials active in shaping the organisation's emerging       warning and intelligence structures.
The former head of the EU       intelligence hub, William Shapcott, (SITCEN, 2001-2010), joined the       Foresight advisory board and made clear at various meetings that exposure       to Foresight's findings helped him to reflect on and develop effective       communication of warnings within the EU context.
This included       pre-announcing warning products, making clear that they are warnings or       which parts of them include warning elements to avoid misunderstandings       and limit the possibility for blame-shifting.
Mr Shapcott's reflections on       the specific challenges of warning in a multi-national settings and how to       address them are contained in a chapter he contributed to book (source       [4]).
Foresight findings also strengthened internal advocacy for better       warning and preventive policy within the emerging organisational culture       and structures of the European External Action Service, the EU's new       diplomatic corps of 3000 officials drawn from EU Commission, Council and       member states.
Finally, FORESIGHT research influenced NGOs active in the field of early       warning and peace-building.
Foresight members were consulted by the PAX       project in the inception and feasibility phases.
PAX is an NGO-start-up       supported, inter alia, by Google, which aims to use ICT to improve warning       performance about violent conflict.
The FORESIGHT group advised against       placing the emphasis on advocacy for action as this was already done       better by other organisations (ICG) and to concentrate on those areas       where they could add most value.
This recommendation was taken-up.
FORESIGHT members also highlighted the importance of source credibility       and expert evaluators of the data and highlighted the unintended       consequences/potential abuses of new communication technology in warning       about violent conflict.
This aspect was strengthened further in the       feasibility study (source [9]).
