     There are more than 1.5 million over-85s currently in the UK; by 2030       there will be more than 3 million and by 2050 over 5 million, a dramatic       change in UK demography.
The recently published House of Lords Select       Committee Report on Public Services and Demographic Change `Ready for         Ageing?
suggests this could induce a "series of crises" in the       public service provision of health and social care, pensions and housing,       but notes that there is growing evidence that with better planning, by       both the state and individuals, some of the economic and social burden of       state care can be reduced.
The main impact of the research described here       has been to identify impediments that prevent older people from       maintaining their capacity for independent living in their own homes, to       identify effective mechanisms for overcoming these, and to indicate how       these might be built into long term care and policies in the UK and       abroad.
In the UK, this research first informed the 1999 Royal Commission on       Long-Term Care (see Alternative Models of Care for Older People).
This led       to Tinker's longstanding advisory roles with the then Department of       Communities and Local Government, the Department of Health and key       national consultative bodies including the Housing Corporation, the       National Housing Federation, the Audit Commission and Elderly       Accommodation Counsel.
At the end of each research project, Tinker and       associated stakeholders were invited by government to discuss the       implementation of their findings and recommendations.
The findings on       extra care housing contributed to the creation of guidelines for such       schemes and a greater understanding of the implications of their adoption       for older residents.
This research demonstrated that extra care housing       schemes provided a better quality of life for older residents than       conventional sheltered housing or residential care homes.
The findings       from the remodelling research informed the creation of a set of       recommendations and guidelines for implementation targeted at those       responsible for the development of such schemes: central and local       governments, housing associations and other service providers and funders,       and occupational and rehabilitation engineers.
These were discussed at a       presentation in 2002 at the House of Commons.
This fed directly into the       policy making process on revision of housing for the older community       through their dissemination to over 2000 stakeholders in the UK such as       local authorities and housing associations with copies distributed to some       300 other key advisory bodies such as the Audit Commission.
In 2008 a       national conference sponsored by the Department of Health was held to       promote the findings of the later research.
These findings informed the Government's 2008 National Strategy for       Housing in an Ageing Society (1) and informed the Ministerial Group's       thinking on sheltered housing and the House of Lords Select Committee on       Ageing.
Further guidelines on extra care housing were subsequently       published by the Department of Health's Housing Learning and Improvement       Network in 2008 (2) and then sent to all local government authorities,       many of which including Gateshead, Swindon and the London borough of       Kensington and Chelsea have since adopted these, directly changing their       housing policies as a consequence.
In addition, many other charities such       as the Almshouses Association have also adopted these guidelines in       revising their approaches to the provision of sheltered housing.
The       findings were disseminated in the UK at the 2009 Laing and Buisson Extra       Care Annual Conference; 2009 Joseph Rowntree Foundation Consultation on       Extra Care Housing; 2008 Health Investor Conference; 2008 Department of       Health Care Services Improvement Partnership, and through the 2006 Age       Concern England Advice, Information and Mediation Services.
In 2010, Prof       Tinker presented her research to the Academy of the Social Sciences       Seminar on the Impact of the Social Sciences on Ageing policy to MPs,       members of House of Lords and policy makers (3).
In March 2013 her       research findings on extra care housing were directly cited in the       Government's most recent report on housing for older persons: The House of       Lords Select Committee on Public Services and Demographic Change `Ready         for Ageing?
Report.
(4)     The impact of this work was also felt abroad.
For example, some countries       such as Canada, the USA and Australia were experiencing similar problems       with their unsuitable sheltered housing and care homes and sought advice       from Tinker and her research collaborators.
Her recommendations on       alternatives to institutional care &#8212; particularly the role of assistive       technologies &#8212; have been presented in numerous international plenary       presentations including since 2007 Australia and Taiwan (2007), Canada       (2008 and 2010), Spain (2010) the Netherlands (2012).The research relating       to housing and assistive technology informed the 2002 United Nations       Valencia Forum on Ageing (for the report on housing including technology)       which led to the UN 2002 Madrid Plan on Ageing (5), and OECD research on       provision of long term housing and care in 2005 (6).
Moreover, Tinker       accompanied the Minister to advise Singapore on their strategy on long       term care in 2001; and in Hong Kong (1999, 2001) and later was personally       invited to give advice to the government of South Korea in 2006 (7) and       Japan on extra care housing.
In June 2013 she was invited to give further       policy advice on long term care, on overcoming social isolation, and on       the use of assistive technologies in the home to the Centre for Housing,       Regional Planning at the University of Adelaide, and to the Ministerial       Advisory Group on Ageing, the Commissioner for Equal Opportunity and the       Executive Director of Health for the Government of South Australia.
This programme of research has directly changed the culture of policy       towards older people by providing creative and effective solutions and       alternatives to long term institutional care by actively promoting       technologies and adaptations that will allow large sections of the older       population to maintain their independence in later life.
Key institutions       of government such as the Houses of Commons and Lords, local authorities,       housing associations and leading economists (8) in the UK have drawn upon       the research in significantly revising their policies on the provision of       housing in later life whilst the reach of the impact of this research       resonates internationally with its adoption in Europe, Canada, the USA,       Australia and the Far East.
