     The underpinning research produced a set of proposals for regulatory       reform of genetic testing and a regulatory model for achieving this.
The       model demands a minimum common requirement of pre-market review of all new       commercial genetic tests in order to ensure truth-in-labelling and       truth-in-promotion and greater disclosure of clinical data on test       performance.
Hogarth and colleagues describe this approach as "regulation       by information disclosure".
It requires that:     1.
Test manufacturers should provide patients and healthcare providers       with evaluative data on the analytic and clinical validity of tests; and     2.
That independent pre-market review should be used to evaluate whether       this information is an accurate account of a test's strengths and       weaknesses.
The team identified broad support for the view that data on analytic and       clinical validity of tests should be a minimal requirement for market       approval, but that data on clinical utility could be gathered post-market       and assessed through health technology assessment mechanisms.
They have       promoted this regulatory model in Europe and North America since 2007       through invited presentations to policymakers, regulatory agencies,       industry and clinicians; public consultations; informal interactions with       policymakers and regulators, and through membership of (and consultancy       for) government advisory groups.
The research was fed into regulatory and       policymaking bodies in specific ways in each jurisdiction as outlined       below:     European Union: At EU level efforts have focused on reform of the       IVD Directive, which constitutes the basis for statutory regulation of in       vitro diagnostic tests as medical devices within the EU (and EFTA).
In       2007 Hogarth was invited by European Commission (EC) officials responsible       for the Directive to present his team's ideas for regulatory reform to the       annual meeting of representative member states' Competent Authorities.
A       written briefing was prepared that summarised the research, outlined the       main weaknesses of the existing IVD Directive and made a series of       proposals for reform.
The briefing was welcomed by leading member states       for providing a cogent and comprehensive analysis.
In a press release       issued after the meeting the Competent Authorities highlighted this       `identified need' to monitor whether device regulations were keeping pace       with technological developments, using it to justify a "critical review"       of legislation on genetic testing.
The issues Hogarth and colleagues       highlighted were also raised in the European Commission's 2010 public       consultation on reform of the IVD Directive.
The Commission published a       summary of responses to the consultation which demonstrated broad support       for the changes they had specifically advocated, thus providing       independent confirmation that their in-depth engagement with stakeholders       had successfully identified a pragmatic remedy to a very contentious issue       that was acceptable to many different interest groups.
Subsequent to the consultation Hogarth's EuroGentest team organised an       international workshop in 2011 which brought together regulatory       officials, policymakers, industry and other stakeholders from Europe, USA       and Australia to discuss regulatory reform in the regulation of IVDs and       its likely impact on genetic testing.
This meeting was attended by EC       officials with primary responsibility for the drafting of the proposed new       EU regulation on IVD devices.
This dialogue had direct impact on various       aspects of the new draft EU regulation on IVD devices published by the       Commission in September 2012.
In 2013 EuroGentest were invited to present       at a workshop convened by the MEP who is the Rapporteur for the IVD       Regulation.
A written response to the draft Regulation which welcomed the       proposed changes but also made specific suggestions on how the proposal       might be strengthened was prepared for that meeting.
Dialogue with EC       officials, MEPs, representatives of member states and other stakeholders       continues and the team expect to be directly involved in providing       detailed advice on textual changes to the final Bill.
UK: The main impact of this research on UK governance is evidenced       through engagements with the Human Genetics Commission supporting their       work on the regulation of consumer genetics.
Hogarth was first invited to       provide a briefing for the Genetic Services subgroup of the HGC which       summarised developments in the regulation of commercial genetic testing       services in the UK.
He then provided an overview of regulatory       developments in the USA to a plenary meeting of the HGC and later helped       the HGC to organise an international stakeholder workshop to review       developments since their 2003 report Genes Direct.
His input included       development of the agenda and list of participants, giving presentations       at the meeting and work in drafting the influential meeting report More       Genes Direct.
He played the same role in a further international meeting       convened in 2008 to explore whether there was support for development for       an industry code of practice.
Having identified widespread support for       this in 2009 the HGC formed a small working group to develop guiding       principles for such a code, of which Hogarth was a key member.
Additionally he provided oral and written evidence to the House of Lords       enquiry on genomic medicine in 2008 (below).The ensuing report included a       recommendation for revision of the IVD Directive to ensure premarket       evaluation of genomic diagnostics &#8212; his key proposal to the enquiry.
The       adoption of his regulatory model is clear evidence of impact in       influencing the direction of regulatory and policy reform.
Hogarth       continues this work as a member of the Emerging Science and Bioethics       Advisory Committee, the successor to the Human Genetics Commission, which       is the main UK advisory body on emerging healthcare scientific       developments and their ethical, legal, social and economic implications.
He is also a member of the external strategy group advising the UK's MHRA       on its negotiating position on the European Commission's proposal for a       new regulation on IVDs (see above).
North America USA: Since the commencement of his research Hogarth       and his team have enjoyed excellent access to senior FDA officials       responsible for IVD regulation.
They ran two policy workshops in       Washington DC which enjoyed strong FDA support (both were attended by the       Director of the Office of In Vitro Diagnostics) and led to their being       given a "Leveraging and Collaboration" award by the agency.
They have       remained in regular dialogue with senior FDA officials and have sought to       involve them in a more international dialogue about policy in this area.
At their suggestion an FDA official attended the HGC workshop and the       Director of the Office of In Vitro Diagnostics (OIVD) and OIVD's Director       for Personalised Medicine both attended the team's 2011 workshop in       Leuven.
In 2011 Hogarth was invited to give a presentation at the FDA's       advisory committee meeting on the regulation of direct-to-consumer       genetics, providing an overview of global developments in regulation in       this area.
Canada: Hogarth and his collaborators produced two reports for       Health Canada one on the emerging regulatory frameworks for       pharmacogenomics and one on the policy implications of high-throughput       genomic platforms.
Dissemination of the impact: public engagement.
Hogarth is now       considered a leading expert in the national and international regulation       of genetic testing and is regularly asked to appear in the national and       trade media to discuss issues relating to regulation and reform.
Broadcast       media appearances include BBC Newsnight, Channel 4 news, the BBC Politics       Show, and Sky News.
He has also written commentaries on this topic for The       Guardian's Science blog and in 2009 appeared on Radio 4's Analysis       programme on consumer genetics.
To coincide with this broadcast he       organised a public event at the Dana Centre on the politics of genetic       testing.
