     Members of FRRIL have been responsible for developing the first detailed       workable frameworks for translating the broad principles of RRI into       practice by developing models for three key emerging biotechnologies:       novel neurotechnologies, synthetic biology and cognitive enhancement, each       of which are being taken up nationally and internationally in major       programmes or technology development and governance.
Novel Neurotechnologies: Engagement with Rose's earlier research on the       social implications of developments in the life sciences, biomedicine and       neuroscience led to his appointment as a member of the Nuffield Council on       Bioethics and his involvement as an internal reviewer of their Report on       Emerging Biotechnologies in 2012.
This, in turn, prompted the Council to       initiate a report on the social and ethical implications of Novel       Neurotechnologies.
Rose was asked to steward production of this report       which was published in June 2013.
Rose researched and wrote the chapter on       Economic Drivers of Innovation, and Rose and Singh (as invited expert)       together developed an innovative applied framework for RRI in       neurotechnology to guide those funding and undertaking such research.
Singh also devised a detailed ethical framework for evaluating the impacts       of novel neurotechnologies.
The framework stresses the virtues of       inventiveness, humility and responsibility, and proposes six elements as       regulatory priorities for the RRI of novel neurotechnologies: Securing       safety and efficacy; Generating robust evidence; Continuous reflexive       evaluation; Coordinated interdisciplinary action; Effective and       proportionate oversight; demonstrating how RRI can be operationalized in       practice in this important emerging field of scientific development.
Impact is at an early stage; however exemplars from earlier reports of the       NCOB suggest that the framework will act as a key benchmark for future       regulation of novel neurotechnologies, both in the UK and in Europe.
In       related work, Rose has been charged with responsibility for refining and       applying the RRI models developed in FRRIL to governance of the Human       Brain Project.
Funded by the EU up to a level of 1 Billion Euros for ten       years from October 2013 the HBP is addressing one of the greatest       challenges of modern science: how to find rigorous ways to address the       complexity of human brain function and neurological disease and mental       disorder.
As a key member of the Steering Committee of the Social and       Ethical division of the HBP and leader of its Foresight Lab, Rose draws on       FRRIL's research and models to develop, implement and evaluate mechanisms       for fulfilling obligations to RRI in practice, providing one of the first       demonstrations of how this goal can be achieved in projects of this size.
Synthetic Biology: Rose and Marris' research in developing and       implementing RRI in synthetic biology, carried out in the context of the       EPSRC funded `Flowers consortium' (King's, Imperial, Newcastle, Cambridge       and Durham) led to their appointment to the Working Group developing the       `UK Roadmap for Synthetic Biology'       (http://www.rcuk.ac.uk/documents/publications/SyntheticBiologyRoadmap.pdf).
The RRI approach which they proposed was one of the "Key Themes" of the       Roadmap: "It is crucial that this technology continues to be developed in       a socially responsible fashion, and that relevant stakeholders, regulators       and the public are engaged in research and innovation processes from the       outset.
Responsible research and innovation encompasses, but is not       confined to, operating within an effective risk regulatory framework.
The       UK needs to be, and to be seen to be, leading the way in frameworks and       methodologies for responsible innovation."
The Roadmap led to the decision       of the Department for Business, Innovation and Skills (BIS) to nominate       synthetic biology as a key emerging technology for investment in the 2012       Autumn Statement.
This led to further funding from TSB, and a major       funding initiative by the EPSRC and BBSRC for multidisciplinary research       centres in synthetic biology to "implement the Roadmap's recommendations       and deliver on the investment from government ...as part of a larger       `Synthetic Biology for Growth Programme'...accelerating the route to       market for innovative synthetic biology research".
It is intended that all       UK funding in this area will, in future, be contingent upon recipients'       demonstration of commitment to RRI.
FRRIL is centrally embedded in UK's       major consortia of universities funded to develop synthetic biology       technologies in domains from health and medicine to green biofuels, who       have undertaken to develop their next phases of R &amp; D in accordance       with these principles of RRI.
The EPSRC explicitly cite the RRI chapter of       the synthetic Biology Roadmap as a source for their "Responsible       Innovation Framework", published in October 2013.     http://www.epsrc.ac.uk/research/framework/Pages/acknowledgementsandresources.aspx       Cognitive Enhancement: Singh's research on cognitive enhancement led to       her invitation, in 2012, to join Professor David Nutt's Independent       Scientific Committee on Drugs (ISCD) which is committed to generating       evidence-based policy-making on drug use.
Working with the ISCD, Singh       developed the first national UK survey to evaluate the use of cognitive       enhancers amongst university students.
This research revealed that,       contrary to speculation, use of cognitive enhancers amongst this group was       actually low, strengthening the argument that responsible regulation must       be evidence based.
Preliminary results from the survey were discussed by       Professor Nutt and Dr Nora Volkow (Director of the US National Institute       of Drug Addiction &#8212; NIDA) in a podcast chaired by Dr Steven Hyman, former       Director of the National Institutes of Mental Health (NIMH); the interview       was subsequently published in Neuropsychopharmacology.
Singh was also       invited to present her findings at a rare UK Joint Academies meeting on       responsible research and innovation in neuroenhancement (to which Rose       also contributed).
Emerging out of Singh's earlier work with ISCD, which       demonstrated the need to employ empirical evidence as the basis of       responsible policy-making on cognitive enhancement, she has recently       secured &#8364;3.8 million of FP7 funding (from March 2013) to develop NERRI       (`Neuroenhancement, Responsible Research and Innovation'), which mobilises       stakeholder engagement around Europe to ensure that current and novel       neurotechnologies are developed in the context of RRI values and       objectives.
The Italian Bioethics Commission (CNB) has recently developed       recommendations on cognitive enhancement based on the framework developed       by Ragan, Bard and Singh, as evidenced through CNB's extensive citation of       that work.
Whilst the opinions of the CNB are not legally binding they       report directly to the Italian government and, according to specialists:       "for all intents and purposes their opinion documents frame the issue".
Singh is also mobilizing FRRIL objectives in talks on cognitive       enhancement to international audiences of lay and professional adult       stakeholders and to school children; for example as part of the European       Science Open Forum (ESOF) in 2014.
Her earlier methodology for evidencing       use of cognitive enhancers is now also informing the development of       national surveys on cognitive enhancement in Australia (Hall, University       of Queensland) in Montreal (Collins, University of Montreal) and by the       Wellcome Trust's UK Monitor.
These frameworks together provide much needed       models through which to address the major funding bodies' new requirements       to make RRI an integral part of technology development and governance and       important exemplars of best practice models.
