     By re-positioning formative assessment as central to pedagogy and linking       it to classroom dialogue, questioning and student interactions for the       first time, and by demonstrating how classroom assessment can be used to       adapt teaching to the needs of students, the research has led to changes       in the way teachers conceptualise classroom practice.
This impact has been       achieved by the researchers working directly with both teachers and policy       makers.
From the outset, impact and dissemination formed a central component in       the design of the research programme (see Black &amp; Wiliam, 2003 [14]       for a description and discussion), and communicating directly to teachers       and other practitioners through publications and workshops has played a       key role in building support from the ground up for a change in assessment       policy.
The researchers produced a widely disseminated set of       evidence-based publications for teachers which draw extensively on the       reports of teachers who collaborated on the development work.
The book, Assessment         for Learning: putting it into practice [12] has sold over 36,000       copies (over 10,000 since 2008).
A series of short (25-page A5) booklets       have complemented this book: two &#8212; Inside the Black Box and Working         Inside the Black Box &#8212; have each sold over 55,000 copies (25,000 in       total since 2008), whilst a set of eight booklets each dealing with the       application of formative assessment within a particular school subject       have also sold well (35,000 total sales since 2008).
Our returns from the       Authors' Licensing and Collecting Society       (ALCS) show that these documents are being copied extensively and the       booklets are used widely on initial teacher training courses (e.g.,       University of Edinburgh place two of the booklets on their online       repository for PGCE students each academic year).
In addition, the researchers have undertaken an extensive series of       workshops for teachers and other professionals examining how formative       assessment can be implemented effectively.
For example, Black has       conducted whole and half-day INSET programmes for individual schools, to       kick-start a process of collaborative development for the whole school, in       over 85 schools, 24 since 2008.
Harrison has been a paid consultant to       three local authorities since 2008 (Carmarthen County Council, Ceredigion       County Council, and Hammersmith), conducting 60 workshops with their       teachers and giving 14 lectures to other local authorities and 42       workshops to individual schools, together with additional workshop talks       to Association of Science Education annual and regional meetings, the       Field Studies Council and the National Union of Teachers.
Beyond schools,       King's staff have responded to numerous invitations to talk about this       work to many other organisations, including local authorities, teachers'       subject associations, and a range of commercial agencies involved in INSET       for teachers.
There have been over 40 such invitations since 2008, and       many more in the preceding years.
Broader dissemination has involved the       media, with six radio broadcasts, two hour-long programmes on BBC2 in       September 2010 and two programmes for Teachers' TV.
A second strand of impact work was directed towards national educational       policy.
Judy Sebba, then Department for Children, Schools and Families       (DCSF) Chief Advisor on Standards, was on the Steering Committee of the       Nuffield-funded KMOFAP study and was a key broker in disseminating the       research within government.
Additionally, the researchers engaged think       tanks such as DEMOS (Skidmore, 2003) and IPPR (Brooks &amp; Tough, 2006)       and King's staff have made submissions (including invited submissions) to       various official committees and groups.
As a result, the assessment for       learning work made a fundamental contribution to national assessment       policies: Personalised Learning, Making Good Progress and       Assessing Pupils' Progress, with &#163;150m provided in 2008 to support       the implementation of these policies [17, 18].
For example, `Assessment       for Learning' was one of five strands comprising Making Good Progress       (MGP).
In an independent evaluation conducted from 2007 to 2009,       PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP found that their interviewees (teachers,       headteachers, local authority coordinators and parents) believed the       Assessment for Learning strand to have had the greatest impact of all five       strands on teacher practice, pupil engagement and rates of progression       [19].
Several DCSF publications describe how assessment for learning underlay       the Assessing Pupils' Progress (APP) initiative (2008-2010)       [e.g., 26].
In their evaluation of this initiative, OFSTED found that APP       was most successful when it formed part of a strong vision of teaching,       learning and assessment and when linked to the formative assessment       strategies of identifying and explaining objectives, questioning pupils       and giving feedback [27].
The research has also had an impact on the       professional development and policy of professional bodies in the UK.
For       example, drawing heavily on the formative assessment research [11, 12],       `Assessment and professional judgement' was one of just two principal       professional development foci of the General Teaching Council for England       until it was disbanded in 2011.
And the revised Teachers' Standards       (DfE 2012) in England require teachers to use formative assessment to       secure pupil progress.
The work has had a particularly strong impact on education policy in       Scotland where the assessment practices currently in place have been       directly shaped by the King's research.
Following a policy seminar by       Wiliam in 2002, the Scottish Ministry decided that the research should       underpin Scotland's education strategy for schools.
Harrison worked       alongside Scottish civil servants, educationalists and academics to help       plan, and then to lead, the national implementation in a programme       modelled on that rolled-out in England.
The strategy included teachers       from the English projects cascading the approach across to their Scottish       colleagues [3].
Subsequent independent evaluations have shown that this       was the most successful of the several innovative programmes introduced by       the Education Authority.
The programme was fully in place throughout the       2008-2013 period, with continuing professional development provided by       Learning and Teaching Scotland and its successor, Education Scotland.
Nevertheless, the programme had weaknesses [24] and Black has contributed       to its evaluation and refocusing, particularly highlighting the       relationship between summative and formative assessment and how this can       be developed [25].
In a similar project, commencing in 2004, the King's       group helped develop the school assessment policies and practices in the       States of Jersey.
The value of these was recognised in the States of       Jersey Annual Business Plan, 2008 [20] and they have been in operation       throughout the REF assessment period.
Beyond the UK, King's staff have provided consultancy based on the       research in Sweden, Norway, Holland, Portugal, Italy, Slovenia, Macedonia,       Peru, Chile, Australia, the Republic of Ireland, Estonia and to the EU.
As       a result of the consultancy work in Canada, Australia and New Zealand, the       research is featured prominently on the government sites in these       countries as a means of supporting and guiding the implementation of       formative assessment (e.g., see the Australian Assessment for Learning       website [23]).
In the US the work is one of the few pieces of non-US       research to have influenced education debates among policy-makers.
Inside         the Black Box was re-published in the influential US professional       journal, Phi Delta Kappan (1998), and re-published as a `Kappan       Classic' (2010) with an editorial comment that it has, `helped change the       conversation in education'.
The same booklet was translated for       distribution to all schools in Hong Kong to support the implementation of       the Education Bureau's policy on assessment for learning [22].
Hodgen's       UNESCO-funded consultancy in the Maldives (2010) led to the introduction       of a formative assessment toolkit in schools and the inclusion of the       `improve[ment] of formative assessment carried out during lessons' as one       of five objectives in the country's school improvement plan [21].
In       addition, the book and booklets have been translated widely, including       into Swedish (with sales of &gt;2000 of the Swedish translation of Mathematics         Inside the Black Box booklet) and Polish.
