     [Numbers in brackets refer to references &amp; sources in Sections 3       &amp; 5.]
The research has had an impact on the education of the most marginalised       communities in society by contributing to the national strategy for       improving basic skills &#8212; the Skills for Life Strategy, and, in       particular, to changes in both general and employment-related ESOL policy       and practice.
The research also informed two successful campaigns to       maintain ESOL provision in the face of cuts.
More specifically, insights       from the research have directly fed into:     (i) The revised national curriculum for ESOL The 2006       research [3] was used as part of the evidence base for the 2009 revisions       to the Adult ESOL Core Curriculum for England and Wales, [14], especially       the addition of lower level descriptors to include learners of basic       literacy, and the systematic introduction of discourse level language into       the curriculum at all levels.
This was as a direct result of Cooke's role       in 2008 as adviser to LLU+ (the London Language and Literacy Unit) which       was commissioned to carry out these revisions.
The Adult ESOL Core       Curriculum was a key plank of the Skills for Life strategy.
(ii) Guidelines to support the implementation of the national           standards for teachers of English in FE On the basis of their       2008 research, which had pointed to the need to integrate adult ESOL and       literacy teaching [7], Cooke and Simpson were asked to join a panel       convened by Lifelong Learning UK, the FE teacher training standards agency       of the time, to produce guidelines to enable teacher trainers to interpret       and implement the subject specifications for standards for teachers       qualified to teach English in the adult learning sector.
This was deemed       necessary because the new standards were designed for both adult ESOL and       adult literacy teachers and included aspects of language learning that       were not part of the traditional knowledge base for teachers of adult       literacy.
These guidelines, Literacy and ESOL: shared and distinctive         knowledge, understanding and professional practice (2009), drew on       Cooke et al.
's research to explicate the shared and distinctive       aspects of ESOL and adult literacy teaching and provided practical       guidance to enable teacher trainers to interpret the standards and develop       courses that integrate adult ESOL and literacy pedagogies.
They were       published on the Excellence Gateway, the official portal for all courses       and teacher training resources in the learning and skills sector in       England.
(iii) Teacher Training and ESOL classroom practice     Teacher training: The NRDC research formed the basis for Cooke and       Simpson's textbook: ESOL: a Critical Guide [16], which has been       widely adopted as a key text in initial teacher training and CPD.
The book       uses the research to provide teachers with the critical insights to help       them design and teach ESOL programmes appropriate to a context of       `super-diversity'.
As part of the NRDC research, the team also developed       two practitioner guides, published by NIACE/NRDC [17] to support CPD in       ESOL.
They were designed and written with practitioner involvement at all       stages of their development.
These guides include examples of classroom       discourse from ESOL lessons, and materials on how to work with       learner-produced language in a systematic way, reflecting key insights       from the research, namely, the value of refocusing on learners' everyday       and institutional interactions and of encouraging complex and extended       stretches of talk (e.g.
explanations, giving accounts) [3, 12].
Approximately 500 copies were produced and sold by the National Institute       for Adult Continuing Education (NIACE) (2007-2009).
The practitioner       guides and the NRDC research reports were also embedded in a module       attended by 200+ teachers and teacher trainers on the national CPD       programme set up as part of the Skills for Life strategy: the Skills         for Life Improvement Programme (2008).
The guides are widely       referenced in ESOL teacher training courses, including those at the       Institute of Education (PGCE Post Compulsory), LLU+ at South Bank       University, Manchester Metropolitan University, University of Greenwich,       University of Warwick, and University of Wales, Newport/Prifysgol Cymru.
The guides have been enthusiastically received by teacher trainers and       trainees, as being, for example, `of clear practical relevance ... a       perfect "way in" to developing research-informed practice' (Rachel       Stubley, Programme leader, adult ESOL teacher education, Newport,       20.03.13).
ESOL classrooms: The messages contained in the practitioner guides       from the key findings about pedagogy &#8212; i.e.
the importance of focusing on       everyday interactions and of including extended stretches of talk in a way       that assists more differentiated forms of assessment [3, 10, 12] &#8212; have       also been adopted in a wide variety of FE colleges and adult learning       institutions.
These include large ESOL providers in disadvantaged London       boroughs, e.g.
Tower Hamlets College, Greenwich Community College, and the       Language and Literacy Unit in Southwark.
Take up has been a direct       consequence of wide dissemination of the research, with the NRDC       disseminating 2,000 hard copies of each of the six research and       development project reports with messages on how to improve practice and       extend the curriculum.
Over 21,300 copies have been downloaded from the       NRDC website and the reports have had over 39,300 individual views.
Approximately 40 conference presentations have been given by Roberts and       Cooke to policy makers, including Ofsted teachers and FE managers       (2003-13, 20 of these since 2008).
Key audiences have included: London       ESOL research network, the Leeds ESOL research network, local and national       branches of the National Association for Teaching English and other       Community Languages to Adults (NATECLA) and NATECLA Scotland.
And all the       research has been disseminated and discussed on the ESOL Research email       network (www.jiscmail.ac.uk/esol-research)       (2006-2013), the main source of information on ESOL nationally (membership       c. 800).
(iv) Employment-related English language programmes       Recommendations from the DWP-funded research [4, 5] led to an       acknowledgement of the `linguistic penalty' faced by migrant jobseekers       and a policy decision by the Equalities Division of the DWP to fund and       disseminate educational DVDs directly based on the DWP research &#8212; Successful         at Selection and Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) &#8212; to all       147 Jobcentre Plus offices for their ESOL courses, to all 219 FE colleges       and to adult learning institutions teaching ESOL (1000 DVDs disseminated       2008-10).
The job-seeker DVD, FAQs and associated materials [18],       partly funded by Leicester Jobcentre Plus, consist of recordings and       analysis of real job interviews designed to support a teaching focus on       extended talk, on learners' lived experience, and on translating the       cultural capital gained from work abroad into workplace narratives that       fit UK job interview practice, reflecting key insights from both the NRDC       and DWP research.
These materials are integral to several ESOL       employability initiatives, reflecting the emphasis on employment-related       programmes in the Skills for Life ESOL strategy [19].
For example,       they were used in the Work Focused ESOL for Parents programme       delivered by LLU+ in 2009 as part of the City Strategy Pathfinders       initiative (in West and East London) established by the DWP to tackle       unemployment in disadvantaged communities [20].
Presentations were given       to the DWP Ethnic Minority Task Force and Jobcentre Plus at national       level, as well as to NATECLA and 20 FE colleges.
Reception amongst       trainers has been very positive, especially about the research-based data       used in FAQs: `before this there were no clear examples of the       kind of barriers bi and multilingual speakers face' is one of many       comments made to this effect (Jennie Turner, Greenwich Community College).
(v) The Action for ESOL campaign Funding for adult ESOL is       particularly vulnerable to government cuts and the research has fed       directly into the struggle to maintain provision.
The policy-related       findings from the NRDC research (i.e.
that formal instruction works, that       learning is more effective soon after arrival post-migration and that FE       provision is better quality than community based courses) [3] have been       used to hold to account the Government's policy to cut aspects of ESOL       funding, by providing evidence to two successful campaigns (in 2011 and       2013) to maintain provision.
The 2011 campaign successfully opposed the       abolition of fee remission to people not on `active benefits', which would       have affected up to 80% of provision in some parts of the country, for       ethnic minority women and low paid workers in particular.
In 2013 a       proposal to severely limit the time allotted for progression from one       level to the next was also successfully opposed.
The research directly fed       into (i) briefings for MPs in 2010 and 2013, which were disseminated       nationally both in face-to-face lobbying and on-line; (ii) the declaration       of a statement of principles [21]; and (iii) campaigning materials written       by the National Association for Teaching English and other Community       Languages to Adults and the NIACE.
The MP for Lewisham East, Heidi       Alexander, a Parliamentary supporter of the campaign, commented that the       literature produced for MPs informed by the research was `very crucial for       understanding the issues in the sector during the campaign against funding       cuts in 2011-13' (personal communication, 25.05.13).
