     [Numbers in brackets refer to references and sources in Sections 3 &amp;       5.]
The research underpinning this case study has had a direct and       significant impact on what science       is taught, how it is taught and how it is assessed, and specifically on       curriculum development and       delivery in England and Wales; on curriculum standards in the US; and on       international       assessment in science by the OECD.
These developments have resulted in a       greater emphasis on       teaching the nature of the discipline and how science works than was       previously the case and       have helped to shift the terms of the international `policy conversation'       on science education about       what it means to offer a challenging and engaging science education which       meets the needs of all       learners.
In England and Wales the Nuffield Beyond 2000 report [11] laid       the foundation for a new       curriculum course, funded by the OCR examination board and supported by       the Nuffield       Curriculum Centre, called `Twenty First Century Science' [23].
Twenty       First Century Science is a       suite of GCSE courses that consists of six inter-related GCSE courses:       GCSE Science, GCSE       Additional Science, GCSE Additional Applied Science, GCSE Biology, GCSE       Chemistry and       GCSE Physics.
Around 1,000 schools (more than 25% or all secondary       schools) in England and       Wales now offer this course.
In line with the recommendations of Beyond         2000, the course       resolves the tension between educating the future citizen and the future       scientist by providing a       broad overview of what we know and how science works.
Additional courses       are offered for those       wanting to specialise in science.
The course was developed by a project       team based at York       University, which was led by Robin Millar, co-author of Beyond 2000       [11].
Originally published by       OUP in 2006-7, second editions of the course materials were produced in       2011.
The success of       the trials of this program contributed to changes in the national       curriculum for science, with an       innovative element called `How science works', supported by video       materials for teachers'       professional development produced by Osborne and colleagues [18], becoming       a prominent       feature of the curriculum from 2006 onwards.
This included new       requirements, introduced on the       advice of Osborne and colleagues, that students be taught about `data,       theories and explanations',       `communication skills' and `applications and implications of science', as       a result of which students       in classrooms throughout the period from 2006/7 to 2013/14 have been       exposed to a science       curriculum that is very different from that experienced by previous       cohorts.
The program of work on argumentation has also had an impact on the US       National Academies       `Framework for K-12 science education' published in 2012.
This document       forms the basis of the       US Next Generation Science Standards which were released in May 2013.
Osborne was       responsible for leading on the chapter on the need to teach students about       scientific practices [21],       which placed the role of argumentation and evidence very much at the core       of the framework's       vision and model of good practice in science education.
Consequently, the       new US standards for       the science curriculum now require students to be taught how to engage in       argument from       evidence in science and it will be a feature of their assessment [25].
These standards are currently       being adopted for all stages of K-12 education in 26 states and another 14       are considering their       adoption [25].
51 businesses including Bayer, IBM and Hitachi, have signed       a statement that says:       `We support the Next Generation Science Standards...These standards will       provide all students       with a coherent and content-rich science education that will prepare them       for college and careers'       [26].
On the international stage Osborne is chair of the expert group that has       been responsible for       drafting the now agreed framework for the 2015 OECD PISA assessment in       science for 15-year       old students.
Science will be the major focus of PISA in 2015 and, given       the policy importance of       the PISA tests, the influence of this framework on the national science       curricula in the 76       participating countries is expected to be substantial.
The 2015 framework,       which defines what the       2015 PISA exercise will assess in science, is significantly different from       the framework used in       2006 (when science was last the major focus of PISA).
The 2015 framework       takes a `literacy-based'       view of science education that &#8212; analogous to the teaching of English       literacy &#8212; balances       the importance of knowing the content of science with developing students'       competency to       evaluate scientific evidence, claims and arguments.
PISA sees the latter       as dependent on       knowledge of the procedures and epistemic features of science which       Osborne's research [11, 14]       (cited in the framework document [22]) has contributed to describing and       assessing.
The focus on       scientific literacy and the teaching of the epistemic and procedural       features of science which       promotes the understanding of science as a distinct discipline is a       significant departure from the       authoritative and content-focused way science has been taught to date in       most countries.
The impact described in this section has been achieved in several ways.
First, Osborne and       colleagues have not only addressed an enduring and substantive research       problem of concern to       science education, but they have also investigated how change could be       effected [e.g., 4] and to       do so collaborated with policy-makers and practitioners [e.g., 11].
Second, Osborne has directly       engaged in the development of curriculum and assessment policy and       practice in the UK, in the US       and internationally.
His contributions include leading on the development       of policy (e.g., as Chair of       PISA's expert group), producing commissioned and focused guidance [e.g.,       17], providing ad-hoc       and ongoing advice (e.g.
on the development and implementation of the       National Curriculum in       England) and leading seminars bringing together academics and users.
Third, Osborne and       colleagues have produced exemplars of classroom practice [e.g., 18], of       innovative assessment       items [e.g.
5], and shown how argumentation can be implemented in the       classroom [e.g., 16, 18].
Fourth, building on research on the nature of evidence-based practice       [e.g., 4], Osborne and       colleagues have `translated' the research for a range of stakeholder       audiences, making the case       for change and showing how the change could be implemented at national and       local levels.
These       stakeholder audiences include policy-makers [e.g., 11], scientists [e.g.,       20], and teachers [e.g., 18].
