     The outcome of NRI's research has been adopted in the design of projects,       for staple grains as well as export commodities, funded by donors       including the Common Fund for Commodities (CFC), the European Union, the       World Bank and USAID in West, Eastern and Southern Africa.
Progress in       developing the NRI-promoted WRS model is most advanced in Tanzania, making       it possible to mainstream inventory finance for export commodities such as       cashew and extend it to food staples such as maize.
Demonstrable benefits       to smallholders are outlined below by commodity, followed by impacts on       national and regional policy.
Cashew     Almost all cashew nuts produced in Tanzania are now marketed through the       WRS - first piloted in 2007 to make raw cashew marketing more transparent.
The WRS allows primary (village-level) Agricultural Marketing Cooperatives       (AMCOs) to borrow over US$50 million per season from commercial banks to       finance purchases from members as they build up volumes for sale.
The       receipted nuts are traded through an auction system involving over 30       exporters and local processors who submit sealed bids for advertised lots.
The introduction of these two allied systems, WRS and the auction system,       has contributed to higher producer prices.
In the 2007/08 season, cashew       farmers in Tanzania obtained average farmgate prices estimated at US$290       per tonne.
By 2011/12, the minimum price was estimated at US$750 per tonne       - an increase of over 2.5 times without any corresponding increase in the       international market price.
The improved producer incentives contributed       to a rise in output from 79,100 tonnes in 2008/09 to over 158,000 tonnes       in the 2011/12 season.
Coffee     In Tanzania, WRS has enabled smallholder farmers to directly market       value-added `clean' coffee rather than unprocessed `parchment' coffee.
The       farmers sell through rural cooperative societies (RCS) which aggregate on       behalf of members using inventory finance from banks.
It is estimated that       over US$12 million commercial bank financing is provided per season for       the coffee trade.
The coffee is deposited with curing factories licensed       by the Tanzania Warehouse Licensing Board.
Launched in the early 2000s,       this system enables over 4,000 smallholder coffee farmers to sell through       RCSs.
Usually, they receive an initial payment which is about 60% of the       farmgate price offered by private traders for parchment.
Subsequent       payments, received in two tranches, bring the total to almost 170% of the       parchment price.
Increased competition at farmgate level has also       reportedly benefitted non-participating farmers.
Cotton     The WRS pilot for cotton has taken off in Eastern Tanzania, where       ginners, who traditionally bought the raw seed cotton, processed it into       lint and cotton seed and then sold them, are willing to provide       toll-ginning services: farmers' organisations pay a fee for ginning and       can then sell the processed products themselves.
The organisations use       inventory finance to make initial payments to farmers while they wait for       processing.
Participating farmers obtain net incremental income of over       50% above the price for seed cotton.
In one community, the farmers'       organisation used part of the profits to finance procurement of inputs and       tractor services, leading to a ten-fold increase in profits for members.
Ginners in Western Tanzania are increasingly interested in replicating the       model.
WRS has not had much impact on the market in unprocessed cotton as       yet.
Grain     Even in countries such as Tanzania, Ghana, Kenya and Zambia, where export       bans and other government interventions in output markets make it       difficult for depositors to sell their produce for the best possible       prices, there is evidence that private sector representative       organisations, e.g.
the Ghana Grain Council and the Grain Traders'       Association of Zambia, continue to advocate the NRI- promoted WRS model.
Furthermore, in countries where commodity exchanges were incorporated in       advance of reliable delivery systems, the exchanges are increasingly       reverting to the NRI WRS model where the receipt assures delivery against       traded contracts.
This is the case in Zambia, where government and the       Zambia Agricultural Commodity Exchange are in dialogue over a regulatory       system that will foster WRS.
The Ethiopia Commodity Exchange is also       promoting WRS for "non-mandated" crops such as grains to encourage their       trading on the exchange floor.
Impact on policy and strategy for developing efficient output markets     Following declarations by African Union high-level meetings and other       regional fora in 2005-2006 on the need to promote new market institutions,       African governments have incorporated WRS into agricultural policies.
The       Kenyan government initiated a WRS to improve trade in maize and other       staple grains in 2010.
In Tanzania, the government and private       stakeholders are working to strengthen the WRS to ensure a sound       foundation for a viable commodity exchange.
Similar programmes have been       initiated by the governments of Nigeria and Uganda to turn around the poor       performance of their commodity exchanges.
