     [Numbers in brackets refer to references and sources in Sections 3 &amp;       5.]
In the UK the uptake of Cognitive Acceleration in Mathematics Education       (CAME) and Science Education (CASE) is widespread in primary and secondary       schools as a result of extensive dissemination of the research through a       mixture of: teaching materials produced by the research team; professional       networks; and professional development programmes for teachers.
The       cognitive acceleration-based Let's Think materials for teachers in       primary and secondary schools have sold over 6000 units in the 2008-13       period.
In 2010 the King's researchers established the organisation, the       `Let's Think Forum' out of a merger between two organisations formed in       the previous decade to provide training and support for schools wishing to       use cognitive acceleration approaches (the Cognitive Acceleration Network,       established in 2002 to support a group of around 20 trainers, and       Cognitive Acceleration Associates, established in 2003 to provide training       and support for schools).
Since its establishment in 2010, Let's Think has       delivered cognitive acceleration-based professional development in 18       local authorities in the UK based on the original King's research [17].
As       a result, over 2000 mathematics, science and primary teachers from more       than 1000 schools have been trained to use cognitive acceleration concepts       and techniques in these 18 `clusters' over the last five years.
In       addition, a number of advisors have created their own programmes based on       the published materials (e.g., in East Riding), whilst many of the 1500+       schools trained prior to 2008 have now integrated CASE and/or CAME into       their schemes of work [see source 14 for an example].
In addition, `Let's       Think' is currently conducting an independently evaluated randomised       control trial of the CASE approach with an intervention group of 25       schools in the Midlands and the North of England funded by the Education       Endowment Foundation.
The research has also had impact on guidance on best practice to schools.
CAME, for example, is the only research-based intervention cited in the       two most recent OFSTED subject reports on calculation in primary       mathematics [13] and on school mathematics [14].
The primary report [13]       was commissioned by the Department for Education to support the increased       emphasis on calculation in the proposed revised National Curriculum for       primary schools.
CASE is cited in the 2008 OFSTED report on Science [15]       and is one of only two research-based approaches recommended in the Royal       Society's 2010 `State of the Nation' report on 5-14 education [16].
The new `Let's Think in English' teaching programme, led by Laurie Smith       (a former staff member and a visiting academic in DEPS), is currently       being used by 65 secondary schools in London and the South East, with       training for 20 additional schools in Liverpool, West Yorkshire,       Hampshire, Norfolk and Suffolk commencing in 2013.
The international spread of cognitive acceleration concepts and practices       has also grown steadily over the last decade.
For example, in the 1990s       Shayer toured the major cities of South Africa to talk to around 2000       teachers about cognitive acceleration.
One teacher, Ian McLachlan, became       heavily involved in using CASE and CAME, driving its wider adoption in       South Africa.
At Hilton College, McLachlan taught Kgosi Leruo Molotlegi,       the present King of the Bafokeng Nation, a province in South Africa.
The       King was impressed by the quality of the teaching he had received from       McLachlan (particularly in cognitive acceleration) and hence, in 2008,       asked McLachlan to establish the Royal Bafokeng Institute of Education       (RBI) with the aim of improving teaching in all schools in Bafokeng.
Accordingly, in 2009, McLachlan and the RBI re-established Lebone II       College as a centre of educational excellence which would also provide       continuing professional development (CPD) for the teachers across the       province's primary and secondary schools [21].
In 2011, Shayer visited       Lebone II and RBI to advise on CASE, CAME, Let's Think and the associated       CPD interventions.
At Lebone II cognitive acceleration is used from Grade       R to Grade 12 in all subject areas and is central to the CPD for the       province's teachers.
As a result, CASE, CAME and the other Let's Think       interventions are now used in 10 pre-schools, 29 primary schools, and 20       secondary schools with a total of 25,000 pupils across Bafokeng.
Similar patterns can be identified in other national settings where the       research has been replicated by local teams of researchers and teachers       supported by Adey or Shayer.
For example, in Western Australia, 30 schools       are currently using CASE and CAME in a replication intervention programme       developed with the support of Adey [18].
The effects on student learning       of this extension have been demonstrated by Dr Grady Venville and her       colleagues, with Adey acting as an academic adviser [19].
Venville et         al.
found an effect size of 0.47 on a set of standardised science       reasoning tasks for students whose teachers had been trained in the CASE       approach.
Moreover, students were overwhelmingly positive about the       cognitive acceleration lessons.
In China cognitive acceleration techniques are used in over 300 schools,       reaching more than 200,000 students.
In addition to showing that the       approach is effective at raising attainment even in the high attaining       Chinese context [12], cognitive acceleration has also addressed a       significant additional concern amongst Chinese educators and       policy-makers: the need for a greater emphasis on the promotion of       creativity in school education.
In a two-year intervention study,       Professor Weiping Hu found that cognitive acceleration enhances scientific       creativity, reporting that the approach established `an open, democratic       and positive activity atmosphere', and `encourag[ed] students to spend       more time discussing problems with partners, thinking independently,       speaking out their own ideas bravely, and judging others' views' [20].
