     King's College London (KCL) research on visual vertigo (VV) has been used       in a number of ways but a wide array of services.
For instance, in 2009,       the Department of Health issued a good practice guide for `Provision of         adult balance services' that included input from Dr Pavlou.
Within       this, citing Pavlou 2004, they stated that "Innovative technology has been       highlighted by the Government as critically important in delivering       services for 21st century healthcare."
As such, they recommend that all       supra-specialist centres should have access to dynamic visual stimulation       equipment (1).
Work at KCL has established that customised vestibular rehabilitation via       a DVD that incorporates visual motion exposure is an effective treatment       for people with dizziness and is particularly effective for improving       symptoms of VV.
Most importantly, the DVD makes this type of treatment       accessible to all balance centres, not just supra-specialist ones and,       when used under supervision of a trained professional, is as effective as       the use of expensive and high-tech equipment.
There are approximately 160       physiotherapists with an interest in vestibular rehabilitation across the       United Kingdom, with each seeing between 1-20 patients weekly.
Currently       the DVD is being used in around 30 rehabilitation centres in the UK by       both NHS and private clinicians.
Experts at the National Hospital for       Neurology and Neurosurgery, Queen Square, London will attest to the use of       this DVD for their patients (2).
KCL has copyrighted the DVD and it is now       available for purchase (3).
There is a recognised need for this tool in       that a poll carried out by KCL researchers at the conference of the       Association of Chartered Physiotherapists with an interest in Vestibular       Rehabilitation in May 2012 found that of 70 participating physiotherapists       who treated VV symptoms, 80% said they would like to use the visual motion       DVD together with Google images, an optokinetic drum or virtual reality       (4).
The Vestibular Rehabilitation Special Interest Group of the American       Physical Therapy Association has details on how to purchase the DVD on       their website following multiple requests by its members (5).
Through training sessions at relevant meetings, the work of KCL       researchers in assessing and treating VV has been disseminated to       clinicians both inside and outside of the UK.
These involve a lecture       followed by a number of practical elements including case studies,       exposure to the optokinetic stimuli and appropriate types of exercises,       along with discussion of patient presentation, subjective symptom reports       and factors affecting outcome.
Training sessions have occurred at UK       meetings of the National Hospital for Neurology and Neurosurgery Dizziness       Course (November 2010, June 2013); Royal College of Medicine (March 2012);       the British Society of Audiology (annually) and the Association of       Chartered Physiotherapists with an interest in Neurology or Vestibular       rehabilitation in 2011 and 2012.
Outside of the UK they have occurred at       the American Physical Therapy Association's Combined Sections Meeting in       2012; the Vestibular Assessment and Rehabilitation Workshop, Doha, Qatar,       2012 and in Germany (2007) (6).
This work has also been utilised in a variety of clinical practice       materials.
The 2011 `International Guidelines for Education in Vestibular       Rehabilitation Therapy' (VRT) has a number of clinical science       recommendations and state that for VRT therapists to be able to properly       evaluate, treat and manage the care of patients with vestibular disorders       they need an understanding of "the clinical problems with which these       patients present."
One of the areas of understanding with regard to       "visual-vestibular interaction and the effects of apparent visual motion       in patients with vestibular impairments" cites Pavlou 2006 as the sole       source of recommendation to fulfil this educational need (7).
The 2012       Handbook of Clinical Neurology series includes a volume on Neurological       Rehabilitation, which is described as `a definitive review of current       neurorehabilitation practice' aimed at `a wide range of clinicians and       scientists.'
Dr Pavlou, along with Professor Bronstein at Imperial College       London authored the chapter on Balance, which includes reference to Pavlou       2013 and cites Pavlou 2004 and 2006 with regards to incorporation of       optokinetic stimulation into balance rehabilitation programmes (8).
Pavlou       2006, along with Pavlou 2011, is also cited in a fact sheet on VV produced       by the American Physical Therapy Association aimed at general physicians       (9) and in a podcast on VV organised by the same association with Dr       Pavlou and Dr Jeffrey Staab as the invited speakers (10).
Their website       also includes a link to `Dr Pavlou's Situational Vertigo Questionnaire,'       which is a KCL-modified version of the SCQ used in Pavlou 2006 (11).
KCL work also features in an educational e-learning programme developed       by the Joint Neurosciences Council, the European Federation of       Neurological Societies and the European Neurological Society.
Ebrain is a       Europe-focused resource aimed at clinical neurosciences professionals for       both training and continued professional development, with certification       at the end of each module.
Module 16 focuses on neuro-otology and includes       information about the inclusion of optokinetic stimulation into vestibular       rehabilitation programmes as appropriate for each patient citing Pavlou       2013 (12).
