     The bio-analytical research in forensic drug analysis by King's College       London (KCL) researchers into the testing of sports competitors for       prohibited substances has been recognised as world-leading.
In support of       the work of the Drug Control Centre (DCC), the Chief Science Officer of       the US Anti-Doping Agency (USADA) confirms that "the underpinning         research at the internationally renowned Drug Control Centre has         developed new and improved analytical approaches for prohibited         substances in human sports drug testing."
He goes on to detail,       referring to the specific studies discussed above, how "the research         knowledge and expertise of the Centre continue to have significant         impact in the field of anti-doping" (1).
In 2002, due to their expertise and extensive research on methods for       detecting prohibited substances, the DCC at KCL (2) delivered anti-doping       testing for the Commonwealth Games in Manchester.
Following this, the       World Anti-Doping Agency (WADA) produced an independent observer's report       that, in reference to the DCC, said that "future Games Laboratories       [should] adopt the procedures for analysis as carried out in this highly       professional and effective laboratory" (3).
This expertise led the DCC to       become a key advisor to testing laboratories for the 2008 Summer Olympic       Games in Beijing and the 2010 Commonwealth Games in Delhi.
Most       significantly, the DCC was then chosen to run the anti-doping facility at       the London 2012 Olympic and Paralympic Games.
As such, the DCC played a       pivotal role in protecting the health of the athletes and ensuring these       Games were conducted to the highest ethical standard, as reflected in a       number of worldwide media articles at the time (4a-d).
Due to his role as       Director of the DCC, Professor Cowan was also a member of the London 2012       Summer Olympic Games Bid team, the London Organising Committee of the       Olympic and Paralympic Games and was the Laboratory Representative on the       International Olympic Committee's Medical Commission (posing no conflict       of interest in respect to winning the anti-doping contract as decisions       were made independently).
The testing of competitors for prohibited substances was successfully       delivered from a dedicated state-of-the-art laboratory set up at the       research and development site of the pharmaceutical company       GlaxoSmithKline (GSK) at Harlow in Essex.
This Anti-Doping Science Centre       (ADSC) carried out analysis of more than 6,250 samples (up to 400 per day)       throughout the Games, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, using instruments in       accordance with the highest possible standard of accreditation for       analytical work and accredited by WADA.
The ADSC employed nearly 400 staff       in total, including 37 DCC core staff and over 175 temporary analysts and       overseas scientists.
Methodologies were utilized that had been developed by the DCC.
These       include novel high resolution mass spectrometric screening method for all       of the urine samples (Musenga 2013) and the improved isotope ratio mass       spectrometric method for confirmatory testing of all samples where there       was suspicion of endogenous steroid administration (Brailsford 2012).
In a       letter of support, the GSK Director for this operation writes that: "As         the Drug Control Centre has been in the forefront of introducing         advances in anti-doping science for many years, we were particularly         impressed by their analytical chemistry ability which is evidenced by         their publication record, especially in such challenging areas as         quantitative handling of basic compounds, working with minor         contaminants such as those found in contraceptive steroids and the         application of biomarkers at an evidential forensic level" (5).
The unprecedented scale of the anti-doping operation at London 2012 is       demonstrated by statistics revealing that over 5,000 athletes' samples       were tested during the Olympics and a further 1,400 during the Paralympic       Games, equating to almost 50% of the competitors and including all medal       winners.
Working in a highly regulated environment, where confidentiality       and security were paramount at all times, DCC staff demonstrated their       track record of quality and delivery.
Both these attributes came to the       fore in an environment that mandated not only a rapid turnaround of       results, but also accurate identification of prohibited substances and       interpretation of the findings.
Indeed, unequivocal identification is       essential, since laboratory findings may be the subject of prolonged and       intense legal scrutiny.
Negative analytical findings were securely       reported no later than 24 hours of receipt at the laboratory and even       adverse analytical findings were reported within very short time-frames.
The latest research on the interpretation and application of the human       growth hormone (hGH) biomarker projects described above were accepted by       WADA and resulted in the undisputed disqualification of two Paralympic       athletes for hGH misuse, as described in the letter from USADA (1).
The procedures set up at the ADSC for the London Olympic Games created a       base of knowledge around operations and processes.
As such, the DCC is       currently working with scientists who will set up a similar laboratory in       Rio de Janeiro for their 2016 Olympic and Paralympic Games (6).
The DCC       also continuously works with the UK Anti-Doping Agency (UKAD), providing       assistance through their research and expertise.
In a letter of support,       the Chief Executive of UKAD testifies that "the Drug Control Centre is         the current provider of comprehensive analytical services to         UK-Anti-Doping and has demonstrated not only its ability to provide         consistent tests but also its commitment to lead the science behind         anti-doping testing."
He goes on to describe how UKAD has "valued         the advice and experience of the DCC" and how they are "experienced         in presenting its analytical results at athlete hearings, appeals and         courts of law both nationally and internationally" (7).
In partnership with GSK, the DCC has delivered further impact based on       its drug monitoring programme role through public outreach programmes such       as "Scientists in Sport" (8).
These encompass the promotion of anti-doping       messages as well as chemistry and science within schools and the broader       community through visits to/presentations at both the Harlow Olympic       testing facility and the DCC laboratories at KCL.
Professor Cowan has also       served on the WADA Laboratory Accreditation sub-committee and the Council       of Europe Working Party Investigating Drug Abuse in Sport that led to the       first World Anti-Doping Convention.
