     The first stage of the impact predates the REF period, but is important       as a model for subsequent       impact.
The RSC's Spanish Golden Age Season sold out in Stratford,       Newcastle, Madrid (where it       won the prestigious Critics Award), and in London's West End, and the RSC       views House of         Desires `as one of the great successes of the RSC's award winning       season of Spanish Golden Age       Plays' (5.1.2).
Within the REF period, there have been at least six known       productions of House of         Desires in the UK and USA, including three university productions       and three commercial ones, and       a number of further readings.
Each corroborative statement cites Boyle's       translation as the       motivation for the production: the director of the Duke University       production saying that `Catherine       Boyle's contemporary translation makes the piece very accessible for       modern audiences' (5.1.3),       and a University of Massachusetts Sor Juana calls the translation `by far       the best' of those       available (5.3.1).
In 2012, the Royal Shakespeare Company returned to Sor       Juana In&#233;s de la Cruz,       in Heresy of Love, a play by Helen Edmundson based on her life       story (audience figures: 7,641).
The author indicates Boyle's `invaluable contribution' to the play,       saying that `it was after seeing       Catherine Boyle's translation of Sor Juana's play ... at the RSC ... that       I became interested in the       life of Sor Juana and decided I wanted to make her the subject of a play'       (5.3.2).
Boyle acted as       academic expert for the company through discussions with the director and       writer, and workshops       with the actors, and `really inspired everyone to further reading and       research' (5.3.2).
The impact of cultural and historical research on the practice of       rehearsing the translated text was       tested through the process of developing Boyle's translation of Las         brutas / Beasts by Juan       Radrig&#225;n (Chile).
Development took place in the context of the       `Translating Cultural Extremity'       project, and a dramatised reading performed for an audience of theatre       professionals, students       and researchers at King's College London (2010).
In 2010 the script won an       `Everyone has the       Right' award in the competition run by iceandfire theatre and Amnesty       International, one of five       plays chosen `following an overwhelming response for development and       performance at Amnesty       International's Human Rights Action Centre' (5.2.1).
The development of       the work through       sustained dialogue between academic research, the process of rehearsal and       active engagement       with new theatres and audiences &#8212; led to the programming of a full       production at Theatre 503,       London (2011).
The run attracted an audience of more than 3000 and       received consistently       excellent reviews, being a Guardian critics' recommendation for the entire       run, and also received       press coverage in Chile (5.2.3).
Premiered in the aftermath of the London       riots, its resonance with       contemporary Britain was noted by a number of critics: `the play resounds       strongly in today's       political climate' (5.2.3); `the production as a whole makes a case for       the play as a work of       considerable power and importance' (5.2.3); `Beasts is a demanding,       passionate play, and with       deprivation and marginalisation so high on the current domestic agenda,       its UK premiere could not       come at a better time' (5.2.3).
Another said: `The kind of production that       gnaws away at the soul,       Las brutas is rarely easy but beautifully haunting and highly       recommended' (5.2.3).
A series of       talks engaged the theatre-going community, and a young director was       mentored (through an Out of       the Wings competition) in the staging of a reading of a second Radrig&#225;n       play, Hechos consumados         / When All is Said and Done.
In 2012, Boyle joined the advisory board of the CASA Festival of Latin       American theatre, and has       co-curated a series of readings of Latin American plays in translation,       most of which are sourced       through the Out of the Wings database.
According to the CASA director,       around `500 people have       discovered new Latin American plays that have come about thanks to OOTW,       while about 3000       have seen my version of Fuenteovejuna that was so influenced by       OOTW resources' (5.3.3).
The       OOTW project is described by CASA as `an essential database for the       heritage of Spanish and       Latin Americans living in the UK' and as `supporting CASA to evolve as an       organisation by opening       the possibilities for interdisciplinary and cross cultural projects'       (5.3.3).
Out of the Wings created the opportunity for a young director to do a       full production of a play from       the archive through an open competition, judged by London theatre       professionals.
The winning       group, Silver Lining Theatre company, premiered the translation of a play       by the major Argentine       dramatist Griselda Gambaro, Los siameses / Siamese Twins, by       King's-based Out of the Wings       Post-doctoral Research Assistant, Dr Gwen MacKeith.
The director gives       testimony of the impact       of the `phenomenal' experience on her practice, her understanding of       theatre traditions and of `a       greater understanding and confidence in a method of translating       Spanish-language texts through       workshops with actors' (5.3.5).This expanded the impact of the research       into the formation of       young directors and actors through: mentoring in the translation process;       the introduction of the       play work to a new demographic (also through its publication by Oberon       Books); diverse       opportunities for public engagement.
This is an experience that       encapsulates the goals of this       research, summed up in the words of CASA director, who talks of using it       `as a living resource       rather than a dead archive' (5.3.3).
