     a) Understanding and Challenging the Far-Right       The conclusions of the research described above have been integrated into       a variety of fora, and       have focused on two areas.
Firstly, Wolfreys has raised public awareness       of how the success of       the contemporary extreme-right in France is the result of its       modernisation of a `classic' fascist       tradition.
Secondly, and more specifically, his work and activity have led       to an enhanced       awareness of the importance of `unofficial' networks and grass roots       organizations in building       broad-based campaigns targeting the far-right with the aim of preventing       its entry into mainstream       politics.
Thus, academic research on the history of fascism and of the       Front National, as well as       analyses of its contemporary form and of the responses to it in France and       across Europe, have       impacted on the political consciousness of individuals and groups actively       engaged in anti-fascist       and anti-racist politics.
The arguments developed and proposed in the publications listed above       have been presented at       various fora over the past decade and sought to influence not just debate       but also activity.
In       particular, Wolfreys has written five prominent blog pieces analysing       contemporary political issues       for the Guardian Online (5.1).
For example, in 2009 he wrote a piece       contributing to the extensive       media debate on Nick Griffin's appearance on Question Time with a       comparison of Le Pen and the       Front National's use of the media in France.
This led to a discussion       among readers with 139       comments.
And in 2010 Wolfreys' research on the FN fed into his Guardian       Online analysis of the       BNP's election manifesto, arguing that it exhibited an adaptation of       fascism to contemporary       conditions.
The discussion that followed involved 383 comments.
Other fora       where Wolfreys has       reached large audiences include an interview conducted with him by Adam       Boulton on Sky News       (3/5/12), which dealt with the French presidential election, the       relationship between mainstream       parties and the Front National and the consequences of making concessions       to racist arguments;       and an interview with Wolfreys on French radio (Europe 1, 18/2/13)       explaining why mobilisations       were taking place in Cambridge to contest the public platform given to       Marine Le Pen in February       2013 by the Cambridge Union (5.2)     As well as contributing to public debate and understanding, Wolfreys'       research has also informed       activists involved in debates and campaigns over denying political       legitimacy to the BNP       (particularly following its success in the 2009 European elections).
According to former Unite       Against Fascism press officer Anindya Bhattacharyya: `UAF campaigned with       the public and       lobbied journalists to persuade them that the BNP was an unrepentant       fascist group despite its       attempts to appear respectable.
This culminated with a battle of opinion       over BNP leader Nick       Griffin's invitation onto the BBC's Question Time...
Throughout this       period Jim Wolfreys's articles       and research provided useful ammunition for those of us arguing that the       BNP had not changed its       core politics and that it remained a fascist organisation with strong Nazi       sympathies.
Jim's       comparisons with the Front National in France were particularly useful,       both in terms of explaining       the BNP's ruses and in terms of warning what might happen if they were       treated as a legitimate       populist organisation rather than as fascists and pariahs.
Here is a       message we sent out on Twitter       at the time highlighting one of Jim's Guardian articles: the Guardian         has a must-read piece from         Jim Wolfreys re BNP on QT : Nick Griffin follows Le Pen's lead http://bit.ly/1odzcw       #bbcqt.
In       summary I'd say Jim's research played an important role in helping       anti-racists win the argument       against the BNP at a crucial point when the fascists were on the cusp of       unprecedented       mainstream success.
This kind of academic research plays an invaluable       role in complementing       and bolstering the work of campaigners and activists against racism and       fascism.'
Wolfreys' work       also impacted on campaigners during the Barking election in 2010.
According to one of the       organisers of the 2010 mass canvassing campaign in Barking, where the BNP       held twelve council       seats and were hoping to elect Nick Griffin to parliament: `Jim's work       positively spurred our       campaign, by providing a clear and steadfast analysis of the rise of the       BNP locally.
His       contributions filtered into conversations on the doorsteps, helping us to       invert the BNPs attempted       logic and reverse their historic and singular electoral victory' (5.7).
Wolfreys' arguments were also       used by the UAF on its website in calls for a demonstration against Marine       Le Pen's invitation to       the Cambridge Union in 2013 (5.3).
b) Unofficial Networks: the EAN     Wolfreys' research on neoliberalism and its critics has led to the       development of a threefold critique       of neoliberalism in relation to i) mainstream political parties; ii) new       managerialism in the workplace       and iii) the marketization of the public sector.
His research on the role       of French social movements       in contesting this agenda, notably with regard to the role of unofficial       coordination committees in       supplementing the work of official labour movement organisations,       contributed to the formation and       development of the Education Activist Network (EAN) from 2009.
This body,       established during a       400-strong conference at King's College London, became a national       organisation uniting students,       university staff and local communities in defence of public education.
Mark Bergfeld (NUS       Executive Officer 2010-12, EAN activist and a prominent figure in the       student demonstrations of       2010), describes the importance of Wolfreys' research in the development       of the EAN: `The       Education Activist Network is ... at one and the same time a social       movement and an organisation.
During the process of contestation and mobilisation (i.e.
the 2010 UK       student movement, labour       disputes) it moved between these two poles stretching traditional notions       of "organisation" and       "organising".
It drew on concepts of social movement unionism and       formulated a novel form of       organising.
This makes it unique in today's British social movement       environment.
Dr Jim Wolfreys       helped to develop this model of social movement organisation.'
(5.8)     Between February 2009 and October 2012 EAN organised public meetings,       protests, conferences,       teach-ins and co-ordinations which involved several thousand people.
EAN       fora were held in       scores of schools, FE colleges and universities.
EAN was one of the       principal contacts for news       and comment pieces on the tuition fee debate, with subscribers to its       email list including The       Times, The Guardian, The Independent, The Financial Times, The Washington       Post, The Sun and       The Mirror, along with TV stations including BBC News, Channel 4, Sky News       and Al Jazeera.
Messages of support and requests for information were received from       hundreds of individuals       worldwide (5.4).
At the grass-roots level, the EAN involved 12       decentralised local groups and also       30 affiiliate groups which included the National Union of Students.
The       reach of the network is       shown by its email subscription list (over 7000 subscribers), its facebook       organising group (over       2500 members) and its twitter account (over 5000 followers; for social       media statistics, see       Bergfeld's statement, 5.8).
EAN also produced a series of educational       materials, disseminated       through local groups and affiliated bodies, geared towards the elaboration       and dissemination of       practical tools for resisting neo-liberal ideas and policies in the public       sector, notably in the form of       the 2011 HE White Paper.
Wolfreys' briefing on the White Paper,       `Universities for Hire', sold       between 2000 and 3000 copies, with orders and invitations to speak on it       received from dozens of       universities.
Bergfeld has described the importance of Wolfreys' research to the EAN:       `From the initial meetings       onwards, Dr Wolfreys drew upon his extensive academic knowledge of the       organisation of the       French public sector work stoppages against the Jupp&#233; government in 1995       and the anti-CPE       protests against precarity.
This knowledge was an invaluable resource for       younger activists and       less experienced social movement participants [...] Dr Wolfreys acted as a       facilitator and helped to       oversee this new project from its formation onwards.
His arguments and       insights allowed the       network to be maintained as open as possible without collapsing into a       traditional organisation.
[...]       Wolfreys enabled the network to stand in its own right within social       movements and several labour       disputes at the time.
The fact that a number of organisations such as the       Campaign for the Public       University and OUCHE!
(Oxford University Campaign for Higher Education)       modelled themselves       on this example is further testimony to Wolfreys innovative and       intellectual quality.'
(5.8)     Wolfreys' research in this area also impacted on the University and       College Union (UCU).
According to senior trade union official Michael MacNeil, UCU's National       Head of Higher       Education, `Between 2010 and 2012 there were major debates within the       University and College       Union about ... union policy in response to the Government's neo-liberal       reforms...The positions       adopted were the result of real tensions within the union and Dr.       Wolfreys' work, was influential on       significant groupings of activists and members within the University and       College Union.
He was       instrumental in the development of the Education Activists' Network, which       seemed to exemplify a       practical application of his academic analysis.'
(5.8)     Other fora where Wolfreys' research in this field reached a wide audience       include interviews with       Europe 1 (17/11/11), on the relationship between mobilisations in defence       of public education and       the strikes by public sector trade unions over pension reform, and with       French radio station France       Culture (30/11/10, 4/5/11) on the relationship between students and       education workers and their       potential to unite in defence of universal access to higher education.
The       latter interviews focused       specifically on Wolfreys' role as a researcher on social movements and       participant in them (5.6).
