     The significance and timeliness of the research was quickly recognised,       as evidenced by Dr Brian       Klug's announcement, in a magisterial review article, that the concept of       Islamophobia has `come       of age' [5.1].
Moreover, the book's opportuneness and broad significance       for public debate in an       international postcolonial setting are unequivocally demonstrated by the       fact that it is cited as the       single recommended reference on the question in two important new books by       public intellectuals       Richard Sennett and Patrick Chabal [5.1].
Following its publication the       two editors, individually,       jointly and in partnership with other contributors, have pursued the       project of shifting public and       policy debates across the range of civil society, grassroots       organisations, political institutions and       international fora.
Exemplifying the first of these, Vakil's work in partnership with the       Muslim Council of Britain       (MCB), the largest umbrella body of Muslim organisations in the United       Kingdom, and in particular       as the leader of its Islamophobia working group, has directly transformed       the thinking and       language of the Muslim community's representatives.
In a recent       communication the Secretary       General of the MCB states: `The Muslim Council of Britain is pleased to       place on record the       profound and direct impact that the writings, speeches and presentations       of AbdoolKarim Vakil       have had in shaping British Muslim civil society's understanding and       responses to the       phenomenon of Islamophobia and anti-Muslim discrimination... [His]       intervention has made a       positive impact on community relations in Britain by intellectually       empowering Muslim       spokespersons in their advocacy and representational roles.
The MCB is now       able to articulate its       position more effectively and confidently which is important for social       cohesion in Britain because       all sections of society should be able to have a voice and a say on       matters of public policy and       interest.'
[5.2]     At the grassroots level, workshops and talks to affiliated organisations       and representatives at       MCB community briefing meetings, AGMs, and Central Working Committee       meetings have helped       develop both engagement and discussion with local groups.
One MCB activist       commented on the       importance of Vakil's initiatives in `building a better understanding       across disciplines and silos with       a focus on problem solving rather than just issue raising' [5.2].
Contributions to broad public activist       initiatives have included panel presentations and workshops at meetings       such as the `Confronting       Anti-Muslim Hatred in Britain and Europe' European Conference (London       Muslim Centre, 21 May       2011), and the `Celebrate Diversity, Defend Multiculturalism, Oppose       Islamophobia and Racism'       National Convention, organised by One Society Many Cultures and United       Against Fascism (15       October 2011) [5.4].
The corroborating statement from the MCB confirms       that, in his capacity as an       invited speaker at a variety of fora, Vakil `has made a direct       contribution to the emergence of a civil       society coalition including the trade unionists that is now confronting       Islamophobia in different       settings, from the shop floor to the senior common room.'
[5.2]     The reconceptualisation of Islamophobia proposed in the book has also       informed Vakil's       participation and contributions to closed network and information exchange       meetings organised by       other civil society organisations.
These include the October 2010 `End the       Isolation: Building       solidarity networks against Islamophobia in Europe', organised by the       Institute of Race Relations;       the `Far Right and the EDL, challenges for us all' round table at the       Muslim College London (31       May 2012), and post-Woolwich crisis meetings such as the London Muslims       Community Forum (12       June 2012), an advisory body for the London Metropolitan Police, and the       `Woolwich and Beyond:       Future Directions' Workshop convened by the Coventry University Centre for       Social Relations,       Faith Matters and the National Association of Muslim Police (London, 27       June).
In terms of political life and policy, the book's findings have reached       MPs particularly interested       in these issues, including at two Westminster initiatives to launch an All       Party Parliamentary Group       on Islamophobia; the first by the MCB, with the Muslim Safety Forum, the       Cordoba Foundation,       and the European Muslim Research Centre (3 March 2010), and the second by       Engage, at a       meeting hosted by Lord Mohammed Sheikh (12 October 2010) where Vakil spoke       as expert       witness.
He is also cited in recent written evidence to the APPG [Allen,       2011 in 5.8].
A book       launch for TTI was also held at the House of Commons (21 January       2011), chaired by Sadiq Khan       MP (Shadow Lord Chancellor and Shadow Secretary of State for Justice) who       described Thinking         Through Islamophobia: Global Perspectives as `essential reading.'
[5.3]     The new perspectives that the research has opened up on Islamophobia by       drawing on insights       from Vakil's work on the Portuguese-speaking world, from literary studies       and historiography have       been central to the novelty of these interventions, but have also       contributed to public debate       elsewhere in Europe: in Portugal itself, Spain, Scandinavia, France and       Turkey.
In a Portuguese       context where Islamophobia is absent from anti-racist discourse, Vakil's       interview in the national       daily newspaper P&#250;blico, and his commentary on the 2009 European       Parliament meeting and       debate on Islamophobia, broke new ground by firmly positioning the       discussion of Islamophobia in       terms of racism and racialization [5.6].
Young professional audiences in       particular were reached       through a workshop on Islamophobia in August-September 2011 at the 2nd       United Nations       Alliance of Civilizations Summer School in Lisbon [5.7], involving recent       graduates from across the       Middle East and North Africa and Eastern Europe.
Vakil's University of Helsinki Public Lecture (`Dreams of Europe Without       Muslims') occasioned       two interviews on Islamophobia in the Finnish and Swedish press [5.6].
In       January 2011 he       represented the MCB in Paris at a workshop of the French monitoring and       advocacy organisation       Collectif Contre L'Islamophobie en France (CCIF) which aimed to network       British, French and       German anti-racism and Muslim civil society organisations and academics,       and the following April       he spoke at a Colloquium on Islamophobia organised by the CCIF and Salaam       Sciences Po.
According to the spokesman for the CCIF: `Vakil's work has been a       reference book when it comes       to framing Islamophobia into modern social science debates.
He has also       participated in the CCIF       10th anniversary conference at Sciences Po on 20 April this year, where he       produced one of the       best contributions to the debate, by re-framing the issue from a       post-colonial perspective' [5.2].
Attesting to international policy impact, at the invitation of the Turkish       Prime Minister's Office,Vakil       contributed to a panel discussion (which included the Turkish Deputy PM)       at the 2012 Istanbul       World Forum [5.4] and at the International Conference on Islamophobia, Law       and Media organised       by the Prime Minister's Office and the Organisation of Islamic Cooperation       (Istanbul, 12-13 Sept       2013).
As a final indicator of international impact, Thinking Through         Islamophobia has been included in       the resource bibliographies listed in Guidelines for Educators on         Countering Intolerance and         Discrimination against Muslims: Addressing Islamophobia Through         Education, compiled for the       Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE)-Office for       Democratic Institutions and       Human Rights (ODIHR).
Domestically, it has also been cited in INSTED       (Inservice Training and       Educational Development) resources which were compiled by Robin       Richardson, who drafted the       original 1997 Runnymede Trust Report on Islamophobia [5.8].
