     In 1982, the film theorist Christian Metz famously conceptualized film       comment as a `third machine' of meaning production that functions       alongside industry and film text to structure cinema audience response.
Both Carter's current research (5.5), and the impact described here, draw       inspiration from Metz's understanding of the culturally generative       function of film commentary.
Impact activities are thus designed to help       shape Anglophone discourse on, and reception contexts for, German-language       film.
They build on Brady and Carter's shared core expertise in German       cinema studies, and on a keen commitment to public engagement that has       yielded, across a time-span of over two decades, extensive curatorial       work, film talks and exhibition programming at national and regional       venues including the Goethe-Institut (Brady x 4, 1991/ 1998: Carter 1996),       the ICA (Carter, as ICA Talks Director 1986-8), Tate Gallery (Brady 1991),       National Film Theatre/NFT (Carter 2006), BAFTA (Carter 2010) and Plymouth       and Warwick Arts Centres (Brady 1996; Carter 1995-2010).
During the assessment period, this shared expertise in public engagement       has provided the foundation for extended impact initiatives.
Following       Brady's successful collaborations since 2008 with the British Film       Institute (BFI), the Cannes and London Film Festivals, Tate Modern,       Serpentine Gallery, and Goethe-Institut, Carter's 2011 appointment allowed       the UoA to consolidate impact activities around a joint project, the       German Screen Studies Network (GSSN).
The backdrop is one of audience       underdevelopment.
German-language productions garner under 0.1% of UK box       office, with successes largely limited to historical dramas or auteur       productions.
Market research, however, registers audience growth in       contexts which foster relevant public discourse.
50% of respondents to a       2010/11 UK-wide exhibitor survey name special cinema events as audience       magnets, and acknowledge the importance of media coverage, festivals,       symposia and talks in audience development (5.1-4).
Academics who       participate in and shape such events thus not only fulfil the cultural       role described by Metz, but also have a market function in creating       reception infrastructures.
Carter and Brady's efforts to fulfil that dual       function have taken the following three forms:     Impact 1:Translation and Interpreting as intercultural discourse         (Brady)       Brady's impact activities have long centred on translation, interpreting,       and public critical commentary as forms of intercultural mediation that       shape public discourse.
His research focus on modernism has led him       repeatedly to anticipate the future promise of key modernist or       experimental cineastes, and to promote their work to initially sceptical       Anglophone audiences.
During the assessment period, this work centred on       directors Michael Haneke, Ulrich Seidl and Alexander Kluge.
Brady first       worked with Haneke on Benny's Video (1993).
The film never       achieved national theatrical release, but Brady contributed to its public       recognition when he conducted a one-hour interview with Haneke for a 1993       ICA Video edition, which he also subtitled.
Work on mediating Haneke's       work to UK audiences continued with further interviews, including a live       ICA event on Cinema and Violence to contextualize UK screenings of       Haneke's controversial Funny Games (1997).
Brady's prominence, ten       years on, as a specialist advocate for Haneke was illustrated in the       assessment period when he translated live at Haneke's 2009 Guardian       Interview, as well as a BFI In Conversation event (www.bfi.org.uk/live/video/153:       subtitles by Brady).
He also translated on Haneke's 2009 White Ribbon       DVD and, following the 2012 release of the Academy Award-winning Amour,       contributed voice-over for a 2012 BBC Radio 4 Front Row interview with       Haneke which reached 802,000 listeners.
Further 2012 activities included Brady's live interpreting for Haneke for       the London Film Festival Gala Screening of Amour, and also at the       Cannes Festival, where Amour won the Palme d'Or.
His       reputation as an expert interpreter, in the broadest sense, of Austrian       film has been further cemented by collaborations with auteur-director       Ulrich Seidl.
Brady's position as Seidl's sole UK translator began in       1994, and culminated in 2013 with two events for which his participation       was explicitly solicited: a two-day Danish Film School seminar; and a       European Film College masterclass to which Seidl consented only " provided       that [Dr Brady] will be able to translate&#187; (EFC email, 11.1013).
The       grounds for Seidl's choice are illustrated by Brady's October 2011       appearance alongside directors Markus Schleinzer and Michael Glawogger at       a London Film Festival special panel event, `New Austrian Cinema.'
The       event was the platform for a detailed extemporary analysis by Brady of       Anglo-Austrian film-cultural relations as the pertinent reception context       for work by Austrian practitioners including Schleinzer and Glawogger.
It       features on the BFI website, and its 63 views by September 2013, alongside       671 views for the BFI:Live vodcast of Haneke's LFF interview, and 2844       views for BFI:Live's extract of Haneke's Guardian event, attest to the       continued significance and reach of Brady's mediating activities for       Austrian film.
An early response by Alexander Kluge to his collaboration with Brady       places those activities in the larger context of film audience       development.
In 2006 and 2009, Brady was recruited by Serpentine Gallery       curator Hans Ulrich Obrist to translate films by Kluge in a live       performance in the director's presence.
The 2009 event comprised short       films and lectures, as well as screened extracts from Kluge's News         from Ideological Antiquity: Marx-Eisenstein-Das Kapital.
Kluge's       enthusiasm for this form of `expanded cinema' is evident from his comments       on the 2006 event : " An overwhelming response from the London audience.
A       direct public space.
I myself was astonished at the intermedial       transposition.
I had produced the films at different times for separate       broadcasts on TV...
I had never seen them before with a live audience.
[...] That is alchemy.
I now understood better what constitutes a film       programme.
Also how film programmes in early cinema must have functioned.
[...] Without meeting places of this kind experience lacks self-awareness.
&#187; (5.7)     Impact 2:Developing research-based public understanding of German         cinema       Kluge's comments suggest an intriguing parallel between film in a live       performance with interpreter and director, and early cinema screenings       whose audience impact derived as much from the presence of live film       lecturers, as from the silent images on screen.
The significance of       intercultural mediation in shaping film reception is further evident in       Brady and Carter's activities as curators and public critics.
In this       impact cycle, research by Brady and Carter has led directly to their       recruitment as collaborators by arts and cultural institutions seeking       expert support in projects on German-language film.
A 2013 BFI talk by       Carter on Herzog's sublime landscapes was prompted by her Herzog essay       (3.6), described in an email invitation as an `insightful and engaging'       discussion of Herzog's work (David Edgar, BFI Public Programmes Curator).
Brady's curatorial collaboration with the Goethe-Institut and Tate Modern       drew similarly on his long-standing research on political film, and on his       established reputation for informed public comment.
His co-curated       November 2012 retrospective of films by the much-neglected documentarist       Peter Nestler (5.6 &amp; 5.11) is described in a corroborating statement       by the Goethe-Institut Film Officer as resting on a `long history' of       Goethe-Institut collaboration with Brady.
She continues: `we have always       found that his introductions added an important element to our film       programmes and contributed to their appreciation by the audience.'
Hence       the invitations to Brady to introduce four of the ten Tate and       Goethe-Institut screenings, as well as to publish an online Nestler       introduction in the art magazine Afterall.
As the Goethe-Institut       further comments : `[This] comprehensive article on the work of Peter       Nestler, one of the first....published in English, has proven very useful       in drawing attention to our film season and its continuous online presence       ensures that valuable information about this filmmaker remains widely       available'.
(5.6).
Impact 3: Network-building &#8212; the German Screen Studies Network       Carter's arrival at King's has allowed the UoA to maximise its influence       as an opinion leader and reception platform for German-language film.
The       key focus has been the German Screen Studies Network (GSSN), a forum for       informed comment and German-language film promotion amongst educators,       film professionals, and the interested public.
The network, launched in       partnership with the Goethe-Institut, is currently financed by the German       Department and seven HEI partners.
2012-13 activities to build the network       included discussions with and/or presentations to the Gesellschaft f&#252;r       Medienwissenschaft, Deutsches Institut f&#252;r Film, Goethe-Institut, Austrian       Cultural Forum, German Embassy, Oxford German Network, and the Leeds-based       German Film Learning Initiative (http://germanfilm.co.uk);       two postgraduate workshops; and website development (www.germanscreenstudies.co.uk).
Activities culminated in `The Return of the Real,' a three-month       Goethe-Institut film season, and a July 2013 symposium with 50 attendees       including cultural officials, industry practitioners, US/UK academics,       students, and lay participants.
Of the 38% of participants who returned       feedback questionnaires, 89% reported `enhanced' knowledge and       understanding as a result of the event; 79% were more likely to engage in       future with German-language film; and 68% offered help co-organising       future events (questionnaires available on request).
According to the       Goethe-Institut: `From our point of view public screenings at the       Goethe-Institut with films from the Goethe-Institut Film Archive that       related to the symposium theme provided an ideal opportunity to place our       archive films into a specific context and to possibly find a wider       audience for them'.
The German Embassy Deputy Head of Culture and       Education, Dr Susanne Frane, has pledged future support (email, 11.10.13);       and current discussions with the Goethe-Institut and network members on       follow-up events at Leeds (2014) and Cambridge (2015) confirm the GSSN's       success as a long-term, strategically focussed project to consolidate not       only Brady and Carter's impact activities, but German film-related       initiatives nationally, and in so doing, to build a sustainable `third       machine' for German-language film.
