     As Assistant Director of the Poetry Translation Centre, Boll had seen       that arts organizations often choose to translate poets because of       personal friendships or a deference to foreign governments' promotion of       an official national literature.
His commitment to translation criteria       based instead on a research-led understanding of the poets' significance       and potential to engage British audiences provided the foundation for a       successful application to Arts Council England (ACE) for a Grant for the       Arts worth &#163;41,000 (2009).
He applied both his research and previous       experience at the Poetry Translation Centre to the presentation of Bracho       and Huerta to the UK public.
Boll had earlier represented the Centre on Respond in Practice, a       flagship scheme organized by ACE dedicated to audience development.
For       the Mexican Poets' Tour, the Centre used that experience to create a       programme of events that would appeal to a variety of audiences: the       general poetry-reading public (Manchester, Grasmere, Glasgow, Edinburgh       and the PEN Free the Word Festival in London); specialist opinion-formers       (the London Book Fair, the universities of Oxford and Leeds); and Spanish       speakers living in England (the Cervantes Institute and a `meet the poets'       community event in London).
The poets read to 500 people (5.1).
Boll       presented the poets at the London Book Fair, Manchester, Leeds and       Edinburgh, and participated in Q&amp;A sessions, leading discussion on the       translation process.
Readings also targeted regional audiences whose exposure to foreign       literature events has traditionally been restricted.
Local collaborating       organizations were enthusiastic about the impact of the tour on their own       programmes: `The Poetry Translation Centre does wonderful work in enabling       us to bring international poets to Grasmere who we otherwise wouldn't be       able to hear' (Literature Officer, Wordsworth Trust) (5.1); `Wonderful       opportunity to hear these voices and have the regional "offer" of poetry       and readings so vibrantly expanded' (Audience member, Chetham's Library       Manchester) (5.1); `We were delighted by the audience engagement in this       event &#8212; most people seemed to linger afterwards for the chance to chat to       the poets.
Such events emphasise the Scottish Poetry Library's       international outlook and serious intent to widen the kinds of poetry       experience available to our audience' (Director, Scottish Poetry Library)       (5.3).
Audience responses indicate that the primary aim of the tour, to foster       public engagement with a foreign culture, was achieved: `The translated       poems are truly a bridge between cultures' (Audience member, Cervantes       Institute London) (5.1); `Enjoyable, inspiring and necessary for British       audiences to hear Mexican/Isthmus Zapotec poetry.
A wonderful event'       (Audience member, Exeter College Oxford) (5.1).
The events were supplemented by a permanent digital record which is       freely available on the PTC's website.
Visitors to the site can download       print-on-demand versions of the chapbooks, read the poems in three       different versions (Spanish, literal and poetic English translation), view       videos of the events and listen to podcasts of the poets reading and       discussing their work (5.2).
Between 1st March and 31st May 2010 the       website pages featuring the tour poets received approximately 7,500 unique       pageviews (5.1).
The Chief Executive of Writers' Centre Norwich was asked       to assess David Huerta's podcast and chapbook for ACE: `One gets immediate       access to the poet's voice and presence &#8212; often the most powerful aspects       of readings when one cannot access the original language.
I thought this       was an excellent piece of work that made the best use of the technologies       available to bring new work into the mainstream' (5.1).
The Tour aimed to provide not only an experience of a foreign culture but       also an understanding of the ways it relates to domestic traditions.
Boll       employed his research knowledge to provide explanatory material that       accompanied the translations.
He wrote a digital essay for the PTC       website, which placed the stylistic and thematic preoccupations of Bracho       and Huerta in the context of recent Mexican history (5.2).
He also       produced introductions to the bilingual chapbooks of their work which the       PTC published to coincide with the tour.
In addition, radio interviews       with David Huerta on BBC Radio 3's Night Waves, the World Service's The       Strand, Radio Netherlands Worldwide and Deutsche Welle Radio provided not       only publicity but an important contextualization of the poetry (5.1).
Comments on the PTC website reveal that the material appeals to a variety       of users.
Secondary-school students have left appreciative comments: `it       was a really nice poem im doin a poem project and im choosin this to be       one of my three favorite poems` (Bracho, `Water of Jellyfish') (5.2): `I       Liked It How U Explained It And How U Used Some Spanish This Will Help       With My Topic!!!!'
(Huerta, `Aural') (5.2).
It has also stimulated a       creative response, including further translation activity: `One of the       poets in the audience who writes in Shetlandic has tried her hand at       translating one of Coral Bracho's poems' (Director, Scottish Poetry       Library) (5.3); `This is such a beautiful poem.
I recently took a       photograph that I am now convinced was made to accompany this poem.
I've       featured them together on my blog' (Bracho, `Thread in a Spider's Web')       (5.2).
Some of the more extensive comments articulate both enthusiasm and a       reflective engagement with the translations.
One reader writes       appreciatively about the perceptual disorientation of Bracho's `Water of       Jellyfish': `Each word makes each of my senses dance-and at the same time!
So I'm not sure if I'm tasting, seeing, hearing or feeling.
My senses are       at their confused best but what a delightful state to be in' (5.2).
Another reflects further on Bracho's capacity to present a world which is       conceptualized as much as experienced: `This is a poet of immense visual       and tactile imagination.
We never hear, smell or taste the water, but what       a feast for our eyes and skin sense of water in all its shifting shapes,       moods and colors, its settings and its inhabitants' (5.2).
Such responses       bear out Boll's concern with the philosophical aspect of the poets' work,       identified in his research as the key innovation and challenge for       English-speaking audiences.
Besides this direct impact on readers, Boll's promotion of Bracho and       Huerta has also led to a wider recognition of their work in established       outlets for English poetry publication.
Translations of Huerta have       appeared in Modern Poetry in Translation 3, 12 (2009) and Poetry Review       100, 2 (2010); and Bracho has been published by Enitharmon Press (2008)       and Poetry Review 95, 3 (2005) and 100, 1 (2010) (5.4).
