     Because it is interactive, the Strandlines website is an archive of its       own impact (5.1).
The website was set up in 2010 and has served as       a growing point for community development.
It has focused its activities       above all on disadvantaged community groups which are often largely       invisible and without a voice in an area that appears superficially to be       the preserve and domain of business, tourism and leisure.
The main       beneficiaries of this research project have thus been the elderly,       low-income and homeless residents of the Strand who have participated in       the website's still ongoing development.
Existing community groups &#8212; the Peabody Trust, Age UK (a charity formed       of Age Concern and Help the Aged) and The Connection at St Martins (a       local homeless charity) - are focused on serving single constituencies       with practical needs.
Strandlines has devised activities which speak to       all these groups and has brought them together through a new digital       community which allows these often neglected communities to negotiate       their place and identity in the local neighbourhood as part of the       trajectory of other Strand lives, past and present.
For example, the       creation of a digital `Rags &amp; Riches' walking tour enthused homeless       clients of The Connection who also took individuals on the tour in person,       having advertised it on the website; weekly creative writing sessions on       Strand themes have proved popular with the elderly at an Age Concern Day       Centre on Odham's Walk in Covent Garden; and creative writing sessions       have inspired a Peabody group to produce a pamphlet of their work and       perform it at an Arts Cellar evening.
Much of the Peabody group's work is       published on the Strandlines website (5.2).
This inventive conjunction of community engagement with creative arts has       been at the heart of Strandlines activity.
For example, Brant       built a web-based Cabinet of Artists (5.6), a group of six artists       in different media who helped lead community engagement at creative events       such as Strand Creative Day (2011).
A distinctive achievement has been to       integrate history with creativity through events like Westminster Archives       Day, King's College London Archives Day and 18th Century Strand       Day, in which members of the Strand community were welcomed to local       archives and encouraged to use them imaginatively.
For instance, the       homeless clients used the Westminster archives to develop the `Rags to       Riches' tour.
One of the local artists in the cabinet of artists wrote and       performed original settings of two ballads in the King's archives (5.10).
All local groups were encouraged to come back and use all sets of archives       again.
The major beneficiaries &#8212; disadvantaged groups living around the Strand &#8212;       have given a sense of the ways in which the Strandlines digital community       has resonated with them.
A large box of publicity materials, feedback       forms and other comments by non-academic users on all of the events and       activities organised by Strandlines is available for inspection (5.3).
It includes creative writing by Peabody residents and the documents used       to create the `Rags to Riches' digital tour.
These include large numbers       of notes by clients of the Connection and Age Concern UK which explain the       significance for them of particular places on or near the Strand.
There       are also interviews with people living and working on the Strand obtained       as part of Strandlines' oral history work.
We single out a few comments       from this stock of data.
A staff member of Age UK said this (on video):       `Strandlines has been a wonderful opportunity for people to tell their       story, share their stories, also be a little more personal about some of       their histories.
It's actually given people also the opportunity to open       up about things that have happened that maybe they wouldn't have shared if       we hadn't had this opportunity.
But also it's helped people to think about       being a bit more open about new projects.
Sometimes people get stuck in       the same kind of activities but this has given people something new in how       to get involved in new activities.'
A member of the Peabody writing groups       said: `Strandlines offers ways of now seeing the Strand area through new       eyes.
Old monuments are reenergized with 21st century gifts &amp; energy       from sources not always alas considered as experts in the art of       creativity and reporting, although clearly they are &#8212; at last!
Thank you.'
And a client at The Connection homeless charity described       Strandlines/Westminster archives day as a `really fascinating, inspiring       day.
Loved handling the objects and reading the diary's (sic) / letters.'
Strandlines has created an active relationship between real and digital       communities.
A good example of this is provided by the campaign for the       preservation of the site of the Union workhouse on Cleveland Street, which       in 2011 was under threat of demolition.
Located on the street close to the       Strand on which Dickens lived as a child, the workhouse has been seen as       inspiring the workhouse in Oliver Twist.
The Strandlines website       explained the history of the workhouse and the rationale for saving the       site, and provided a platform for information related to the preservation       campaign (5.7).
Ruth Richardson (Senior Research Fellow in the       English Department 2011-) who led that campaign spoke prominently at two       events hosted by Strandlines and posted information on the website.
The       conservation success was in part facilitated by Strandline's digital       community.
Richardson also spoke about the Union workhouse at Dickensfest!,       a day of talks, readings and films about Dickens in 2012, hosted by       Strandlines in partnership with Westminster Archives, to celebrate       Dicken's anniversary (5.8).
This attracted 200 people, from Newham       to New Zealand; 96% of 176 evaluators said they found the talks       informative and entertaining (5.4).
Strandlines has deepened the community's awareness of the histories of       the Strand.
Strand Lives, a public lecture series held at King's       (2011-12), disseminated research by academics and independent biographers       about lives on the Strand: eminent speakers gave talks on architects,       journalists, impresarios, painters, inventors and elephants (5.9).
Strand Lives Day, like 18th century Strand Day, provided talks       and activities spanning the Strand from medieval times to the Cold War,       with the National Trust-owned `Roman' baths providing new scholarship       relating to recent Somerset House excavations, diffusing knowledge and       biographical stories to a diverse public audience brought together by       Strandlines.
While Strandlines' most significant impacts have been among the local       community, it is important to point out that the project has had       international reach.
Google Analytics shows visits to www.strandlines.org       from UK, USA, Australia, Canada, Germany, France, India, Brazil, New       Zealand and Spain.
Between 1 January 2011 and 31 July 2013, some 31,035       visits were made to the site by 23,756 unique visitors.
Strandlines'       Twitter account has 181 followers.
Through its contributions to current       research about place, community well-being, urban walking and city-centric       literature, Strandlines has exported community far beyond its immediate       beneficiaries on the Strand to create a lively crossroads between academic       life writing, history, the arts and community building.
It has brought       stories about the Strand and its past and present lives to the attention       of readers throughout the world.
It is notable that as a result       Strandlines has benefited the business community seeking to regenerate the       area.
The Northbank (www.thenorthbank.org)       - a not-for- profit partnership set up to promote the development of       businesses, visitors and residents in an area which (unlike the thriving       Southbank) has lacked a core identity - ran a feature on Strandlines in       its magazine in 2012 (5.3).
Strandlines has thus made an important       contribution to the cultural life of the area and to deepening public       awareness of a thoroughfare which millions pass through with often little       regard for those who live nearby.
