     Impact is most evident in three overlapping and mutually reinforcing       areas:     4.1Through Queer@King's, scholars have shaped and enhanced queer       public discourse and community-building, especially around museums and       cultural heritage.
Queer@King's is at the forefront of a queer rethinking       of museum and gallery space and its potential audience.
Through impact on       curatorial practice in the display and interpretation of objects and       artefacts in a wide range of national and regional collections, led by Mills,       Queer@King's has helped to inform public understanding of queer histories       within the national past.
Arising out of his research interests in       `queering the museum' and `queer curating', Mills has given       professional advice to curators in a number of London museums and       museum-based projects.
These include `Untold London', a project of the       London Museums Hub, on the queer interpretation of objects, focusing on       the collection of the Museum of London, as well as a public lecture at       Untold London's `Write Queer London' festival at St. James' Church,       Piccadilly (February 2012), a `marvellously diverse [and] engaging       exploration of LGBT history that brings it alive'.
Along with two       Queer@King's postgraduates, Dr. Richard Maguire and Dr. Jason Narlock,       Mills has also provided consultancy at the Victoria &amp; Albert       Museum, and Mills acted as consultant to the British Museum,       participating in discussions on `queering the collections' (5.4       below).
These exhibitions have also helped to build a queer community in       London through gallery talks and events.
Notable here are the popular       Friday Late `Making a Scene' series at the V&amp;A in 2009 and LGBT       History Month gallery talks in 2010, where Maguire and Narlock       spoke to capacity audiences of 35.
Mills' research and the Queer@King's model had a direct       influence on the 2010-11 `Queering the Museum' exhibition at Birmingham       City Art Gallery and Museum (3.6 above).
Mill's `Theorizing       the Queer Museum' informed curator Matt Smith's approach and further was       cited by Manchester artist Qasim Riza Shaheen as an influence.
Smith       participated in Queer@King's' 2011 `Sexuality and the Archive'       colloquium, which brought together academics with archivists and curators       from the British Library, British Museum, V&amp;A, and Wellcome Library       (40 in all), to forward queer collecting and curating, queer historical       display, and cultural heritage.
Mills' contribution to the volume       A Gay History of Britain (3.7 above) led directly to his       appearance on television and radio, including a 2011 BBC Radio 3       documentary `Out in the World: A Global History of Homosexuality' and a       2008 BBC4 documentary, `Inside the Medieval Mind', for which Mills       also acted as consultant (5.5 below), thus extending the reach and       significance of his impact.
Queer@King's research into queering museum spaces and presenting       queer cultural histories has had international reach.
Turner       delivered a talk and hosted a discussion arising from current research on       American abstract-expressionist Forrest Bess, at Artists Space, New York,       as part of the 2012 Whitney Biennial.
Established in 1972 and long       connected to the alternative `Downtown Scene', Artists Space remains the       leading venue for the exhibition and discussion of experimental art       practice, to which Turner's collaboration contributed.
4.2 Second, Queer@King's scholars have challenged dominant values       and assumptions through queer cultural production, particularly in film       and the visual arts.
This is in part through curatorial activities.
Since       2008, Queer@King's has expanded its cultural engagement with film to       include a number of creative partnerships with galleries such as Tate       Modern and events such as the London-based Fringe!
Queer Film and Arts       Fest.
Along with Tate film curator Stuart Comer and art historian Dr.       James Boaden (University of York), Turner was a lead member of the       organizing committee for the film series `Invocations and Evocations:       Queer and Surreal' at Tate Modern in 2010.
Funded in part by KCL's Annual       Fund and Queer@King's, the events were held in conjunction with the London       Lesbian and Gay Film Festival and the AHRC-funded Centre for the Study of       Surrealism and its Legacies at the University of Manchester.
Turner,       Comer, and Boaden participated in a range of panel discussions as part of       the series, along with Queer@King's postgraduate and film scholar Dr. Ryan       Powell.
Turner's expertise in queer urban studies (3.3       above) was noted in reviews, including one praising the series for       `break[ing] queer film out of its usual sequestered context to uncover new       connections for exploration'.
The international audience for the films and       panel discussions included artists, curators, academics, and others,       estimated by the Tate to total 1500 (5.7 below).
Turner is       developing a portfolio of curatorial practice, including , in 2011, an       exhibition of Howard's queer documentary photography at the       University of Reading, and he has been invited to curate a major       exhibition of the queer art practice of writer-artist- filmmaker Derek       Jarman in London in 2014 (3.4 above, 5.6 below).
Queer@King's has impacted on the public understanding of sexual       minorities through direct involvement in film making projects.
Among       documentary filmmakers presenting work at Queer@King's, director Moby       Longinotto screened his Smalltown Boy in 2008 and subsequently       collaborated with Howard on The Joneses.
This was adapted       directly from Howard's first monograph (3.1 above), in       which the film's protagonist, Jheri Rae Jones, a transsexual woman in       small town Mississippi, was a central figure.
The 2009 short was funded by       Channel 4 and BritDoc and screened at film festivals in Brazil, Canada,       Germany, Ireland, Italy, Sweden, and Switzerland, as well as Glasgow,       London, and Sheffield.
As part of this collaboration, Howard       continues to work on his own documentary photography project, Jones         Portraits and Location Stills (5.8 below).
4.3 We inform and influence education and public policy, through       collaborations with teachers and legal advocates-activists.
This involves       long-term commitments spanning the previous RAE and current REF cycles.
Howard       co-authored a decisive amicus brief in the US Supreme Court's 2003 Lawrence         v. Texas decision, decriminalizing homosexuality; he organized the       2006 Queer@King's symposium `Gay Divorce' to probe the policy implications       of the dissolution of same-sex unions; his 2010 essay `Southern Sodomy' (3.2       above) reconsidered Lawrence and its 1986 predecessor Bowers         v. Hardwick; and in the 2013 Windsor decision, the US       Supreme Court, eight times citing Lawrence, legalized gay marriage       (5.9 below).Howard currently is advising the Southern       Poverty Law Center on a potentially precedent-setting US Federal District       Court case concerning LGBTQ social space.
Finally, Queer@King's continued to inform and influence education in       Britain, with teachers and not-for-profit officials prominent among our       collaborators.
Building on a commitment made to primary and secondary       teachers at our `Queer Pedagogy' symposium in 2006&#8212;with presentations by       Schools Out's Sue Sanders and Stonewall's Ruth Hunt&#8212;children and       children's schooling remained at the centre of key Queer@King's events,       including 2007's `No Future Together' day conference addressed to the       figural child and reproductive futurity, and 2008's symposium `The Queer       Child: Are the Kids Alright?'
which featured screenings and discussions of       two films on queer youth.
This event thus epitomized all three       Queer@King's strands of community-building, cultural production       (especially around film and the visual arts), and advocacy (5.10       below).
