     The Arden Shakespeare is probably the most respected edition of       Shakespeare's works in the world.
Its most popular titles, including Thompson's       Hamlet, sell around 10,000 copies a year (5.3).
Importantly,       the series also ensures that quality editions of less well-known plays are       also available: the annual sales of McMullan's King Henry VIII       are around 300.
Arden editions are often used as school texts.
According       to the Chief Examiner for A-level English Literature, Arden Shakespeare       editions are the preferred texts for teaching 6th formers: `I       want to see candidates who have developed their own ideas, based on the       freedom to explore that a scholarly edition can give them.
With the       interpretative freedom it offers, plus the contextual insights given in       the introduction, the Arden approach has to be the right one' (5.1).
Given their role as editors, Thompson and McMullan       regularly lecture to school pupils and teachers on Shakespeare's plays.
A       good example is a lecture on Hamlet given by Thompson to       an audience of A-level students at an Arden/Edexcel Shakespeare day in       2010.
These high-profile editions help to present and re-interpret       Shakespeare's works for wide audiences, including but extending far beyond       school class rooms.
They thus participate in sustaining an important part       of Britain's cultural capital, while also keeping Shakespeare's works       alive, as living texts, open to new and sometimes controversial       interpretations.
Both Thompson's and McMullan's editions       have had an impact on the interpretation of Shakespeare by challenging       common assumptions and cultural values surrounding this iconic writer.
Thompson's       Hamlet disaggregated the versions of the play, offered a fresh       account of its evolution in performance, and encouraged a new freedom in       relation to its interpretation.
McMullan's edition presented       Shakespeare as a playwright equally at home working collaboratively and as       a solitary writer, thus extending the ongoing critique of Romantic       distortions of the creation of the Shakespearean text.
Thompson and McMullan's editorial work has had particular     impact on theatrical productions.
Arden texts are frequently used in staging     plays.
A prominent Shakespearean actor affirms that the edition is valued     for `its balance of opinion, analytical detail and practicality' (5.2).
In this current REF period, these editions have been used for high-profile     productions and Thompson and McMullan have testimony from     the directors of these productions affirming the influence of their research     on the way they understand, rehearse and present Shakespearean texts.
Thompson's Hamlet was the main source of textual       information for the 2008-09 RSC production starring David Tennant (5.4).
The Director drew substantially on Thompson's edition, discussing       his new `conflation' of the play with her, as the key historian of its       different versions.
The Director has said of this production: `We had Ann       Thompson and Neil Taylor's latest Arden edition in rehearsals with       us and constantly referred to it to provoke and challenge us: an       invaluable resource'.
The reach and impact of this production was       considerable.
The RSC sold 63,000 tickets to this production of Hamlet       (5.9).
It was broadcast 3 times by the BBC (including a much       discussed Boxing Day screening) and watched by 1,148,000 viewers (5.8).
It was screened by PBS in the US in 2009 and 2010 and was issued on DVD       and blue-ray on 3 continents.
The RSC reports that, between 2009 and 2010,       50,000 copies were sold worldwide (5.9).
The fully annotated Arden text has also enabled productions of the `bad'       First Quarto, notably by the Zimbabwean `Two Gents' company's Kupenga         Kwa Hamlet which toured to London in 2010 (5.7), and by       Shakespeare's Globe Theatre for a touring production in 2011-12.
According       to the director of the Kupenga Kwa Hamlet: `Ann Thompson's       three text edition of Hamlet was an invaluable resource for my       work on the Q1 text - indeed it was instrumental in giving rise to the       idea of us staging Hamlet in the first place.
I was aware of the       Q1 text from my university days but had only read excerpts - when it was       pointed out to me (by Sonia Massai in a post-show discussion to our       production of Two Gentlemen of Verona), however, that some of the       strategies my company, Two Gents Productions, employs in performance were       comparable to the textual strategies apparent in the Q1 text - my       curiosity was piqued.
Reading Ann Thompson's introduction to her       edition of the Q1 and Folio texts made me appreciate the Q1 text as a       legitimate and independent version of Shakespeare's Hamlet.
It       made me realise that a production of Hamlet based on Q1 would       allow a closer, fresher communion with the impulses of those actors that       were first to perform Hamlet at the time Shakespeare was actually       writing it.
The achingly brief list of productions based on Q1 also made       me realise that perhaps I had stumbled on a gap in the Hamlet       legacy.
Where I had previously been doubtful of approaching this canonical       text with my young two-man acting company, the insights, context and       commentary provided by Ann Thompson's edition actually reassured       me that a professional production based on Q1 would inadvertently be       treading new ground, would appeal to audiences over-saturated with Q2 and       F readings of Hamlet and would tie into the newest trends in Hamlet       scholarship.'
McMullan was advisory scholar for the 2010 Globe production of Henry         VIII, writing the programme notes, working closely with the director       on cutting the text for performance, and discussing the play's meanings       and contexts with director and cast.
He provided particular insight into       how Shakespeare's acting company, the King's Men, might have managed the       theatrical performance of `truth' (a key, if highly ambiguous, concept in       the play); Shakespeare's difficult balancing act in representing the       process of Reformation; and his practice of collaborative authorship (5.5).
According to the Director: `Working with Gordon McMullan on my       2010 production of Henry VIII at Shakespeare's Globe was a key       collaborative relationship for me.
My brief from the Globe was quite       specific - to produce the play at the Globe for the first time since its       Elizabethan premiere, and in so doing, I was expected to stick with the       original (rather than reinvent), respect the text (rather than radically       reshape it), present it in Tudor dress (rather than transpose), and use       Tudor music (rather than hip hop!).
Circumstances meant I also had little       time to prepare the text which meant Gordon and his Arden edition were       indispensable resources when it came to placing the play within its rich       and complex history and its long performance history (especially given his       direct experiences with the RSC's production).
He alerted me to the play's       various political agendas and, perhaps most vitally of all, gave me       essential dramaturgical support in creating the rehearsal text from his       Arden text of the play.
He also attended rehearsals and spoke brilliantly       to the company about specific areas of research.
Gordon's impact on the       production was fundamental'.
McMullan also gave media interviews       related to the production; was keynote speaker at a public study day on Henry         VIII at Globe Education, May 2010; and spoke about the play on       `Front Row', BBC Radio 4, 24 May 2010 (5.6).
This in turn led to an       interview on BBC1 Television's The One Show (average viewership       4.4 million) and to his roles as a judge for the BBC's `Off by Heart'       Schools Shakespeare Competition, (November 2011; 400,000 viewers; 5.8)       and as a `talking head' for the third episode, `Legacy' (389,000 viewers;       5.8), of The King and the Playwright: A Jacobean History, a       BBC4 three-part series by James Shapiro, April-May 2012 (5.10).
