     In 2011 the BBC commissioned Mammoth Productions and Tom Stoppard to       produce a television       adaptation of Parade's End.
As soon as the initial contracts were       signed, Mammoth contacted       Saunders to invite him to act as literary consultant on the series       and he accepted.
His first meeting       with Stoppard took place in the summer of that year.
They discussed the       casting, and details of the       language and historical background as well as deviations from Ford's       original text.
They remained       in contact by telephone thereafter.
As literary consultant, Saunders       was invited to visit the       production.
He wrote an article about the filming of the adaptation for       the Guardian (23 September       2011).
He was also interviewed by Alan Yentob and acted as literary       consultant in a special BBC       Culture Show documentary about Ford intended to trail the       dramatization (5.1).
His research was       described by the director of that documentary, who consulted him       frequently, as his `bible' (5.2).
The BBC/HBO dramatisation was screened in August-September 2012 in the UK       and early 2013 in       the US, Australia, France and Germany.
The series was nominated for 7       BAFTAs, 5 Emmys and       won 4 Broadcasting Press Guild awards.
Beneficiaries The beneficiaries of the edition were, of course,       those who watched the adaptation       on television or over the internet.
It received massive publicity, and it       has certainly raised       consciousness about Ford's work.
It also led to a spike in editions of       Ford's novels.
BBC books,       Penguin Classics and Wordsworth Classics brought out their own editions of       Parade's End on the       strength of the mini-series and OUP proposed to produce a complete       scholarly edition of Ford's       Works in over forty volumes, with Saunders as its general editor.
The series also generated a       great deal of publicity about Ford and his novels and Saunders was       directly involved in some of       this.
His OUP blog about the dramatization (5.3) was picked up by       the New Statesman and carried       on their website (5.4).
Details of the nature of the impact First, Saunders       discussed aspects of the adaptation and       production with Stoppard.
Second, Saunders advised the team making       the adaptation about       Ford's artistic vision.
Finally, Saunders had a profound impact on       the series' visual language.
The       director of the adaptation has said that she wanted to place references to       20th-century British art in       Parade's End.
The title sequence uses the techniques of the       Vorticist photographers, the split       frame images of the two central characters are a reference to the       photographs of Alvin Langdon       Coburn and the design of episode five draws on the paintings of Paul Nash.
The director has       written that a big influence [on these efforts] was Saunders'       essay 'From Pre-Raphaelism to       Impressionism' about the influence of the visual arts on Ford Madox Ford,       published in the book       Ford Madox Ford and Visual Culture" (5.5).
Evidence or indicators of the extent of the impact Saunders       (and the other three editors) received       royalty payments for Mammoth Production's film rights to Parade's End,       evidencing a clear       pathway from edition to television adaptation (5.6).
The filming of       Parade's End took place in 2011-       12.
Saunders had a correspondence with the Director testifying to       the impact of his work on the       production, and her use of his edition; and he discussed the casting, and       details of the language       and historical background, with Tom Stoppard.
Saunders had a similar correspondence with the Director of the       BBC's Culture Show documentary       'Who on Earth was Ford Madox Ford?
', to accompany the series, also       substantiating the       contribution made by his scholarship to the research for the programme (5.2).
The director (who       was also the producer) consulted him in depth, both in person and       regularly by email, to discuss       the range of Ford's life and work, as well as the location of visual and       written materials to be used       in the programme.
For example, Saunders was able to provide him       with a video copy of the only       known movie footage of Ford.
Both directors had read the biography       carefully, as well as some of       Saunders' other work on Ford.
The viewing figures for Parade's End in the UK averaged 2.47m,       ranging from 3.85m to 1.81m;       excluding iPlayer statistics, which show that a further 527,000 watched       the first episode.
