     The first aim of the NPG exhibition, initiated by Eger, was to       disseminate her academic research to a wide public audience, and to       explore and extend the social and cultural impact of the original       'Bluestocking Circle'.
Over the 95 days of its lifetime, the exhibition       attracted 183,596 people, almost double its target audience of 100,000.
The book that accompanied the exhibition sold out and was also published       by Yale University Press and Hardie Editions in Australia (3.2).
We identify four strands of impact:     1.
Enriching national heritage The exhibition contained 50 items       relating to the Bluestockings.
Alongside some famous paintings these       included rarely seen portraits, satirical prints, and personal artefacts       of the Bluestocking Circle.
It also considered the way a wider range of       women, inspired by the model of the bluestockings, created public       personae.
Portraits of the artist Angelica Kauffman (1741-1807), historian       Catharine Macaulay (1731-91) and early 'feminist' Mary Wollstonecraft       (1759-97), reveal how women used portraiture to advance their work and       reputations in a period that begins with the Enlightenment and ends with       the onset of the French Revolution.
In bringing to light the work of a       forgotten group of writers and artists who had prominence in their own       day, the exhibition furthered the aims of Eger's scholarship in       restoring to the historical record and to public consciousness the work of       women who were involved in the central cultural transformations of their       time.
Several of the items had not been on public display before.
Notable       in this respect is the portrait of Elizabeth Carter as Minerva,       rediscovered by Clare Barlow, the student on the collaborative       doctoral award tied to the exhibition and funded by the AHRC.
See 5.4.3.
This attracted considerable press attention.
See 5.2.1.
The portrait is now on permanent display in the NPG, where it has       received academic attention from a range of perspectives (notably history       of science) for the way it challenges preconceptions about norms of female       modesty in the period.
The exhibition reached a wide public audience, 40%       of which were visiting the NPG for the first time.
It attracted a primary       target audience of traditional art gallery visitors, 63% of whom were       female, and 58% over 35; but it also scored well in relation to the NPG's       diversity monitoring, with 39% in the 20-34 age group and 14% from ethnic       minorities.
41% of the audience were from overseas.
2.
Impact on contemporary debates about women's cultural and         intellectual status The exhibition highlighted the resonances       between women in the 18th century and women in the present day.
For this reason, it was sponsored by Blackberry telecommunications, the       Managing Director of which, Charmaine Egberry, a young business woman,       felt inspired by the model of female networking to be found in the       bluestocking salon.
In her foreword to the exhibition catalogue Egberry       wrote: ``Brilliant Women' are women who define a generation, are       passionate for a cause, and live their lives according to their own       personal rule rather than allowing themselves to be governed by social       convention.
Research in Motion (RIM - a charity that supports women's       advances in technology) is absolutely delighted to be working with the       National Portrait Gallery to highlight and profile some truly       extraordinary women in this book.'
Egberry hailed the bluestockings as an       inspirational model for today's young women who work in technology:       `Across the globe there is now the virtual equivalent of thousands of       bluestocking salons, where ideas are exchanged and grown.
The Blackberry       Women and Technology awards, begun in 2005, in many ways reflect the same       philosophies that were encapsulated in the eighteenth-century concept of       the nine sister Muses as active and creative figures that epitomized the       arts and sciences.'
To launch the awards, Egberry commissioned Bryan Adams       to create a photographic essay examining the concept of a `modern-day       Muse' with a selection of photographs from the project for display at the       National Portrait Gallery (see 5.3).
The Gallery ran an online and       onsite competition to enter a prize draw to win a Blackberry smartphone.
Over 3000 visitors entered the competition at the Gallery, and a further       152 entered through the website.
NPG also partnered with Agent       Provocateur, who featured the exhibition in their monthly e-newsletter       (440,000 subscribers), thus helping to reach a younger audience.
The reach of the impact was considerably expanded by extensive press and       media coverage.
international broadsheet and popular press (Guardian         Saturday Review, Telegraph, Times, Independent,       Sunday Express, The Lady, Elle, Vogue, Country         Life, Italian Vogue, New York Times).
A double-page       spread in the Daily Telegraph showed their choice of today's       Brilliant Women photographed alongside portraits hanging in the       exhibition.
The press reviews were largely very positive with the       exception of Brian Sewell in the Evening Standard.
Key broadcast coverage       included an exclusive five-part interview series on BBC Radio 4 Woman's       Hour.
(To hear Eger speak about Elizabeth Montagu, Queen of the       Bluestockings, see 5.2.3) Opinion pieces appeared in several       national broadsheets, many of which compared the original bluestockings       with their modern counterparts.
Critics particularly picked upon the       themes of women's strategic and pragmatic `identity management',       celebrity, and the status of intellectual achievement - eg: Kathryn       Hughes, in the Telegraph's Stella Magazine, compared the early 19th-century       backlash against bluestocking success with contemporary fear of powerful,       professional women.
`Think of the word "bluestocking" and you are likely       to conjure up something female, formidable and frumpy&#8212;a dingy corner of       feminism, the historical equivalent of dungarees.
"Brilliant Women", a new       show at London's National Portrait Gallery, blows all that away'; or Joan       Smith in the New Statesman: `The original "blues" were much more       various than this stereotype suggests, and their dilemmas about intellect,       fashion and femininity are still with us today.
"Brilliant Women" restores       them to their rightful place as our foremothers, the missing link in an       unbroken chain of female creativity.
The struggle for the right to be       clever, sexy and feminine is still going on.'
(See 5.2)     3.
Impact on young women's self-esteem Public outreach events       included a Young People's drama-based workshop exploring the exhibitions       themes and legacies, led by artist Miranda Lopatkin from Collectives       Artistes (May 4, 2009 ); half-term holiday art workshops (40 parents and       children) an adult portrait-painting workshop and a contemporary `salon'       conversation led by Marina Warner (c. 50 people).
The photographic artist       Marysa Dowling worked with a group of `brilliant young women' from the       City of Westminster Connexions Young Parents Support Group.
A       group of 9 young mothers was encouraged to work creatively in response to       the exhibition.
Between January and April 2008, each teenage mother       developed ideas for a pair of photographic portraits; one as a young       parent with her child or children and the other as an individual young       woman.
88.8% stated the project had increased their interest in       photography, 66.6% stated the project had increased their interest in the       Gallery's Collection and 100% stated the project had allowed them to be       more creative.
88.8% stated the project had helped them feel more       confident as young women and mothers (for further details see 5.1.3).
4.
Impact on museum curatorial practice As noted above, the       painting that launched the whole project was not on public display when Eger       approached the NPG, and the gallery's management, while supportive,       underestimated significantly the prospective audience.
In these respects,       the exhibition helped demonstrate that `women's issues' are not (and have       never been) a `minority' interest.
Museum professionals considered the       exhibition to be innovative in its juxtaposition of a wide variety of       works of art, objects, and texts.
Following her work on the exhibition as       the collaborative doctoral student, Barlow was appointed to       curatorial jobs at the museum of Dr Johnson's house and at the NPG.
Her       success in this regard suggests, given that her first degree and MA were       in history (not art history), and that her primary PhD supervisor was in       English, that the project helped open out conceptions of curatorial work,       and that its interdisciplinary methodology will be extended in subsequent       work in these institutions.
The exhibition has attracted curators to       King's to take the MA in 18th-century studies, thus creating an       evolving and close relationship between university and museum practice.
