     Woods' research has impacted on vets and policy makers in three distinct       ways.
Firstly, by       revealing livestock disease to be a social as well as a technical problem       it has encouraged, and,       through the provision of evidence, helped to make possible the general       reorientation of policy and       practice, from the highly technocratic approaches that prevailed in 2001,       to today's emphasis on       partnership and understanding the human factor.
Secondly and more       specifically, the conduct of       particular historical case studies has informed understandings of how       social, political and cultural       factors are currently influencing attitudes to FMD control, blue tongue       vaccination and Farm Health       Planning.
Finally, research has inspired vets and policy makers to think       historically, and to       recognise history as a source of critical evidence for livestock disease       policy and practice.
These       impacts were enhanced by active networking, discussion of findings, and       the building of       relationships with veterinary professionals, government policy makers and       scientific researchers.
The impact of Woods' FMD research (3.1, 3.2, 3.3) was felt nationally and       internationally.
The       2009 publication of a 4-page Parliamentary Post Note, `Lessons from       History' devoted half of page       1 to a case study of her findings (5.1).
Post Notes are designed to inform       and assist       parliamentarians in decision making.
Woods' findings also impacted on how       policy makers,       veterinary surgeons, farmers' representatives and the general public in       South Korea evaluated       their government's response to a devastating 2010-11 FMD epidemic.
This       was achieved by a       Korean translation of 3.1 (2011) and through invited presentations &#8212; which       these stakeholders       attended &#8212; to FMD engagement events in Seoul and Pohang.
The Pohang       presentation featured in       the local and national press, and a local TV news report (5.2).
The impact of Woods' research on the history of veterinary preventive       medicine was enhanced by       her participation in the Relu programme, which constituted `a benchmark, a       new "standard" in       impact-generation' (5.3, p. 6).
It held various workshops with the       explicit goal of encouraging       networking between researchers and stakeholders.
It extended the reach of       Woods' publications       by integrating them within a series of articles that appeared in high       profile (3.9) and widely read       journals (3.7 and a press release of 3.6 appeared in the Veterinary       Record, received by 13,500       vets).
It also enabled her to work shadow Defra's Deputy Chief Veterinary       Officer (DCVO), who       requested the production of 3.8.
His evaluation of the work shadow       experience valued her       `challenge to the accepted ways of working' and her `objective analysis of       current policies using       historical inquiry as a discipline' (5.4).
He was also extremely impressed       by 3.8, describing it as `a       fascinating and well-researched document.
I learnt a lot &#8212; particularly       about the environment in       MAFF [Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, the predecessor       department to Defra] in the two       decades prior to me joining.
But what is most telling and slightly       disturbing is the uncanny       resemblance of the 1960/70s Newcastle Disease vaccination effort to the       position we find       ourselves in with Blue Tongue Virus...I'd like to give this wider       publicity.'
At his instigation, the       report was published in the Government Veterinary Journal.
This extended       the reach of the       research by disseminating it to vets across government.
He also made       follow-up requests for       additional historical information (5.5).
Another official in the Defra Veterinary Research Unit organised a       presentation of findings from 3.4       and 3.5 to around 20 members of Defra's Farm Health Planning team.
Both       before and afterwards       he reported a good deal of interest in Woods' findings (5.6).
They also       impacted on a 2009 Defra-commissioned       report on veterinary expertise in food production.
Woods was interviewed       by the       author, who asked for `a brief paragraph on the circumstances in the past       in which farm health       planning has emerged as an important initiative...I need to be able to       quote you in on this.'
Later       he asked for her opinion on the draft report `to check that I am not       reinventing the wheel' (5.7).
This       report was later taken up by the British Veterinary Association's       Veterinary Development Council       (2010-12) with the aim of planning the long-term future of veterinary       services.
Other pathways to impact on the veterinary profession included popular       summaries of research       findings (3.5) in the magazine Veterinary Times (a weekly news journal for       the profession with a       circulation of 20,000); and presentations to veterinary societies and       schools (Royal Veterinary       College, London, 2013; Veterinary Research Club, 2011; Cambridge       University Veterinary School,       2009; British, World and South Korean Veterinary History Society meetings,       2009-12).
The head of       the Department of Production at the Royal Veterinary College, London (who       is also a leading figure       in the British Cattle Veterinary Association, BCVA) thanked Woods for `a       fascinating insight into the       sometime cyclical nature of proactive health planning and preventive       medicine in the UK livestock       sector.
As a profession we have very short memories and we have so much to       learn from the past.
The high turnout we had was an indication of the interest your talk       generated' (5.8).
The current       BCVA president, who has headed its Farm Health Planning project since       2006, is also impressed       with Woods' discovery that this concept has a long history.
He cites her       work frequently in his talks       to farmers and vets; in articles published in Veterinary Record and Cattle       Practice (the BCVA's       journal for practitioners); in Defra stakeholder forums; and in discussion       with the new Animal       Health and Welfare Board for England, which advises Defra on policy (5.9).
Such activities support       the above claim of a culture shift, which has led vets and policy makers       to acknowledge history as       a source of evidence for livestock disease policy and practice.
Woods has also appeared on the BBC2 TV programme `War time farm' (27 Sept       2012).
Here, she       enriched public understandings of how war impacted on the perception and       management of       livestock disease.
She demonstrated how to use a 1940s milking machine so       as to prevent       mastitis, and drew on 3.1 to discuss how government, farmers and vets       worked to enhance the       war-time milk supply by improving livestock health.
The episode was viewed       by 2.77m people, and       was the fifth most viewed programme on BBC2 that week (5.10).
