     The AHRC policy document Leading the world: the economic impact of UK         Arts and Humanities research (2009) cites the Project as an example       of how Arts and Humanities research can be `a driver of the culture       ecosystem'.
Counselled by a Knowledge Transfer Advisory group, the project       has been guided throughout by an impact agenda.
Carpenter and the project       team have given numerous talks, often in effect training sessions, in how       to use the rolls, including Carpenter's special session for schools at the       Chalke Valley History Festival (June 2013): www.cvhf.org.uk.
Podcasts by Carpenter for both the BBC History Magazine and The National       Archives are at http://www.historyextra.com/podcast-page       and http://media.nationalarchives.gov.uk.
People are drawn into the site through interactive tweets and blogs, and,       above all, by `the Fine of the Month' feature, with its monthly comment on       material in the rolls, and an annual prize for the best Fine of the Month       by an outside contributor.
The series has continued beyond the end of the       project in December 2011, and contributions sent in during 2012 and 2013       have filled up all the slots for 2012.
More are in the pipe line and will       be published under the month in which they appear.
Google analytics show       that between June 2012 and June 2013, 22,931 visits were made to the       website by external users and the webpage was viewed 102,191 times.
8,992       visits were made by returning users.
Users accessed the site from the UK       (11,669), the US (5,796), Australia (1,092), Canada (844), France (431),       Germany (360), New Zealand (205), Ireland (155), and Spain (145).
The       project, a key source for re-interpreting the importance of Magna Carta,       has had a major impact on preparations for the 800th       anniversary in 2015.
Carpenter is the historian on the Speaker's Committee       advising about parliament about its celebrations, and is also on the       committee for the great exhibition at the British Library.
Carpenter has       brought the new research before a large public on such Radio 4 programmes       as `In our Time' (Melvyn Bragg) in 2009, `The Long View' (Jonathan       Freedland) and `Things we forgot to remember' (Michael Portillo), both in       2012, thus helping to change public perceptions of the Charter:       http://www.bbc.co.uk/programmes/b00k4fg7;       http://www.bbc.co.uk/programmes/b01l7ptz;       http://downloads.bbc.co.uk/podcasts/radio4/twftr/twftr_20120601-1656a.mp3       The project has impacted on a wide variety of constituencies, as can be       seen from the Fine of the Month's success as an interactive feature and       forum.
http://www.finerollshenry3.org.uk/content/month/fine_of_the_month.html:       Local communities: These have re-connected with their 13th-century       past.
The villagers of Nunney (Dorset), in August 2010 used the rolls to       date their market charter to 1260 (winning the Fine of the Year       competition).
Carpenter's Fine of the Month (April 2009) about the       peasants of Rothley in Leicestershire led to a one day conference in the       village on its history.
Huw Ridgeway (Sherborne School) illuminated local       history by showing the state of Sherborne and Corfe castles in 1260 and       the roll of Dorset knights at the battle of Lewes (December 2010, January       2012).
Archives: Linked to a major feature in the local       press, John Alban, county archivist for Norfolk, in October 2008 showed       the high prices paid by Norwich and Lynn for royal charters in Norfolk       archives.
At The National Archives, the project is linked to its       palaeography practice page:       http://www.nationalarchives.gov.uk/latinpalaeography/practice-documents.htm       Heritage: In July 2011, Jeremy Ashbee, Head Properties       Curator at English Heritage, redated the history of Corfe castle, showing       how the fine rolls have the first mention of the royal apartments called       `La Gloriette'.
A Fine of the Month by Carpenter (March 2011),       re-interpreting the early history of Salisbury cathedral, aroused wide       local interest and was republished in Wiltshire Historical Magazine.
Jewish history: Evyatar Marienberg's Fine of the Month in       December 2011 threw new light on ritual in Jewish synagogues by       identifying `the apple of Eve' mentioned in the fine rolls with the ekrog.
This inspired over a 1000 visits to the site in just a few days (many from       the US).
Marcus Roberts, founder of the Anglo-Jewish heritage       organization, J. Trails, responded in the blog: http://blog.frh3.org.uk/?m=201201//comments.
Civil Service: Amanda Roper, while senior policy adviser at       the Department of Environment, Food and Rural Affairs, wrote a Fine of the       Month (April 2008) assessing the Project's website, and drawing lessons       transferable to other websites about it.
Other projects: The Fine of the Month inspired the Paradox       of Medieval Scotland project's `Feature of the Month' (as it says on its       website, http://paradox.poms.ac.uk/feature/index.html)       and the planned `Feature of the Month' of the AHRC funded Magna Carta       project.
Television: Carpenter's Fine of the Month on the peasant,       `Wodard of Kibworth' (September 2010) was dramatised in an episode of       Michael Wood's BBC 4 series `A story of England'.
In The New Statesman,       Wood wrote that `Among new online publications is the fabulous Henry III       Fine Rolls Project, scrutinising documents from the 13th century, where       hugely detailed social history shows that the English peasantry, often       literate, were well aware of their circumstances and in constant       confrontation and negotiation with their lords'.
Carpenter's Fine of the       Month (Nov. 2011) on Henry III's sense of humour prompted Greg Jenner,       Historical Consultant to CBBC's multi-award winning sketch show Horrible         Histories, to tweet `ooh, lovely'.
In the field of Education, an example of how the project is being       exploited by schools is seen in the blog of March 2013 sent in by Pete       Morgan of Beverley Grammar School       (http://blog.frh3.org.uk/?p=1033//comments)       explaining how he had set up a project on his school VLE for year 7       students enabling them to use the website to research Beverley and its       surrounding area.
The fine rolls are used by BA, MA and doctoral students       at Universities, for example in the `Perspectives in Medieval History II'       module at York University.
The Fine of the Month for October 2010, by       Josey Cullen was based on work for his Queen Mary and Royal Holloway MA in       Crusader Studies.
