     Happy Families?
was widely publicised and disseminated after       publication, including through a BBC Radio 4 Thinking Allowed       programme on 27 Oct 2010 and widespread newspaper and online media       coverage.
A copy was sent to the Children's Minister Sarah Teather who       wrote saying:     I found the report very interesting...
I was particularly struck by the       chapter exploring past 'moral panics' about the family and its perceived       disintegration.
It is easy to romanticise the past, but your report       brought home the reality that many of the issues we are dealing with today       were also deep concerns to other governments in history.
Your report also highlighted how much more difficult it is for families       to thrive when they are socially and economically disadvantaged.
As a       Government we recognise that this is still an important issue and one we       are looking to tackle by protecting the most vulnerable...
I will pass       your report on to colleagues working on these policies, who will be very       interested in these findings.
The publication of Happy Families?
led directly to the request       (by letter in June 2011) to Pat Thane and H&amp;P to organise history       seminars at DfE.
Tom Jeffery, Director of Children's Services and       Departmental Strategy Directorate (and for part of the period of       engagement, acting Permanent Secretary) stated that: 'We were inspired to       get in touch as [Happy Families?]
was so succinct and clear, and       covered so much relevant ground.'
Introducing the first seminar in Oct       2011, he told the audience:     We live in an ahistorical world as we make policy as civil servants, with       the press of daily business crowding out reflection.... this impoverishes       the way we go about our business.
I am really pleased to bring together       eminent historians, people working in the practice of children's policy       and civil servants to think about the evolution of policy over time.
Seminar topics were designed to inform DfE's current policy priorities:            early years childcare (6 October 2011)*       childhood (27 October 2011)*       family policy (24 November 2011)       youth policies (31 Januar 2012)       adoption (11 October 2012)*       disability, learning difficulties and education (26 November 2012)       policies for children with emotional or behavioural difficulties (10         January 2013)       age, rights and responsibility (29 January 2013)       social work with children (30 April 2013)          Pat Thane summarised her research in *three presentations to the series.
Her knowledge of the research field and of active researchers, plus access       to H&amp;P's national network of 400 historians, enabled her to identify       leading experts from 12 different HEIs (including two from King's College       London) to provide policy-relevant presentations.
All speakers'       presentations are now available on the H&amp;P website at: http://www.historyandpolicy.org/engagement/seminars.html#dfe.
The chief beneficiaries were civil servants in DfE, of whom up to 60       attended each event, including all the departmental Directors.
Seminars       took place in DfE's London headquarters and were streamed live to regional       offices.
Most were also filmed and made available on the DfE intranet       (accessible to around 4,000 civil servants).
H&amp;P is now discussing       with DfE how to make these videos available to a wider audience through       its own website.
Feedback was systematically evaluated as part of H&amp;P's monitoring and       evaluation process, and through detailed feedback from the DfE organisers.
Thane's initial presentation was highlighted by DfE Chief Research Officer       Richard Bartholomew as a model for other speakers to follow, in making       research accessible and relevant to a policy audience.
Feedback from all       events was overwhelmingly positive, as the evaluation documents show.
An       example is the feedback to the seminar on family policy, at which Prof.       Thane spoke:            All respondents said the event was `definitely' or `probably'         well-organised and interesting.
80-90% said it was `definitely' or `probably' relevant to their work,         provided the right balance between history and policy and was a good use         of their time.
82% said they would attend future H&amp;P events.
Representatives of NGOs also benefitted from attending relevant seminars       at DfE.
Having attended the first seminar on early years child care, Anand       Shukla, CEO of the Daycare Trust, invited Pat Thane to give a talk at the       Trust's annual conference on 21 Nov 2011:     We would be delighted if she could expand upon the talk she gave at DfE,       looking at the history of early years care in the 20th century       and drawing out lessons for policymakers.
This is a major annual       conference which will enable Pat the share her research and thoughts with       policymakers and practitioners from the sector....
The clearest evidence of a positive reception was the request from DfE       for Prof. Thane to lead a second seminar series (Oct 2012-Apr 2013).
Richard Bartholomew commented that: 'We trust History &amp; Policy to       provide sound information and advice that informs the way we think about       current policy issues'.
The events also impacted on policy-thinking within the department.
During       H&amp;P's 'learning from policy' seminar on 13 May 2013, Tom Jeffery       summarised the value of Pat's research and H&amp;P's policy engagement for       the DfE Review which he had led:     Two years ago we identified a need, and an appetite, for greater       historical understanding in the department.
There was a discussion in the       departmental board in which we recognised how ahistorical the work of the       civil service could be and that officials often did not refer to immediate       predecessors' work, let alone what happened in the recent or more distant       past.
We made contact with Pat Thane and History &amp; Policy and       launched, on an experimental basis, a series of seminars on children's       services &#8212; where historians came along and talked about their subject to       civil servants.
We have now done 9 seminars and they have been very       successful.
Those who have taken part have reflected positively on the       experience.
They appreciated the broad historical context which the       seminars revealed, and thought they had gained a richer understanding of       such issues as the changing nature of families; different perspectives on       childhood over time; and the development of social work.
We have recently developed five `policy tests', to help improve policy in       DfE.
One of these tests asks colleagues to consider whether they are       `providing world-leading policy advice based on the very latest expert       thinking', and to `delve into the archives to see how we tackled this       problem last time it (or something similar) arose'.
We want to stimulate       policy-makers to think broadly about the evidence base in their policy and       to look beyond Whitehall to develop a richer understanding of evidence.
We       want to develop an expectation of civil servants that they should       understand the evolution of their policy area and the lessons of previous       approaches.
Our work with Pat and History &amp; Policy over the last two years has       laid the foundation for that.
We are keen to build on the success of our       collaboration so far, and broaden its scope to the whole of DfE's policy       agenda.
We want to work with History &amp; Policy to develop further       seminar series covering not only children's services but also education       and are exploring the possibilities of History and Policy providing       tailored training for staff, developing reading lists on particularly       policy areas, and facilitating closer contacts between DfE and a range of       academics at KCL.
We see History &amp; Policy's continued expertise and       support as a crucial part of our work to improve policy-making within DfE.
Travel expenses for speakers at the DfE seminars were funded by the AHRC.
The seminars were planned and delivered with support from H&amp;P Public       Affairs Manager at King's, Mel Porter.
History &amp; Policy paper no.107, 'Happy Families?'
History and         policy: http://www.historyandpolicy.org/papers/policy-paper-107.html       has received 4332 unique page views since its publication (1 Oct 2010-13       June 2013), placing it in the top 20% most-viewed H&amp;P papers.
Of these       page views, over 100 were directed from a link on the BBC Radio 4 Thinking         Allowed web page for the 27 Oct 2010 programme (http://www.bbc.co.uk/programmes/b00vhhjm),       for which Pat Thane was interviewed and which brought her research on the       family to a wider public.
