     Throughout her career at King's, in concert with her colleagues (see       REF3a), Herrin has taken every opportunity to promote public interest in       and understanding of the world of Byzantium and its legacy to the modern       world, through reviews, broadcasts, and lectures, seminars and conferences       open to the public.
The aim of her research and its dissemination has       always been to challenge the traditionally negative public image of       Byzantium: impenetrable bureaucracy (`byzantine'), elaborate court and       religious rituals, intellectual and social rigidity, obscure religious and       political disputes, fiscal oppression, political and military       incompetence.
Two recurrent themes have been to challenge traditional       views that the position of women in Byzantium was restricted, and that the       emergence of Byzantium marked the division of the Mediterranean world into       west and east.
Public reaction to her 2001 Women in Purple,       reflected in its sales and translation into Czech, Greek, Polish and       Spanish, gave a foretaste of the extraordinary and ongoing reach of and       response to her 2007 Byzantium: The Surprising Life of a Medieval         Empire.
The spark to writing Byzantium was an encounter in King's with       two builders who, seeing her office nameplate, asked Herrin what       `Byzantine Studies' was.
In response Herrin devised the novel format of       her book which, while maintaining intellectual rigour and a chronological       organisation, eschews the normal political and military narrative with       interspersed cultural sections in favour of a series of chapters on       significant events, places, people and topics, designed to make the       essence of Byzantium attractively accessible to a general reader.
On       publication it soon became apparent that the book was reaching far beyond       the normal academic and academic-related audience.
Reviews reflecting &#8212;       and in themselves increasing &#8212; its impact appeared in newspapers across       the world, from the Toronto Star on 23 March 2008 (`an armchair       delight'), through the Christian Science Monitor on 12 February       2008 (`the author embraces the reader in the love of her subject'), to the         Kolkata Telegraph on 1 February 2008 (`Herrin sets out to rescue       Byzantium from its negative stereotype .
.
she succeeds brilliantly')       (5.1).
Herrin took up many media opportunities to discuss and promote the       book, in themselves indications of media perception of a growing public       interest.
For example, she was interviewed by Alvaro Condamar on the       Spanish website of Random House Mondadori on 28 October 2009 (Mondadori       has 160,014 followers), and three times by national Greek newspapers: To         Vima on 2 November 2008 and 30 May 2010 (2010 circulation 116,000)       and Ta Nea on 17 December 2008 (5.2).
Herrin was asked to write an       article for the Wall Street Journal of 11 March 2011 on how and       why popular interest in Byzantium is now growing.
To coincide with the       Byzantium exhibition at the Royal Academy, Herrin was invited to write a       full 45-minute programme (recorded on location in Istanbul) for the       flagship Sunday Feature documentary on BBC Radio 3 on 19 October 2009       (average audience 75,000), which she focussed on Byzantium's crucial role       in the transition of Europe to modernity (5.2).
Public reaction is       indicated by the existence of at least four pirated downloads of this       programme on the web.
The extraordinary reach of Herrin's Byzantium is attested by the       sales figures (only the hardback was available before 2008) to July 2013       which are exceptional for a book on ancient history, and a very pleasant       surprise to the original publishers (5.3): Penguin 8,108 hbk and 52,866       pbk (plus 954 e-book sales); Princeton UP 9,112 hbk and 7,337 pbk.
(Registered UK public lending figures to 2011/12 total 3,646 borrowings.)
Total sales of translated editions at dates before and up to end July 2013       include: Greek over 7,325; Italian 3,968; Polish 7,991; Japanese 2,260;       Korean 2,156; Spanish 4,500.
The number of translated editions &#8212; ten to       date (Dutch, German, Greek, Italian, Japanese, Korean, Polish, Spanish,       Swedish and Turkish) &#8212; show the perception by publishers of a worldwide       demand for this insight into Byzantium, attested also in messages from       them to Herrin (5.3).
For comparison, best-selling anglophone books on       ancient history such as Scullard's From the Gracchi to Nero (1959)       and Finley's The Ancient Economy (1973) have only appeared in a       few foreign editions in the usual languages of classical scholarship       (Scullard: Italian 1983; Finley: French 1975, German 1986, and Italian       2008).
The book has excited many individual responses by readers expressing       their pleasure and surprise at discovering the `secret' history of       Byzantium, and how the book has made them want to know more and to visit       the surviving monuments.
One of the more than 50 reader responses on       Amazon UK and US alone encapsulates the general tenor: `Judith Herrin is       apparently in love with Byzantium and she made me share her enthusiasm.
A       wonderful book about an unknown and underestimated part of our past and       culture' (5.4).
Herrin herself has received many letters and e-mails,       which reveal the varied backgrounds and interests of her readership,       ranging from a mining engineer in the sweltering Australian outback       spending his breaks with a colleague `talking about Byzantium and how much       they enjoyed your book', to a PhD student in Inorganic Chemistry at       Zurich, who wrote: `I have never been particularly interested in history,       but your book really woke up my curiosity and encouraged me to learn more       about the Byzantine Empire.
Besides it motivated me to visit two beautiful       cities &#8212; Istanbul and Ravenna', and an American, who wrote: `I have long       had a large "blank spot" in my understanding of Western Civilization and       History .
.
I could never accept the contradictory description of       Byzantium as a thoroughly corrupt, morally bereft, and decayed       civilization that, nevertheless, lasted for more than 1,100 years!
.
.
the       "blank spot" is now gone!'
(5.5).
Online discussion is exemplified by       presentation of the book on the campaigning digital commons website Open       Democracy as providing ideas for a possible post-national world where       communities cope peacefully with ethnic, religious and cultural       differences, what the writer bills as `the strong contemporary resonance       of Herrin's argument' (5.6).
In Greece Herrin was an invited speaker, because of her book, at the       Forum Makedonias, Thessalonike, 19-20 November 2010, in a theatre packed       with local entrepreneurs and media.
This event was organised by the       Tourist Office of Northern Greece, with support from the Ministry of       Culture, to increase tourism to Thessalonike and the surrounding area.
Herrin spoke about the medieval monuments and their importance.
As       reported in the local press, she explained, drawing on her book, how they       could help tourism by exploiting growing popular positive appreciation of       the particularly rich local Byzantine legacy (5.7).
The potential of Herrin's book to contribute to cultural rapprochement       between Greece and Turkey is illustrated by its translation into Turkish       with three print-runs and 1,488 sales (5.3), and reviews in three national       newspapers (Cumhuriyet, Gezgin, Zaman), with       comments such as (Zaman): `Herrin .
.
.
gives her readers a       different perspective for looking at and understanding Istanbul with her       book' (5.1).
As an invited keynote lecturer at the World History       Association at Sehir University, Istanbul, in November 2010, Herrin was       invited to meet the Foreign Minister of Turkey, to whom she later gave       copies of her book, and they discussed, and he supported, holding the next       International Congress of Byzantine Studies in Istanbul.
To capitalise on       and carry forward this cultural dialogue, Papacostas and Rapti, colleagues       of Herrin in the Centre for Hellenic Studies, have organised for autumn       2013 at King's, with the support of the British Institute at Ankara and       the Turkish Embassy in London, a special series of five public lectures by       Turkish researchers on the theme `Bizans &#8212; new perspectives from Turkey in       Byzantine studies' (5.8).
The principal impact of Herrin's Byzantium book of 2007 has been       its creation of a greater worldwide knowledge and critical interest in the       history and culture of Byzantium &#8212; with some impact on tourism &#8212;       accompanied by a growing realisation at individual and community level       that it offers a model of ethnic, cultural and religious accommodation       bridging Europe and the Near East which helps us think through current       problems.
The impact is sustainable for the foreseeable decade &#8212; the book       is being reprinted, new translations are in the pipeline, online debates       about the book's contents are continuing, and the lecture series of autumn       2013 is designed to stimulate further contacts and public events in Turkey       as well as in the UK.
Surprised at the unforeseen public response, Herrin       now plans to trace more systematically the impact of her book on general       perceptions of Byzantium and the reflections on the modern world which it       is stimulating.
