     The Leading Poetry research started a chain of events leading, so       far, to two main impacts: the Poetry Champions project and a       further, externally funded project called Ways with Words.
In       these projects, teachers changed their practice in planning, preparing and       teaching poetry, and reported greater confidence as a result.
Poetry Champions     The research team won more funding from the Higher Education Innovation       Fund to follow up Leading Poetry with a research and development       project which would put its findings into practice and disseminate them       widely.
Poetry Champions aimed to:            pilot changes to curriculum planning and teachers' professional         development in primary schools;       create a high profile group of enthusiastic poetry teachers by         supporting them to feel confident in finding ways to ignite, or         reignite, the love of poetry amongst their pupils;       the teachers in the group would champion the new approach in their own         schools, and spread the good practice through conference workshops.
The team disseminated its findings, including the four recommendations       listed in section 2 above, to a group of five teachers.
These five       champions acted as a springboard for further dissemination of the       findings, through two different workshops presented at two national       conferences and one international conference, which influenced the       practice of those teachers and teacher trainers present.
All four recommendations from the Leading Poetry project were       introduced into the poetry champions' schools:     Finding 1: the teachers on the Poetry Champions project       included poetry in their planning across the literacy curriculum and into       other subject work.
They also facilitated colleagues in their schools to       do the same (evidenced in planning documentation).
Teachers and teacher       trainers attending the conferences at which the champions presented the       findings, and how they integrated them into their own practice, can       provide testimony of the impact on their own practice.
Findings 2 and 4: the five teachers on the Poetry Champions       project organised staff meetings on poetry teaching and shared and       discussed poems to choose with their colleagues in the five schools, in       the way recommended by the findings from the Leading Poetry       project (evidenced by personal testimony from teachers in the five       schools).
Finding 3: during poetry staff meetings, teachers discussed the       issue of confidence to teach poetry and the five champions relayed to       their colleagues the importance of enjoying poetry as teachers in school.
In addition, they informed the project team through interviews that they       felt more confident to teach now they were aware that personal engagement       in poetry at home did not guarantee good quality teaching in school       (evidenced from personal testimony of teachers from the school and from       interview data provided by the project teachers.)
The champions have further disseminated the new approach to teaching       poetry through staff meetings in their schools and an article for a       literacy association journal to be read by their peers.
They are seen       locally as poetry teaching experts and consulted by colleagues across       South East London.
Ways with Words     Recommendations amongst head teachers in Kent led to their schools       commissioning Professor Lambirth and the Leading Poetry team to       work on a two year project, starting in April 2012, to improve the       teaching of writing in 17 primary schools.
The teaching of poetry was an       important component in this work and the team passed on the four main       research findings from Leading Poetry.
Personal testimony from individual teachers and head teachers at the 17       schools provides evidence of impact from the Leading Poetry       project:     Finding 1: teacher planning documentation in schools involved in       the Ways with Words project shows that teachers are embedding the       use of poetry in their teaching across the curriculum.
Findings 2 and 4: staff from the 17 schools set up opportunities       for colleagues to talk about poems and poets in staff meetings and reflect       upon how they can be introduced with children appropriate to the year       group.
Finding 3: during staff time organised to share poems, the       teachers from the Ways with Words project facilitated discussion       about personal and professional enjoyment of poetry and how this affects       the teaching in the classroom.
