     Wootton, a former mosaicist himself, is passionate about the conservation       of ancient mosaics and       their presentation to the public.
Since 2007 he has organised, and hosted       at King's College       London, the annual AGM and Symposium of the Association for the Study and       Preservation of       Roman Mosaics (ASPROM), of which in 2011 he was elected Chairman.
During       the ASPROM       events and those run by him as part of the Applied Arts series (see       http://www.kcl.ac.uk/artshums/depts/chs/events/specialevents/AAW.aspx       and       http://www.kcl.ac.uk/artshums/depts/chs/events/specialevents/AAW2013.aspx),       he has showcased       recent work on mosaics in the UK and abroad, including advances in       documentation and       conservation, to a large and diverse audience.
Wootton had already brought       his experience in the       study and conservation of mosaics to Libya in the excavations at       Euesperides (Benghazi) between       2003 and 2005 (see section 2 above).
In his 1994-98 excavations at Lepcis       Magna, Walda had       instituted a training programme for Libyan as well as British students (www.alnpete.co.uk/lepcis/).
Walda has also for many years advised the Department of Antiquities in       Libya, of which he is an       accredited international representative, on how to support the care of       antiquities in Libya.
Because of their track record of research and local involvement, in       November 2010 the Getty       Foundation awarded Wootton and Walda a grant of &#163;64,000 for Conserving         and Managing         Mosaics in Libya, a project to organise a series of workshops in       Libya on the conservation of       mosaics and the management of archaeological sites (3.4-5).
Gaddafi was       then in power and the       Department of Antiquities was struggling to manage their heritage sites       and train their employees.
The ancient mosaics, in particular, had been deteriorating badly due to       their exposure and the lack       of care.
The project's aim was to ameliorate the situation through       workshops, using the research       experience of Wootton and Walda, and that of their international team, in       the documentation,       conservation and management of archaeological sites.
Implementation of the project was delayed by the uprising against Gaddafi       which began in       February 2011.
Instead, in March 2011 Walda and Wootton, as known experts       on the sites, both       received e-mail requests from Blue Shield (www.ancbs.org)       and ICOMOS (International Council on       Monuments and Sites) to provide a list of sites of cultural importance in       Libya with their GIS co-ordinates       (5.1).
This was wanted by NATO and the MOD (after the problems in Iraq) in       order to       minimise collateral damage to heritage sites by airstrikes during       Operation Unified Protector in       March to October 2011.
Walda, aided by Wootton, was able to extract and       make user-friendly the       data from his research in support of Rouech&#233;'s epigraphic projects, which       Blue Shield then       supplied to NATO and the MOD.
Walda was an invited member of the team sent       by Blue Shield on       two missions to Libya in early 2012 to report on war damage to       antiquities, and he contributed to       the subsequent reports detailing the archaeological impact of the uprising       and the NATO airstrikes       (5.2a-b).
During and since the conflict he has been in frequent demand       from the worldwide media,       including NATO features, to comment on the state of the antiquities there       (5.4, 5.5).
Contrary to       some hasty claims (e.g.
5.5c), NATO's `No strike list' was a great success       (5.3, 5.4, 5.5).
The value       of the input by Walda and Wootton has been acknowledged by the President       of the International       Association of Blue Shield Committees in the second Blue Shield report       (5.2b) &#8212; `The mission       would not have been possible without the specialised knowledge and the       contacts of Dr. Hafed       Walda' &#8212; and again in his public lecture on the work of Blue Shield at       King's in June 2013 (5.2c).
The GIS data are now being used to form the basis for a comprehensive       record of sites and       monuments fundamental for managing Libya's archaeological heritage.
Between April 2012 and April 2013 Wootton and Walda were able to       implement their Getty-funded       project.
They completed an evaluation trip and delivered two workshops       with John Stewart (English       Heritage) and Alaa El-Habasji (Monafia University).
They gave general       presentations on mosaic       conservation and management to nearly 150 people, followed by tailored       workshops to some 50       staff, from senior and middle management to site controllers and       technicians, of the Libyan       Department of Antiquities.
The feedback shows that the workshops gave the       Libyan staff the       confidence to assess the conservation problems of mosaics and implement       appropriate plans to       mitigating them (5.6, 5.8).
Even those with no responsibility for mosaics       acknowledged the value of       the methodology as a framework for the management of the particular       heritage in their region, as       well as practical tips such as the use of lime mortar rather than cement.
Changes in practice are       already taking place.
During the evaluation trip Wootton and Walda advised       on reburial of a mosaic       at Tocra, now completed by Ahmed Buzaian (5.7), and created a scheme for       the reburial of       mosaics in Sabratha at the request of the site controller, Mohamed       Abougela (3.5).
They gave       talks about their project to community groups and the media, and were       invited to meet the       Municipal Council of Sabratha and the acting Governor to discuss practical       steps for heritage       conservation in the current situation.
In its response to Wootton and       Walda's report, the Getty       Foundation praised `the excellent training that has been achieved on the       project, especially in the       light of the dramatic socio-political upheaval' (5.6).
Back at King's in       February 2012 Wootton and       Walda held a public event, the `Libya Matters Workshop', jointly with the       Society for Libyan Studies       to promote the importance of Libya's heritage       (http://www.kcl.ac.uk/artshums/depts/chs/events/specialevents/Libya.aspx).
The international       community benefits greatly from this contribution to conserving Libya's       Roman (and pre-Roman)       heritage, but the local context is paramount.
As the report on the second       Blue Shield mission       concluded: `Once again the importance of Cultural Heritage to restore       national identity and to       function as a binding factor for all tribes and factions became apparent.
The Libyan cultural       heritage and political authorities acknowledged this on more occasions'.
The challenge now is to       sustain support and progress in training Libyan heritage staff and       supporting conservation projects.
Wootton and Walda are developing a follow-up project, which will depend of       the availability of       finance (as well as political developments in Libya); on 12 March 2013 the       Chairman of the Libyan       Department of Antiquities wrote to Wootton to confirm the Department's       support (permits,       accommodation and maintenance, training facilities) for a forthcoming       major grant application to       continue the work (5.8).
