     a) The main impact of Beaton's specified research to date has been on       Greek public discourse, to the benefit of the Greek public and all others       interested in modern Greek national identity.
Ever since the early 1800s a conspicuous strand in Greek public discourse       has been devoted to the question of defining modern Greek identity in       relation to the ancient past, and since the 1850s also the Byzantine past.
For a century and a half this discourse has been dominated by insistence       on the `continuity' of the Greek nation from antiquity to the present.
The       research described here joins forces with recent work by academic       historians in Greece (e.g.
Kitromilides, Liakos, Michaelides, Veremis) to       challenge that assumption, and itself derives in part from a heated       exchange in the Greek national press between public intellectuals Nasos       Vayenas and Antonis Liakos on this issue in 2005, as is more fully       explained in Beaton's 2007 paper (3.2).
A new impetus was given to this       clash of ideologies in Greek public discourse with the financial and       social crisis that began in 2010.
It was at exactly this time (October-December 2010) that Beaton was in       Athens conducting documentary research for Byron's War, and was       able to take opportunities to present the results of his and his       colleagues' recent research directly to the Greek public.
He was       immediately invited to give the interviews described below and to speak at       the Onassis Foundation, primarily because of his pre-existing public       reputation in Greece as an authoritative (and fluent Greek-speaking)       commentator on Greek culture and identity built up from widespread       interest in his 2003 book on the poet and leading intellectual George       Seferis (the Greek translation issued in 2003 sold 10,000 copies in 6       months, making it a best-seller) and because of his expertise attested by       numerous publications in Greek, on related issues, since the early 1990s.
On 14 November 2010 To Vima, the national newspaper of the       Centre-Left, published a 1,500-word interview of Beaton by Markos       Karasarinis; on 9 January 2011 I Kathimerini, the national       newspaper of the Centre-Right, published an 1,800-word interview by Ilias       Manglinis (5.1).
The latter focussed on Beaton's profile as a researcher       into and commentator on modern Greek history and culture, the former on       issues such whether the revolutionary nature of the foundation of the       Greek nation has yet been generally appreciated, and whether on the       Romantic model intellectuals should be men of action.
Beaton's invited       paper to the high-profile Athens Dialogues organised by the       Onassis Foundation at its Centre for Arts and Letters on 24-27 November       2010 (3.3, 5.2), on Byron, Shelley and the idea of Greece (previewing his       ongoing research), was warmly received by an audience of several hundred       and streamed worldwide to an audience claimed by the organisers at 40,000.
This led to more interviews in the Greek national media during the event       (details not kept), to Beaton's participation in a public discussion of       the current Greek crisis, again at the Onassis Centre, on 13 December       2012, attended by several hundred members of the public, including former       prime minister Kostas Simitis (5.2), and an hour-long in-depth interview       on the Apostrofos programme on national radio (ET3) broadcast on 4       April 2011.
Interviews with Beaton on Byron and the foundation of the       Greek state were made for inclusion in the serialised TV documentary 1821       on the Greek Revolution of the 1820s, which was broadcast on the       independent channel Skai in 8 hour-long episodes during early 2011 (and       subsequently issued as a DVD), and in another high-profile TV documentary       (for The Time Machine programme) on the same topic, broadcast by       the national channel ET1 on 25 March 2012, the National Day of Greece, and       again on 25 March 2013.
(Note: the national ET radio and TV service was       closed down by the government in June 2013, so corroborative data are now       irretrievable.)
These forms of public engagement in Greece secured wide dissemination for       the results of the King's conference and volume and of work-in-progress on       Beaton's Byron project, and brought Beaton and his work directly into       public discourse on the hotly controversial topic of modern Greek       identity, a rare achievement for a non-Greek (5.3).
This impact is ongoing       and sustainable, and now merging with the impact of Beaton's book on Byron       (see end of b) below).
b) The more recent, and still developing, impact of Beaton's work on       Byron is on public knowledge and understanding of Byron, to the benefit,       through cultural enhancement, of the international general public       interested in Byron, the Romantic poets and Greek history.
Public dissemination of Beaton's discoveries about the political       significance of Byron's contribution to the Greek revolution began in       spring 2011, while research was still in progress, through invited       lectures to local Byron Societies at, for example, London, Edinburgh,       Dublin, and Missolonghi (Greece).
These independent public-interest       societies co-operate through an international association, and aim to       provide events, information and contacts for Byron enthusiasts everywhere       (5.4).
Beaton made available previously unknown documents about Byron's       role, which he had identified in archives in Athens, for public       dissemination on a non-academic website maintained on behalf of the       International Byron Society (5.5).
As a result, King's was invited by the       President of The Byron Society (London), to bid to host the 39th       International Byron Conference in 2013, an annual forum for worldwide       public interest in Byron.
The bid was accepted by the International Byron       Society, with a budget of &#163;10,000 provided by The Byron Society (London) &#8212;       a concrete expression of interest in and support for the research and       public profile of Beaton and his colleagues, and the conference took place       at King's on 1-6 July 2013.
Beaton was chair of the Programme and       Organising Committees, and himself a plenary speaker.
There were 124       registered participants (despite a registration fee of &#163;250) from 22       countries, mostly amateur enthusiasts, writers and journalists, and a few       academics.
The theme, building on and extending Beaton's research on       Byron's activities in Greece, was Byron: the Poetry of Politics and         the Politics of Poetry.
Feedback forms and individual messages to       Beaton attest to the public cultural enrichment derived from this event       (5.6): the many positive (anonymous) comments include `it certainly had an       impact on my approach to Byron's poetry and politics'.
The President of       the Missolonghi Byron Society has invited Beaton to address her members       again in 2014 because, she writes, `From what we heard .
.
your work is       going to change the way we think about the British hero of our       Independence'; the President of the Byron Society (London), commenting on       the success of the conference, continued: `I think your new book Byron's         War has had, and indeed will continue to have, a significant impact       on the way both Byronists, historians and enthusiastic amateurs view       Byron's role in the Greek War of Independence and the origins of the       modern Greek state.
As you know the Byron Society comprises predominantly       non-academics and this is very much the sort of area that society members       are interested in.'
In tandem with the conference, the exhibition Byron and Politics:         `Born for Opposition' opened on 24 June 2013 (continuing to 25       September) at the Maughan Library, King's College London, in collaboration       with the National Library of Scotland.
This brings together for the first       time Byron manuscripts from the John Murray archive from the NLS, rare       printed items from the Foyle Special Collections at King's, and Byron       memorabilia in private hands, many of them never exhibited in public       before.
Selection of exhibits and catalogue entries in the section       relating to Greece were determined largely by Beaton's research, and       Beaton advised the curators.
An illustrated catalogue of the exhibition       was supplied free to visitors during the exhibition thanks to &#163;6,000       raised from private sources (mainly Byron enthusiasts), with an       institutional contribution by King's, to fund its production; it is now       freely available online.
The private funding itself shows belief that       Beaton's research is having impact beyond academe, which is also attested       in the voluntary comments left by visitors to the exhibition (5.7).
Byron's War (3.4) was published in UK on 25 April 2013 and in the       USA in July.
A contract for a Greek translation (by Patakis) was signed in       May 2013 (for an advance of &#8364;2,000, a clear indication of enthusiasm).
Laudatory reviews have appeared to July 2013 in non-academic media such as       The Spectator, Economist and Literary Review.
Beaton       promoted dissemination beyond academia by contributing an article to History         Today 63/6 (June 2013) 3-5.
He has also received e-mails from       individuals attesting how his book has enriched their understanding of       Byron and the creation of the Greek nation-state (5.8).
The impact of       publication of the book is only just beginning and will be sustainable for       several years.
For example Beaton has accepted the proposal of the British       Embassy in Athens to hold a launch event at the embassy for the Greek       edition of his book (on 12 September 2013) and another from the Byron       Society of Missolonghi (for spring 2014).
He has also accepted a proposal       from the Greek Embassy in London to organise a Byron-centred event,       including presentation of his book, at Edinburgh (in spring 2014) as one       of the cultural events to mark the Greek presidency of the EU (5.9).
