     Professor Rai Gaita is one of Australia's foremost public intellectuals.
The connection between his philosophical research and his more       general-public works was captured in the citation for the award of the       degree of Doctor Honoris Causa from the University of Antwerp, 2009: `for       his exceptional contribution to contemporary moral philosophy and for his       singular contribution to the role of the intellectual in today's academic       world'.
In 2011, Flinders University organised a conference in his honour;       speakers included writers, filmmakers, lawyers, social workers, political       and literary theorists and poets.
In recognition of the cultural       importance of his work, the National Library of Australia has asked for       Gaita's papers for their collection, and the Australian National Portrait       Gallery commissioned his portrait in 2012.
(There is also a street       graffiti portrait of Gaita in Melbourne).
His work has influenced public       attitudes towards justice (to humans and animals), multiculturalism, war       and reconciliation, collective responsibility, racism, genocide and crimes       against humanity, and also the general public's understanding of the       experiences of immigrants in Australia.
The following are examples of       these impacts on different groups of beneficiaries.
The General Public.
Described by Nobel Laureate J.M.
Coetzee as       `one of those miraculous books ... that have an unpredictable life of       their own', Gaita's book Romulus, My Father has sold more than       100,000 copies in English and is one `of Australia's best loved books' (The         Australian, 19.8.2011).
The film adaption reached even more people:       it was seen by approximately 10% of Australians (i.e., over 2m) on its       release, and it continues to be viewed throughout the world in cinemas &#8212;       now primarily at festivals and in art houses, on television and on DVD       (the latter has sold about 30,000 copies).
Both book and film have made       people re-examine how they live their lives and have inspired them to       re-evaluate their choices.
These are just two examples among many of       testimonies by email correspondence since 2008:     `I just saw the film Romulus, My Father with a friend, and we both       enjoyed it tremendously.
I feel honoured to be writing you... You are an       inspiration.
Your work is certain to get people talking ... and ultimately       will help many people overcome burdens in their own lives.'
`In seeing the movie and reading your book several times I sense the       sadness, despair, sympathy, love, hope and heartbreak of young Rai.
The       things that you wrote about your mother were very personal and must have       been difficult to open to public scrutiny (...) Here I am, a person who       was born forty years and half a world away from Christina who thanks to       her son and his love and sympathy for her I recognised and admitted to       myself what I've been suffering for so long.
And for this I thank you       Professor Gaita.'
The book has a significant profile in the Australian Education System and       is currently on the reading list for the Higher School Certificate in New       South Wales and Victoria.
The text is required to help children reflect on       the cultural diversity of their community and to encourage affirming       perspectives.
To date it has been selected for assessment by over 10,000       children in Victoria.
The use of the book in schools has ensured `that the       ethical and philosophical questions posed by Professor Gaita's story are       considered by a broad cross section of our community, not just those       undertaking a formal study of philosophy' (Vice-Chancellor, University of       Melbourne.
Letter, March, 2013).
Since 2009, Gaita has spoken every year to large groups of schoolchildren       (up to 700) for whom Romulus is a set text.
The Director of Information       Access gives a telling description of the impact of these talks on       children:     `Having last left off reading the years of Raimond as a child, they       experience standing before them now someone who not only survived the       experiences but who offers philosophical pathways to integrate challenging       human experience' (Email correspondence, 2013).
The film Romulus, My Father was the most successful of all Australian       releases in 2007, earning ca.
$2.6 million and won the 2007 Australian       Film Institute (AFI) award.
Since then, it has not only reached the       general public, but it also influenced Australia's cultural and creative       landscape.
In the words of its producer: 'The cinema, DVD, and television       release of ROMULUS reached an estimated audience of 2.5 million       Australians...
The film also had a huge global reach, premiering at the       prestigious Toronto International Film Festival and selling in many       territories throughout the world....
There is a significant cultural       impact and importance in telling Australian stories like this on the       global scale achieved by ROMULUS, MY FATHER....We worked with the       Australian Teachers of Media (ATOM) to develop a study guide and support       screenings in schools.
[...] The film and associated props and screenplays       [have formed an important part of Australia's cultural heritage and] are       held in the collection of the National Film and Sound Archive in Canberra.
... [The] wonderful book ROMULUS, MY FATHER brought together a group of       filmmakers to create a film that has had a huge reach, ... prompting many       and varied discussions and articles about its themes and the important       ideas it explores.'
(Email correspondence 2013).
Policymakers.
Gaita's work on human rights and international       justice has had international reach and a profound effect on the       understanding of nationalism and international politics.
These examples,       selected among others, serve to illustrate the claim:     - Gaita was invited to speak at a major international policy event       sponsored by the Austrian foreign ministry, `Trilogue.
Global Visions: are       we Speaking a Common Language?'
in Salzburg 2008.
Participants included       the Rt.
Hon.
Kim Campbell (former Prime Minister of Canada), Peter       Sutherland (chairman of BP) and Michael Fleischhacker (chief editor of Die         Presse).
His letter of invitation recognised the impact of his work       on debates about nationalism and international politics.
- In November 2010, Gaita was invited to discuss the morality of the       Israeli-Palestinian conflict with three eminent military figures: Colonel       Richard Kemp, Major General Yaakov Amidror and Major General Jim Molan.
Organized by NSW Jewish National Fund, it attracted over 900 guests,       including influential members of the Australian Jewish community.
His       contribution caused a significant stir, prompting a debate with the head       of the NSWJNF, reported in the local press.
- In 2012 the International Melbourne Writers Festival invited him to       discuss the prospects for peace in the Middle East with Martyn Indyk,       former US Ambassador to Israel under President Clinton and presently       President Obama's envoy to negotiations between Israel and Palestine.
- Gaita's work is often used by public figures and policymakers, for       example in former Archbishop of Canterbury Rowan Williams' book Faith         in the Public Square (2012, p. 17), to deepen their understanding of       contemporary issues, as attested by the Vice Chancellor of Melbourne       University:     `Professor Gaita is a public intellectual of considerable standing.
He       has demonstrated an ability to engage the higher education sector and the       broader community in considered mediation, constantly challenging ideas       and proposing new thought.
(...) In 2011 and 2012 Professor Gaita       organized the Wednesday lectures series here at Melbourne University.
They       are a highly popular part of our calendar of events and are well attended       by students, staff and the general public.
(...) the lectures are much       anticipated by colleagues for their thought-provoking discussion and       ideas.'
(Vice Chancellor of Melbourne University, The `Wednesday lecture       series' are open to the public and regularly draw audiences of c.200-300       people.
Email correspondence, 2013).
In 2008 Gaita was invited to speak to senior leaders and new graduates at       the Australian Government's Department of Immigration and Citizenship.
Its       secretary, Andrew Metcalfe AO, described the expected impact of that talk       as helping `to develop and strengthen the leadership group's appreciation       of its central role in promoting good governance throughout the       organization'.
The Legal Profession.
Gaita regularly gives seminars and lectures       to both academic and practicing lawyers.
In 2010 he spoke to the Victorian       Association of Magistrates on the subject of `Morality, Moralizing and the       Law'.
The c.200 audience included senior members of the Victorian legal       establishment.
Gaita's absolute conception of human value has influenced       the thinking of lawyers, especially on justice and human rights.
For       example, Julian Burnside, one of Australia's most prominent human rights       lawyers, writes: `Rai Gaita's work had a powerful impact on me.
My       involvement in human rights work was increasing significantly, and his       book [3.3] helped shape my response to a number of human rights problems.
The... book was profoundly important in helping me think about social       justice and human rights' (email correspondence, 2013).
