     The podcast project has benefited thousands of users internationally,       inspiring them, enriching       their lives and informing and influencing their intellectual, cultural and       personal development.
This       has been made possible by the way in which the project makes high-level       research physically and       intellectually accessible.
The format of the podcast series makes it       possible to convey advanced       and detailed philosophical research findings to a broad audience.
Moreover, the podcasts are       easily and freely available, as they can be downloaded from an RSS feed       (via software such as       iTunes).
This has ensured that the podcasts have reached a broad audience,       both in academic       and non-academic settings.
The total number of downloads as of       July 31, 2013 was over 4         million for 139 episodes &#8212; an average of almost 30,000 downloads per       episode.
Within 1-2       weeks, an episode will typically be downloaded about 7,000 times.
The       podcast homepage has       been viewed just under 600,000 times.
Total views for each episode are       available amongst the       sources in 5 below, but here is a sample of relevant statistics: the first       episode has been viewed on       the website about 38,000 times, an early interview with MM McCabe on       Heraclitus 10,000 times, a       more recent episode on al-Kindi about 3,000 times.
This indicates how many       times people have       listened to episodes streaming directly off the website, as opposed to       downloading them.
In light of these statistics it is clear that the podcasts have thousands       of regular listeners.
This       impression is confirmed by the facebook fan page of the podcasts, which       has over 4000 fans; and       the Twitter account (@HistPhilosophy) maintained by Prof. Adamson which       has about 2600       followers.
Both the facebook page and Twitter account are used to       publicize new episodes, to       interact with listeners and answer questions, and to disseminate related       information such as       philosophy events in London and beyond.
Because podcasts can be accessed globally, listeners have written from       far-flung places like       Australia, Canada, Mexico, Norway and Russia.
Two listeners got in touch       from Brazil and Korea       to ask about translating the podcasts into Portuguese and Korean.
Many       listeners indicate that       they are not academics &#8212; for instance one listener said that they enjoyed       listening while driving       their UPS truck, another wrote to say that they are writing a blog about       their attempts to replicate       the educational experience of a BA using only freely available internet       resources, and that with the       help of this podcast they are `majoring in philosophy.'
The impact of the podcasts is also shown by hundreds of comments on       iTunes, the podcasts       website, facebook page, and direct emails to Prof. Adamson.
These       illustrate the fact that the       podcasts produce great excitement and inspiration in regular listeners of       all ages and       backgrounds, and have been taken up in formal education from secondary to       university graduate       levels.
Here is a small sample that provides an indication of the nature       and significance of the       impact:     `Hopefully it won't sound void if I say that the world is a better place       with you (and your podcast)       around.
Now, I know what you're thinking: that I must be listening to them       from time to time!
Well       no, actually I listen to an episode a day, and then again and again; and       every time there's a new       aspect, a new idea popping up from among the layers of your argumentative       discourse: Antiquity       revived.'
`Your work has rekindled my love of thinking.'
`I have just started listening to your series from the beginning, and I       find all the podcasts       magnificent!
Listening to the program on Heraclitus while doing the dishes       really lights up that       menial task.
The program on Xenophanes was brilliant.'
`My highest education is a Bachelor of Commerce in 1973 and while it did       not include any       philosophy courses, for some reason I have a general curiosity about the       subject.
I'm now retired       and two years ago audited a one semester introductory course but for       various reasons have not       been able to take more &#8212; but will.'
`Thanks for the excellently accessible podcasts &#8212; combined with Librivox       audio versions of the       primary texts they open up a whole new world.'
`Thanks very much for your wonderful podcast.
It's very accessible.
I       began listening to it with little       interest of the subject, now I head straight to the philosophy section       when I walk into a bookstore.
I've bought the 'The Presocratic Philosophers' as recommended and the       'Complete Works of       Plato'.'
`I recently came across your philosophy podcast, and wanted to express my       thanks for doing such       a good job, on such a worthy task.
Until very recently I was a stranger to       philosophy, but since       taking a course on Roman history at university I've began to open the door       to its vaulted treasures.
It feels like I'm still only peeking through a crack in the door &#8212; much of       the information in your       podcast is entirely new to me &#8212; yet the position I'm in is a deeply       exciting one.'
`I am thoroughly enjoying the podcasts.
At age 72 I have `suddenly'       discovered Philosophy and am       quite taken by Aristotle and St Thomas Aquinas.
The sessions on Aristotle       have been a big assist       to my organizing my reading of his works.
Please continue.
From: Fan in       California.'
`Just want to thank you for this.
I think this is needed for this       society.
This site was introduced to       me by my uncle who found you.
I had been interested before, so I was       gladly ready to start the       podcast.
I really like it.
Now I am reading St. Thomas and I can't wait       before you get there, and on       other great philosophical figures.'
[From a 12 year old listener.]
`After 3 months of exclusive listening to your podcast on my regular       commute, I have finally caught       up with your most recent podcast... As one who had never before studied       anything philosophical       (or historical, for that matter!
), your podcast has opened a fascinating       world to me and I am ever so       grateful.'
`I would just like to add my voice to the chorus of thanks and       congratulations you are deservedly       receiving.
As a teacher myself, I particularly admire your skill at       explaining complex concepts       succinctly and clearly without the need to 'talk down'.
Your use of humour       and links to modern       examples is so well-judged and skilful, and leads to a rapid and complete       engagement with the       subject.'
`I've recently dived into the podcast, and I've enjoyed it immensely!
I've just begun graduate school       in Greek and Latin, but I don't have a strong philosophy background (my       undergraduate degree       was Computer Science).
I have always enjoyed philosophy though, and the       podcast has been both       a delight and a way to make up for lost time!
Keep up the excellent work!'
`I have been listening intently.
I use it as I drive to and from work       where I take 000 calls.
It means I       can still believe that reason still exists.'
`I graduated with a degree in philosophy in 2009 and, as I'm sure is true       of most philosophy       graduates, I now live a life where opportunities to discuss (let alone       `do') philosophy are rare.
These podcasts are just the thing I needed to keep the topics fresh in my       mind, and keep me       encouraged to continue my study, if only informally.'
`Loved it!
I'm a mailman, not a scholar... Will be listening to the       entire library.'
`I'm 19 years old and have recently developed a passing interest in       philosophy.
Before I go ahead       and start to learn on a more in-depth level about particular philosophers,       I'm trying to develop a       good core knowledge of the whole subject.
That way, I can choose which       aspects appeal to me the       most and find some more specialised material on them.
Your podcast series       is a brilliant starting       point for me, since you talk in a way that even somebody, like me, who is       not a student in the       subject can understand.
You don't assume that the person listening to the       podcast is already       educated in philosophy like some of the other resources that I have found       do.'
`I thought you might like to know that alongside Nigel Warburton's       Philosophy Bites your podcasts       are also becoming part of my A-Level teaching and that my students are       making use of them to get       insights and opinions I have not offered.
I merely provide a sheet of       timed questions and some       headphones and set them off.
Happily several have then gone on to listen       to all those others not       immediately relevant.'
[From a UK secondary school Philosophy teacher].
A fuller impression of comments and exchanges between Prof. Adamson and       listeners can be       found on: www.historyofphilosophy.net/comments;       or on the facebook page and Twitter accounts.
