     The commentaries on Aristotle constitute approximately half of the total       ancient philosophical       corpus, but before this Project they were barely recognized as part of       that corpus by most scholars       in the field, let alone the broader public interested in philosophy.
Now       discussion of Aristotle is       routinely informed by interpretations found in the commentators, and the       study of the       commentators has been integrated into the study and teaching of late       antiquity as a whole.
The project has transformed our understanding of the development of the       Western intellectual       tradition through the medieval period and beyond.
Philoponus and others       commentators were       translated into Arabic, and Porphyry and Boethius wrote commentaries that       were hugely influential       in Latin medieval thought.
The background of Christian-pagan philosophical       controversy can now       be better appreciated, and medieval discussions of topics ranging from       logical theory to theories of       intellect or the eternity of the universe have been brought into focus.
To take just one example, the eternity of the universe, the Project has       given us English versions of       Philoponus' critique of Aristotle's arguments for eternity, the responses       to this critique by the       Platonist Simplicius, a further massive work by Philoponus refuting       Proclus on the same topic, and       most recently a pair of texts by Christian authors anticipating arguments       later given by Philoponus.
This has brought out the philosophical connections between cosmology and       theology and revealed       a subtle cultural debate between pagan and Christian intellectuals that       lasted over centuries.
Thus       in the Islamic world Philoponus was gratefully used to stop the       Aristotelian endorsement of the       eternity of the universe's limiting God's creative powers, while figures       like Avicenna and Duns       Scotus made advances in modal logic designed to reconfigure the whole       debate by severing the       link between necessity and eternity.
The translations have also reached Islamicists, theologians, historians       of philosophy, historians of       ancient Greece and Byzantium, Medieval and Renaissance scholars, Latinists       and Hellenists,       historians of science and society, scholars of ancient education,       literature and lexicography, and       scholars working in many other areas where light is cast by the ancient       commentators.
What was       once largely inaccessible is now easily available.
As Myles Burnyeat has       written, as a result of the       project, '[t]he Greek commentators are now being read around the world       with an intensity of       interest they have not received since they were first written' (Myles       Burnyeat, Classical Association         News).
The enormous scale of the scholarly task involved has also       made it into the popular       consciousness, with Harry Mount describing the project in a Daily       Telegraph blog as `the most       extraordinary feat of British scholarship ever'.
The most easily documentable impact of the Project has been in       educational contexts.
Broadly       speaking, the project has affected the teaching of ancient philosophy in       two ways.
First, it has       altered the teaching of Aristotle himself.
By looking at ancient       commentators, we are far better       placed to understand his thought.
A good example is his philosophy of       mind.
Thus, on the       mysterious `maker intellect' of On the Soul 3.5, or on whether the       human soul can survive without a       body, the commentators offer extensive exegetical discussion where       Aristotle provides only       tantalizing suggestions.
Indeed the commentaries are models of exegesis:       every word is given       careful consideration, contextualized within the purposes of the work as a       whole, and       interpretations are checked for philosophical plausibility and       compatibility with the source author's       other commitments.
In this sense the project offers a unique opportunity       to teach the art of       exegesis while also teaching students about a previously unexplored part       of the history of       philosophy.
Second, the commentators can be taught as a subject in their own right.
The commentaries are full       of novel philosophical insights, and colleagues around the world have used       the volumes to bring       this material to their students.
The late antique commentators provide a       unique perspective on       ancient philosophy.
For example, one of the Project's volumes contains the       commentaries of       Ammonius and Boethius on On Interpretation 9, allowing students to       see how the ancients       understood Aristotle's response to the famous sea-battle argument.
Furthermore, the volumes       include some of the most important sources for Presocratic and Hellenistic       thought (especially       Simplicius).
Thus for the first time it is possible for the Greek-less       reader to see the context in       which these earlier authors are quoted, rather than simply reading English       versions of those       fragments.
This allows students to see figures like Parmenides,       Empedocles, or Chrysippus as       existing outside a body of static doctrine put forward by a handful of       great thinkers (Socrates, Plato       and Aristotle) and as participants in an active living debate, much like       philosophy today.
Courses that in the last five years have used editions from the       Commentators' project or Sorabji's       three-volume sourcebook include (HEI followed by course level and title):       Birkbeck College,       London, undergraduate course `Further History of Philosophy'; Leiden       University, the Netherlands,       MA seminars on `Images of Stoic Thought', `Ethics, Psychology and       Education in Ancient and       Medieval Philosophy', `Science and Philosophy in Ancient Curriculum' and       `Memory and       Imagination in Ancient and Medieval Philosophy'; Princeton University,       USA, graduate seminar on       `the Presocratics'; University of Cologne, Germany,       undergraduate/postgraduate seminar       `Forschungskolloquium Antike und Sp&#228;tantike Philosophie'; LMU, Munich,       Germany, graduate       seminars on Aristotle's Metaphysics (using esp.
Alexander and       Syrianus); Emory University, USA,       graduate teaching used in seminars (using esp.
Alexander of Aphrodisias,       Simplicius and Proclus'       De Malorum Subsistentia); University of Rome, Italy, undergraduate       course on `Aristotle's       Categories' and MA course on Plotinus; Universidad Panamericana,       Mexico, graduate seminars on       the `Commentaries on Physics and Metaphysics'; University       of Paris-Diderot, France, graduate       seminars on `Physical Transmission', `On Philoponus' Natural Philosophy',       and on `Averroes'       Commentary on the De caelo'; University of Freiburg, Germany,       undergraduate and postgraduate       seminars `On the Categories'; Marquette University, USA, graduate course       `The Neoplatonic       Reading of Aristotle'.
The Project has meant that the philosophy and ideas revealed by the       commentators can readily be       taught in undergraduate courses, Masters programmes and doctoral seminars.
Nor is it only the       Greek-less student who benefits from the commentaries.
Even students with       Greek acknowledge       the importance of good editions of translations, particularly of such       difficult and often technical       texts.
Thus one teacher says that `The (...) volumes dedicated to       Simplicius' commentary on De         caelo are of great help, because of their textual emendations,       because they offer a translation (and       a translation is always welcome even for those who know Greek) and because       of their illuminating       introductions and annotations' (Ahmad Hasnaoui, University of       Paris-Diderot, France).
Similarly,       New York University classicist David Konstan says: `I can and do freely       refer students to the       commentators, now that most of the significant material has been       translated.
The impact of the       project has been enormous' (David Konstan, Classics, NYU, USA).
Because of English's status as an academic lingua franca, classes and       seminars across the world       have been reshaped and restructured to allow students to learn from the       commentators.
`It has       made it vastly easier to include these materials in syllabi.
I was able to       structure a whole       semester's graduate class on the commentator's responses to Aristotle'       (Owen Goldin, Marquette       University, USA).
`The Duckworth translations are (...) constantly       referred to in my classes (...), by       students (both undergrad and grad) in their reports, in their MA and PhD       theses, etc.'
(Amos       Bertolacci, Scuola Normale Superiore, Pisa, Italy).
A recent (Sept. 2012)       job advert for teaching in       Ancient Philosophy at the University of Freiburg included `extensive       expertise in the Greek       Commentators' as an asset (http://philjobs.org/job/show/1222).
This was unheard of before the       project.
Apart from their influence on the teaching of western Philosophy, the       texts are also being used to       teach Arabic Philosophy, in virtue of their major influence on this       tradition.
For instance, at McGill       University, Canada, graduate seminars using the texts are offered on       Arabic Philosophy, `Modal       syllogistic', `Philosophy of language and 02bfilm al-wa1e0d02bf'       and `Dialectic and &#257;d&#257;b al-ba1e25th'.
At Yale       University, USA, graduate seminars using the editions are offered in both       Arabic Philosophy and       Avicenna.
As Yale's Dimitri Gutas states, the commentators' project       `revolutionized the study of       ancient philosophy and made the life of us Arabic philosophy specialists       so much easier: in the       past, I could hardly recommend to my students in Arabic philosophy to read       any commentary in the       Commentaria in Aristotelem Graeca.
(...) Now all I have to do&#8212;and I       do it as a matter of fact for       my Philosophy and especially Avicenna seminars&#8212;is list the commentaries       (...) that students       should read, and it's done'.
Overall, the educational significance of this       project for understanding       Arabic Philosophy has been profound.
Indeed, according to A. Hasnaoui, the       Commentators       Project has been '[w]ithout any doubt the most important event of recent       decades in the study of       Arabic philosophy', (A. Hasnaoui, Arabic Sciences and Philosophy).
The Commentators are also       opening up teaching possibilities in the area of Jewish thought, with       Bar-Ilan University, Israel,       offering a new graduate seminar on Gersonides' commentaries on Averroes'       commentaries on       Aristotle, which uses translations of Philoponus and Simplicius from the       series.
