     In the Spring of 2008 Quash met with Nicholas Penny, the Director of the       National Gallery, and presented to him the idea of a joint MA degree.
This       appealed to Penny for two reasons.
First, it would provide the Gallery,       with its world-leading collection of religious art, access to Quash's own       research expertise in the area of theology.
This is often deficient in       art-historical approaches (and has been one of the reasons why the Gallery       rarely collaborates with University departments of art-history &#8212; as it has       its own art historians &#8212; but was keen on a collaboration with a Theology       and Religious Studies Department).
Second, Penny recognized that King's       College London, at Department, School and College levels, had the       resources and expertise to aid in generating high-quality online       educational materials, which the Gallery was keen to adapt for its website       at the time.
This initial contact led to further meetings between Quash,       Penny and the full team of senior curators at the Gallery.
At these       meetings Quash put forward his unique two-fold research approach on which       this impact case is based &#8212; the relationship between 'Art in Christianity'       and 'Christianity in Art'.
This resulted in the development of a joint MA,       approved by King's College London and the National Gallery in 2009, in a       signing ceremony involving King's Principal Rick Trainor and Nicholas       Penny.
(In the wake of this, in June of that year, Quash was interviewed       on BBC1's Songs of Praise programme about teaching Christianity and the       Arts to undergraduates in London, with footage of King's College London       students being taught outside the National Gallery in Trafalgar Square       (see Section 5.3.1).
Since then the collaboration, underpinned by Quash's two-fold research       approach has transcended the MA degree and now can be divided into five       distinct but overlapping types of impact.
In the words of Susan Foister       (5.1.1) the National Gallery's Deputy Director and Director of Public       Engagement, the Gallery has been `extremely pleased with the considerable       public impact brought about by its innovative and fruitful collaboration       with Professor Ben Quash and King's, and looks forward to its       continuation'.
Dr Jennifer Sliwka, Ahmanson Fellow in Art and Religion at       the National Gallery, has credited Quash's expertise as having `already       yielded several innovative and pioneering projects' and looks forward to       further `joint ventures' (5.1.2).
Impact A     In 2010, the National Gallery identified `Art and Religion' as one of its       four central research priorities for the following 10 years.
The Gallery       explains the aims of the theme on its website: 'The Art and Religion       research theme focuses on interpretation of paintings that are of sacred       subjects, nearly all of which are Christian.
Christianity became the       predominant power shaping European culture after classical antiquity,       inspiring artists and patrons to evoke the nature of these sacred       mysteries in visual terms' (see 5.2.1).
This commitment to the theme of Art and Religion is largely the result of       the ongoing collaboration of the Gallery with Quash.
This has been summed       up by Susan Foister: `the engagement with Ben Quash has made an extremely       important contribution to the Gallery's decision to initiate, to renew and       to strengthen the topic of "Art and Religion'" as one of its four main       research themes and priorities in...the period covering the Gallery's       current research strategy as presented to its board of trustees' (5.1.1).
The Principals of the Ahmanson Foundation (the lead donor to the National       Gallery in this area) also acknowledge the `major impact' that Quash's       research has had on the `way the National Gallery has developed and       expanded its work' in the area of art and religion (5.1.4), while Nicholas       Penny, Director of the National Gallery, speaks of the `real impact' Quash       has had on the Art and Religion theme, which in turn has `opened up all       sorts of possibilities' for future collaboration (5.1.3)..     Impact B     Quash's research, in collaboration with the National Gallery, also fed       into the way that the Gallery's major 2011 summer exhibition `Devotion by       Design: Italian Altarpieces until 1500' was curated.
This included the way       that the works in the exhibition were presented, hung above altar-like       structures, with candle-like lighting, the accompaniment of liturgical       music, and an altar cross.
As Dr Jennifer Sliwka, Ahmanson Fellow in Art       and Religion at the National Gallery has noted, Quash's expertise had a       `direct impact both on the exhibition display and the accompanying film'       (5.1.2).
The feedback was impressive.
`So beautiful that it would be easy to miss       the audacity of the installation', wrote Richard Dorment of the Daily       Telegraph; `one of the most beautiful exhibitions I have ever seen about       the Quattrocento', said the presenter of Avant-Premi&#232;res on France 2       T&#233;l&#233;vision).
The related exhibition page was viewed 53,500 times, and the       exhibition film was viewed 4,000 times online.
Quash was one of those mentioned in the acknowledgements section of the       major 2011 catalogue of The Italian Paintings Before 1400 by Dillian       Gordon (see 5.2.3).
Quash's research was also incorporated in a National       Gallery podcast about the exhibition, and a Radio 4 broadcast `Sunday       Worship: The Art of Worship', on 3 July 2011, live from St       Martin-in-the-Fields.
Timed to coincide with the National Gallery's summer       exhibition, `Devotion by Design', in this programme Quash spoke about the       devotional significance of altarpieces (see 5.3.2).
Impact C     The National Gallery has commissioned a series of 10 short films on John       the Baptist in art, written and presented by Quash and Dr Jennifer Sliwka       of the Gallery, totalling just under an hour of material.
This has been       described by Dr Sliwka as `the most ambitious investment to date by the       National Gallery in online education' (5.1.2).
The decision to commission       this `groundbreaking' podcast series (5.1.4) was born out of the Gallery's       appreciation of the importance of Quash's research and teaching on Art as       a Theological Medium, with its special focus on the figure of John the       Baptist.
Quash already has extensive experience of different mediums to       disseminate research (see for example 5.3.3 and 5.3.4).
As Susan Foister       (5.1.1) has said, `This is a major step beyond the Gallery's existing       programme of monthly podcasts and we see it as an important experiment in       reaching a wider public with more sophisticated, deeper content, one that       not only places Art and Religion at the centre of the Gallery's Public       Engagement strategy, but is a new departure directly linked to the       Gallery's evolving relationship with Ben Quash'.
Impact D     The Gallery has secured 10 years' worth of funding for a series of five       2-year post-doctoral research fellows in Art and Religion from the Howard       and Roberta Ahmanson Fellowship in Art and Religion, which in the words of       Susan Foister have arisen `quite specifically from the Gallery's       collaboration with Professor Quash', as the donors were deeply impressed       by the particularly theological character of the questions Quash's       research explores.
As these donors have explained, Quash's research on art       and religion `validated' their funding of the National Gallery in this       area (5.1.4).
Impact E     Quash's research outputs also impacted on the way that the National       Gallery's education programme was developed around the `Devotion by       Design' exhibition.
In particular it significantly influenced the way the       Gallery's educational department is now looking more intentionally to       address the historical and contemporary interests of religious `audiences'       for painting (see 5.1.2 and 5.2.1).
Quash presented a paper at one of the       Gallery's major public study days on the exhibition, and also presented at       a private study day for international academics (also centred on the       exhibition).
The `Art and Religion' theme has encouraged the Gallery to       offer subsequent public study days on theological themes (see 5.2.4).
