     Burridge's research has resulted in three distinct but overlapping       impacts, all of which have played       a significant role in bridging differences and tensions inside the       Anglican Church and also in       building bridges between the Anglican and Roman Catholic communities.
Impact A: Living together with difference: The 2008 Lambeth Conference     At the time of the Lambeth Conference in 2008, the Anglican Communion was       facing serious       danger of a major break around an array of issues but especially over       deep-seated disagreements       about women's leadership in the church and homosexuality.
It was no       accident in this context that       the new 2008 edition of Burridge's John commentary was chosen by       the Archbishop of Canterbury,       Rowan Williams, as the key text to be used by all delegates in preparation       for the conference (see       5.3.3 below).
Accompanied by a daily reading plan,1,632 copies of the book       were sent by the       Archbishop of Canterbury, between January and July 2008, to all Anglican       bishops and other       delegates.
During the course of the conference the work was also used in a       series of Bible Study       seminars and workshops for all delegates, focusing on living together with       difference.
One of the       key implications of the biographical approach, as outlined in section 2 &#8212;       that using biblical texts to       dismiss opponents is itself unbiblical &#8212; had the impact of providing a       basis (as shown in the       testimonials presented) for enabling bishops of strongly diverging views       on matters of Christian       practice to listen to each other in new ways, and even while not reaching       consensus, to live and       converse attentively together despite these persisting differences.
In addition, Burridge's work on NT ethics (2007) was also used in       confidential sessions       among bishops seeking to tackle issues of human sexuality and the Bible,       with reference       analogously especially to the book's analyses of how the Bible has been       used both to justify and       critique apartheid in South Africa.
Tim Thornton, The Bishop of Truro (see       5.1.2) underlined this,       acknowledging that `the early morning bible studies in small groups was a       key element of the       Lambeth Conference.
They enabled strong relationships to be built between       bishops'.
As Chuck       Robertson, Canon to the Presiding Bishop, The Episcopal Church (5.1.4),       has also noted, `works       offered by Prof. Burridge, have proven themselves to be invaluable tools       for my own bridge-building       work and that of others'.
Canon Kenneth Kearon, Secretary General of the       Anglican       Communion (5.1.3) endorsed this view: `Professor Burridge's commentary on       St John's Gospel       was presented to all bishops, and became the background text on the Bible       for the whole       Conference'.
This view was likewise endorsed by the Archbishop of       Canterbury (5.1.1) at the time       of the conference, who emphasised Burridge's `important involvement' in       the Conference,       maintaining that `both before and during the conference', the commentary       was of `great importance       in helping to provide a common vocabulary and field of reference for this       extremely diverse and       sometimes conflicted gathering'.
Impact B: Living together with difference: The Bible in the Life of         the Church     In the wake of the 2008 conference, Burridge became an external       consultant to the `Bible in the       Life of the Church' project (2009-2012, and ongoing), undertaking research       on how Anglicanism       has interpreted the Bible, analysing all its foundational and subsequent       statements about scripture,       and attempting to discover a methodology for the church to discuss the       Bible and complex moral       issues such as creation and the environment (through 2010/11), issues of       justice and the       millennium development goals (2011/12).
The report (Deep Engagement,         Fresh Discovery: the         report of the Anglican Communion `Bible in the Life of the Church'         project, see 5.3.1) was       presented to the Anglican Consultative Council in Auckland, NZ (October       2012).
The `Bible in the Life of the Church' project is now undertaking new       research looking       towards the Lambeth Conference of 2018.
Burridge's key impact in this       comes in terms of       relationship building and creating an environment for recognising       difference.
The Coordinator of       the project (5.2.3), has strongly affirmed the impact of Burridge's       contribution, maintaining that it       `laid a foundation of trust among the small groups of 8 bishops'.
This, in       turn, he continued,       `enabled "hard questions" i.e.
those that have had a divisive effect on       the life of the Anglican       Communion, to be explored creatively and with a mind to what Scripture, as       a foundational       resource, might be speaking into these conversations'.
Dr Rowan Williams,       the former Archbishop       of Canterbury (5.1.1) was no less clear as to the impact of Burridge's       research on this project,       maintaining that his work `played a crucial role' by providing `a more       nuanced and creative use of       the Bible and a better understanding of the actual varieties of ways in       which it is read'.
He is       confident that this impact can be measured globally in `communities across       the world'.
Indeed, he       believes that Burridge's role in connection with this project through       drawing on the John       commentary to provide `grass-roots clergy training across the world has       had a serious and       continuing effect on a major international family of churches as well as       on the church more locally,       and it has offered a model of good context-sensitive biblical exposition'.
This view is reiterated by       Archbishop David Moxon (5.1.5), the Archbishop of Canterbury's       Representative to the Holy See       and Director of the Anglican Centre in Rome (previously Archbishop and       Primate of New Zealand),       who has noted that Burridge's research has made `a quality difference to       the life of the world wide       church'.
Specific examples of this can be found in Burridge's provision of       training for clergy on a       local level globally from the UK to Hawaii and New Zealand to Hong Kong.
In particular, the       Archbishop of Brisbane and Primate of Australia convened a weeklong       residential conference led       by Burridge and attended by all clergy in the diocese to discuss his       research on `being biblical' and       living together with difference.
Impact C: Living together with difference: From Church to Church     Burridge's work on living together with difference has impacted on       relations between the Anglican       and Roman Catholic Churches.
This has been acknowledged by Archbishop       David Moxon (5.1.5),       the Archbishop of Canterbury's Representative to the Holy See and Director       of the Anglican Centre       in Rome.
It has also been recognised by the 2012 President of the       International Society for New       Testament Studies (SNTS), who hosted a major conference in Barcelona in       celebration of       Burridge's work &#8212; `The Jesus Tradition and the Gospels' &#8212; at which       Burridge gave the opening       keynote address (May 2012).
Burridge will also deliver the keynote speech       at the Ratzinger       Foundation conference on `The Gospels: Historical and Christological       Research' in Rome at which       Pope Francis will present him with the Ratzinger Prize for Theology,       announced 21 June 2013,       (see 5.3.2).
This honour makes him the first non-Catholic to receive this       prestigious award and       marks the impact his work has also had upon the Roman Catholic church,       especially in the wake of       the publication of the similarly biographically focused three-volume       biography of Jesus by       Ratzinger/Benedict XVI (2007, 2011, 2012).
As the Academic Committee       President of the       Ratzinger Foundation commented, Burridge `has made a great contribution in       that decisive area of       the historical and theological recognition of the Gospels' inseparable       connection to Jesus of       Nazareth'.
