     Explanation of the process.
The edition of Le Duc d'Albe       had a complicated genesis.
The Donizetti       Edizione critica was approached by the Intendant of Vlaamse Opera       (in 2007) with the idea of       producing a first-ever French-language edition of Le Duc, an opera       that Donizetti had written for       Paris in 1839 but left unfinished at his death.
Parker took on the project       in 2008, gained grant       funding of &#163;4000 from LCASE in order to employ a graduate assistant,       obtained the autograph       materials from the Ricordi archives in Milan, located further materials in       various other archives, and       completed the edition in 2009.
As the opera is unfinished, Vlaamse Opera       and Ricordi agreed to       commission the Italian composer Giorgio Battistelli to complete two       numbers left particularly       incomplete (Parker himself supplied various other missing portions, and       supplied some missing       orchestration).
Parker then collaborated with Battistelli, supplying him       with transcriptions of all       Donizetti's sketches and the original libretto.
The eventual edition was       produced by Ricordi, in full       score, vocal score and orchestral parts.
The edition itself is laid out       typographically in a novel       way&#8212;one that allows the complex compositional history to be seen at a       glance.
All passages not       written by Donizetti himself (he left much of the orchestration of later       sections of the opera       incomplete) are in grey-scale on the orchestral score, thus allowing       conductors and scholars to see       immediately&#8212;without recourse to a Critical Commentary&#8212;what is by the       composer and what has       been added by others.
The score is also accompanied by a detailed account       of the opera's       genesis, and of the state in which Donizetti left it.
The research assistant on the project was Dr Flora Willson, at that time       a masters' student       (and later a PhD student) at King's.
Her work on the edition led to her       being commissioned to edit       an edition of her own in the Donizetti Edizione critica (his       French opera Les Martyrs, which will be       published in 2015 and recorded by Opera Rara of London in 2014); she went       on to complete her       doctorate and won a Junior Research Fellowship at King's College,       Cambridge.
Details of beneficiaries.
The beneficiaries of the edition were,       of course, all those who       managed to witness the performances in 2012.
But it is clear from the       subsequent reception and       dissemination that the audience for this event was much larger.
There is a       complete video on       YouTube; there were numerous reviews of the production in the local,       national and international       press; the performance was broadcast on Belgian radio.
What is more, this       first performance will       doubtless stimulate others.
A potent indication of its larger impact is       the fact that Opera Rara, the       major international recording company, has now programmed a commercial       recording of this       edition of Le Duc d'Albe, to be conducted by Sir Mark Elder, with       the Orchestra of the Age of       Enlightenment; this will take place in 2014.
Details of the nature of the impact.
As mentioned about, before       the appearance of Parker's       edition, Donizetti's Le Duc d'Albe has never (even in the       composer's lifetime) been performed, or       indeed been made available in score.
Because of this, a huge amount of       misinformation has       circulated about precisely what Donizetti was responsible for in the       score, and what had been the       work of others.
In finally clarifying these matters, the present edition       allows scholars and opera       lovers to understand anew the nature of Donizetti's achievement at this       crucial period in his life.
Evidence or indicators of the extent of the impact.
The major       evidence of impact can be found       in the various reviews that emerged in the wake of the performance (some       of the most important       listed below).
Also critical, however, is the fact that a major recording       company has now planned a       studio recording of the opera.
Dates.
Le Duc d'Albe was given by Vlaamse Opera in Antwerp and       then Ghent; there were       eleven performances in total, from 6 May until 2 June 2012.
