     The CHARM discography and knowledge transfer project was designed by       Leech-Wilkinson from the start to be as valuable to the wider community of       music listeners as to academics.
Data was provided by leading       non-university discographers, notably Alan Kelly, Michael Gray and Philip       Stuart, all independent non-academic researchers.
Records were chosen from       145,000 discs donated to King's by the BBC Archives.
With these, and       additions from private donors, Leech-Wilkinson has created a publicly       accessible sound archive of early recordings, preserved as cultural       heritage and used for research, teaching and public dissemination.
For       CHARM, discs were selected for digitisation in consultation with the       British Library's `Archival Sound Recordings' project in order to avoid       duplication.
The transfers were made by sound engineers, appointed as       King's TAs and hired from the independent record industry, using industry       best-practice procedures.
A &#163;1.2m bid to rehouse, expand and use the sound       archive with a variety of community groups, although not yet funded, was       praised by the Heritage Lottery Fund particularly for its appeal to the       public as demonstrated by user feedback and online visitor numbers.
Access to the website is open and free to all, regardless of territory.
Access statistics show consistently ca.
6,000 unique visitors and 32,000       page views per month, with visitors mainly from the US, EU (including UK)       and Japan.
The majority of connections come from commercial rather than       academic IPs, and most referrals are from Google rather than academic       pages.
After the discography and sound search, the next most frequently       viewed pages are chapters of Leech-Wilkinson's online book, followed by       the introduction to sound analysis software, all authored or created at       King's.
Judging by email feedback, many users are non-academic experts and       enthusiasts, or family members of past recording artists.
User feedback       includes: `Congratulations for this wonderful web site' (Jean Thorel,       France); `this indispensable and unique resource' (Albert Mendez); `this       web site is really amazing!!!'
(Michel Paillier, France); `Thank you for       all listening pleasure you have given to me.
I believe your website CHARM       is the finest in the world beyond all compare in this field.'
(Gustav       Bergstr&#246;m, Sweden); `I just discovered CHARM and I am amazed.
Thank you       for putting such an astounding resource on the web.
It's just marvellous'       (Bill Dennehy, USA); `It's a superb resource' (Francesco La Camera, Rome);       `Superb!'
(Eitan Ornoy, Israel); `Thanks for sharing wonderful resources       with us' (Ju-Lee Hong); `What a superb resource &#8212; many thanks, and       congratulations' (Gavin Brockis, JISC Digital Media); `this is the best       site I have ever encountered for vintage recordings, as well as       information about them' (Herbie G).
Sonic Visualiser is now frequently cited as a principal research tool in       articles and PhD theses, as well as in non-HEI work.
See for example the       special performance studies issue of Music Theory Online (issue       18.1, 2012); and, for an FE example, the YouTube video from Barnsley       College at www.youtube.com/watch?v=kEt-fKikqRY.
The online tutorial by Leech-Wilkinson and Nicholas Cook (Cambridge) has       already been translated into Portuguese for the Brazilian research       community: www.charm.kcl.ac.uk/analysing/p9_6.html.
Three video tutorials authored and presented by Leech-Wilkinson were       commissioned by Musicology for the Masses (http://www.sonicvisualiser.org/videos.html).
By providing new techniques and model applications in the study of       expressive musical performance, the use of recordings as evidence, the       implications of past performance styles for music ontology, the       construction of musical meaning, and the implications for future       performance practice, among many other topics, Leech-Wilkinson's       CHARM-related work is having widespread influence within academic music       studies; but it equally influential in the wider world.
See       Leech-Wilkinson's invited presentations to the Association of British       Orchestras, the Royal College of Physicians and invitations to work with       young professional performers &#8212; focusing on early recorded performance and       its implications for performance creativity today &#8212; at the Liszt Academy       in Budapest and the Estonian Academy of Music and Theatre in Tallinn, as       well as to lecture at the Sydney Conservatorium of Music.
Leech-Wilkinson's online book is used on HE courses in the UK and abroad,       is discussed and quoted enthusiastically in a number of non-HE blogs, and       his CHARM work has been the subject of profiles in the French magazine Diapason       and in Classic Record Collector.
(Note for web searches: charm.rhul.ac.uk is an alias of charm.kcl.ac.uk       which hosts and created the site.)
