     The KCL work described above directly led to the development of the novel       mixed phosphodiesterase (PDE) 3/4 inhibitor RPL554.
This drug has a long       duration of action and clinically possesses both anti-inflammatory and       bronchodilator activity in a single molecule against these two enzymes       known to be of importance in the development and progression of       immunological respiratory diseases.
This dual activity of RPL554 makes it       unique amongst drugs being developed for the treatment of respiratory       diseases.
Asthma and COPD affect millions of people worldwide; however       current gold standard treatment for these conditions is under scrutiny by       the FDA for their adverse event profiles.
Additionally, its ability to be       administered in a broad range of doses with few adverse events puts it       ahead of other drugs for these conditions that have been investigated but       not developed or rarely used due to their especially pro-emetic effects.
KCL researchers form Verona Pharma plc       The discovery of RPL554 led to the formation of Verona Pharma plc in 2006       by KCL's Prof Clive Page.
Verona Pharma plc is an AIM listed Company that       employs four people.
Prof Page has helped raise more than &#163;11 million to       allow Verona Pharma to develop a suitable inhaled formulation of RPL554       for the necessary regulatory inhaled toxicology and early clinical studies       to be undertaken (1a,b).
The publication list provided by Verona Pharma       plc includes several of the papers discussed above alongside reference to       a number of other KCL-led studies (1c).
RPL554 makes it to Phase II clinical trials       The vast majority of drugs tested for efficacy in animal models do not       make it into human clinical trials.
Verona Pharma plc has therefore made a       huge impact by successfully completing double-blind, placebo-controlled,       randomised clinical studies of RPL554 in people with mild to moderate       asthma and mild to moderate COPD to show the clinical effectiveness of       RPL554.
Following completion in May 2008 of toxicological studies of       RPL554, the Company commenced a Phase I/IIa clinical trial at the Centre       for Human Drug Research at Leiden in the Netherlands.
This demonstrated       that RPL554 has a good safety profile, with no evidence of cardiovascular       or gastrointestinal side effects.
It also showed that RPL554 has       beneficial effects in terms of bronchodilation and bronchoprotection in       asthmatics and a reduction in the numbers of inflammatory cells in the       nasal passages of allergic rhinitis patients with mild asthma.
Further       studies demonstrated the safety and bronchodilator effectiveness of the       drug administered at higher doses (2a).
RPL554 has subsequently been       successfully tested in four Phase II clinical trials in approaching 100       patients with asthma or mild to moderate COPD and shown to be an excellent       bronchodilator drug with bronchodilation maintained over a period of 6       days with daily dosing of RPL554.
In March 2013, the Company demonstrated       positive airway anti-inflammatory activity with respect to COPD at a       clinical trial carried out at the Medicines Evaluation Unit in Manchester       (2b-e) demonstrating in 26 healthy subjects exposed to an inflammatory       stimulus that RPL554 can inhibit inflammatory cell recruitment to the lung       (2f).
Further interest in RPL554 and mixed PDE3/4 inhibitors       The discovery of RPL554 has increased interest in the development of mixed       PDE3/4 inhibitors.
This is evidenced by submission of research by other       pharmaceutical companies to exploit this new mechanism for COPD, which       mention the discovery of RPL554, and from articles written by key opinion       leaders and by major pharmaceutical companies.
For instance, both Kyorin       Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. in Japan (3a) and the Swiss company Novatis (3b)       have published overview papers on how they are investigating mixed PDE3/4       inhibitors.
The announcement of trials for RPL554 also generated       considerable media interest including on the BBC webpage (3d) and in the       Telegraph (3e) and Daily Mail (3f).
