     KCL research helps the Department for Transport (DfT) establish a new         biomarker for HROs     Alcohol is the most frequently detected psychoactive substance in the UK       driving population as well as in seriously and fatally injured drivers.
In       the DVLA's high-risk offenders (HROs) scheme the licences of convicted       drink-drivers are returned only if they can convince the court that they       do not have an alcohol abuse problem.
Biomarkers are used to aid       assessment as part of the process leading to a decision to reinstate       driving entitlement for HROs.
Concerns raised about the specificity and       sensitivity of traditional tests led the DfT to call for research to       identify more specific alcohol consumption biomarkers and for them to       subsequently fund such a project at King's College London (KCL).
In 2010,       the results of this research (discussed in the previous section and       published by the DfT as a Road Safety Report) provided evidence that %CDT       was a better test than current biomarkers.
This was based on diagnostic       efficiency (combined sensitivity and specificity) to identify continuous       drinking in drivers.
As well as being released as a downloadable online       DfT report, these findings have been published as a paperback (1a) and the       report was distributed to around 20 key stakeholders across the country,       such as the DVLA and forensic lab providers.
KCL also led on a 2010 review       for the DfT discussing the advantages and disadvantages of a number of       biomarkers.
This concluded that "CDT is reliable enough on its own to       support a diagnosis of alcohol dependence, harmful or hazardous use, and       has the advantage that common medications seem to have no influence on the       performance of this biomarker" (1b).
KCL researchers contribute to government policy     In 2008 KCL's Dr Kim Wolff presented the findings of the research and       literature review (later published as the Road Safety Reports) to the       Secretary of State for Transport's Honorary Medical Advisory Panel on       Alcohol, Drugs and Substance Misuse and Driving (HMAP) (of which she is       also a member).
Presentations also took place at DVLA headquarters in       Swansea and tendering was undertaken as part of a process to introduce       %CDT testing into the HRO scheme (2a).
Following on from this, in 2009,       the HMAP "agreed that, given its sensitivity and specificity profile, the       measurement of %CDT should be the marker of choice for the HRO population"       and a pilot scheme was proposed (2b).
In 2010, a `potential supplier day'       took place at the DVLA with UK laboratories accredited for CDT testing       (2c) and in 2011, the HMAP Panel "agreed that CDT would become the sole       test for assessing harmful use of alcohol in the HRO population, in       conjunction with a thorough medical history and examination."
This changed       previous policy that required Medical Advisors to consider a combination       of four different liver function tests (GGT, AST, ALT and MCV) (2d).
The       Chair of HMAP confirms that "Dr Wolff's research on CDT was hugely       significant in changing the direction of testing.
On advice from the       advisory committee, having reviewed Dr Wolff's research on CDT, the DVLA       changed their entire procedures" (2e).
From policy to practice     The Drivers Medical Group at the DVLA promote road safety by establishing       whether drivers who have medical conditions such as alcohol dependence are       able to satisfy the medical standards required for safe driving.
To       undertake this task, the DVLA employs Medical Advisers who process in       excess of 600,000 cases every year.
In 2011, the DVLA's Senior Medical       Advisor informed the HMAP Panel that the DVLA were proposing to use CDT       testing "on cases where there was uncertainty in the interpretation of       abnormally raised blood tests, which were currently used as markers of       alcohol misuse, and where a licence recommendation could not otherwise be       made" (3a, b).
A letter of corroboration from the DVLA's Head of Medical       Licensing Policy states that "the DVLA recognised the significant impact       that research by Dr Wolff had had on the area of diagnosing alcohol misuse       and/or dependency and, more specifically, on the introduction of CDT       testing in DVLA as a more accurate way of determining this" (3c).
In 2011 KCL initiated a DVLA-funded pilot project (&#163;50,000) to establish       the logistics of using CDT prior to full adoption of the policy for HRO's       in the UK in 2014.
The pilot included the use of CDT tests in difficult       DVLA cases across the UK, such as those for whom the Medical Advisor was       unable to diagnose either abstinence or continuation of drinking because       of confounding factors.
As such, since 2011, 1223 HROs have been tested       using the new biomarker instead of conventional biomarkers.
CDT was found       to help improve re-licensing decisions in this traditionally difficult       population to manage.
The use of %CDT prevented 131 current dependent       drinkers (10.7%) from returning to driving; a further 52 (5.3%) were       identified as non-abstinent but not dependent drinkers and were refused a       licence pending a second test and the remaining 1040 (85%) HROs were       re-licensed and deemed fit to drive.
In early 2013 a further summary on       the results of the CDT pilot noted that "use of CDT in the licensing       process had, in addition to the benefits of using an up-to-date medical       marker in line with Panel advice, brought advantages in terms of the time       and cost of processing alcohol-related cases" (4a, b).
The Chair of HMAP       confirms that "this more accurate test has resulted in quicker decisions,       fewer appeals against licensing decisions, a greater ethos of evaluation       and more research" (2e).
As well as providing information regarding the use of %CDT, Dr Wolff also       provided guidance notes for DVLA Medical Advisors on %CDT cut-off       concentrations linked to licensing.
In early 2012 these percentages were       discussed and approved by HMAP with current commercial laboratory assays.
Here, in a traffic light system, CDT values up to and equal to 2.5% are       compatible for licensing (Green), while values equal or greater than 3%       should be considered an indication of harmful use of alcohol (Red) and       lead to licence refusal or revocation.
CDT levels between 2.6 and 2.9%       (Amber) would trigger further enquiries with the HRO's General       Practitioner or Hospital Specialist.
Within the DVLA, the Policy and       Operational Support Departments are currently investigating how this is to       be taken forward (5a).
This was publicised as an E-brochure by the DVLA       Medical Drivers Group (5b).
The DVLA's Head of Medical Licensing Policy       confirms that Dr Wolff " had considerable input into the determination of       suitable cut off points for licensing decisions and in running of a pilot"       (3c).
