     Cardiovascular disease (CVD) remains a major public health concern.
KCL       research has contributed to the formulation of dietary fat advice to       reduce CVD risk and has had impacts on public health policy and dietary       guidelines; on the food industry with regard to reformulation of dietary       fats to replace trans fatty acids (TFA) and has contributed to       public debate and education.
Public health policy and dietary guidelines       In working towards its key strategic aim to reduce diet-related disease,       the government's Food Standards Agency (FSA) commissions research into       diet, nutrition and CVD.
In 2007, the Secretary of State for Health       requested advice from the FSA on the evidence in relation to the health       effects of TFA so that it could be determined whether current population       dietary advice (a maximum of 2% energy) on TFA should be revised.
As such,       the UK Scientific Advisory Committee on Nutrition (SACN), a group of       independent experts who provide advice to Public Health England as well as       other government agencies and departments, was tasked to produce an       `Update on trans fatty acids and health,' which it published in       December 2007.
This contained reference to KCL work, including Sanders       2000 and 2003 when discussing postprandial lipemia and haemostatic       function (1a).
It concluded that TFA intakes were low and SFA reduction       was a greater priority.
The Scottish Food Standards Agency adopted a       similar stance on TFA in February 2008, citing SACN's advice "that the       maximum average intake of TFA should be no more than 2% of a person's       total food energy" (1b).
Due to his expertise in the area, backed by KCL-led studies, in November       2008 Prof Sanders was invited to be a member of the World Health       Organization (WHO)/Food and Agricultural Organization (FAO) Expert       Consultation on Fats and Fatty Acids In Human Nutrition.
This       resulted in the publication of a 2009 report that forms the basis for       international guidelines on TFA intakes used by both governments and       industry (1c).
Many of the KCL references detailed above are cited in the       report.
For instance, they cite Sanders 2001 when discussing how meals       high in fat result in postprandial lipemia, with a variable effect of       stearic-rich fats.
They also utilise this reference, along with Sanders       2006 and Berry 2007, when discussing how meals high in fat, and more       particularly MUFA, increase FVIIa.
When discussing fish oil and omega-3       fatty acids, they cite Theobald 2004, Sanders 2006 and Griffin 2006.
Contrary to the UK report (above), this one concluded that TFA presented a       greater CVD risk than SFA and that the elimination of artificial TFA       should be a key priority.
This guideline recommended that TFA intakes       should be no more than 1% energy and as low as possible and noted that       stearic acid appeared to be neutral with regard to CVD risk.
As such, the       Secretary of State for Health changed UK policy by making the elimination       of artificial TFA a key target in the Responsibility Deal in       2011(1d).
Impacts on Industry       Industrial users (e.g.
Unilever PLC, Archer Daniel Midland PLC and Cultor       Food Science) were consulted and involved at the planning stage of KCL       studies and provided fats and oils for the studies.
The impact of policies       to eliminate artificial trans fats adopted by the Department of       Health as part of the Responsibility Deal posed a particular       challenge for the industry.
To replace TFA, they needed to find       alternative methods of hardening fats to provide the functionality       required to make certain foods.
One such technique was interesterification       and KCL research on such was of value to industry because it showed none       of the adverse effects of trans fats with stearic acid-rich       interesterified fats.
KCL findings were communicated to non-academic users       in the food industry by the Food and Drinks Federation Biscuits Cakes and       Chocolate Confectionery Alliance in 2009 (2a), Leatherhead Food Research       Association in 2010 (2b) and the International Life Science Institute       North America in 2012 (2c).
Other impacts on the food industry include that the Greek company D.       Genomeres Medical Research produce a standard meal &#8212; called LIPOTEST meal       &#8212; aimed at healthcare professionals to perform a Fat Tolerance Test on       their patients for postprandial triglyceride level determination.
The       company cites Berry 2007 among the references they used to discuss the fat       tolerance test (2d) and in the test patent (2e).
On the basis of KCL work,       Prof Sanders was also appointed by the Malaysian government to be a member       of the Programme Advisory Board of the Malaysian Palm Oil Board       (2008-2013) to advise on research on palm oil.
Impacts on public debate and education       The British Nutrition Foundation (BNF) is a charity who advances the       education of the public and those involved in training and educating       others in nutrition.
They also help advance research into nutrition, and       dissemination of such, for the public benefit.
Prof Sanders is a Trustee       and Scientific Governor of the BNF and gave the BNF Annual Lecture in 2009       on the Role of Fat in the Diet in which the results of the research cited       was disseminated to the food industry, media and general public (3a).
The       findings of the RISCK study (Jebb 2010) were also disseminated in the BNF       Bulletin and Sanders contributed to a 2008 BBC Radio 4 Case Notes report       on the study (3b).
HEART UK is charity with an aim to prevent early death       caused by high blood cholesterol.
Prof Sanders, who is Honorary       Nutritional Director and a member of the charity's product approval       committee, has communicated the research findings to patient groups at       annual meetings (3c).
KCL research showing that DHA supplements raised       total and LDL cholesterol questioned the value of taking dietary       supplements of n-3 long-chain PUFAs as opposed to eating moderate amounts       of fish.
These findings have contributed to debate in the media (3d: Daily       Mail, 15 November 2012), popular science magazines (3e: New Scientist, May       2010) and, further afield, a US website nutraingredients-usa.com (3f).
