     King's College London (KCL) research has revealed the extent of       depression in people with diabetes as well as its association with worse       outcomes, including mortality.
KCL researchers have used this knowledge to       develop psychological training programmes and service innovations for non       mental health professionals.
Clinical Practice: KCL researcher's observations of the       depression-diabetes link led to the development of the Diabetes and       Psychiatry service at King's College Hospital (KCH) in 2003, an integrated       service for people with diabetes that accepts both local and national       referrals.
This service includes a Consultant Psychiatrist (Dr Khalida       Ismail) and Clinical Psychologist, delivering both assessment and brief       psychological treatments including Cognitive Behavioural Therapy (CBT) for       patients with psychological difficulties impacting on their diabetes self       management.
The service also includes the Optimise Clinic, which offers       Motivational Interviewing to those who want to optimise their diabetes       control by addressing motivation and lifestyle factors (1).
This service is highly recognised in the UK.
For instance, it is       highlighted as a gold standard model in a 2010 report from NHS Diabetes       and Diabetes UK on `Emotional and Psychological Support and Care in       Diabetes.'
This report also cites Das-Munshi 2007 when discussing the       prevalence of depression in people with diabetes and uses Ismail 2004,       2007, 2008 and Winkley 2006 when discussing how "the provision of       emotional and psychological treatment and support reduces psychological       distress" (2).
Similarly, a 2012 NHS Confederation report on psychological       and psychiatric treatments for long-term physical illness lauds the KCH       clinic as "an award-winning liaison mental health service."
This report       uses Das-Munshi 2007 when discussing how diabetes and depression       co-morbidity can increase difficulties in self-managing health and       increase the likelihood of needing time off of work and Ismail 2004 when       showing that addressing psychological needs can improve diabetes control       (3).
The service is also discussed in a 2012 report by the Centre of       Mental Health on Liaison Psychiatry in the NHS, which also cites       Das-Munshi 2007 when discussing time off work in those with diabetes and       depression (4).
After establishing this service, KCL researchers found that many people       with depression and diabetes also had social problems.
In 2010, they were       awarded a NHS Regional Innovation Fund to develop the service further to       integrate social care for people with poorly controlled diabetes and       psychiatric comorbidities.
The resulting 3 Dimensions for Diabetes (3DFD)       integrates psychological and psychiatric care, medical care and social       welfare delivered by integrated care health experts.
It currently treats       around 300 people a year and now extends into the local community via       primary care facilities in Lambeth and Southwark (5).
3DFD has been       successful in improving glycaemic control by a reduction in HbA1c of 1.5%,       which is three times higher than would be expected from a new drug, and       reducing bed days at KCH.
It has been very well met by patients (6) and in       2011 3DFD won three Quality in Care Awards (7).
The reach of the 3DFD       model has been extended by it being replicated and commissioned by       Hillingdon Clinical Commissioning Group (8).
Policy: KCL research has also helped in the development of policy       regarding psychological support services for people with diabetes.
For       instance, a 2008 report from Diabetes UK was based around a survey of the       availability of psychological care for diabetics carried out in part by       KCL researchers.
This report included Das-Munshi 2007 when discussing the       prevalence depression in diabetes and Ismail 2004 and Winkley 2006 when       discussing how the success of treatment for psychological conditions in       people with diabetes.
It concluded that "specialist psychological services       need to be able to provide direct clinical care with appropriate       psychological therapies and biological treatments (medication) where       necessary" (9).
The manuals for the ADaPT psychological intervention are free to download       via the National Institute for Health Research website (10).
Research from       the ADaPT study and other KCL work has been used in both UK and       International guidelines to help form recommendations.
For instance, in       2010, the Royal College of Physicians put out a consensus guideline on       diabetes management using Winkley 2006, Ismail 2004 and Ismail 2008 to       back the statement that "psychological interventions are effective in       improving glycaemic control in the short term" (11).
Further afield, in       2013 the Canadian Diabetes Association put out extensive Clinical Practice       Guidelines.
In their chapter on `Diabetes and Mental Health,' they cite       Winkley 2006 and use Ismail 2004 to back up the recommendation that       "psychosocial interventions should be integrated into diabetes care plans"       (12).
In their chapter on `Self-Management Education' they cite Ismail       2010 when they discuss cognitive behaviour therapy and Ismail 2004 when       they detail how "knowledge [of how to manage diabetes] should be augmented       with behavioural interventions to achieve longer-term change in self-care       behaviours" (13).
Ismail 2004 is also used by the International Diabetes       Federation in their 2012 Clinical Guidelines which recommends that       diabetes teams "Refer to a mental health-care professional with a       knowledge of diabetes when indicated" (14).
Additionally, the Australian       Diabetes Society 2011 National Clinical Care Guidelines for Type 1       Diabetes management use Ismail 2010 and Winkley 2006 to support the       recommendation that "education and psychological support are an essential       component of standard diabetes care" (15).
Education and training: Researchers at KCL have contributed to a       number of educational outputs.
For instance to two level 6 modules for the       MSc in Diabetes Primary care, a practical Masters programme for diabetes       health professionals such as nurses, GPs, dieticians and diabetologists.
These deliver practical skills in assessment of depression and       communication style to elicit psychological barriers to self management       (16).
They were also commissioned by the Health Innovation Education       Cluster, a collaborative partnership between NHS organisations, academia       and industry, to develop an e-learning module for depression and diabetes.
This is available for free to all NHS staff as is Continuing Medical       Education accredited.
Over 100 diabetes health professionals (GPs,       diabetologists and nurses) in the South London network have used them       (17).
Further, KCL research has been used in a clinical handbook aimed at       healthcare professionals: Educating Your Patients With Diabetes.
Here,       Ismail 2004 is used to back up that "specialist educational interventions       aimed at improving self-care have proven to be effective for different       target populations" (18).
Public reach: KCL work has reached public awareness through the       third sector partner ThamesReach, a charity for homeless and vulnerable       people, who published a feature article on 3DFD (19) and a YouTube       presentation by Prof Ismail on Diabetes and Psychiatry to the Oxleas NHS       Foundation Trust that has been used by patients and medical students to       get a better understanding of depression in diabetes (20).
