     KCL-developed blood pressure (BP) monitoring device makes an impact in         rural settings       KCL researchers have worked closely with the Taiwanese company Microlife       to help them develop a BP device that can be accurately used in       pre-eclampsia, especially in the home setting.
This company cites Reinders       2005 as the sole source of clinical validation for the Microlife BP       3BTO-A(2) device, saying that it is "currently, the only reliable monitor       which can be used for the measurement of BP during pregnancy and       pre-eclampsia" (1a).
Working with a number of rural antenatal clinics in       African countries, KCL researchers and Microlife have transposed the       utility of their BP monitors to this setting.
Here, pre-eclampsia is       frequently under-detected for a number of reasons including lack of       training and competency in using supplied devices; queries to the       robustness, safety and accuracy of both mercury containing models and       aneroid replacements and reliance of automated BP devices on a power       supply or source of batteries that may be inadequate or open to theft.
In       these circumstance, under-diagnosis of early pre-eclampsia until it       presents as hypertensive emergencies or eclampsia is common.
A pilot study in Tanzania (Baker 2012) showed the validity of the       Microlife BP device.
This work was featured on a news story including Prof       Shennan by Voice of America, the largest international broadcast operation       in the US (1b).
The pilot led to an award of $1 million from the Gates       Foundation Grand Challenges in Global Health initiative.
This project is       twofold in that it both supplies devices to rural clinics and uses clinic       feedback as part of a research project with the University of British       Columbia, Canada (PRE-EMPT) (1c).
Since May 2013 PRE-EMPT has supplied       1340 devices and training to screen for pre-eclampsia to rural antenatal       clinics: 400 in Nigeria, 400 in Mozambique, 360 in Pakistan and 180 in       India.
Microlife, who have greatly benefitted financially as all the       devices were purchased from them, has in return committed to improving the       device based on KCL recommendations from findings from these clinics (1d).
KCL research contributes to BP monitoring recommendations in Europe       KCL research determined that BP may be underestimated by automated BP       devices in pre-eclampsia.
As such, they have developed protocols to       assess BP devices in pregnancy that now inform many international       guidelines.
Most significantly, Reinders 2003 and Golara 2002 are in the       2009 American National `Standard for Non-invasive sphygmomanometers,'       which dictate international standards.
Here the methodology includes an       adaption of that laid out in these papers and they are cited when       discussing the use of sphygmomanometers in pregnancy and pre-eclampsia       (2a).
In the European Society of Hypertension 2008 guidelines for home BP       monitoring these studies, as well as Reinders 2005, are used in a       meta-analysis to produce a table showing the validity of home blood       testing in pregnancy.
They are also cited as recommended reading with       regard to pre-eclampsia (2b).
Prof Shennan is an advisor to this society's       Working Group on Blood Pressure Monitoring (2c), as well as being on the       NICE committee for Guidelines on Hypertension in pregnancy (2d) and the       WHO Committee on BP Measurement in Low Resource Settings, whose       `field-test protocol' is used by groups investigating the use of BP       devises (e.g.
2e).
It is soon to become EU law that mercury sphygmomaometry be phased out       for health and safety reasons and be replaced with oscillometric automated       BP monitoring.
This is predominantly due to a 2009 report from the       Scientific Committee on Emerging and Newly Identified Health Risks, who       provide the European Commission with the scientific advice it needs when       preparing policy and proposals documents, for which Prof Shennan was an       external expert.
For the report, the committee needed to determine if BP       devises to replace mercury ones were accurate and suitable for use.
In       consideration of this they drew on a number of KCL references including       Chung 2009 when discussing automated oscillometric devices (2f).
Placental growth factor (PIGF) is developed into a commercial product       KCL researchers have also worked to develop another aspect of       pre-eclampsia screening in the form of a test for PIGF.
Measurement of       PlGF can augment clinical assessment and improve risk stratification,       enabling healthcare professionals to provide more objective and accurate       information to their patients.
The advent of a highly sensitive test for       pre-eclampsia enables identification of those at greatest risk of adverse       outcomes, while those with a normal test result can avoid costly and       unnecessary intervention.
The test provides an advantage to women who do       not wish to have to remain in hospital for monitoring.
In a survey carried       out by Action on Pre-eclampsia (APEC-UK), 86% said that if a new robust       test (e.g.
PlGF) were introduced that enabled them to be monitored safely       as an outpatient they would prefer this to being in hospital (3a).
Alere Ltd. is a global diagnostics and health management company that       provides products and services that allow healthcare decisions to be taken       at the point of care.
The KCL-led, multi-centre PELICAN study of PlGF       testing strategy in women with suspected pre-eclampsia (Chappell 2013)       provided validation of PlGF and led to Alere developing the test as a       commercial product: Alere Triage&#174;PlGF.
This definitive       study led to the establishment of novel thresholds of PlGF levels on which       to base clinical management.
A `normal' level indicates low risk of       needing delivery within the next 14 days for pre-eclampsia, so a woman can       return to outpatient care; a `low' level shows an increased risk and       requires surveillance to be stepped up; a `very low' level means a woman       is at high risk (median time to delivery for pre-eclampsia of 9 days) and       should be admitted for assessment.
Alere's product brochure highlights the       findings from KCL's study and uses their management algorithm as a       `traffic light' system for risk assessment (3b).
To date, Alere have       marketed 12,500 PlGF tests for ongoing global use for pre-eclampsia       prediction/diagnosis and the study findings are being used by Alere to       lobby US Congress and the FDA for faster regulatory approval times for       innovations in pregnancy.
Alere also provide an educational website with a globally recognised       Editorial Board aimed at healthcare professionals.
This highlights the use       of PlGF tests and the PELICAN study results (3c).
This research was also       subject of a widely reported press release by Alere in 2012 (3d).
Additionally, an international registry &#8212; Management of Pregnancy       Complication With PlGF Testing - has been established by Alere to collate       outcomes across consultant-led centres.
Here, consecutive patients will be       managed using KCL's PlGF threshold algorithm with the audit coordinated by       an International Steering Group (3e).
Throughout their research, the KCL       group has been one of the first to routinely incorporate patient and       public involvement through Tommy's Charity and APEC-UK at all stages from       design and execution to dissemination.
For instance, APEC-UK incorporated       this new strategy for pre-eclampsia diagnosis and management into a recent       educational study day for health care providers (July 4th, 2013) (3f).
