     Dose Adjustment For Normal Eating (DAFNE): One of the major goals       for people with type 1 diabetes mellitus (T1DM) is glycaemic control.
To       address how this can be attained, the `Dose Adjustment for Normal Eating'       (DAFNE) programme &#8212; a skills-based structured education patient program in       intensive insulin therapy and self management &#8212; was set up as a       collaboration between King's College London (KCL), King's College Hospital       Diabetes service, Sheffield University and North Tyneside Hospital.
From       its successful trial showing improved outcomes in T1DM, DAFNE was       initially rolled out to 10 centres, funded by the Department of Health.
It       is now delivered in 77 UK centres.
Prof Amiel of KCL oversaw this, chairing the first DAFNE National       Executive from 2002-2011.
The executive coordinates training for DAFNE       educators, provides teaching tools and quality assurance (including peer       review) and monitors the curriculum through a national audit of outcomes.
Up until July 2013, the UK centres have trained 900 UK healthcare       professionals and 27,983 UK adults with T1DM in 4,045 courses.
There is an       active DAFNE User Group with its own website (DAFNE On-line) providing the       patient voice.
The original 2002 UK DAFNE study (Amiel 2002), along with       follow-up studies by KCL including Rogers H 2009 and Hopkins 2012 are       cited on the professionals' DAFNE website in providing their evidence base       (1a).
A number of follow-up investigations have shown that the DAFNE       programme can lead to sustained benefit, including a mean improvement from       baseline in glycated haemoglobin (HbA1c) and improvements in quality of       life that remained significant at 44 months (1b) and demonstrated cost       effectiveness (1c).
Use of DAFNE in the UK: DAFNE is the only nationwide structured       education programme for adults with T1DM recommended as an exemplar by the       National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (NICE) in their 2003       Health Technology Appraisal (HTA) (2a).
This HTA is included in a number       of current NICE documents, such as the 2011 Quality Standard on Diabetes       in Adults (2b) and their T1DM Patient Pathway (2c).
DAFNE is also named by       the NHS as one of only two "national patient education programmes designed       to give people the skills and confidence to manage their condition" in       their National Service Framework (NSF) document regarding standards for       diabetes care.
The NSF aims to "set clear quality requirements for care       ... based on the best available evidence of what treatments and services       work most effectively for patients" (2d).
DAFNE has also become a NHS       Evidence Quality, Innovation, Productivity and Prevention (QIPP) case       study.
Such case studies are provided by the Department of Health as       examples of recommended NHS care (2e).
Use of DAFNE overseas: Further afield, the UK programme has       trained healthcare professionals in new centres in Ireland and Australia       (OzDAFNE, which now trains teams in New Zealand and Singapore) (3a),       Kuwait, South Africa, Nigeria and Spain.
The International Diabetes       Federation described the success of DAFNE in these centres in their       journal Diabetes Voice.
This publication is distributed worldwide to over       200 national diabetes organisations, healthcare professionals and funders       including governments in over 160 countries (3b).
Continuous subcutaneous insulin infusion therapy: While DAFNE has       been very successful for a large number of people with T1DM, for some       however, diabetes control and hypoglycaemia can remain problematic even       after DAFNE.
Continuous subcutaneous insulin infusion (CSII) via pump       therapy is a KCL-led innovation that can help such people.
NICE's 2008       technology appraisal of pump therapy recommends it for adults and children       with T1DM where multiple daily insulin injections (MDI) results in       disabling hypoglycaemia (4a).
This appraisal is based on an assessment by       Cummins E, et al.
2007 that acknowledges Prof Pickup as one of the       originators of CSII and cites Pickup 2002, 2005 and Rodrigues 2005, when       discussing the evidence of effectiveness (4b).
A 2010 HTA update to this       assessment also concluded that pumps can be advantageous over MDI.
This       cites these KCL studies and Pickup 2008 and uses these as the basis for       reporting in several sections including assessment of treatment costs       (4c).
NICE's 2009 commissioning guide draws heavily on the 2008 technology       appraisal.
This guide "provides support for the local implementation of       NICE guidance through commissioning and is a resource to help health       professionals in England to commission an effective insulin pump therapy       service" (4d).
Both these NICE documents utilised expert opinion from KCL       Professors Amiel and Pickup.
The reports have also been quoted in the       Diabetes UK recommendation that CSII "should be offered as a treatment to       people with T1DM as part of a cohesive and comprehensive diabetes service"       (4e).
Further use of CSII: KCL work on CSII has also informed several UK       guidelines including the NHS Technology Adoption Centre's `How To Why To'       guide (that cites Pickup 2002 and Rodrigues 2005).
The guide is based on       the experiences of three `pump-naive' services mentored by diabetes teams       from KCL working at the King's Health Partner hospitals King's College,       Guy's and St Thomas's (5a,b).
The guide had a major impact on roll-out of       insulin pump therapy across UK, with an increase in adult pump use from 2%       in 2008 to up to 6% in 2012.
This has resulted in improved glycaemic       control and better quality of life for 13428 adults and 5094 children (19%       of all those with T1DM) now using these pumps (5c).
