     Antipsychotic drug therapy is the mainstay of treatment for severe mental       illnesses such as schizophrenia but prescribing is complex and optimal       prescribing is hard to achieve.
Findings of KCL research have informed the       content of a number of country- and world-leading guidelines and been used       to help guide clinical practice.
The Maudsley Prescribing Guidelines to Psychiatry       The major impact of the research described above, along with many other       KCL-led studies, is inclusion in The Maudsley Prescribing Guidelines to       Psychiatry (The Guidelines).
This has been written by researchers       at KCL and the South London and Maudsley NHS Foundation Trust since 1994       and the much-updated 11th edition was published in 2012.
The         Guidelines are published in nine languages and are available in       print, e-book and iPad application forms.
While there are other guides to       prescribing of psychotropic medications, these are the most fully       evidence-based and are widely regarded as the leading clinical reference       for all those prescribing for mental illness and those involved in       prescribing policies.
Sales for the 11th edition by July 2013       were 10,500.
Individual KCL references have been used in a number of ways throughout The         Guidelines.
For example, the work of Taylor 2005 on the prevalence       of diabetes mellitus and impaired fasting glucose is cited when       recommending that patients' plasma glucose should be regularly monitored.
Kerwin 2007 is used in a table describing how switching strategies,       including to aripiprazole, can be used when adverse events occur.
There is       also a lot of advice in The Guidelines that cites KCL studies when       focussing on individual antipsychotics.
For example, Taylor 2009a is used       throughout when considering clozapine augmentation; Taylor 2000 is used       when discussing co-prescribing of typical and atypical antipsychotics and       when reviewing clozapine dosing and Munro 2004 is cited when discussing       augmenting clozapine with amisulpride.
Further, Patel 2011 is used to       provide evidence of how plasma level determinations of olanzapine can be       utilised for those not responding to the maximum licensed dose and       recommendations for prescribing higher doses of risperidone long-acting       injection (RLAI) are evidenced by Taylor 2004 and 2009b (1).
The Guidelines are used extensively to inform clinical practice       worldwide.
For instance, The International Psychopharmacology Algorithm       Project is a US-led undertaking involving faculty from several top US       universities, the National Institutes of Mental Health and multiple       international sites including universities in Austria, South Africa and       Japan.
In an effort to improve medication choice in psychiatry they have       developed a treatment algorithm and provide a myriad of additional       information about antipsychotic regimens.
Their most recent publication on       this project utilises The Guidelines throughout, especially where       KCL research has been used for recommendations.
For instance, when       discussing dosing and augmentation of clozapine, use of risperidone       tablets and RLAI and issues of adherence and intolerance.
This project       also uses individual KCL references such as Taylor 2009a when discussing       how "the evidence base supporting [clozapine] augmentation is limited" and       Patel 2011 when discussing olanzapine dosing (2).
In the UK, The Guidelines are used widely by prescribers on a       daily basis, additionally, they are cited in a number of resources, such       as 2009 Leicester Partnership NHS Trust recommendations for monitoring       physical health parameters in patients prescribed antipsychotics (3).
The         Guidelines are also cited in a number of clinical handbooks, just       one example is `Polypharmacy in Psychiatry Practice', which cites them       when discussing clozapine augmentation (4).
KCL research in UK and worldwide guidelines and beyond       The KCL research detailed above is also utilised in a number of other       guidelines.
In the UK, the National Institute for Health and Care       Excellence (NICE) guideline on `Core interventions in the treatment and       management of schizophrenia in adults in primary and secondary care' was       updated in 2009.
These guidelines dictate standard practice in England and       Wales so inclusion of any references here shows great influence.
Here,       Taylor 2005 is cited when discussing how people with schizophrenia may       have an increased risk of metabolic syndrome features and Taylor 2000 is       cited when discussing how prescription surveys have "confirmed a       relatively high prevalence of combined antipsychotics for people with       schizophrenia" and when discussing the prevalence of clozapine       co-prescribing (5).
Recommendations of pharmacological treatment of schizophrenia produced in       2011 by the British Association for Psychopharmacology (whose consensus       group included a number of KCL researchers) also use KCL work.
They cite The         Guidelines when discussing initial dosing strategies, medication       choice and using plasma monitoring to assess adherence, alongside       individual papers such as Taylor 2004 and 2009b when reviewing the use of       RLAI and Taylor 2009a when considering how clozapine augmentation in       treatment-resistant schizophrenia may only be of modest benefit (6).
This       latter study is also used in guidelines from the 2013 Scottish       Intercollegiate Guidelines Network when it recommends that "a trial of       clozapine augmentation with a second [atypical antipsychotic] should be       considered for service users whose symptoms have not responded adequately       to clozapine alone, despite dose optimisation" (7).
With far wider reach,       the World Federation of Societies of Biological Psychiatry, a non-profit       organisation representing professionals from over 70 countries, produces       guidelines on schizophrenia treatment.
These use information from Kerwin       2007 to confirm the effectiveness of aripiprazole (8).
KCL research has       also been used in a number of clinical handbooks.
For instance, Munro 2004       is cited when discussing evidence that clozapine can be augmented with       amisulpride in the book `Novel Antischizophrenia Treatments' (9) and both       this study and Taylor 2009a are also cited in the book `Polypharmacy in       Psychiatry Practice' (2).
Beyond books and guidelines, KCL research has been used for practical       purposes.
For instance, the California Mental Health Care Program produce       a quarterly report on antipsychotic use with the aim to improve the       quality of services involved in mental health care in California.
Here       they cite Munro 2004 when discussing co-prescribing of clozapine and       amisulpride (10).
