 The film and television industries have many stories.
Which stories are granted credibility and gain public attention depends on the author's cultural authority.
Industry figures, supported by public relations advisers and the state, are dominant voices.
The majority of workers earning livelihoods in the industry are largely overlooked.
All archives &#8212; as repositories of knowledge and narrators of the past &#8212; are inextricably linked to contemporary power relations and thus sites of contested memory.
Oral history has given us the stories of hitherto unheard groups, recognising their contribution and uncovering injustices, which enable us to make different choices about how we live today.
By investigating the BHP archive and engaging the BHP and BECTU with the findings, Dawson and Holmes have helped to reinvigorate and redirect the project to better embody the principles of the oral history movement.
There are four main impacts: 4.1 Stimulating debate Dawson and Holmes insisted that their research was not just of academic interest but that it should be shared with History Project members.
In December 2011 - ahead of publication in the Historical Journal of Film Radio and Television &#8212; they presented a pre-circulated paper at a well-attended monthly committee meeting.
Subsequently, their research reached a wider audience when the findings were summarised in the May-June 2012 issue of the union magazine, Stage Screen &amp; Radio.
The research paper pointed to areas that the History Project could rightly feel proud of, particularly its inclusive and egalitarian approach to building the archive.
The paper also highlighted uncomfortable evidence of declining organisational vigour, especially since 2000 as the annual rate of interviews struggled along at a low level.
Some at the December meeting thought the decline was inevitable as the pool of potential interviewees dried up.
Others saw it as causally linked to changes in industry employment practices that left little time for the History Project's kind of voluntary activity.
The chair, Roy Lockett, acknowledged the project's London-centric character, the under-representation of craft workers, women and minorities, and that the project's outreach strategy needed rethinking.
But Lockett was not willing to accept what he saw as an implicit accusation of elitism because of the increasing trend to interview prominent industry members, such as David Puttnam, that ran counter to its `democratic impulse'.
Taking a different approach, Mike Dick thought the archive was expansive enough to accommodate multiple perspectives.
Where there was unanimity was on the need for an infusion of `new blood' to reinvigorate the project and take it in new directions.
4.2 Intergenerational exchange Dawson and Holmes' research stimulated a debate within the project leading directly and indirectly to the creation of a range of new initiatives.
The group set about reversing the long-term decline in interview recording by encouraging the creation of links with higher education.
University students, working alongside experienced project volunteers, have conducted a number of interviews; others are involved in transcribing existing interviews.
De Montfort, Brunel, Greenwich are already participating, while Royal Holloway and Christchurch Canterbury have asked to join.
Some students assist on a voluntary basis while others gain credit for their participation.
Either way, the group benefits from an infusion of young and energetic participants and increased attention to current oral history practices, which helps revitalise the project and expands the archive.
4.3 Diversity in the archive With input and encouragement of BECTU's Black Members' Committee, the BHP has developed an ambitious plan to interview thirty-six minority industry workers over a three-year period and is seeking support from the Heritage Lottery Fund.
At the same time, BHP now recognises the need to record more lives of younger media workers; plans are also under discussion to break the Home Counties monopoly on membership and interviewing, with the establishment of regional groups.
A Scottish branch has recently been set up.
4.4 Reaching a wider public Since disseminating the research findings among BHP members, there has been a growing realisation that the gems contained within the archive need attention from a wider public.
BHP is holding a workshop on "Making Better Use of the Archive" in November 2013.
Organised by Steve Tappin, BHP's publicity person, the intention is to draw together a range of oral history projects, some of which may be sitting on substantial archive collections, and invite an exchange of experiences.
Christine Coates, TUC Library Collections librarian, London Met, has agreed to speak.
Topics of other presenters include: the potential of podcasting, using Isadora software in the creation of sophisticated multimedia exhibitions, compilation DVDs, and combining BHP interviews with other audio-visual material.
