     FDA approval for KCL's deferiprone       Work at King's College London (KCL) led to the development of the       iron-chelator deferiprone, a drug that has had a major worldwide impact on       the treatment of systemic iron overload in people with beta-thalassaemia.
Independent studies have shown that in combination with desferoxamine is       it currently the most efficient method of chelation-based iron removal       (1a).
Although approved for European use since 1999, until recently it was       not available in the United States.
Prior to the introduction of       deferiprone, cardiac failure due to iron overload still accounted for 67%       of deaths in thalassaemia major.
Combination treatment was shown to       prevent or reverse cardiac complications (1a).
Such findings led to       extensive US patient lobbying in support of deferiprone, for instance as       guided by the Cooleys Anemia Foundation who encouraged patients with       thalassaemia to write to the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) in support       of deferiprone's new drug application (1b).
Approval was finally gained in       2011 due to an unmet need for a choice of iron chelation therapy in those       for which blood transfusion leads to potentially fatal cardiac iron burden       (1c,d).
Since then, the American Heart Association's consensus statement       on `cardiovascular function and treatment in beta-thalassaemia major'       recommends that "the first principle of management of acute heart failure       is control of cardiac toxicity related to free iron by urgent commencement       of infusion of high-dose intravenous deferoxamine augmented by oral       deferiprone" (1e).
KCL research leads to efficient monitoring of iron chelation       With the increasing therapeutic use of iron chelators there is an       increasing desire of clinicians to be able to monitor the efficacy of iron       chelation in plasma and urine.
At the other end of those needing       monitoring is the group of patients who require iron replacement therapy,       for instance those with certain types of iron-deficiency anaemia.
While       such therapy for these patients is vital, too much can be toxic.
Two       suitable parameters closely related to iron overload are the iron       regulatory peptide hormone hepcidin and non transferrin-bound iron (NTBI).
Clinical analysis of hepcidin is through mass spectrometry and a highly       important development in the use of this was the synthesis by KCL       researchers of a reliable internal standard in the form of a synthetic       hepcidin.
KCL houses one of the few labs worldwide capable of the       synthesis of such.
Important also was the refinement of the method of       analysis itself, also carried out at KCL.
Prior to this, methods either       lacked specificity and/or required extraction or quantitation techniques       that gave rise to potentially variable recovery of hepcidin.
Research at KCL led to the development of an assay that has both high       rates of recovery from biological matrices and is highly reproducible.
This assay has been widely adopted by hospital clinicians and the       international pharmaceutical industry and KCL is currently undertaking       commercial hepcidin analysis for nine clinical trials being carried out by       Novartis Pharmaceuticals (Camberley, Surrey) and Vifor Pharma (St. Gallen,       Switzerland), the two major companies involved in the manufacture of       iron-based pharmaceuticals.
Vifor Pharma writes in a letter of support for       KCL that they "recognise the significant impact that the research by       Bansal and Hider has had in the area of developing a robust assay for the       measurement of hepcidin in clinical samples."
They particularly highlight       the findings of Bansal 2009a, 2009b and 2010 (2a).
Iron overload may also be determined through the monitoring of NTBI and       the fluorescence-based method of detection of NTBI developed at KCL, whose       patent was published in June 2010 (2b), is being utilised by Vifor Pharma       (2a), Wageningen University in the Netherlands and Heidelberg University       in Germany.
It is also being used at three major clinical centres in       London: Imperial College, University College London and KCL.
Clinical studies of iron chelation for neurodegenerative diseases       KCL has also led the field in the development of iron chelators for the       treatment of neurodegeneration.
Iron has been shown to accumulate in       specific regions in the brain in neurodegenerative diseases such as       Parkinson's disease (PD), a disorder that affects 5% of those over 80.
Labile iron also accumulates in the mitochondria of patients with       Friedreich's ataxia (FA), which can lead to oxidative damage in the brain,       heart and endocrine glands and ultimately contribute to an early death.
Chelation therapy provides a novel approach for the treatment of these       devastating conditions and investigation has now been brought to the       clinical trial phase.
In a one year pilot trial in Italy involving four       patients with pantothenate kinase-associated neurodegeneration (PKAN) and       two with parkinsonism and focal dystonia, administration of deferiprone       led to decreased iron accumulation in the globus pallidus of two of the       patients and a mild-to-moderate motor improvement in three.
This study       particularly mentions the discoveries of Hapgood 1999 (3a).
ApoPharma, the manufacturers of deferiprone, are now carrying out larger       scale trials for patients with PKAN (3b) and have completed a long-term       safety, tolerability and efficacy study for patients with FA (3c,d).
A       letter of support from the President of ApoPharma, notes that publications       including Ward 1995, Hapgood 1999 and Hider 2010 "have contributed to the       recognition of the potential of deferiprone for its ability to facilitate       the removal of iron from a wide range of sensitive tissues, including the       heart, endocrine organs and brain."
They also say how "Iron chelation is       emerging as a promising therapeutic strategy for the treatment of several       forms of neurodegenerative disease and deferiprone is becoming the       chelator of choice for such therapy" (3e).
Imperial College London (3f)       and University Hospital, Lille, France (3g) are also carrying out pilot       trials for PD patients, the former of which specifically cites Ward 1995       when discussing this treatment.
