     Improvement in the quality of palliative care in the UK       The Palliative care Outcome Scale (POS) has led to substantial       improvements in the quality of       care for patients with advanced diseases and has helped patients and their       families to access       holistic palliative care.
The POS is a straightforward, easy-to-use tool       that clinicians, educators and       those developing palliative care services can use to measure aspects of       health and wellbeing most       important to patients.
An independent assessment of the POS in 2012 showed       that it helps       patients and families receive the best care available and enables care       teams to quickly tailor care       to needs.
The POS data were also used to advocate for palliative care.
(9a)     In 2011 the Cicely Saunders Institute at KCL launched the POS website       which provides       downloadable versions of the POS, guidance on its use and links to       publications related to the       POS.
In its first year the website had over 251,000 hits and 10,102       visitors.
Also 1,274 individuals,       groups or organisations from 74 different countries registered as POS       users.
(9b) An analysis       supported by the European Commission and the European Association for       Palliative Care (EAPC)       identified the POS as one of the four most commonly used measures for       clinical care, audit,       training and research in Europe and Africa.
(9c) The POS is used for many       diseases, including       HIV/AIDS, neurological conditions, cancer and chronic obstructive       pulmonary disease.
The renal       version (POS-S renal) is recommended by NHS Kidney Care as a Gold Standard       tool.
(9d,e)     In the UK, the government, NHS and independent sources have recommended       use of the POS.
In       2008, the Department of Health (DoH) produced an `End of Life Care       Strategy' that drew on KCL-led studies (Section 3 references 5, 1 and 4) to help compile key elements       of end of life care.
(9f) In       2011, the DoH Palliative Care Funding Review recommended that development       of outcome       measures for palliative care should be based on Australian work on patient       outcome measures and       the POS.
(9g) The End-of-Life Care Horizon Scanning Service also endorses       the POS.
(9h) This       website targets commissioners and primary and secondary care       service-managers in order to       ensure best practice and innovation.
The NHS website recommending best       practice for collecting       data on outcomes (9i) provides a link to the POS resources, indicating the       use of the POS at a       national level.
Electronic platforms that collect national outcome data,       such as the Welsh CANISC       platform for Welsh patients' clinical records,(9j) also use the POS.
At       the local level, several NHS       services including Leeds teaching hospitals, St Gemma's and Sue Ryder       Wheatfields hospices,       Leeds Adult Social Services and the Yorkshire Ambulance Service NHS Trust       (9k) use the POS.
Across Europe       The PRISMA (Positive diveRsities of European prIorities for reSearch and       Measurement in end of       life cAre) project 2008-2010, funded by the European Commission,       coordinated the use of the POS       across Europe to optimise the quality of palliative care and access to       palliative care services.
PRISMA was led by KCL researchers and drew widely on their expertise.
The       project coordinated       action, and helped compare and exchange experiences and best practices,       and optimise research       through a strategic cross-national approach.
(10a,b) The 2011 PRISMA       symposium focused on       cross-national measurement and research as a means to progress policy and       collaboration.
During       the symposium, the President of the European Cancer Patient Coalition       cited the POS as a       preferred tool in palliative care.
(10b) The Recommendation Rec (2003) 24       of the Committee of       Ministers of the Council of Europe to member states on the organisation of       palliative care (10c)       also names the POS as a tool for strengthening palliative care throughout       Europe.
Worldwide       The POS is used by clinical practitioners in at least 44 countries.
It has       been translated into 28       languages spanning Europe, Asia, South America and Africa.
(11a-b) The Thai       version of the POS       is being used across the public health sector (11c); the Vietnamese       version in a project to       determine the most prevalent and severe symptoms among patients with       cancer and       HIV/AIDS.
(11d) Disease-specific POS versions are also used worldwide.
For       example, the report       of an Australian renal unit for end stage kidney disease states that the       POS-S (renal) "has worked       successfully in the context of this clinic as patients and family are not       forgetting to mention specific       problems, and the clinician can systematically go through the form with       the patients, thus not       missing troubling symptoms".
(11e)     KCL collaboration in many African countries has led to wide use of the       POS.
The African Palliative       Care Association (APCA) recommends the Palliative care Outcome Scale (APCA       POS) (11f) as a       tool for ensuring holistic assessment and access to care for all African       palliative care patients (11g)       and improving the quality of care.
(11h) Guidelines for the APCA POS (11g)       cite several KCL-led       studies (Section 3 references 7 and 1).
Following validation of the APCA       POS (Section 3 reference       7) it has become the most commonly used patient-level outcome measure in       Africa.
English,       French and Arabic versions are used where appropriate.
It has been       translated into 15 African       languages for use in Kenya, Mauritania, Namibia, Rwanda, South Africa, The       Gambia and       Uganda.
(11b) The Handbook of Palliative Care in Africa endorses the POS       method of scoring pain,       and provides guidance in English, French and Portuguese.
(11h) The Hospice       Palliative Care       Association of South Africa uses the APCA POS to accredit and grade the       performance of hospice       and palliative care services.
These standards for care are endorsed by the       Council for Health       Service Accreditations of South Africa, a body responsible for quality       improvement and       accreditation.
(11i)
