     An innovative range of dressing retention garments     Work at King's College London (KCL) on the WRAP and MATCH projects       revealed the negative impact that extensive non-healing wounds can have on       daily life for people with life-long conditions like epidermolysis bullosa       (EB).
These studies highlighted the critical role of wound dressings and       the extreme inadequacy of bandages as a method for holding patch-worked       dressings in place over extensive wounds.
Patient participants identified       the development of a replacement for bandages as a key unmet need.
These       findings led to the Woundcare for Epidermolysis Bullosa (WEB) project,       which produced an innovative range of dressing retention garments that       will hold wound dressings in a more stable system (Ref 7).
These garments,       designed in collaboration with CLC Design Consultancy Limited, were       commercialised in 2012 as a new product line, Skinnies WEB&#8482; (Source 1A),       under an exclusive licence from KCL with Skinwear Limited, and are now       marketed worldwide by Dermacea Limited.
People who have used the garments report a range of benefits including       comfort, healing of wounds that had persisted for years, improved ability       to wear clothes and shoes and enhanced self-esteem and confidence.
The       following quotes are examples from participants in the WEB project (Source       2C):     "Absolutely amazing!
It has improved my quality of life because it         keeps my dressings firmly in place, without needing to use so much tape,         which itself causes injuries.
The wounds on my trunk are 30% due to         tape."
"A week ago I forgot to wash the garments...my regular carer put         bandages on my back ... [and I thought] oh my god, I don't want to go         back to that again."
The use of these garments also significantly reduces costs.
Whereas       bandages for EB patients need to be cut off after a single use because of       heavy soiling, the Skinnies WEB&#8482; garments can be reused 30-40 times.
In       the WEB study, the average annual cost of wound care per participant       (including labour, time taken to do dressings and wound care products       used) was &#163;85,118.
Using the garments instead of bandages resulted in an       average annual saving of &#163;10,943, approximately 13% of total wound care       costs (Ref 7).
One in four people with EB have a type of disease called dystrophic EB.
The use of Skinnies WEB&#8482; gloves offers specific clinical benefits for       people with dystrophic EB, preventing the webbing of fingers associated       with that condition and thereby reducing the frequency of need for       surgery.
The impressive performance of the gloves led study participants       and hand therapists to request a bespoke glove service, and in 2013 this       was introduced at Guy's and St Thomas' NHS Foundation Trust by the Senior       Hand Therapist to supply the Skinnies WEB&#8482; webspacer gloves to delay       disease progression and finger webbing in dystrophic EB patients.
Data from the WEB study on the benefits of the new garments supported a       successful application to the Prescription Pricing Authority for listing       on the Drug Tariff (Source 1B) and patient access.
The Skinnies WEB&#8482;       garment range is also listed in the International Best Practice Guidelines       for EB wound care (Source 1C).
The WEB project won the 2013 Guardian       University Award in the `Outstanding Research' category (University Awards       Ideas Bank) (Source 2B).
Debra, the charitable foundation that supports       people with EB and their families worldwide has highlighted Skinnies&#8482; in       its news stories (Source 2A).
The TELER clinical note-making system     Following an introduction made by the KCL research team in 2009, the       intellectual property of TELER was sold by Mr Le Roux in January 2012 to       Longhand Data Limited, specialists in digital data capture and processing.
This has resulted in TELERwoundcare - a sophisticated system of digital       data capture, processing and analysis customised for routine clinical       care, telemedicine and research (Source 3A).
The system also incorporates       a standard NHS referral process to which a photograph of a wound can be       added.
Tissue viability nurses receiving data submissions from care homes       or field-based nurses can then triage the patient and respond       appropriately.
The system allows data to be submitted through an iPad as       well as directly through a PC or using a mobile phone linked to a digital       pen and paper recording system.
TELERwoundcare is being adopted nationally and internationally in wound       care applications and telemedicine, licensed from Longhand.
The system has       been adopted by the National Wound Healing Centre in Eastbourne, where a       team of tissue viability nurses are providing any qualified provider (AQP)       services in wound management to the NHS, and a number of NHS organisations       in the Yorkshire and Humber region and beyond have also expressed interest       in the system.
TELERwoundcare has been adopted by IBERWounds, a       wound-healing clinic based in Lisbon that has developed an AQP-type       woundcare support service and will triage and supervise the treatment of       wounds in 150 residential care homes across Portugal, with Longhand       providing data collection and management services (Source 3B).
Woundcare4heroes are setting up a telehealth care system providing       intensive and follow up wound care for wounded servicemen and veterans,       following discharge from the Royal Centre for Defence Medicine at       University Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust (Source 3C).
Longhand Data       Limited is providing TELERwoundcare for this service.
