     Vincendeau has long been a well-known voice on French film in the UK,       with her research on La Haine and her work on stardom attracting       great interest among the cinema-going public.
In the current cycle, the       work on the New Wave has expanded the already wide scope of her research.
As a result of this increasing breadth of expertise and because of her       continuing passion for and advocacy of both popular and art house French       cinema, Vincendeau has become in the current impact period increasingly       influential in informing the critical and cultural contexts through which       the full range of French cinema in the UK is perceived.
The impact of       Vincendeau's research on French cinema described here has taken three main       channels: (i) research on stardom and on the New Wave has underpinned work       at the BFI, informing programming choices and setting the critical context       for BFI audiences; (ii) this body of research has also underpinned       extensive and energetic work in journalism and the media (including DVD       filmed introductions and printed essays); and (iii) research related to La         Haine has had influence on secondary education in the UK and also on       cultural life through its impact on a theatrical production.
As such the       full range of Vincendeau's recent research has informed the appreciation       of French film in the UK and beyond.
Work with BFI Southbank     As a result of the key channels of her research on popular French cinema,       French stardom, and the New Wave evidenced in section 3, Vincendeau       collaborated with BFI programming on the retrospective of the films of:       Juliette Binoche (2008, attendance 3,494), Marcel Carn&#233; and Jacques       Pr&#233;vert (2009, attendance 2,709), Agn&#232;s Varda (2009, attendance 2,874),       Fran&#231;ois Truffaut (2011, attendance 5,960), Jean Gabin (2012, attendance       3,937), and Jean Gr&#233;millon (2013, attendance 1,712).
Through Cin&#233;-Lumi&#232;re,       she collaborated on the 2009 BFI New Wave celebration as a result of her       new work on this era of French cinema (3.1).
These collaborations involved       discussing programming (her research into stardom was decisive in       particular screening choices, such as Lady Killer starring Jean       Gabin), writing programme documentation given to the audience and       providing a variety of talks (from extended introductions to launch       series, to introductions and Q&amp;A sessions and public lectures, one of       which, on Gabin, was part of the King's@BFI Key Scholars series).
Vincendeau's research across all outputs listed in section 3 was a key       contributor to every aspect of the impact of these seasons, from their       composition to the emphasis placed on new aspects of the works (through       accompanying materials) (5.2 and 5.8).
The Education Curator of Public       Programmes at BFI Southbank notes that Vincendeau's appearances at BFI       Southbank `have been a crucial element in our efforts to contextualise and       interpret our film programme for audiences, with a specific aim of       encouraging new audiences, giving them the tools with which to engage with       our seasons' (5.8).
In this respect she has become since her arrival at       King's the first `port of call' for the BFI concerning aspects of French       cinema related particularly to her research specialisms outlined above.
To       illustrate the popular reach of such events and Vincendeau's central role       in the aforementioned impact, the restaurant chain Chez Gerard used the       occasion of the Gabin retrospective to run a competition about the actor       in 2011, the prize for which was Vincendeau's 2000 book on stars and       stardom in France (5.1).
In addition, Vincendeau's research interests in the New Wave in       particular (3.1 and 3.2) have inspired three public courses taught at the       BFI by Vincendeau and King's Film Studies colleagues: `Revisiting the       French New Wave' (six week course; Easter 2009); `Varda and Her Sisters'       (four week course; Summer 2010); `Truffaut in Focus' (four week course;       Spring 2011).
All drew in a diverse cohort of attendees from A-level       students to older film enthusiasts.
Course attendees also went to the       associated film seasons, and all three courses have been intricately       entwined with programming choices at the BFI (5.8).
A further course, on       Louis Malle, is under discussion for Spring 2014.
The above dates are the key moments when impact occurred, although given       that the nature of the impact is the creation of a critical audience, such       impact is a slow-burning formative process that only begins on the date of       the first viewing encounter.
For example, one attendee of Vincendeau's       talk on Gabin wrote to her to tell her how the event had stimulated his       curiosity and motivated him to seek out her other publications (5.2).
In       general, interventions with BFI education and BFI programming have       uniquely informed the public perception and reception of French film,       `drawing on [Vincendeau's] insight and expertise to benefit our audiences,       helping to increase their appreciation and understanding of various       elements of film culture and history' (Education Curator of Public       Programmes, BFI; 5.8).
Reaching a cine-literate mainstream audience via Sight           &amp; Sound, talks, radio, DVD supplements, and beyond     Since 1992 Vincendeau has been a key contributor to Sight &amp; Sound,       with an average monthly worldwide circulation of 20,000 since 2005.
Since       January 2008 she has written twenty-seven film reviews and short pieces       and eight feature articles on French cinema.
The Editor of Sight &amp;         Sound notes that Vincendeau has been `central to cultivating [the       journal] readership's in-depth understanding of French cinema' (5.8).
This       brings her research on stardom and genre filmmaking, as well as her       interest in gender, to bear on contemporary French cinema.
As a result,       she took part in 2012 in the influential `Top Ten' poll of films and       directors conducted by the journal every ten years.
Vincendeau's research       has also reached cine-enthusiasts through her prominent role in       contextualising DVD releases.
Over the impact period, she has contributed       seventeen introductions, feature-length commentaries and written essays as       supplements to DVD/Blu-ray editions of French films for British, US and       French companies (including the prestigious Criterion and StudioCanal)       (5.5); several sold over 8,000 copies worldwide (and one over 10,000).
Her       research on films such as La Haine, on star Jean Gabin (La         Grande illusion), as well as the New Wave (La Pointe courte)       has therefore been made readily available to and informs audiences who       view these releases (5.6).
Vincendeau has during the impact period continued to be a well-known       voice on BBC radio.
A BBC radio presenter and producer notes how her       `contributions to BBC radio cultural programmes have greatly enriched       [...] coverage of European cinema.
She has tailored her detailed knowledge       gracefully to the level of the general listener on Front Row, to       the film enthusiast for The Film Programme (both on Radio 4) and       to the more intellectual approach of Nightwaves on Radio 3 [...]       She brings humanity alongside scholarship to engage an audience that might       be intimidated by the formality of film studies' (5.8).
Average figures       for Nightwaves are 175,000 listeners per episode and The Film         Programme has a regular audience of 1.3 million.
She has given talks       in a wide range of non-academic venues, including cinemas in London and       the regions (in addition to the BFI), the Victoria and Albert Museum, and       the Budleigh Salterton literary festival.
All of these appearances in       different media have contributed to the impact of her research on a       mainstream audience, as can be seen from email evidence of members of the       general public contacting Vincendeau to discuss how her work has inspired       them.
For instance, one man describes how viewing a DVD commentary by       Vincendeau led him to read more of her `outstanding' research; another       suggests her 2012 introduction to La Grande illusion (drawing out       from 3.6) furthered his understanding of the film and has inspired him to       seek out more Francophone films mentioned in her text (5.7).
Vincendeau's       work is also cited by amateur reviewers on the internet, one of whom       describes her published research on French stardom and Brigitte Bardot       (3.3) as `really informative and enjoyable,' continuing, `Ginette       Vincendeau is a really good writer on French film.
She has the       understanding on the culture surrounding the cinema [...] One can usually       find her in the extra bonus stuff on Melville DVD's.
Very impressive!'
(5.7).
La Haine: Theatre and Education     Vincendeau's research interest in Kassovitz's 1995 film La Haine       (3.4) has had a strong influence on a wide public through various       channels.
Her research is the inspiration behind Dutch theatre director       Teunkie van der Sluijs, who described her work as `very insightful and       indeed very helpful [...] in the process of adapting the film for the       stage' (5.8).
Van der Sluijs is a London-based Dutch theatre director, who       runs an Anglo-British company Studio Dubbelagent.
In 2008, he started a       trilogy of new works on violence and exclusion which re-imagines classic       European texts.
Hate is the final part of the trilogy.
The       production opened at the Rozentheater, Amsterdam's primary new writing       theatre, on 17 January 2012, before touring the Netherlands.
In the UK, Vincendeau's research into La Haine is routinely used       to teach the film in schools, where her book on the film is an A-level set       text for some exam boards (5.3).
She has received numerous invitations to       speak at schools on the basis of her expertise on the film, further       allowing her continuing research expertise in this area (3.4) to enthuse       and inspire schoolchildren to engage with film through the national       curriculum.
For example, a French teacher at King's School, Worcester       reports that `[the pupils] were inspired by [Professor Vincendeau's] talk'       and the Head of French at Abingdon School, Oxfordshire, states that `the       boys' motivation and enthusiasm have increased as a result of Professor       Vincendeau's teaching' (5.8).
