     The main impact of Wheatley's research expertise into spectatorship,       audiences, and film criticism       comes through her publishing relationship with Sight &amp; Sound.
The Editor of the journal terms her       `a key contributor to Sight &amp; Sound's understanding of       contemporary cinema' (5.7).
The consumer       magazine reaches a large audience of cine-enthusiasts (as well as an       academic readership) and       sells approximately 20,000 copies internationally per year, giving       Wheatley's research-led writing a       huge reach (5.5).
It reaches the public consciousness in particular       through its lists of the greatest       films of all time, which are produced every ten years.
Most of Wheatley's       contributions to the       magazine are also available online and her writing contributes to an       on-going cultural debate       across blogs and amongst other critics (5.5; 5.2).
Her research into how       critics affect the films that       they write about, and the manner in which they can influence cinema       audiences is instrumental in       equipping her for the role of critic and the inspirational impact that she       has had on new female       talent, referred to below.
Her public-facing work encourages both her       readers and other critics to       reflect upon the practices of film criticism and film viewing, and on the       most appropriate methods to       create an informed film-going public.
Wheatley has been writing an average of two reviews of European films per       month since 2005 (an       approximate number of 72 reviews since arriving at King's) (5.5), which       relate to her research       referenced in sections 2 and 3 in varying ways.
For example, a May 2012       review of Delicacy       argues that since the film is based on a novel that is celebrated in       France but little known to       international audiences, it appeals to different knowledge frameworks for       international viewers (the       film's casting and use of the romcom's genre conventions) than for       domestic spectators, for whom       the film's authorship is the primary reference point.
This reading,       informed by Wheatley's research       into global audiences, was discussed on the website The Case for         Global Film (5.2).
Her July 2012       review of Polisse &#8212; which discussed the manner in which the film's       admixture of serious subject       matter and comedic tone is highly problematic for spectators &#8212; was       likewise debated on the       website Philmology, in a piece on the relationship between empathy       and exploitation (5.2).
Wheatley also produces longer pieces directly based on her research       interests: for example, the       interview piece ``Tis a Pity She's A Whore', (Sight &amp; Sound,       vol.
22, i.2, February 2012), with       French director Bertrand Bonello, is heavily informed by Wheatley's       research into spectatorship       and the `New Extremism' (5.2).
In 2011, the arts charity IdeasTap wrote that Wheatley is one of several       `powerful female writers'       spearheading a move against male dominance of the industry (5.2).
As a       result of her research       interests in film criticism and work for Sight &amp; Sound       outlined above, Wheatley was involved that       year in running and judging a competition to find new female talent for       the magazine, geared       towards encouraging more women to write about film in an informed manner       (5.1).
The competition       fielded 106 entries from a total of fifteen different countries and the       website received 17,000 unique       hits (5.1).
The winning writer was awarded a year's mentoring with       Wheatley, drawing on her       research expertise into how criticism frames film and affects audience       perceptions.
The two       runners-up also received remote coaching (5.7).
The winning writer has       gone on to have several of       her reviews published in Sight &amp; Sound: the online editor       writes that `thanks to Catherine's good       counsel and attention', she (the winning writer) has become `a firm and       valued contributor'.
The       winning writer described Wheatley's mentorship as `a practical and       constructive initiation into the       world of film criticism', stating that she was `grateful to have been       paired with a critic whose work       was an inspiration to [her]' (5.7).
Wheatley has thus influenced the       practice of film criticism through       nurturing a new generation of women critics, and this will reap further       impact in time.
Wheatley's work with young female writers builds on her own commitment to       bridging the gap       between popular and academic writing.
Whenever possible, she parlays her       academic interests       into reviews or features for popular media.
In October 2012, for example,       she reviewed the director       Michael Haneke's Amour for Sight &amp; Sound and alongside       the Independent film critic Jonathan       Romney for Radio 4's The Film Programme, in both cases focusing in       particular on why the       director is so revered by critics, building on the research for her       monograph on Hidden (5.6).
The       live programme had an estimated total of 1,230,000 listeners and the       programme has been       downloaded from the BBC website 12,761 times.
The programme was ranked 113th       in the UK's       podcast chart in June 2013 with a total of 25,319 downloads.
In December       2012 she appeared on       the Today programme to discuss the impact of technological       innovations in cinema on how films       are received by their audiences in different historical eras and cultural       contexts (5.6).
In March       2013 she revisited the programme to discuss the particular popular appeal       of character actors, and       how audiences relate to these figures differently from how they might       relate to better-known stars       (5.6).
As a result of these radio appearances Wheatley's research ideas       have reached millions of       people and informed cultural debate around perceptions of cinema on a very       broad level: the       estimated total number of listeners for the Today programme is       10,754,000 (5.6).
Wheatley's work with BFI publishing has also allowed her to build on and       develop the department's       existing relationship with BFI Southbank.
As part of the BFI's Hitchcock       season, she contributed to       a panel event on `Hitchcock and the Critics', alongside Laura Mulvey,       Henry Miller, and Geoff       Andrew, attended by 193 members of the public (5.3).
Here she discussed       the manner in which       international audiences have had their relationship to Hitchcock's films       mediated by the critical       climate within which they have viewed and re-viewed them.
Similarly,       following the publication of       Wheatley's short guide to Michael Haneke's film, Cach&#233; (3.1)       (international sales of 882 copies), in       February 2013, she presented an early film of Haneke's (Benny's Video       (1995)) as part of the BFI's       Philosophical Screens series, to a capacity audience of 103, introducing       the film and leading the       ninety-minute discussion that followed with the general public (5.3; 5.4).
In this context, her       research comes full circle, as she is able to share information about who       Haneke's film viewers       are, and how they receive and understand his films.
