     Dyer had collaborated with the BFI on topics related to Rota before this       REF impact cycle.
In 2004,       he curated the Federico Fellini season at the BFI and in the previous year       had given a talk there on       Rota and Visconti.
He was also commissioned to write a piece on Rota for       the magazine, Sight &amp;         Sound (14:9 NS, 2004), on the occasion of Rota's topping their poll       of best film music composers.
Dyer published his book on Nino Rota (3.1) with BFI publications in 2010       and his research in this       area and his close relationship with the BFI led to his curating the Nino       Rota season of films, which       took place in September 2010.
The Rota season (attendance 3,272) (5.10) showcased sixteen movies with       scores by Rota,       including Visconti's White Nights (1957), The Leopard       (1963) and Rocco and his Brothers (1960),       Fellini's I vitelloni (1953), La Strada (1954), Il         bidone (1955), Nights of Cabiria (1956), La dolce vita       (1960), Eight and a Half (1963) and Amarcord (1973), as       well as popular Italian comedies (&#200;         primavera (1949), Anni facili (1953), a queer melodrama (Amici         per la pelle (1955)), a British       (Obsession (1949)) and a French (Plein soleil (1959))       thriller, Zeffirelli's The Taming of the Shrew       (1966) and the blockbuster The Godfather Part II (1974).
Thus       well-loved movies were showcased       alongside lesser-known movies and audiences had the opportunity to focus       on these scores as       part of a cinematic experience and understand and appreciate Rota's often       famous and familiar       music in its original context.
One cine-enthusiast who saw The Leopard       at the BFI blogged       enthusiastically about the experience: `Nino Rota's score, which is       elegiac and almost wondrous in       its melodramatic but melancholic tones, is superb ... (cinematographer)       Rotunno and Rota are the       true stars of this picture' (thatonefilmblog (5.1)).
Film music is often not noticed: the brochure and programme notes enabled       audiences to `hear'       what often goes unheard, as did a public lecture Dyer gave on 1 September       2010 to introduce the       season.
This used a wide range of examples, carefully introduced with       reference to what is going       on in the music in the clip, to illustrate the very special way Rota has       with a film score.
This was       held in NFT1, the largest auditorium at the BFI Southbank, indicating the       BFI's confidence in       Dyer's appeal to the cinema public.
Alongside this high-profile series,       Dyer appeared in the media       discussing Nino Rota and his importance, participating in a feature on       Rota in Music Matters on       BBC Radio 3 (5.2) in September 2010, which made the case for why Rota's       music is important,       and then being interviewed about Rota on In Tune on BBC Radio 3, 2       October 2013, as part of       their `Sound of Cinema' series.
Average audience figures in the quarter of       2010 in which Dyer       appeared on Music Matters were 95,000.
In addition, on 21       September he gave a (different) lecture       on Rota to the Italian Society at Heythrop College.
He had also earlier       given a public lecture on       Rota as a gay composer as part of the `Queer Up North' festival in       Manchester on 27 May 2010       (120 attendees).
A video presentation by Dyer on a closely related topic,       `The Wind in Fellini'       (Rota's most celebrated collaborator), has been made by the       Internationales Kolleg f&#252;r       Kulturtechnikforschung und Medienphilosophie in Weimar, available on line,       which has been       commended as `simply one of the best Film Studies lectures       currently available on the internet' by       `Film Studies for Free' (5.9).
This has had 754 views.
Dyer also curated for the BFI the two-month Vincente Minnelli season in       April-May 2012.
Again,       this arose as a result of Dyer's research.
On 17 March 2010, Dyer had       lectured on Lena Horne at       the BFI (the first in the King's@BFI Key Scholars series), a topic that       formed the basis of one of       the chapters later published in In the Space of a Song (2012)       (3.2).
As a result of this talk and his       research on song, Dyer was asked to publish an article on Meet Me in         St Louis for Sight &amp; Sound       (January 2012) to coincide with BFI Southbank's MGM musicals season.
The       appearance of this       article on Minnelli's great musical in turn led to his being invited to       curate the Minnelli season at the       BFI in April-May 2012.
Dyer gave a lecture on 3 April 2012 to open the       season &#8212; again in NFT1 &#8212;       on the notion of `the number' (musical and otherwise) across all       Minnelli's work (part of which was       posted at http://www.bfi.org.uk/live/video/950).
Tony Paley, in his Capital Celluloid blog, featured       this lecture in his daily guide of cinema life in London: `Okay, it's not       a film but this is guaranteed to       be an eye-opener.
Richard Dyer, one of our foremost film writers and the       curator of the Minnelli       season at BFI Southbank, introduces the two-month extravaganza with a look       at the great       Hollywood director's masterful use of the set piece' (Capital Celluloid).
The season gave Dyer the       opportunity to showcase thirty-four movies to a wider public, a complete       retrospective of Minnelli's       work, presenting the public with a possibly once-in-a-lifetime opportunity       to see the full range of the       director's output on the big screen.
Audiences are now perhaps most       familiar with Minnelli's       musicals; this season enabled them to put these side by side with his       melodramas and comedies,       the brochure and programme notes bringing out their similarities and       differences and the       development of his work over thirty years.
The attendance figure for this       season was 6,005 (5.10).
This series attracted attention in the press and on the internet,       including a Gay Times blog feature       (`The Other Minnelli'): `With recognisable icons (as well as plenty of       faces that us whippersnappers       will still be to learn) and a healthy dose of cinemagraphic culture, the       showcase proves the       importance of classics in film.
What's more, while Liza needn't worry       about her throne just yet, it's       never hurt to learn a little of the family history either'.
Reviewers also       wrote about individual movies       shown in the series, including `rarely seen but frequently referenced'       films such as The Bad and         the Beautiful (Lee Cassanelli (5.5)).
And theartsdesk.com discussed,       in the light of this       retrospective, whether Minnelli had the claim of being an auteur       (Ronald Bergan (5.6)).
Newspapers too used the retrospective as an opportunity to bring       Minnelli's work closer to the       public, with The Independent (29 March 2012 (5.7)) offering a       `Guide to: Vincente Minnelli's       Season at BFI Southbank', with its internet site offering a photographic       guide to ten of the director's       movies.
In this assessment period, the BFI has, therefore, taken the initiative       to stage two series of high-profile       screenings and events as a direct result of Dyer's research (and their       confidence in the       public's interest in this).
Dyer, in turn, has collaborated productively       with the BFI to shape film       seasons based on his expertise and research interests.
Of Dyer's work on       the Rota and Minnelli       seasons, Head of Film Programming, BFI Southbank, writes: `in both       instances (and as with       Richard's previous collaborations with us), we found his work excellent in       every respect; and I       know from feedback that our audiences did too, so that we certainly hope       to make use of his       expertise again in the future' (5.10).
Dyer's research into Rota and Minnelli, the song and musicals intersects       with his long-standing       research interests in queer film and culture.
Dyer has had continued       impact in this area during the       assessment period.
Most notably, his gay-related work in the period saw       his involvement in the       `Gay Icons' exhibition at the National Portrait Gallery (2 July-18 October       2009) (3.4), including       giving a presentation jointly with the comedian Sandi Toksvig on 23 July       2009 and co-leading with       artist Sadie Lee a tour of some of the related portraits in the gallery       itself (2 July; 110 tickets sold).
The Director of the National Portrait Gallery testifies to the importance       of Richard's work: `First, his       essay contribution to the catalogue demonstrated his wide-ranging       contextual knowledge of the       subject of gay iconography.
His essay was also of great interest to those       who bought the       publication and in the discussions around the exhibition.
Secondly, his       contribution to the public       discussion with Sandi Toksvig, was very important in terms of allowing       wider debate to flow from       the exhibition, and the combination of an academic and a prominent       broadcaster made a       significant contribution to the public programme of the National Portrait       Gallery' (5.10).
Dyer also       gave a talk on curating the exhibition at a London Metropolitan Archives       study day (5 December       2009; 64 attendees).
Dyer was an interviewee for a film about Rock Hudson       as a queer star (Rock         Hudson &#8212; Dark And Handsome Stranger, directed by Andrew Davies and       Andr&#233; Sch&#228;fer and       premiered at the Berlin Film Festival in 2010).
He gave talks on this       topic before performances of       the play Rock, by Tim Fountain, at Unity Theatre Liverpool (part       of the Homotopia festival; 66       tickets sold) on 17 May 2008 and Oval House Theatre, London, on 14 June       2008 (40 attendees in       the upstairs theatre which seats 50).
He also co-presented on issues of       queer cinema with Ruby       Rich at the Cornerhouse cinema on 12 May 2008 (110 attendees), and for the       2010 Sexuality       Summer School he co-ran with Jackie Stacey a workshop on `Textual       Intimacy' on 25 May.
