     In 2003, Gill's authority in the field was recognised by the UN       Commission on the Status of Women through her status as one of 5       international experts on gender, media and new technologies.
This position       has made it possible to bring about the impact in the current assessment       period.
Professor Gill's background in Social Psychology and in Media and       Cultural Studies gives her a unique vantage point from which to contribute       to knowledge about the `sexualisation' of culture.
In fields that are       known for their polarised arguments, Gill's work has made a contribution       that speaks across entrenched positions, and this in part accounts for the       impact of her work.
In January 2011 Gill was approached by the NSPCC to help develop their       response to the Home Office enquiry on children and sexualisation, As a       result of that collaboration she was invited to lead research for the       NSPCC that would explore `sexting' &#8212; that is the sending or receiving of       messages with sexual content, via mobile Internet technologies,       particularly smart phones.
The impacts of this research &#8212; launched in Parliament in May 2012 &#8212; have       led to a paradigm shift away from familiar concerns about paedophile       activity, showing that sexting is embedded in existing peer and power       networks, rather than being about `stranger danger'.
At the launch of the       report, Jon Brown, head of strategy at the NSPCC, said: `What's most       striking about this research is that many young people seem to accept all       this as part of life.
But it can be another layer of sexual abuse and,       although most children will not be aware, it is illegal.'
The implications of this shift in understanding are significant and are       already being taken up by the Child Exploitation and Online Protection       centre, by schools and by Internet safety organisations such as the UK       Council for Child Internet Safety (UKCIS).
Jon Brown described the research as very important and as a result of the       issues raised by the research the NSPCC is calling for all professionals       to receive training in the latest technology so they are better equipped       to deal with sexting.
The NSPCC has also devised guidelines, based on the       research, for secondary schools and the communications industry to give       young people better protection through education which promotes       considerate, respectful relationships.
The research has been adopted by UKCIS and incorporated in the       Association for School Leaders' booklet `Sexting in Schools: What to         Do and How to Handle It; A Toolkit'.
Linda Thompson of Rape Crisis       writes `Gill's work is the first research that highlights the gendered       nature of sexting.'
These findings directly informed the advice on teacher       education contained within the teacher training materials.
Numerous speaking engagements and requests have followed publication &#8212;       most of them to educationalists (e.g.
school governors), health       practitioners and organisations concerned with stopping bullying and       violence.
These engagements include Gill's keynote at the Rape Crisis       conference in Glasgow in October 2013.
In addition to policy and practice impacts, Professor Gill's research has       also had impact on public debates via her appearances on such programs as       Thinking Allowed and Woman's hour, discussing issues such as sexualised       advertising.
Gill's interventions in debates about sexualisation have also had       considerable impact beyond the UK.
In 2010 she gave evidence to UNESCO and       UNDAW.
In March that year she was accorded the great honour of addressing       the European Parliament in Strasbourg, on the occasion of International       Women's Day.
In September 2012 she took up a position as Chair of the       Scientific Committee on a European directive concerned with improving the       representation of women both on and off screen.
Gill's remit includes       highlighting areas of best practice and excellence across European media       organisations.
