     The impact relates to three main categories: improving compliance with       water quality standards; mitigating economic risks; and improving       understanding through open government and information.
The impact has the       following key beneficiaries:            Government agencies and non-governmental agencies with responsibility         for environmental quality;       Farmers and land-managers, who have access to information that assists         them in mitigating the adverse effects on the environment while         maintaining agricultural production levels;       The general public, which benefits from the drive towards         environmental improvements.
In the UK, there has been a long-standing water quality problem of       diffuse pollution (pollution sources that may be small individually but       which are collectively damaging).
Therefore, compliance with water quality       standards (such as the EU's Water Framework Directive) is challenging,       particularly when the underlying causes of the pollution are not clear.
DDH's work means that compliance with water quality standards has improved       and pollution has been reduced as a result of better recording and       managing of key information.
This has had immediate benefits to the public       in terms of a cleaner and safer environment and more diverse ecosystems.
Michael Dobson, Former Director of the FBA (Freshwater Biological       Association), has commented on DDH's impact in this area: `The research...       in the fields of digital archives, information management, data analysis       and visualisation, and data modelling and description standards... has had       significant impact on freshwater science... [Our collaboration] has led to       a better understanding of pollution processes in inland waterways and       lakes, and has improved the quality of information available to government       and regulatory authorities regarding water quality, thus playing a key       role in UK government-funded activities to improve environmental standards       and enabling compliance with the EU's Water Framework Directive' [5.1].
Beyond the legal and ethical requirement to monitor and improve water       quality, there are economic ramifications should the UK fail to meet the       Water Framework Directive requirements.
Foremost among these is the risk       of financial penalties from the European Union, which can be as high as a       &#8364;28 million fine plus &#8364;120,000 daily penalties.
According to Dr Bill       Brierley, Monitoring Advisor for the Environmental Agency: `Approximately       64% (by length) of English rivers currently fail the current Water       Framework Directive phosphorus standards and diffuse agricultural       pollution is one of the significant reasons for failure of ecological       status in England and Wales &#8212; the task of reducing nutrient levels is a       very significant one for both the Environment Agency and UK plc' [5.2].
The EU is prepared to implement steep penalties for river pollution and       came close to doing so in 2007 when France failed to improve water       quality.
As Brierley has said: `The archive [created by the DDH team]       allows us to comply with the Water Framework Directive &#8212; the penalties for       not doing this are financial as well as environmental and reputational.
Without the work of the King's team it would be very difficult for us to       monitor, understand and demonstrate compliance or identify the sources of       diffuse pollution within agricultural catchments.
It is only when we have       this detailed information that we can, together with other stakeholders,       identify, undertake cost benefit analyses of and prioritise both       mitigation and management actions' [5.2].
Access to data and freely available evidence is a key priority for the UK       government.
The knowledge gained through this information management       research is being communicated to farmers, leading to improved practices       in relation to fertilisation of agricultural land so that pollution is       reduced while land productivity is maintained.
This integrated data       sharing supports the work of the Environment Agency and facilitates       stakeholder engagement.
As Dr Brierley of the Environment Agency says:       `The archive has, for the first time, collated and stored information,       monitoring data and evidence and makes this available to the Environment       Agency, Defra, academics and members of the public via web portals.
This       ensures that the data is available for anyone to access, use, analyse and       scrutinise.
...
This is one of the underlying principles of the River       Basin Management Plans in the Water Framework Directive' [5.2].
Moreover,       according to the Science Programme Manager at the Department for       Environment, Food and Rural Affairs (Defra): `The implementation of an       archive consistent with open data standards, allowing linked data       approaches to analysis, is important to achieve the vision... KCL has       taken a leading role in developing appropriate access restrictions to       ensure data can be shared effectively in accordance with the INSPIRE       directive and open data strategy but within the limits of the data       protection act.
Their work will ensure the investment in data collection       continues to have impact without disclosing sensitive information about       stakeholders' [5.3].
Beyond the Water Frameworks Directive, DDH has collaborated on other       Defra-funded activities, including meeting the INSPIRE (geographical data       recording) Directive and further developing the freshwater data model to       support another research platform, namely the Agricultural Greenhouse Gas       Platform.
This platform supports activities to mitigate climate change.
As       Dr Dobson of the Freshwater Biological Association states, this research       informs the UK government `about the practicalities of implementing the       EU's INSPIRE Directive... and contains a wide range of rules for managing       geo-spatial information.
Defra is responsible for overseeing the       implementation of INSPIRE in the UK, and the collaborations are a showcase       for implementing the Directive in data archives, and for pioneering the       open publication of Defra's scientific data in accordance with the       Directive.
The research carried out by CeRch [DDH] was a key factor in       enabling these results, and we expect the impact that it has had to date       to continue to grow further over the coming years' [5.1].
