     By the beginning of 2008, there were millions of low resolution images       that were digitally available to the public.
However, it is estimated that       there were fewer than 50,000 images from museums which were both high       resolution and freely available under open access provisions for non-       commercial use.
By 2013, the number of freely available high-quality       images from museums had grown to more than 2 million [5.9].
Tanner's research fed into and impacted this growth.
As Neal Stimler,       Associate Digital Asset Specialist at the Metropolitan Museum of Art       writes: `Tanner's report on digital rights strategies in American art       museums was a critical testament that contributed to the increase of open       access initiatives in museums in the United States.
The report       fundamentally challenged the ethics of rights and reproductions practices       in museums, shifting museum efforts firmly in the principled direction of       public service and mission through open access' [5.3].
The Metropolitan       alone has released more than 540,000 images (of which 398,000 are high       resolution) for personal and educational use.
Bill LeFurgy, Digital       Preservation Manager at the Library of Congress, has emphasised how       Tanner's research allows heritage organisations to advance arguments for       free access which are based on economics: `Governments and other funders       respond to this category of justification because it is constructed in       practical, tangible terms that clearly demonstrate value.
In an era of       reduced budgets and increased competition for resources, it is essential       for institutions to marshal a strong and compelling value proposition'       [5.4].
Moreover museums and galleries in Europe and the US have cited Tanner's       research as instrumental in initiating and supporting their own drive to       open access.
As Michael Edson of the Smithsonian states: `In my experience       within the Smithsonian Institution, Tanner's study provided me with the       data, insight, and rationale for defeating a proposed image use policy       [that] would have required an enormous up-front investment to build an       online image store, it would have kept images out of the hands of our most       productive users and collaborators for decades: it almost certainly would       have never made a profit.
Tanner's study taught me how to think about the       value proposition of the proposed policy, and it gave me the data, and the       courage, to successfully change the course of the policy debate' [5.2].
Edson concludes that: `Tanner's study is the most important piece of       research in my field.
I truly believe that any individual, anywhere in the       world, who sees a free, high resolution, high quality reproduction of a       museum object online has `Reproduction charging models and rights strategy       for digital images in American art museums' to thank' [5.2].
Other US art museums which have acknowledged the impact of Tanner's study       include the Yale University Art Museums, the US National Gallery of Art       and the Walters Art Museum.
In 2011, Yale University Art Museums made over       250,000 high quality digital images of its cultural heritage collections       openly and freely available.
John ffrench, Director of Visual Resources at       Yale Art Gallery, has said that Tanner's work `cemented their decision' to       move to an Open Access model: `In the months after Open Access was       announced we saw a 40% increase in the number of requests we received       through our Rights and Reproductions offices which we feel is a success       and clear indicator we made a wise move' [5.5].
In March 2012, the US       National Gallery of Art launched its new NGA Images site: `NGA Images [is]       a new online resource that revolutionizes the way the public may interact       with its world-class collection,' writes Alan Newman at the US National       Gallery of Art.
`Since inception more than 400,000 images have been       downloaded...
There is no doubt that Tanner's scholarship during the last       25 years has provided a leadership framework for cultural heritage       institutions developing public policy relating to collection image access'       [5.1].
The Walters Art Museum in Baltimore makes 19,000 images freely       available.
William Noel, formerly of the Walters Art Museum, writes:       `Tanner is one of the most influential figures in a fast changing digital       environment for cultural heritage assets.
In my view, he is a driving       force for change.
I regard my own recent award as a "White House Open       Science Champion of Change" as in part belonging to Tanner... As I was       recently quoted in a Mellon report by Kris Kelly, the Walters loss of       control of its images was essential to its success.
Simon Tanner and a few       colleagues held my hand as I relinquished that control' [5.6].
Noel states       that the Walters Art Museum has had 2.5 million views on Flickr over 3.5       years and has commented on how its illuminated manuscripts are now more       available to the public than those of larger national collections.
Tanner's research has had impact outside of the US.
The National Gallery       of Denmark, for example, cites Tanner's work as instrumental.
For example,       Merete Sanderhoff of the Department of Collections and Research at the       National Gallery of Denmark, comments: `The recognition that [charging for       access] is both expensive to run, and effectively prohibits the public       from accessing and using images of artworks that rightly belong to them,       has proven a highly efficient argument to make real change happen' [5.7].
Tanner, Vetch and others in the Department of Digital Humanities have       drawn upon this research to support their knowledge transfer activities       and the work of the King's Cultural Institute.
Tanner has provided       consultancy that has drawn upon and updated the conclusions of the       research, and he continues to influence policy planning and implementation       in major cultural heritage institutions.
Recent examples include work with       National Museums Liverpool to develop revenue streams from digital images.
He has also worked with the National Museums Northern Ireland (NMNI) to       develop a digitisation and digital preservation strategy for 2009-2011.
As       the Head of Collections Management at the NMNI states: `Tanner's research       provides key evidence in setting new objectives for cultural heritage       digital content and engagement' [5.8].
Tanner's work remains influential       for national discourses on the use and availability of digital images as       seen in the 2012 report to the Heritage Agency of Denmark [5.10] and the       World Intellectual Property Organization Guide on Managing Intellectual       Property for Museums [5.10].
