     Professor Pratt has established an international reputation as an expert       in the mapping and       measurement of the social and economic dimensions of the cultural and       creative industries over 25       years.
During Pratt's time at King's College from 2009-13 his work has had       a global impact via his       advice to the UN.
Figures from Pratt's research revealed size of the creative economy and       highlighted the nature of       inequalities in cultural trade and the degree of control of local cultural       `product'.
This finding had a       substantial impact on policy making; Such is the importance of this       intervention that nations and       cities around the world (especially the developing world) are devising       creative economy policies to       promote economic growth and local cultural identity     The cultural industry definitions, operationalization and creative       industry measures devised by Prof       Pratt now form the foundation of the UNESCO (2009) Framework for         Cultural Statistics.
This       document is now the international gold standard for measuring cultural       activity in the world.
Moreover, the seminal United National Conference on Trade and Development       (UNCTAD 2008,       2010) Creative Economy Reports are based on Professor Pratt's       creative industry methodology       that develops a definitive measure of cultural trade.
As expert advisor,       Professor Pratt's methods       form the basis of the third edition of the Creative Economy report for       2013 managed by UNESCO.
Furthermore, Pratt's analyses have had a direct influence on governance       and policy.
The World       Cities Culture Forum is an international policy initiative that highlights       the role of culture in the       social and economic success of the world's largest and most globalised       cities.
The audit is based       on a comparative survey of the cultural infrastructure and consumption       trends in each city &#8212; published       as the World Cities Culture Report 2012.
The World Cities Culture Report       2012 involved       12 cities.
A new version will be published in 2013 covering 24 cities.
Paul Owens, Managing Director of BOP Consulting, which carries out the       World Cities Culture       audit, wrote:     `[Professor Pratt] has played a central part in establishing both the       overall intellectual framework       and rationale and in designing the technical aspects of the project such       as the data indicators.
In doing this he has drawn on his own research and on his experience of       working within a       policy-making context in the UK and in other countries.
His input has       given the project       academic rigour and credibility.
He has played a large part in realising       the aims of the project       and in attracting interest and support from policy-makers in over 20       cities across the globe.'
In the World Cities Culture Report (GLA 2012) the Mayor of London noted       that the concepts       proposed by Pratt now play a central role in cultural policy making in       London.
Pratt has also addressed and written a series of reports for CERLALC (Centro         Regional para el         Fomento del Libro en Am&#233;rica), the artist's rights society for South       America, on the challenges       facing the creative economy in that region.
M&#243;nica Torres, Deputy Director       of Copyright,       CERLALC-UNESCO says that Prof. Pratt's work has been essential to setting       up the Ibero-American       Observatory of Copyrights (ODAI).
`A sequence of six articles about the basic elements of the Creative       Industries...have been       published with successful effects in the ODAI web site (www.odai.org) ABC         de las Industrias         Creativas section.
In addition Professor Pratt contributed as a       lecturer in the workshops of       Creative Industries organized by CERLALC, ODAI and WIPO in Paraguay and       Ecuador, last       year.
This important contribution has [helped us] to comply [with]       CERLALC&#180;s objectives as well       to structure projects with other institutions regarding creative       industries initiatives and various       related activities.'
He is also a member of the expert working group for UNESCO advising on       the third creative       economy report, advising specifically on issues of local capacity building       drawing on his research       on the creative economy and cities.
He has acted as advisor for the cities       of Shanghai, Barcelona,       Berlin and London.
At the invitation of the British Council's Creative       Economy Unit he has also       advised missions in Central Africa and Latin America, in the latter case       working with the Latin       American Development Bank on a strategy to enable micro-enterprises and       creative practitioners       to develop their businesses.
Within the UK, Professor Pratt's work was essential in the development of       the Culture Capital       Exchange: an organisation that promotes the exchange of knowledge and       expertise by providing a       vital network between Higher Education, business and the cultural and       creative sectors across       London to mutual benefit.
Sally Taylor, Executive Director of The Culture       Capital Exchange wrote:       `Professor Pratt's research was vital to the concept and, ultimately,       success of the Hub bid.'
