     The work of Dr. Lena Simic and her collaborators Jennifer Verson (artist       and Research Associate for the Archbishop Desmond Tutu Centre for War and       Peace Studies), Dr. Gary Anderson, Dr. Niamh Malone, Ms Carmel Cleary as       well as a number of participating artists in the Cartographies of Justice       project (Sai Murai, Natasha Davis, Katherina Radeva, Zodwa Nyoni etc.)
have all had an impact on changing perception of migrants in the community       as well as bettering the lives of a select number of Merseyside Refugee       and Asylum Seekers pre and post Natal Group women in Liverpool.
This case       study's impact lies in enriching cultural life and influencing public       discourse around the themes of citizenship, belonging and migration.
This       work is furthermore activist and political &#8212; financial resources have been       used from institutions (Arts Council England and Liverpool Hope       University) to channel the funds and better the lives of the migrants.
The       impact affects: Liverpool toddler group at Unitarian Church on Ullet Road,       Merseyside Refugee and Asylum Seekers Pre and Post Natal Group in Dingle,       West Everton Community Council, ESOL students at Blackburn House,       audiences of Blood &amp; Soil: we were always meant to meet...,       and Migrant Artists Mutual Aid network comprising of Liverpool's migrant       artists and refugees.
In terms of historical context and the building of the impact from       practice as research, in 2004 Simic developed Medea/Mothers' Clothes       live art event.
The piece was developed through Simic's weekly attendance       at two toddler groups in Liverpool (Lark Lane Community Centre and       Unitarian Church on Ullet Road), which led to the involvement of a further       19 mothers from those toddler groups and a performance/exhibition at the       Bluecoat.
The project was ACE funded and went on to tour both in the UK       and beyond: greenroom, Manchester (2004), Brunel University (2004), Teatro       Guinol, Santa Clara, Cuba (2005), Inter-University Centre, Dubrovnik,       Croatia (2005), Performance Art Carlisle Event, Source Caf&#233;, Carlisle       (2006), John Thaw Studio Theatre, Manchester University (2006), Bristol       University (2006), On the Edge, University of Hull @ Scarborough (2006)       and University of Winchester (2007).
The piece (including its       documentation/marketing material) was seen by approximately 1000 audience       members.
The performance's message was about motherhood and migration, and       audiences were given an opportunity to reflect on how migrants (as       mothers) are perceived.
In addition to performances, Simic offered       workshops and/or artist talks.
Simic's research work focused on migration       and motherhood throughout her academic career at Liverpool Hope (from       2006).
In 2011 Simic developed ACE funded Becoming British workshops and       Blood &amp; Soil performance at the West Everton Community Council.
The workshops were attended by a group of Liverpool's migrant artists as       well as ESOL students from Blackburn House (35 participants overall).
The       performance was seen by 50 people and through its subsequent tour at       Lantern Theatre, and three conferences, by 150 more.
Thinking critically       about citizenship and questioning how citizenship is portrayed by       neoliberal governmental policies has been one of the agendas at the       creative workshops which tackled the compulsory test for British       citizenship `Life in the UK'.
The performance Blood &amp; Soil: we         were always meant to meet... took the form of the `Life in the UK'       test intertwined with migration narratives.
The accompanying publication       (print run of 300) has been distributed to audience members.
Migrant Artists Mutual Aid was set up in 2011 as a result of Simic and       Verson's collaboration, at West Everton Community Council as well as with       Merseyside Refugee and Asylum Seekers Pre and Post Natal Group (MRANG),       through `Home and Belonging' creative workshops attended by 20 women in a       busy toddler group in Dingle, Liverpool.
Collaboration between MRANG and       Simic continues today, with a plan for further workshops.
Women at MRANG       were incredibly grateful for artistic interpretations of their stories and       lives (both in poetry and photographs).
Please refer to testimonials for       further details.
MRANG is also a part of the community outreach programme       of the Archbishop Desmond Tutu Centre for War and Peace Studies.
Simic has been central in the formation of Migrant Artists Mutual Aid and       has played a key role in its first fundraising event for a FGM survivor at       Lantern Theatre in 2011.
At the occasion Simic and Verson performed       `Betting on Being British' (a version of Blood &amp; Soil).
Migrant Artists Mutual Aid also staged Vagina Monologues in 2012       (as a part of V-day campaign to end violence against women and girls and       which runs every February) in order to raise awareness about FGM and fight       the real battle for a survivor and her young daughter.
The same woman's       story has been depicted in a BBC Newsnight documentary by Sue       Lloyd-Roberts aired on 3rd September 2013, following Migrant       Artists Mutual Aid's efforts (post July 2013).
Dr. Niamh Malone, Ms       Victoria Bates (Department administrator until 2012) as well as Dr. Lena       Simic were performers in the piece, whilst a Liverpool Hope University       student worked as a technician.
Vagina Monologues were performed       at the Lantern Theatre twice and once at the Unitarian Church on Ullet       Road to packed audiences with overall number of 200.
There are plans to       perform Vagina Monologues again in 2014.
This activist work is set       to continue.
Current collaboration between Migrant Artists Mutual Aid and       Simic includes raising money for migrants' legal fund through a staging of       autobiographical solo performance 1994 which looks at the notions       of war and exile at Lantern Theatre in November 2013.
Cartographies of Justice creative event was organized by Dr Lena       Simic, Dr Gary Anderson and Carmel Cleary to bring the local Liverpool       groups (MRANG and Migrant Artists Mutual Aid) together with international       artists (Natasha Davis, Sai Murai, Katherina Radeva).
The event took place       in December 2012, and it included Student Performance, Artist Talks,       Migrant Slam, Long Table Discussion and Migrant Feast.
The overall number       of audiences and participants were 100.
This event was important in terms       of furthering public debate around migration and bringing together       community groups with artists who tackle migration in their creative       practice.
The migrant story `slams' were recorded and interviews were made       with organizers, slammers and artists, compiled both on the Cartographies       of Justice website as well as Gambiankolu Radio in Liverpool.
