     According to Judith Knight (Director of Artsadmin) the Institute is `one       of the leading       examples of an alternative model of artistic and political practice in the       UK, bringing together       informed and radical thinking about education, political change and family       life with humour,       modesty and a strong playful touch' (full testimonial available).
The       Institute operates several       distinct strands all of which have impact on enriching cultural life and       influencing public discourse       around live art, contemporary performance, art activism and social change.
Family Performances and Family Residencies       The work of Anderson and Simic has had an impact on changing perception of       the nuclear family in       the community as well as the live art scene in the UK, and activist       practices nationally and       internationally.
The Institute have performed a number of family         performances across the sites,       festival and venues in the UK:             The Hazardous Family at Hazard 08 festival, Manchester, UK         (2008)        A Promising Family Picnic for Two Degrees event at Artsadmin,         London, UK (2009)        A Performance Report at C words exhibition at Arnolfini,         Bristol, UK (2009)        Bed-In CUT PIECE at the Bluecoat, Liverpool, UK (2010)       'Mother &amp; Son: that just sounds really sad' artist residency           and performance at 25SG,           Newcastle, UK (2011)        The Family Cut Out for Two Degrees event at Artsadmin, London,         UK (2011)        Anti-Oedipus Home Movie video film and performance, Lakeside         Arts Centre, Klagenfurt,         Austria 2013        Families in Transit for Two Degrees event at Artsadmin, London,         UK (2013)          The Institute have also hosted a special programme of family residencies     in 2011 with the aim to raise awareness about critical parenthood and arts making:            Helena Walsh, Kevin Biderman and Ella       a place of their own (Paula McCloskey, Sam Vardy, Fionn, Oisin, Roma         and Mala)         Townly and Bradby       Reverend Billy, Savitri D and baby Lena          According to Jane Trowell, campaigner and educator with PLATFORM, a       London-based       organization which combines art, activism, education and research: `This       practice of the Institute is       never predictable and always usefully uncomfortable.
It is provocative and       fascinating.
They have       made an impact with the most everyday of means &#8226; a family.
Yet through the       ethics and       transparency of the practice, and the humour and humility with which it is       created, the Institute has       created a highly sophisticated contribution to how we think about the       family, and how live art in       particular includes, excludes, or bypasses one of the biggest and most       potent forces in many adult       artists' lives' (full testimonial available).
Artist Residencies and over 200 Visitors from 2008 through to 2013       The Institute have hosted a number of artist residencies and visitors from       2008 to 2013.
Residencies and discussions were informed by the notions of cultural       activism, financial       transparency, social and ecological justice, DIY aesthetics and the       relationship between capitalism       and culture.
2008: PLATFORM and Remember Saro-Wiwa (April 2008), Anna       Francis (May 2008), Pete Hindle       (June 2008), Michael Pinchbeck and Julian Hughes (July and December       2008), Tom Robinson       (July 2008),Branka Cvjeticanin (July 2008), Ruth Beale and Karen       Breneman (July 2008), Simon       Bowes (September 2008), Ania Bas (September 2008), Nicola       Kirkham (November 2008), the very       Kirkham (November 2008), the very       cooperative (November 2008).
2009: PLATFORM and Virtual Migrants, Abi Lake, Sam       Vardy, Cathy Butterworth       2010: Branka Cvjeticanin, Maresa MacKeith       2011 (family residencies): Helena Walsh, Kevin Biderman and Ella,       a place of their own, Townly &amp;       Bradby, Reverend Billy, Savitri D and Lena       2012: Stuart Watson, the vacuum cleaner, Pete Hindle,       Cinderella Residency: Dr Persilovsky     Public events at the Institute between 2008 and 2013       This particular strand opens up the family home as a site of cultural       activity and dissent.
Miss Julie in Utopia (2008), a reworking of Strindberg's         classic        Macbethmachine (2010), a specially commissioned performance for         four heterosexual         couples exploring ambition, violence and failures of capitalism       Workshop Facilitators for DIY5: First Retreat Then Advance (2008)       The Politics and Aesthetics Reading Group (2010 - 2012) monthly         meetings       Reading Group on Ranciere (2012)       Reading Group on Levinas (2012)       WAG &#8212; Women's Ageing Group meeting (2012)       Screening Group on Deleuze (2013)          Both Lois Keidan, co-founder and director of the Live Art Development       Agency and Cathy       Butterworth, Live Art Producer in Liverpool are keen to stress the       importance of artist led initiatives       in the UK and internationally.
The Institute's work is firmly situated       within this framework of DIY       artist led initiatives.
According to Lois Keidan `Artist led initiatives       are the lifeblood of Live Art.
Working beyond the restrictions of the museum, the gallery or the theatre       they are not dependent       on the permissions of others and do what they want, how they want, when       they want, and where       they want.
Driven by passion, generosity and energy, and responsible only       to themselves, their       collaborators and their constituents, they are the spaces where different       kinds of questions about       the role of art and artists are asked, and where new ways of working are       tried and tested.
They are       critical and essential catalysts for action and for change, and the       Institute has, since 2007, been       one of the most critical and essential we have.'
Cathy Butterworth, Live       Art Producer in Liverpool       writes: `One of the key and most important qualities of the Institute is       its longevity and       sustainability.
The Institute is a blueprint, not only for artist led       initiatives, but also for all arts       organisations that aim to present, foster, support and develop radical       practice.
In my experience       there are many arts organisations that could learn many vital lessons from       the Institute: how to       genuinely and meaningfully collaborate; how to consistently innovate and       develop forward thinking,       relevant and powerful projects; how to communicate and disseminate ideas       and strategies; how to       inspire and how to continue to be inspired.'
Full testimonials are       available.
Environment and Climate Change       The Institute have been a part of wider contextual framework of artists       who are working within the       discourse of environment and climate change.
Their work has been       commissioned for Two Degree       festivals organized by Artsadmin (2009, 2011, 2013), PLATFORM's exhibition       `C Words: Carbon       Climate Capital Culture' (Arnolfini 2009), The Ashden Directory (2010).
The Institute have also       been hosts to Reverend Billy and the Church of Stop Shopping during their       UK tours in 2009, 2011       and 2013, which focused on sustainability and climate change.
According to Judith Knight, director of Artsadmin `Through our programmes       on art and activism we       try to have an impact on our wider sector in the UK and Europe, to be part       of a wider movement of       artists, venues, and festivals who are confronting the politics of climate       change and social change.
We think that the Institute are a great example of how to do this, and       will continue to invite them       back to London.
We are currently trying to support them to take their work       and ideas across       Europe, through the Imagine 2020 Network of European arts organisations       who present work       about climate change, to give their model of working an even greater       impact' (full testimonial       available).
Reverend Billy, one of the world's leading art activists from       New York, states: `Lena and       Gary will lead us to the artists who should have been and now will be our       influences, while       simultaneously bringing neighborhood mothers into their living room to       discuss climate change' (full       testimonial available).
Financial transparency and support       The Institute's work is furthermore activist and political &#8212; financial       resources have been diverted       from the family income (10%) to support activist practices.
This has       impact on live art economies,       as referenced by Lyn Garnder in the Guardian (2009).
In addition to       creating its own art activist       practice of family performances, the Institute is facilitating artist       residencies and providing an       alternative space for cultural activism in the city of Liverpool post       Liverpool08, European Capital of       Culture year.
The Institute is furthermore a regular funder of London       based arts activist collective       PLATFORM, Rev Billy and the Church of Stop Shopping, Guillermo Gomez Pena       and La Pocha       Nostra Conceptual Live Art Credit Union and local grassroots radical       political magazine NERVE.
