     The impact of this research has been life-changing for millions of people       in communities affected by trachoma.
As a result of the first two studies,       in 1998 the researchers, along with collaborators at JHU and UCSF, and the       Clark Foundation, persuaded Pfizer to donate azithromycin (then still       under patent) to trachoma control programmes in 8 countries (subsequently       increased to 21).
In the same year the Clark Foundation and Pfizer jointly       set up the ITI5.1 to oversee the donation programme, and WHO       set up the Global Alliance for the Elimination of Blinding Trachoma by       2020, supported by a resolution at the World Health Assembly.
This was       based on the SAFE strategy: Surgery for trichiasis, Antibiotics to treat C.         trachomatis infection, and Face washing and Environmental       improvement to reduce transmission of C. trachomatis.
Mass       treatment with azithromycin was recommended for the `A' component.
Since       then more than 250m azithromycin doses have been donated to national       trachoma control programmes in 21 countries.
Year on year, there has been       a very considerable scale-up of these programmes, working towards the       elimination of blinding trachoma, which was triggered and is underpinned       by the science carried out by the LSHTM team as well as by their       information and advocacy.5.2     Danny Haddad, Director of the ITI (www.trachoma.org),       said in 2012: `The research into strategies to control trachoma performed       by Professors Mabey and Bailey and their group has paved the way for an       azithromycin donation programme that has improved the health of millions       of poor people around the world.'
It has also profoundly influenced the       trachoma programmes of NGOs.5.3     Since 2008, Morocco, Ghana, Libya, Mexico, Iran, Oman, Algeria, Vietnam       and The Gambia report that they have met WHO targets for trachoma       elimination.5.4, 5.5, 5.6 According to WHO estimates, the       number of cases of active trachoma in the world has been reduced from 150m       in 1995 to 40m in 2012, and the number of people blind from trachoma from       6m to 1.2m5.7 &#8212; highly significant reductions in which the       LSHTM team's research findings played a crucial part.
In January 2012, at       a meeting in London attended by Bill Gates and the CEOs of 13 major       pharmaceutical companies, the UK Minister for International Development       pledged &#163;50m towards programmes for the elimination of blinding trachoma       by 2020.
&#163;10.6m of this has been awarded to Sightsavers International and       LSHTM to complete the world map of trachoma.5.8     Every year since 1998 WHO has hosted a meeting of partners in the Global       Alliance for the Elimination of Trachoma.
This meeting is attended by       national trachoma control programme managers from all countries supported       by ITI, and by the major NGOs involved in the control of trachoma.
It is       preceded by a one-day scientific meeting at which the results of research       in the previous year are reported.
The LSHTM team has presented at this       meeting every year, helping to ensure that their research is translated       into policy and practice, nationally and internationally, at the earliest       possible opportunity.
Anthony Solomon (now Senior Lecturer, LSHTM) is a       member of the Trachoma Expert Committee of the ITI, which is chaired by       Allen Foster (Professor of Tropical Ophthalmology, LSHTM).
At LSHTM's study site in The Gambia in 2009, no infections were found       among 6,000 children sampled in four districts who had received mass       treatment with azithromycin.3.6 Researchers are now working       with the award-winning Gambian National Eye Care programme (NECP)5.9       to set up a national surveillance network, to ensure that trachoma is not       reintroduced into the country.
Ansumana Sillah, Director of the NECP, said       in 2012: `The research led by Drs Bailey and Mabey on trachoma showed for       the first time that a single dose of azithromycin can cure trachoma, and       can even eliminate trachoma if it is given to the whole community.
This       led the ITI to donate azithromycin for mass treatment of affected       communities in the Gambia, Senegal and other countries in West Africa, and       has enabled us to come close to eliminating active trachoma in The       Gambia.'
Mass treatment with azithromycin may have had additional benefits.
LSHTM       researchers showed that it reduced the incidence of clinical malaria and       other illnesses in Gambian children.3.6 Studies in Ethiopia       published in 2009 and 2011 showed that all-cause mortality was       significantly lower in children aged 1-5 years in communities which       received azithromycin.5.10
