     Improved understanding of drug release and uptake has allowed development       of three patent-protected technologies for improved drug delivery: PHLORALTM,       for release of drugs in the colon, and DuoCoatTM and ProReleaseTM,       formulations designed to allow transit through the stomach and immediate       release upon gastric emptying.
PHLORALTM arose as a result of earlier studies       on a product trademarked as COLAL-PREDTM [8].
COLAL-PREDTM was developed with over &#163;1m in research and       licensing funding provided by Alizyme [a].
This technology       progressed into phase III clinical trials for a product containing       prednisolone metasulphobenzoate.
The knowledge gained from this study led       to the development of PHLORALTM which is the world's first dual       trigger colonic coating technology.
The coating exploits both the pH       change and increase in bacterial numbers along the gastrointestinal tract,       with each component acting as a failsafe to guarantee reliable and       consistent targeted delivery [9].
The corresponding product, which       contains mesalazine as the active therapeutic ingredient, is currently in       phase III trials as a treatment for ulcerative colitis.
It was the subject       of a patent application in 2007, which has since been granted in many       territories worldwide [b] and has been the subject of licenses,       options and contracts.
The coating allows precise and consistent release       of material in the colon, and may be used for the treatment of localised       as well as systemic diseases (PHLORALTM has been licensed for       both purposes).
In particular, a licence has been granted to Tillotts       Pharma AG for treatment of ulcerative colitis using mesalazine, as the       next generation of their current product AsacolTM, the       market-leading product for treatment of ulcerative colitis with an annual       global market in excess of $600m [c].
Ulcerative colitis, a form       of inflammatory bowel disease, affects 120,000 people in the UK, and is       conventionally treated with anti-inflammatory drugs, immunosuppressants       and biological therapeutics.
Without successful drug delivery, surgical       removal of parts of the intestine can be the only remaining option, and       25-40% of sufferers currently have all or part of their colon removed.
This can also necessitate the use of stoma bags, which negatively impact       quality of life.
The PHLORALTM product has entered a phase III       clinical trial which will report late in 2014 [d].
The project has       to date generated &#163;0.75m in funding for research at the UCL School of       Pharmacy and from licensing [e].
PHLORALTM has       additionally been licensed to Oxford Pharmascience for the delivery of       statins to the colon [f].
This has generated more than &#163;200,000 in       research and licence revenue [e].
Their product (SafestatTM)       is designed to reduce the amount of statin that needs to be administered       to the patient, thereby increasing safety as well as reducing cost [g].
The product is undergoing clinical development, with human trials expected       late in 2013.
ProReleaseTM is a microparticulate drug       formulation designed to allow rapid transit through the acidic stomach       environment, followed by immediate release at higher pH.
Drugs       incorporated into ProReleaseTM are released far more rapidly       than standard drug formulations.
A patent was filed covering this       methodology in 2004 [h], and in 2009, the technology was licensed       into a UK company, Kuecept Limited [i].
Kuecept was initially set       up as a spin-out from the UCL School of Pharmacy in 2007, and currently       has an annual turnover in excess of &#163;1m, having worked on over 600 client       projects since incorporation [j].
The license, which is restricted       to provision of services to third-party clients, has resulted in early       development projects for a number of drugs and generated significant       income to the UCL School of Pharmacy [e].
DuoCoatTM is a multi-layer coating technology       designed to rapidly dissolve in the upper small intestine.
In 2007, a       patent was filled in collaboration with Evonik industries [k].
The       technology is offered for licensing through Evonik and Kuecept Limited and       to date, positive proof-of-concept data has been generated with different       actives [e].
In summary, this family of products has had a significant impact on the       development of formulations within the pharmaceutical industry, providing       a clear route to much greater impact should the products be marketed for       patient use.
Companies have invested heavily in the development of       products relating to these technologies and, in a competitive environment,       have included these products in the development of their business       strategies.
We estimate that in total 15 pharmaceutical companies have       accessed the technologies either through licensing, options or contracts       to date.
