     The ADePT method attracted widespread interest from its launch at the       Institution of Civil       Engineers in 1999, with 130 senior industrialists attending an evening       meeting to learn about `An       Innovative Approach to Design Management'.
This coincided with an industry       awaking to the       challenge of design management and ADePT won the DETR Quality in       Construction innovation       award with AMEC.
Such was the response that Professor Austin and four of       his ex-researchers       (Andrew Newton, Paul Waskett, John Steele and Jamie Hammond) set up a       university spin-out       company Adept Management Ltd (AML) in 2001 largely with `Business Angel'       funding and personal       investment.
The ADePT method was patented and licensed to a third party       software developer, and       AML provide a combination of consultancy, software and training services       to many leading clients,       contractors and consultants.
In 2008 the company made strategic decisions to open an international       office and to develop its       own software through a technology business financed from retained profits       and a second tranche       of private investment.
The following four impacts of the underpinning       research have occurred in the       REF period.
1.
Sustainable spin-out company     The underpinning research [R1-R6] has contributed directly to the       growth of Adept Management       Ltd [www.adeptmanagement.com,       C1].
The knowhow and IP (patent and process models) together       with staffing by Simon Austin and his four ex-researchers have created a       sustained business       success (despite the global economic downturn) generating &#163;6.75 million in       turnover (2008-2012)       [C2] with 10 employees; the ADePT approach remains at the heart of       the company's business       model [C3], as do the four ex-researchers who have remained at the       helm of the company.
Reach and significance are evidenced by ADePT being adopted by many top       companies [C4] in       the construction sector (e.g.
seven of the contractors rated the UK's top       10 by turnover in the       annual league table published by Building Magazine in July 2012),       including Balfour Beatty,       Skanska and Carillion [C5].
One Head of Design described how: "We         have been so impressed         with the methodology, we have bought software licenses and are training         design managers/co-         ordinators to manage the process in-house".
The technique has also       been adopted by design and       project management consultancies (e.g.
Arup, Atkins, Capita Symonds,       Ryder) and property       developers (e.g.
Westfield, Dart Realty Ltd).
The construction sectors       impacted include healthcare,       education, commercial offices, residential, highways, bridges, rail and       energy [C6].
The reach has extended beyond construction to other sectors such as       manufacturing, ship building       and aerospace, including organisations such as Dart, BAE Systems,       Rolls-Royce and Boeing.
The       significance is underlined by ADePT winning a BAE Chairman's award in 2010       for shipbuilding       work (on the Type 26 frigate).
Since, 2008 ADePT has been used on 94       commissions (60       individual projects), 81 of which were from repeat customers.
For       instance, Skanska has used       ADePT on eleven occasions, John Sisk, ten times and Costain, nine times.
As one client explained       "A recommendation was given that ADePT should be used on all future         suitable projects, both in         the pre-tender stage and also during the project itself" [C6].
2.
New technology business and products     Adept Management has invested over &#163;1.1 million to develop the ADePT       Design Software Suite,       launched in 2008.
In doing so, it made the transition from a service       provider to also a technology       provider.
By becoming partners of Microsoft and Oracle, the `Builder'       software interfaces directly       with conventional scheduling software used globally for project management       and specifically       construction/manufacturing phase planning, enabling integrated design and       construction planning,       as conceived by the research [R2].
The `Manager' software       encapsulates the planning and control       functions first described as DePlan [R5], critical to maximising       the benefits of the method.
Sales of       software licences (including support and training) totalling &#163;540,000 [C2]       have been made,       including non-construction businesses such as Boeing and BAE Systems.
Adept Management also       delivered bespoke training courses on the ADePT approach to companies such       as Balfour Beatty,       Morgan Sindall, Kier, BAE Systems, CDM Smith in Boston MA, RQ Construction       in San Diego,       BNIM architects in Kansas City and the Westfield Group [C3].
3.
US Office and international clients     Adept Management established an office in California in 2009 (trading as       AML Technologies) to       expand into the lucrative North American market.
ADePT has been used on       &#163;11 billion worth of       projects since 2008, in countries including the UK, US, Australia, Cayman       Islands, Sweden,       Nigeria, Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates and Morocco (evidencing       reach).
Examples of       significant projects include the King Abdulaziz International Airport       development in Jeddah, the       New Karolinska Hospital in Stockholm and Westfield Stratford City       Development in London [C4].
4.
More efficient projects through better design management     The research team have run 14 three-day "Managing the design process"       training courses (since       2008) on the ADePT approach on behalf of Thomas Telford Training, to over       150 delegates from       companies including Transport for London, Qatar Petroleum, Anglian Water       Services, Toyota and       BP further evidencing reach [C7].
The ADePT approach is also       taught at various UK universities,       including Reading, Northumbria and Coventry.
Feedback from users of ADePT has highlighted its positive impact on the       planning and       management of design on complex projects.
The impact was described in       terms of improvements       to the design process and project outcomes.
Users of ADePT explained how       the technique had       resulted in "appropriate resource allocation", "lower design         costs" and "less problems on site".
Using ADePT had enabled them to "minimise reiteration", "reduce         the risk", "avoid delays", "see         how the design team is performing" and "demonstrate rapidly and         scientifically [to clients] the         impact of variations and their late decisions".
ADePT was considered       to be "much quicker than the         traditional way of planning design" and consequently "saved me         time and money" and "made the         whole design and construction process much more transparent".
In       terms of project outcomes,       these process improvements were seen to have resulted in "increased         time certainty" and       "improved cost certainties" [C6].
