     Following encouraging results of early trials of SMC, a meeting was held       in Dakar, Senegal, in October 2008 to discuss what further research       questions needed to be addressed before SMC could be considered as a       potential control tool.
An important feature of this meeting was the       attendance of malaria control managers and policy-makers as well as       researchers.
Areas identified for further research included drug safety,       delivery of SMC to older children and the added benefit of SMC to children       using an ITN.
These were addressed subsequently in studies described       above.
In July 2010, WHO's Global Malaria Programme convened an informal       consultation to determine if there was sufficient evidence for a formal       review of SMC.
The committee agreed but requested more information on cost       effectiveness, and on the geographical areas where SMC would be most       appropriate.
Following provision of this information, the SMC dossier       compiled by LSHTM staff,5.1,5.2 was reviewed by WHO's Technical       Expert Group (TEG) on malaria treatment and prophylaxis.5.3       Professor D Schellenberg (LSHTM since 2003) was a co-opted member of the       TEG.
On the basis of the dossier, the TEG recommended implementation of       SMC with SP+AQ in areas of the Sahel with seasonal transmission of malaria       but requested further information on the duration of protection provided       by each cycle, on the optimal dosing by age and on the level of malaria       transmission at which SMC would no longer be cost effective.
This       information was generated by an SMC working group (including LSHTM staff       Cairns, Greenwood, Milligan) and provided to WHO.
A GRADES assessment was       prepared.5.4 In March 2012, the report of the TEG was presented       to the recently established WHO Malaria Policy Advisory Committee (MPAC);       Greenwood is a member.
The committee endorsed the TEG recommendations and       made a formal recommendation, endorsed by the Director General, that       children living in areas of the Sahel and sub-Sahel with highly seasonal       malaria transmission should receive SMC with SP+AQ for up to four months       of the year.5.5     The areas currently targeted for SMC have about 22m children under 5       among whom there are approximately 20m cases and 90,000 deaths annually       from malaria.
Thus, there is a potential for SMC to prevent millions of       cases of malaria and tens of thousands of unnecessary deaths each year.
The speed at which SMC is implemented in the target areas, and hence its       impact, will depend upon local political commitment and the availability       of funds to purchase and distribute antimalarials, but the process has       already commenced.
SMC implementation started in two countries in July       2012, and by December an implementation guide on SMC had been published by       WHO, and a total of 10 countries had plans for SMC.5.6 In 2012,       SMC was implemented by MSF in Koutiala district in southern Mali and in       two areas of Mo&#239;ssala district, in Chad.
In Mali, malaria cases fell by       65% in the week following the first monthly cycle of SMC treatment and       malaria- associated hospitalisations by 70%.5.7 The Senegalese       Ministry of Health has secured finance to implement SMC in five regions       starting in 2013 and SMC will be implemented in Northern Togo starting in       2013.
With support from the Medicines from Malaria Venture (MMV), steps       are being taken to obtain SP+AQ packages for SMC as cheaply as possible       from a manufacturer in China.
Several factors have contributed to the rapid adoption of SMC.
Firstly,       LSHTM research has been conducted in close partnership with scientists in       the endemic countries where SMC might be implemented.
Secondly, LSHTM       researchers and their partners kept in close contact with policy-makers in       WHO and with national Ministries of Health from early in the development       process.
Thirdly, the implementation guide, based on experience in Senegal       (co-authors included LSHTM staff Milligan, Ciss&#233;, Diallo), was published       by WHO quickly,5.8 and meetings coordinated jointly by LSHTM       (Milligan) and the Universite Chiekh Anta Diop (Senegal), and subsequently       by WHO, were held5.6 with national malaria control programme       managers to help develop implementation plans.
The way in which SMC has progressed rapidly from pilot research studies       to early implementation is widely regarded as a model of how this process       should be conducted.
Staff from LSHTM, working together with their       partners in Africa, have played a key role in all stages of this process.5.9,5.10
