     Polytherics was founded in 2001 with funding from the Wellcome Trust       Catalyst Biomedica, the Bloomsbury Bioseed Fund (of which the School was a       shareholder) and Imperial Innovations [a].
PolyTherics moved in       2006 to the London Biotechnology Innovation Centre.
The company currently       employs about 80 staff at three sites: London, Cambridge (following       acquisition of Antitope) and Coventry (following acquisition of Warwick       Effect Polymers).
It manages a patent portfolio of over 100 granted and       pending patents.
Annual revenue has grown to over &#163;8m for the combined       businesses for the 2013 calendar year.
Brocchini is now a consultant to       the company, having stepped down from the board to address new projects       and commitments, but remains very closely aligned to the development of       the patent and licencing portfolio.
The impact of the company has been on the pharmaceutical and biotech       industries as a result of the development of technologies which overcome       significant technical and clinical challenges that are needed to develop       new biopharmaceutical medicines.
It is also worth noting that Brocchini is       a key member of the EPSRC Centre for Innovative Engineering in       Macromolecular Therapies, based at UCL which was set up to provide       practical solutions to the issues associated with the commercial       production of macromolecular medicines such as conjugate therapies.
The       impact of Polytherics has been derived through the new technologies based       on academic research (e.g.
TheraPEG&#8482;, CyPEG, HiPEG, ThioBridge) [b].
These technologies have additionally been combined with those obtained       through the purchases of Warwick Effect Polymers in 2012 [c] and       Antitope in 2013 [d].
The net effect is an innovative and growing company that is demonstrating       significant impact via the licensing of new technologies to the       pharmaceutical industry.
This is corroborated by the development of       associated products into clinical trials.
While exemplar projects are       specified here, PolyTherics and its affiliate companies have collaborative       agreements and/or relationships with approximately 40 pharmaceutical and       biotech companies.
The conjugation technologies are being used       commercially to (i) increase protein circulation half-life (TheraPEG&#8482;,       CyPEG&#8482;, HiPEG&#8482;), (ii) develop ADCs (ThioBridge&#8482;) and other protein-drug       conjugates and (iii) to develop new product formats (e.g.
bispecific       antibodies).
Other technologies within the subsidiary company Antitope are       focused on protein de-immunisation and protein engineering which is being       used to produce better conjugates and modified protein-therapeutics.
These       technologies are being merged to provide new platforms to innovate in the       development of new biopharmaceuticals.
Examples are given here of projects whereby the PolyTherics' TheraPEG&#8482;       technology is being used to develop products with partner companies,       inevitably representing considerable investment by those organisations.
Programs in development utilising TheraPEG technology include:            Licence agreement for a long-acting interferon &#946; for the treatment         of relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis with Nuron Biotech Inc (US),         with a view to reducing dosing frequency for interferon &#946;-1b products         from every two days to potentially fortnightly injections [e].
Licence agreement with Celtic Pharma Holdings for long-acting forms of         blood-clotting factors VIIA, VIII and IX for the treatment of         haemophilia A &amp; B.
These products have the potential to be         administered via subcutaneous rather than intravenous injection, thus         providing a viable option for self-administered prophylactic therapy [f].
In addition, the ThioBridge antibody-drug conjugate technology is being         developed in a research collaboration with several partners including         the following: 		[text removed for publication] 		       Spirogen (another UCL spin-out company) and Polytherics are         collaborating to conjugate Spirogen's pyrrolobenzodiazepine (PBD)         cytotoxic agents to antibodies and antibody fragments [g].
PolyTherics is working with Biotecnol to attach cytotoxic payloads to         Tribodies (multi-specific antibody products generated via         heterodimerisation of Fab fragments) for the development of targeted         cancer therapies [h].
With the successful development of the TheraPEG&#8482;, HiPEG&#8482;, CyPEG&#8482; and       ThioBridge&#8482; technologies and their commercialisation, PolyTherics is now       leveraging this success by integrating other services and technologies       into its offering.
PolyTherics position as a leading UK life sciences       company has been pursued through the acquisition of University of Warwick       spin-out company [c], Warwick Effect Polymers (where Brocchini's       expertise with polymer technologies has enabled the further development       and utilisation of their technologies) and in July 2013 the acquisition of       Antitope [d], the leading provider in the field of assessment of       immunogenicity potential for protein and antibody therapeutics and protein       re-engineering in an agreement that was secured with further investment of       &#163;13.5m, with a substantial investment from Invesco.
Polytherics continues to benefit from the close connections with UCL       School of Pharmacy and the venture capital arm of Imperial Innovations.
The company now has a valuation of [text removed for publication], a clear       indication that it is a major provider of expertise and technology       relating to conjugate therapies and protein modification approaches to the       pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries.
