     Research carried out by LSHTM's Andrew Hall in collaboration with the       GHIS team has been       central to informing WHO's current recommendations on controlling the       hepatitis B virus, a disease       estimated to have infected 2bn people worldwide, through an infant       vaccination programme.
Crucially WHO guidelines explicitly state that there is no evidence to       support the need for a booster       dose following three doses of hepatitis B vaccine in infancy, a       recommendation drawn directly from       the conclusions of Hall's body of research that the vaccine confers       adequate protection up to 15       years of age - since extended to 22 years.
The WHO position paper on hepatitis B vaccine,5.1 published in       2009 and replacing previous       guidelines issued in 2004, cites six papers co-authored by Hall between       1995 and 2008.
The       position paper recommends that all infants in highly endemic areas like       Africa should receive their       first dose of hepatitis B vaccine as soon as possible after birth, ideally       within 24 hours.
It advises       governments that delivery of the vaccine within this 24-hour time period,       as advocated by the GHIS       research study, should be a `performance measure for all immunisation       programmes'.
Unless       vaccinated at birth, the majority of children born to contagious mothers       become chronically       infected.
The WHO paper noted that 2006 data showed the first dose was       administered within 24       hours of birth in only 27 per cent of cases.
As of 2008, 177 countries had incorporated a hepatitis B vaccine into       their routine national EPI       programmes as a result of the success of the Gambia study.5.2       During the impact period, at least       five further countries in the African WHO region have added infant       hepatitis B vaccination to their       EPI, providing virtually universal coverage in the African region.
These       countries are Liberia, Niger,       Central African Republic, Chad and Namibia.
In 2012, given numbers of       babies born in these       countries and hepatitis B third dose coverage from the most recent       coverage surveys (for Liberia,       Central African Republic, Chad), and from official reports (for Niger and       Namibia),5.3 this means       that approximately an additional 1.2m infants per year are being protected       against developing liver       cancer later in life in these predominantly highly disadvantaged countries       which introduced the       vaccine during the impact period.
The majority of remaining countries       globally not to have       introduced universal vaccination are in north-west Europe.
A series of follow-up studies by Hall into vaccine efficacy provided the       evidence underlying the       WHO 2009 recommendation that no booster programme for the hepatitis B       vaccine is required if       the vaccine is correctly administered at birth.
The consequences of adding       a booster programme       on the budget of Ministries of Health in the less developed world would       have been significant.
In       order to formulate the 2009 position paper, WHO's Strategic Advisory Group       of Experts (SAGE) on       immunisation, the principal advisory group to WHO for vaccines and       immunisation, assessed the       available scientific evidence to review the need for booster doses of the       vaccine.5.4,5.5 Hall was a       member of the SAGE sub-committee that used the GRADE system of assessing       evidence.5.6 The       Gambia study was judged the only `high-quality' study and therefore played       a critical role in the       final formulation of the booster policy recommendation.
Professor Hall was knighted in the Queen's Birthday Honours for 2013 for       services to public health.
His citation notes his seminal contribution to hepatitis B vaccination:       `He is leading the single most       important validation of the hepatitis B vaccine outside the Far East, in       which over 125,000 infants       in The Gambia have been enrolled.
A world authority on hepatitis vaccines       and viruses, he is in       international demand for his knowledge of infectious disease control'.5.7
