     The Oedipus project enabled both the participants and the       audience to explore the nature of the experimental space created as a       result of the fusion of different arts and technology.
The production       investigated this newly acquired territory and the related creative       potential emerging from the established bonds between digital and       analogue, virtual and physical, sonic and visual.
It did so both       thematically and formally and opened up new possibilities for large       audiences to engage with work of this kind.
The `digital stage' remains alive after the performance with real actors       actually ends.
Moving from one part of the stage to the other the       spectators listen to the digital `echoes' of the performance and discover       hidden histories and detailed versions of the main events.
The perspective       is always changing, so are the events.
For each spectator, the material       becomes more and more personalised.
Historical exactness and certainty are       being replaced by split-second revelations and chaotic factual       uncertainties, moving the whole event far away from the mediatised image       of the history and much closer to the question - what will (has) really       happen(ed).
Oedipus project was made in collaboration with international partners       Cactusbloem, Antwerp (Belgium), PVC Theatre, Novi Sad (Serbia), the United       Nation Refugee Agency UNHCR and Aurasma (Augmented Reality Platform).
The       project was first performed at Steven Lawrence Gallery in Greenwich in       August 2011.
It was also performed at Tate Britain in November 2011.
3000       audience members were invited to explore the stage setting as participants       rather than audience members as the gallery itself was transformed into an       immersive audio visual space.
Oedipus was also presented at the International Meeting of Contemporary       Scenography organised by the Study Centre for Scenic Arts in Bologna,       Italy in October 2012.
This meeting gathered together some of the most       important names from the contemporary opera/theatre scenography and       architecture, including Henning Brockhaus and Jean-Guy Lecat (Peter       Brook's scenographer for more than 30 years.
The Oedipus project was selected in the main programme of the       International Festival in Alternative and New Theatre INFANT, Novi Sad,       Serbia, June 2013, where it was presented at the Serbian National Theatre       (see the link).
Due to the great success of this project, Dr Salihbegovic was invited by       the International Organization for Migration (IOM) and UNESCO to design       and organise a series of lectures, seminars and workshops in the filed of       digital media arts and performance for the postgraduate students at the       Academy of Arts in Belgrade, He worked with 20 domestic and international       MA students in two international programmes: MA International Performance       Research and UNESCO programme for Cultural Policy and Management in       Culture (see the link).
As a final part of this project was the Summer School in Electronic       Theatre which happened in Novi Sad.
The Summer School was organised in the       eminent Gymnasium in Sremski Karlovci.
The School had 10 participants from       Serbia and Bosnia and Herzegovina (see the links: 1, 2, 3       and 4).
In collaboration with Drs Kennedy and Salihbegovic Alev Adil devised and       performed her 40 minute one woman show Memory in the Dead Zone on       both sides of divided Cyprus (North Cyprusin April 2011 and March 2012, at       the University of Greenwich/Birkbeck College Cross Genre Festival (July       2010) and presented it as an installation at Tate Britain (November 2011).
Building on the success of Adil's performance at The Poet and His         World Festival in Nicosia in 2010, she was invited by the cultural       foundation Ideogramma to devise a multimedia performance of London       and local Cypriot poets at the ARTos Foundation in 2012 in collaboration       with Fredericks University, Cyprus, whose final year BA Applied Art       students made posters of Adil's poetry.
As an outcome of her research she       has shared a platform with both former President of the Republic of       Cyprus, George Vassiliou and President Dimitris Christofias.
As a result       of these relationships a series of diasporic and bicommunal Cypriot poetry       workshops and events are scheduled in 2013 with the co-operation of the       above organisations.
Adil's related research into how digital poetics can create creative       communities through MemoryMap has impacted upon sharing and archiving of       memory in the context of creative workshops and networks through the       website www.MemoryMap.org.uk       which has 150 active users who have created 432 projects and has attracted       12,069 visits to date and approximately 70,000 page views.
Users have       created prizewinning films in Greek, Italian and Trinidadian Film       Festivals and have exhibited work showcased on the site.
Artists working       in Lithuania, Cyprus, Greece, South Korea and the UK have become       memorymappers.
The site has been visited from over 89 countries.
Echostate -: Invited by Shintaro Miyazaki to speak at Humboldt University       in Berlin as part of their Sonic Theory/Oscillation Series (Feb 2011).
Formally experimenting with long-distance video link up for educational       purposes, Echostate was the first in a planned series of       presentations that combine academic presentation with immersive video and       sound that can be streamed for a worldwide audience.
It dealt with a       philosophical understanding of sound as an organizing principle of       creative environments (http://sonictheory.com/?paged=2).
It was an interactive performance/lecture that connected participants in       London and Berlin on February 27th 2011.
The presentation       allowed participants in a public event in Berlin to directly communicate       with researchers in London in real time.
This piece is another example of       the collaborative work developed by SET.
