     A sustained advocacy campaign following the 2010 publication of the       CRASH-2 trial results has ensured TXA is being used to treat trauma       patients in hospitals all over the world.
In 2010 the CRASH-2 team applied for the inclusion of TXA on WHO's List       of Essential Medicines, which guides purchasing decisions by Ministries of       Health in developing countries.
It was accepted in March 20115.1       `on the basis of the results of a very large trial of the use of       tranexamic acid specifically for trauma patients'.
The CRASH-2 findings received blanket coverage across the global media in       several languages, helped by a coordinated media campaign by all 40       centres involved in the clinical trial.
A BBC News report5.2       quoted WHO's Dr Etienne Krug as saying that doctors needed to be aware of       the trial results to `strengthen trauma response'.
He said: `The problem       affects hundreds of millions every year worldwide.'
The UK Health Minister       Earl Howe said: `This is a great example of how important research can       help the NHS save more lives and spread best practice around the world.'
The CRASH-2 trial has changed the practices of the UK Ministry of Defence       (MOD) and the US Department of Defense.
Roberts began communications with       the MOD in 2006 after discovering that British soldiers in Afghanistan and       Iraq were being treated with an experimental blood-clotting drug &#8212;       NovoSeven &#8212; that had not been fully tested.
After the story broke in the       UK, Roberts alerted MOD officials to the potential of TXA.
In March 2010,       the British Army incorporated TXA into combat care treatment protocols on       the basis of the results of the CRASH-2 trial.
A subsequent news report on       British Forces News5.3 quoted the Surgeon-General as       saying that within weeks of the CRASH-2 trial results, they were using TXA       to treat wounded troops &#8212; the first time the drug had been used routinely       in trauma patients.
The US Army carried out its own analysis of the efficacy of TXA,5.4       reaching the same conclusions.
US Army officials invited Roberts to       Washington in June 2011 to discuss the CRASH-2 trial and in the same month       announced TXA's inclusion in its treatment protocols.
In May 2011, the CRASH-2 trial won the Research Paper of the Year5.5       at the 2011 BMJ awards, raising the profile of TXA among doctors.
Two months later the Directors of Clinical Care for the UK ambulance       service agreed that TXA would be given to all adults and teenagers who       suffer major injury in the UK.
At the same time, the Joint Royal Colleges       Ambulance Liaison Committee approved a pre-hospital guideline on the       administration of TXA and the Royal College of Paediatrics and Child       Health agreed to convene a meeting of its Medicines Committee to consider       TXA dosing requirements in paediatric trauma, with advice released in       November 2012.5.6     In January 2012, The Independent reported that TXA was to be       fast-tracked for use in the NHS, making it the first drug to be approved       under the UK government's new `medicines innovation scheme', designed to       speed up the adoption of promising medication.
Ambulance crews in south-       west England had already been given access to TXA but the decision by the       Department of Health (DH) led to it being rolled out across the UK.
Health       Secretary Andrew Lansley commented: `The successful use of this drug to       help some of our most seriously wounded troops in Afghanistan really shows       the wide potential it has for our civilian emergency services.
'5.7     As TXA is a low-profit drug it misses out on large advertising budgets       but Roberts has led innovative campaigns to ensure more clinicians use       TXA.
In 2011 he oversaw the production of an animated video featuring       cartoon character `Tranman'.
Recorded in several languages, the cartoon is       designed to reach doctors in China, India, Brazil, Russia and Africa.
The       video was published on YouTube and The Lancet websites, and the New         York Times5.8 covered the making of the cartoon as an       example of creative science communication.
The findings from the CRASH-2 trial resulted in follow-on funding       (announced in 2010; reported by BBC News)5.9 from the       DH and the Wellcome Trust to investigate whether TXA can help to save some       of the 100,000 lives lost every year when women bleed to death after       giving birth.
The ongoing WOMAN trial, coordinated by LSHTM and involving       13 partners, attracted &#163;3.7m in funding.
CRASH-3, to investigate TXA for       treatment of significant traumatic brain injury, has received &#163;400,000 for       the pilot phase.
