     Zimmerman's findings have put the issue of human trafficking and health       on the international       agenda, and important changes have been made in how trafficked women are       treated by       government departments and law enforcement agencies overseas and in the       UK.
Zimmerman's work on health, psychological trauma and trafficking was the       only research cited in a       text box in the introduction to the US State Department's Trafficking         in Persons Report, the US       government's principal diplomatic tool to engage other countries on human       trafficking5.1 and the       most recognised annual, global report on trafficking.
The text states (p.       41): `Research has shown       a clear link between sex trafficking and both pre-trafficking domestic       violence and trafficking-related       gender-based violence.
Cathy Zimmerman, a noted authority on victim       trauma, identified       domestic and sexual violence as a key "push" factor that makes a woman       vulnerable to trafficking.'
The anti-human trafficking manual for criminal justice practitioners       produced by the UN Office of       Drugs and Crime (UNODC) drew directly from Zimmerman's work in the module       on the       psychological reactions of victims.5.2 Similarly, the       Organisation for Security and Co-operation in       Europe (OSCE) highlighted Zimmerman's findings in its report, Combating         Trafficking as Modern-Day         Slavery.5.3 Former OSCE Special Representative on       Combating Trafficking in Human Beings       stated to Zimmerman in 2012: `The fact that more and more countries are       providing health services       - not just emergency care &#8212; free of charge to victims of trafficking, and       that victims of trafficking are       no longer being forced to return to states where their needs cannot be       met, has its roots &#8212; to a       large extent &#8212; in Cathy Zimmerman's work.
She has been able to provide       sustainable insight and       inspiration for stakeholders, activists, and policy-makers &#8212; including       myself.
'5.4     In the UK, Department of Health (DH) staff have consulted regularly with       Zimmerman and her       colleagues, and she contributed significantly to the report for the       Taskforce on the Health Aspects       of Violence Against Women and Children through membership of the Harmful       Traditional Practices       and Human Trafficking subgroup.5.5     Zimmerman translated her findings into an International Organization for       Migration (IOM) handbook       to guide health providers treating trafficked people.5.6 This       has been translated into at least five       languages and was viewed 29,643 times (downloaded 4,199) between July 2009       and June 2012       on IOM's website.
In 2011, training materials complementing the       handbook were translated into       Spanish and Arabic and pilot-tested by Zimmerman, IOM and local health       authorities in the Middle       East, Caribbean and Central America, with 200 health providers receiving       training.
Zimmerman co-authored the Ethical and Safety Recommendations for         Interviewing Trafficked         Women for WHO5.7 which was translated into eight       languages.
Although originally produced in       2003, this remains the main WHO document on trafficking in women.
Zimmerman also authored       WHO's fact sheet on human trafficking (downloaded 2,533 times between       November 2012 and       February 2013) and the human trafficking page for Public Health England.
Many law enforcement training materials in the UK, Europe and other       regions have incorporated       Zimmerman's findings and their potential implications for investigations,       including the UK's Central       Police Training and Development Authority (Centrex, internal police       documents), UNODC and       OSCE.
Zimmerman's research has contributed to policy changes resulting in       significant practical benefits       for trafficked women.
Amnesty UK and other advocacy groups used       Zimmerman's evidence to       persuade the Home Office to extend the victim `recovery and reflection'       period.
Amnesty's former       Women's Division Director states: `LSHTM's evidence enabled Amnesty to       promote support for       victims as primarily a health rather than an immigration issue and thus       was central to the UK       government agreeing to sign the Council of Europe Convention on Action       Against Trafficking and       extend the minimum reflection period.
'5.8 Although legislators       stopped short of extending the period       to a full 90 days, it was extended to 45, going beyond the minimum 30 days       required in the       European Convention Against Trafficking.
Ratified in December 2008,       the new regulations allow for       the period to be prolonged further if the victim's health and other       circumstances require it.
A former       Minister of State (Home Office) (Policing, Crime &amp; Security) commented       that evidence from       Zimmerman's research `indeed contributed to action both at the UK and EU       level'.5.9     Zimmerman has regularly conducted police training on victim health and       care for police personnel       associated with the UK Human Trafficking Centre (UKHTC), influencing the       `victim-centred'       approach, including delayed timing of full interviews with trafficking       victims to foster recovery time       and more consistent testimony.
Based on her research, Dr Zimmerman has       offered training       sessions over a number of years for police personnel dealing with cases of       trafficking, contributing       to our understanding of a victim's needs and a victim-centred approach.5.10
