     The research into PROMs carried out at LSHTM has led directly to their       introduction across the       NHS in England for four elective surgical procedures.
It is the first time       that such measures have       been introduced on a nationwide scale with the aim of comparing the       performance of hospitals.
After Black and colleagues reported their research findings to the       Department of Health (DH) in       July 2007 and recommended the use of PROMs, the NHS Management Board       decided in       December 2007 that from April 2009 it would be mandatory for all NHS       patients undergoing the       designated operations to be invited to complete pre- and postoperative       PROMs questionnaires       (2009/2010 NHS Operating Framework).5.1 The Chair of the DH       PROMs Stakeholder Reference       Group, Dr Andrew Vallance-Owen,5.2 recognised that `Nick Black       and his colleagues were pivotal in       giving the DH the confidence to start the National PROMs Programme', and       Lord Darzi, then       Minister of Health, addressing the Health Select Committee, stated: `I       think the best investment we       have made was actually in this report ...
It is good reading actually.
It       has come from LSHTM, and       was done jointly with the Royal College of Surgeons.
'5.3 In       June 2008, High Quality Care for All (a       key policy document for the DH under the Labour government) provided a       strong endorsement:       `Just as important [as clinical measures] is the effectiveness of care       from the patient's own       perspective which will be measured through patient-reported outcome       measures.
'5.4     During 2008-2009, Black and colleagues briefed Conservative shadow       ministers several times on       the opportunities that PROMs presented.
Despite the change of government       in 2010, there has       been seamless political support for the use of PROMs; in July 2010 the       coalition government in its       White Paper, Equity and Excellence &#8212; Liberating the NHS stated:       `Information generated by       patients themselves will be critical ... and will include much wider use       of effective tools like       PROMs.'
Ministers' positive views on PROMs were reflected in the NHS       Operating Framework       2011/2012 (pp.
25-26)5.5 and by the inclusion of PROMs in the       NHS Outcomes Framework       2011/2012 (p20).5.6     The value of PROMs for more sophisticated estimates of NHS productivity       has been recognised by       the Office of National Statistics5.7 and the National Audit       Office.5.8 The latter stated that, `When       producing productivity measures, new data on quality such as PROMs should       be considered' (p.       10).
The historical importance for surgeons was recognised in 2012 by       Professor Norman Williams,       President of the Royal College of Surgeons, when he stated that `the       introduction of PROMs has       been a major development in the history of surgery'.5.9      Since April 2010, PROMs data have been published online (http://www.ic.nhs.uk/proms)       for the       use of clinicians, managers, commissioners and the public.
The huge scale       of the programme is       indicated by the 515,000 patients who participated over the first three       years (over 70% of those       eligible).
In 2012, the DH's Branch Head of Strategy, Finance and NHS       Directorate, David Nuttall,       commended Black and colleagues' continued research after the introduction       of PROMs as having       `informed decisions on how data should best be analysed, presented and       used'.5.10     Another indication of success is that coronary revascularisation will be       included from 2014 using a       PROM (CROQ) developed at LSHTM.
The University of Oxford has undertaken       preliminary work       on the use of PROMs in long-term conditions, but the impact described in       this case study is a       direct result of the work of LSHTM alone.
Black has raised awareness and understanding of PROMs among clinicians,       NHS managers and       patient organisations by chairing many national conferences and giving 11       keynote talks since       2009, including at the Royal College of Nursing (March 2010); the       Pre-Operative Assessment       Association (September 2010); the NHS Medical Directors Conference       (October 2010); the       National PROMs Summit (December 2012, 2013); and the International Society       for Quality in       Healthcare (October 2013) at which his contribution internationally was       recognised by the award of       the first Career Achievement Prize in PROMs, funded by the Medical       Outcomes Trust in the USA.
He is advising the US National Institute of Medicine and the American       Medical Association.
The introduction of PROMs was widely reported in the press, raising       awareness and understanding       among the general public.
In a Financial Times report on 19 August       2011, Professor Sir Bruce       Keogh, Medical Director of the NHS, was quoted as saying he hoped PROMS       `would shift the       focus among doctors [away] from technocratic results, where an operation       was deemed a success       regardless of whether the patient remained in pain'.
