     The Gambia       The Gambian phase 3 PCV trial was conducted in close collaboration with       the Ministry of Health.
The results of the trial were immediately available to the Ministry (2005)       and it took a decision to       introduce a PCV into the routine infant immunisation programme of The       Gambia as soon as       vaccine became available.
Wyeth Lederle stopped production of the 9-valent       vaccine shortly after       completion of the Gambian and South African trials but made a donation of       the 7-valent vaccine       (Prevenar&#174;) used in the USA to the Gambian Ministry of Health       in 2009.
This allowed introduction       of this vaccine into the routine immunisation programme of The Gambia,       only the second country       in sub-Saharan Africa (after Rwanda) to take this step.
In 2011, with       financial support from GAVI,       the seven-valent vaccine, which lacks some of the key serotypes needed for       a maximally effective       pneumococcal conjugate vaccine in Africa, was replaced by a 13-valent       vaccine.
The impact on       mortality and morbidity of introducing PCVs into a national infant       immunisation programme in       Africa is currently being studied in detail in Upper River Region, The       Gambia, with support from the       Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation.
It is too early to determine the extent       of the impact on mortality       and morbidity of this vaccine, which has now been received by nearly       100,000 Gambian infants,       but it is likely that many lives have already been saved.
Internationally       The results of the Gambian phase 3 trial, together with those of the       parallel study undertaken in       South Africa, provided key information which led the WHO Strategic       Advisory Group of Experts       (SAGE) committee to recommend to WHO that pneumococcal conjugate vaccines       should be       introduced into the routine infant immunisation programmes of all       countries with a high child       mortality.
This recommendation was accepted by WHO in 2007, with the       findings of the Gambian       trial being influential in this decision.5.1,5.2 The unique       evidence provided from The Gambia of an       effect on mortality proved especially influential.
Economic data collected       during the Gambian trial       allowed demonstration that deployment of the vaccine in developing       countries would be highly cost       effective5.3 and this information also contributed to the       positive recommendation by SAGE.
Because of their complex nature, PCVs are relatively expensive and so       there were concerns       whether it would be possible to implement the WHO recommendation in some       of the poorest       countries of the world where PCVs would be most effective.
However,       substantial progress has       been made in achieving this goal through the financial support obtained       for the introduction of new       vaccines in poor countries provided through GAVI and the Advanced Market       Commitment5.4 (an       innovative financing method which guarantees a market if a vaccine or       medicine is successfully       developed).
By 31 March 2013, 24 GAVI-eligible countries had introduced a       PCV into their routine       immunisation programme (8 of these were supported by the Advanced Market       Commitment), and       a further 27 countries were approved by GAVI for introduction, including       nearly all countries in sub-Saharan       Africa,5.5 a dramatic uptake over a period of only three years.5.6     PCVs would have been introduced into most developing counties eventually,       but experience with       hepatitis B and Haemophilus influenzae type B vaccines indicates       that the lag between uptake in       industrialised and developing countries may be up to 15 years.
PCVs are       being introduced more       rapidly than this as the international community has found better ways of       accelerating the uptake of       new vaccines.
A strong case can be made that the Gambian PCV trial has       played an important       part in achieving this success and thus helped in saving many thousands of       young lives in poor       countries which would otherwise have been lost to pneumococcal infection.5.7
