     For many developing countries, smallholder farmers producing staples such       as cassava have the potential to drive, and benefit from, economic growth.
Lack of competitiveness for fresh roots and cassava-derived products has       consigned millions of smallholder cassava farmers, particular women, to       continued poverty and food insecurity.
In 2008, the challenge was to develop validated research outputs into       significant impact, through uptake by the private sector and root       purchases from smallholders.
Research outputs and validation pilots       undertaken by Professor Westby and team have been widely used.
A key       example is the pan-African project, Cassava: Adding Value for Africa       (C:AVA).
Its aim is to develop smallholder-supplied high quality cassava       flour (HQCF) and related product value chains, e.g.
dried fufu.
Success has been predicated on adopting a value chain approach and       adapting technologies to support intermediary and end user companies; this       has created sustainable value chains that have generated social, economic       and policy benefits, with significant reach and depth of impact,       especially benefitting women and other disadvantaged groups.
C:AVA impacts     Based on monitoring data reported to the Bill and Melinda Gates       Foundation, C:AVA has:     - Established value chains for HQCF and related products in Nigeria,       Ghana, Uganda, Tanzania and Malawi, with annual increases in HQCF       production.
- Supported 51 small-medium scale enterprises, three associations and 89       village processing groups to process HQCF.
These include 25 factories in       Nigeria including Oamsal, Wahan Food and Walili Mata; six in Ghana       including Caltech Ventures, First Door and Amasa Agroprocessing; three       associations in Uganda; and seven companies in Malawi including Universal       Industries Limited; 20 community processing groups and three enterprises       in Tanzania, e.g.
Kejo Enterprises.
- Supported local engineering companies (for example, Nobex Technical       Company, Nigeria) that have developed improved processing equipment to       support the expanding demand for HQCF.
- Generated in excess of 42,616 tonnes of HQCF between April 2008 and       March 2013, with 23,695 tonnes produced in 2012/2013 alone.
- Benefitted over 90,000 smallholder farmers; they are estimated to       benefit by $33.0 million as a consequence of project activities by       31/3/2014.
- Increased incomes will be determined in impact surveys in 2014, but are       estimated, based on monitoring data, to be in the range of $310-370 per       smallholder.
- Surveys indicate that women involved in C:AVA have:            enhanced technical and management skills;       benefitted from labour saving technologies;       new employment opportunities, increased incomes and greater dietary         diversity;       increased independence.
- Promoted the development of instant fufu as a commercial       product in Ghana and Nigeria, produced by companies such as Sunshine       Foods, Ayoola Food and Ubest Industries.
- Supported commercial companies to adopt HQCF.
These include:            plywood manufacturers in Ghana, e.g.
Western Veneer and Lumbar         Company, Kumasi;       paperboard manufacturers in Uganda, e.g.
Katon Industries, and Malawi,         e.g.
Packaging Industries Malawi Limited;       local bakeries and food manufacturing companies in all countries eg         Rite Foods, Nigeria; Universal Foods, Malawi, and Britannia Foods,         Uganda.
Impact has generated change at the individual level beyond direct       sales.
For example, Zainabu Akol from Uganda used her income from higher       cassava production and sales to buy poultry.
The poultry manure increased       production from her orange garden and cattle were bought from the cassava       and orange sales (her story is here at 13:45 minutes: http://cava.nri.org/multimedia/44-           videos/47-video-gallery).
In Malawi, Mrs Melia, a food       processor, used HQCF as a wheat flour replacement to produce mandazis       which generated more profit that she aims to invest in a start-up clothing       business.
At group level, technical and management skills have been       enhanced, for example in Tanzania by the Ukumbozi village processors'       group which has 31 members, 18 of whom are women.
After training, the       quantity and quality of HQCF production increased, and new processing       equipment relieved the drudgery of processing.
C:AVA facilitated links to       an intermediary and the group now has an assured market with an agri-food       processing company, which also provides credit.
The lessons learned and       success achieved by C:AVA has informed Nigeria's Cassava Transformation       Agenda and hence national policy and strategy.
C:AVA teams have       made inputs in the cassava sector in Ghana, Tanzania, Uganda and Malawi.
C:AVA success has generated further interest from the Bill and Melinda       Gates Foundation and other donors.
The Department for International       Development has adopted the C:AVA project approach in its AgriTT pilot       project to develop cassava value chains in Uganda, using Chinese       technologies.
The Gates Foundation is looking to invest a further $18       million in a second phase of C:AVA under African leadership; the vision is       that within eight years, at least 250,000 smallholders will have sold at       least $400 million of roots into value chains.
