     The programme of research described above has had impacts on clinical       services for deaf patients, and on wider government policy in this area.
As part of our initial studies of signers with stroke and signers with       dementia, we developed the first ever standardised cognitive and language       screening tests designed for signers with acquired neurological       impairments [a].
We have disseminated this work to professionals       (speech and language therapists, psychologists, physicians, social       workers, etc.)
through publications and invitations to present our work,       for example, to the German Federal Ministry of Family Affairs, Senior       Citizens, Women and Youth (March 2013) and at the Alzheimer Association       International Conference (July 2013) and have made assessment tools       available to clinicians and researchers working with a variety of signers       with developmental and acquired impairments in their language.
The Cognitive Screening Test is currently undergoing evaluation at the       University of Cologne for use in Germany and at the Sourds et Sant&#233; &#8212; Nord       Pas de Calais network based at the Groupe Hospitalier de l'Institut       Catholique de Lille for use in France.
We are also in discussion with       colleagues in Austria, the Netherlands and Sweden about possible       adaptations.
We receive around 50 enquiries a month requesting information       and services.
The research team met with staff from the Specialist Cognitive Disorders       clinic at the National Hospital for Neurology and Neurosurgery in Queens       Square in February 2011 and it was agreed to establish the first ever       monthly neurological clinic for signers [b].
Patients are referred       to the clinic for assessment of dementia or other neurodegenerative       disorders; they are Deaf BSL users presenting with acquired cognitive       difficulties from all parts of the UK.
By early 2013, 18 deaf patients had       benefitted from detailed assessment and diagnosis.
This is the first       service of its kind anywhere in the world.
It was promoted by the Royal       Association for Deaf People [c] and in an article in the       Alzheimer's Society's Living with Dementia magazine in May 2012 which       reported that the research described above "is already benefiting Deaf         people through a new clinic service" [d].
NHS Clinical       services can now offer assessment leading to appropriate interventions and       services.
Patients, families of patients and carers, and the NHS have       benefitted from the establishment of interventions and services for this       population.
Before the establishment of the clinic, deaf patients       experienced delays in assessment: some patients had been passed around       between services for three years or more without a diagnosis because       cognitive tests used in mainstream clinics are unsuitable [e].
Patients are typically seen in the early to mid stages of dementia.
The       tests give a clear indication of cognitive impairment and allow confident       diagnosis in conjunction with brain scans, at an early stage of cognitive       impairment, thus allowing speedier and more accurate diagnosis of dementia       and other acquired neurological impairments in Deaf people, enabling       access to services which should in turn lead to better health outcomes and       reduced costs to the NHS and local authority care services.
The clinic       thus represents a significant step towards reducing wider healthcare       inequalities for deaf people in the UK.
Improved diagnostic tools should       demonstrate health needs in the deaf population, thus enabling clinical       leads to plan appropriate provision.
Meeting clinical needs earlier should       allow for more timely, sensitive and efficient management of individual       cases [f].
We have also highlighted our work directly to the Deaf community through       our unique programme of public engagement work, which has included the       "DCAL Roadshow", presenting our research at Deaf Community Centres in       different regions of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, and annual visits       and presentations at the English Deaf Darby and Joan Club holiday weeks,       attended by over 1000 Deaf people aged 50-90.
The research and the clinic       have featured on BBC See Hear (2010, 2012) and in the British Sign       Language Broadcasting Trust's film Living with Parkinson's on       Film4 (2012) [g].
In relation to policy, both the research and the data obtained through       the clinic have served as a springboard for policy development.
The Deaf       with Dementia team were asked to prepare briefing documents for the       government, so that Deaf people with dementia could be included in the       development of the equalities action plan with respect to the National       Dementia Strategy (Deaf People with Dementia, Dec 2010) [h]; and       briefing notes prepared for Paul Burstow, Minister of State for Care       Services, at his request (Deaf people and Dementia, Oct 2011).
The All       Party Parliamentary Group (APPG) in Deafness have agreed to support joint       proposals on health and social care developed by DCAL in collaboration       with Action on Hearing Loss (AoHL); we launched our joint report in March       2013 in conjunction with the APPG to press for the creation of permanent       services for this population [i].
