     The impacts of the research outlined above have been primarily upon       Telecom Italia and its customers.
With 46,000 employees, a 64.6% share of       Italy's fixed phone landline market (13.78m customers) and a 50% share of       the country's broadband ADSL market (6.6m customers), Telecom Italia is       Italy's leading Telecommunication company, as well as maintaining a       significant presence in countries including Brazil, Turkey, and Argentina.
The research has particularly supported the company's definition of the       architecture underpinning its context-aware platform, the development of       which was completed in 2012.
Based on open standards for communication       protocols and data representation, this architecture has allowed Telecom       Italia to deploy different mobile applications and services using its new       context-aware platform.
As such, the research has contributed since 2010       to the growth of the company's mobile Value-Added Services (VAS) offering       [a].
Although it is impossible to quantify precisely the contribution of       the UEL work to it, that growth and the associated commercial benefits to       the company have been considerable.
According to the Quarterly       Telecommunications Report, in March 2013 TIM led the business segment of       the Italian mobile phone market, with 7.52 million business customers       (59.2% market share), and held a strong position in the private market       (30.5%), with 24.34 million residential customers [c].
In particular,       while Telecom Italia's outgoing voice services have been negatively       affected by the economic climate and the competition, revenues from TIM       Value-Added Services &#8212; underpinned by the context-aware platform using       Falcarin's research &#8212; increased by 8.4% year-over-year in the second       quarter of 2013 [f].
The research has also helped Telecom Italia and its subsidiaries to shape       the design and implementation of the adaptable gLCB context broker       (running on Android OS), which is responsible for gathering context data       efficiently.
Early prototypes of context-aware services consumed       smartphone battery in just a few hours because of their intensive use of       Bluetooth and GPS sensors and network connections (WiFi and 3G).
Since       2011, the results of the power-consumption analysis research [1, 5] have       informed the engineering phase of the TIM Social app by providing a set of       guidelines to minimize power consumption on smartphones.
The adaptable       energy-consumption behaviour of the gLCB smartphone application &#8212; which       responds to specific user-profiles &#8212; has improved Telecom Italia's service       offering by extending mobile use of such services, making the company's       services more user-friendly and giving them a competitive advantage in a       difficult market.
[e, h].
The Telecom Italia context-aware platform architecture is composed of       different context providers, each one providing context information for       different types of users'.
Since it relies on open standards, it enables       easier and faster integration of the heterogeneous data services necessary       to provide a uniform standard interface to represent context data and to       query context data providers.
These sorts of open interface ease the       adoption of this platform by third-parties and it has, indeed, been indeed       in subsequent projects [d].
The knowledge of such systems acquired in this       collaboration allowed Telecom Italia to successfully bid for further       funding from Ministero Istruzione Universita' e Ricerca (MIUR), the       Italian Ministry of Education, Universities and Research [I].
This       supported a further project in 2012 to adapt their context-aware platform       to collect more precise user location data.
Falcarin contributed to the       design of a context-aware emergency management system for the project,       which was specifically intended to improve the accuracy of fire rescue       services' navigation [3].
The JAIN-SLEE Service Creation Environment tool co-developed by Falcarin       through the StarSCE project [4] provided benefit to Telecom Italia       in the first instance by facilitating the company's faster service       creation and composition of integrated services based on the JAIN-SLEE       platform [e].
This service creation environment was later successfully       engineered by Telecom Italia, in partnership with Italtel [g], another       leading player in the development and integration of fixed and mobile       networks.
Further benefit accrued to Telecom Italia when it sold the tool       to Italtel It has since allowed Italtel software developers to exploit       model-driven engineering technologies to automatically generate part of       the source code &#8212; and thereby reduced the development time required &#8212; for       their implementation of commercial video-communication services on ADSL       networks.
This has allowed Italtel to improve the automation and       efficiency of its developing of those commercial video-communication       services [g] and thereby improve its customer service.
Telecom Italia is currently using the context-aware platform as a       server-side back-end for different commercial mobile value-added services,       including mobile context-aware apps such as TIM Social app for iOS       and Android [b] smartphones.
Released in 2012, these apps allow users       unique and integrated access to different social networks.
The app, which       relies heavily on the Telecom Italia context-aware platform, provides a       map that can be used to find shops, clubs and restaurants partnered with       TIM.
Its main functions are: collecting Facebook posts, tweets, and       information about places where friends have been; visualizing on a map the       nearest shops and restaurants; and helping to organise dinners with       friends, with discounts and offers available for subscribers.
Tim Social       App has been installed on more than 5000 devices so far.
User review posts       suggest particular appreciation for features allowing the aggregating of       content from different social networks (Facebook, Twitter, and       Foursquare), geo-localized to the user [b].
