     LSHTM research was pivotal both in shaping the design of the AMFm, an       initiative launched in       2009 seeking to enable countries to increase the provision of affordable,       quality-assured ACTs       through the public, private not-for-profit and private for-profit sectors;       and subsequently influencing       the 2012 decision to integrate the AMFm into the core funding mechanism of       the Global Fund to       fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria.
In 2004, the US IOM committee suggested a subsidy of ACT administered at       the top of the supply       chain, and available through public and private sectors, to increase       access to effective       antimalarials and reduce the risk of artemisinin resistance.
LSHTM       research on the size of the       private market and on private sector antimalarial prices was one of the       few pieces of empirical       evidence available.
This evidence underlined the need to include the       private sector in the subsidy       mechanism, and was used to estimate the magnitude of price reduction       needed to crowd out non-       artemisinin therapies.5.1, 5.2 Hosted and managed by the Global       Fund, the AMFm was implemented       in 2009 at national scale in eight African countries as a result of the       IOM proposals, which were       championed by the Roll Back Malaria partnership (which implements       coordinated action against       malaria).
The hypotheses that a subsidy programme would increase access to ACT and       reduce the       availability of artemisinin monotherapies which can encourage the spread       of artemisinin-resistant       strains of malaria, were tested in pilot antimalarial subsidy programmes       in Kenya and Tanzania in       2008-2010, for which LSHTM researchers provided key methodological       guidance5.3 and which       also informed the design of the AMFm.
The working groups designing the AMFm made direct reference to LSHTM work       and LSHTM       researchers were consulted on aspects of the design.5.4 LSHTM       research was also included       among the evidence used to establish the success metrics against which       AMFm would be       assessed in the 2010-2012 independent evaluation5.5 which would       guide future board decisions.
LSHTM researchers (Hanson, Goodman and Tougher) were key members of the       (competitively       selected) AMFm independent evaluation team, and led the design and       analysis of the outlet survey       in the eight AMFm countries in Africa.
LSHTM researchers also designed the       qualitative case       studies which generated data used to interpret and attribute programme       impact.
AMFm countries       started ordering subsidised ACT in mid-2010, and by the end of 2012 over       292m doses of       subsidised ACT had been ordered, of which 56% were paediatric.5.6,         5.7 The independent evaluation       showed that purchases of quality-assured ACT increased substantially in       all but two countries, with       ACT market share increasing from 16 to 40%.
Subsidised antimalarials were       reaching rural and       remote areas and drug affordability was substantially improved, with price       reductions observed in       rural as well as urban areas.5.7     The research methods developed by LSHTM for studying retail antimalarial       medicine supply have       subsequently been adapted and used on a much larger scale by ACTwatch, a       consortium including       LSHTM and funded by Gates to monitor programme implementation in 2008-2013       and provide       evidence on how to improve ACT availability and reduce private sector       prices.
ACTwatch adapted       the tools of Goodman et al.
for more than 30 nationwide surveys of retail       outlets in 10 developing       countries across Africa and Southeast Asia.
Methodological innovations       included sampling outlets       where no sampling frame exists; ways to question informal medicine       suppliers; metrics for       comparing volumes across different antimalarial classes and formulations;       methods for measuring       sales volumes; and approaches for documenting the distribution chain.
ACTwatch helped stimulate       funding for new research and policy advocacy.
The data have also been used       for policy advocacy       at country level, contributing, for instance, to the decision in Zanzibar       to strengthen regulation to       remove oral artemisinin monotherapies from drug selling outlets.5.8     The independent evaluation ultimately led to the integration of AMFm into       core Global Fund       processes in 2012.
The note of the Global Fund board decision explicitly       recognised the       independent evaluation.5.9, 5.10 In future, countries will be       responsible for allocating resources to       expand access to malaria diagnosis and treatment through the private       sector from their overall       Global Fund grants.
Research team members Hanson and Tougher were cited in a range of media,       including US       National Public Radio, Nature, the Irish Journal, BBC         News, Science, The New York Times and       News Medical, helping to increase understanding of AMFm and the       underpinning research among       the general public.
