 The impact of the research traverses economic, commercial and organizational impact, environmental impact, and impact on practitioners and professional services.
Economic, commercial and organizational impacts resulted from; - the development of improved processes for investment planning based on the research outcomes, which enabled options to be evaluated on the basis of their cost-benefit, incorporating customers' preferences, rather than simply their relative cost; and - a changed approach to management of resources resulting in improved service delivery.
Application of these processes in water and sewerage has led to impacts of improved management of environmental resources and improved implementation of environmental policy.
This is confirmed by an Ofwat report in 2006 (Section 5, 5), in which the links between a cost-benefit approach and sustainability are outlined.
The improved processes have led to impacts on practitioners and professional services (Section 5, 1/2/3).
The water companies are employing consultants to advise on the investment planning approach, devised originally by Acutt and colleagues for Yorkshire Water, for submissions for the 2014 Periodic Review.
The impacts on management, implementation and processes are a result of research by Acutt and colleagues on contestability theory and regulation behaviour, particularly regarding threat-based regulation policies, which influenced Yorkshire Water to commission a study employing a cost-benefit approach to investment planning with a focus on generating information on customer preferences and willingness-to-pay, in respect of their water and sewerage services.
The trigger for the commissioned research was an upcoming Periodic Review 2004 of water companies' business investment plans.
By going to customers directly, and collecting and modelling willingness-to-pay data, Yorkshire Water anticipated that this would lead to reductions of the threats of intervention by the regulator (Ofwat).
While the research directly influenced Yorkshire Water's behaviour and relationship with Ofwat in the 2004 Periodic Review, its influence was more important in connection with the 2009 Periodic Review.
It resulted in a change in the behaviour of many water companies, including Anglian Water and Severn Trent Water, with respect to their business and investment planning for the 2009 Periodic Review on customer preferences (Section 5, 1/3).
Water companies actively conducted robust, contemporary willingness-to-pay analysis, and will continue to do so at the 2014 Periodic Review (Section 5, 4).
Equally importantly, Ofwat, as a champion of customers, has recognised findings of water companies on customer preferences and willingness-to-pay (based in Acutt's research) that have become common practice, and has shown a willingness to give more independence to water company managements in setting their own service quality targets and incentives as a result (Section 5, 4).
This has had an effect on regulatory processes across the whole industry.
For the first time, water companies were able to demonstrate their analyses of customer preferences which resulted in more meaningful interactions with the regulator.
The impact continues.
Now, the approach developed by Acutt and colleagues is required by Ofwat.
Evidence for this is outlined in Ofwat consultation papers issued in respect of the 2009 and 2014 Periodic Reviews (Section 5, 4/5).
Through Acutt's employment by Yorkshire Water from 2000-2005, and then by Ofwat from 2005-2007, key stakeholders were made aware of the academic research and the impact on the regulation and management of the UK water industry.
Acutt convened meetings to obtain stakeholder input and views, undertook conference presentations and seminars and wrote articles in both the trade and academic press.
These activities, ensuring stakeholder engagement, contributed significantly to the successful impact of the research.
The asset management and regulation teams in the water companies use the tools and processes developed by the research to produce a `dashboard' showing the implications of different investment scenarios, thus contributing to more informed decision-making.
The scenarios, often prepared with the aid of consultants, are shared with regulators, customers and their representatives.
The transparency has resulted in stakeholders such as customer representatives and regulators having greater reassurance about the water company's plans: an approach which has been further built on by Ofwat for the 2014 Periodic Review by requiring companies to engage more formally with their customers and stakeholders through adopting the willingness-to-pay surveys that are integral to the research of Acutt and colleagues (Section 5, 4).
The focus on service delivery of outcomes most valued by consumers is now a key element of the methodology proposed by Ofwat for water companies' business plans for the 2019 Periodic Review (Section 5, 7).
To summarise, the scale of the impact of the research has gained momentum in the period 2008-13 to develop a significance and reach that has gone beyond a single water company (Yorkshire Water) to cover the economic, commercial and organizational practices across the whole UK water industry, with resulting environmental impacts and implications for the work of practitioners and professional service providers in the industry.
