     The trial results were first published in the New England Journal of         Medicine in 2008, with an       accompanying editorial stating `HYVET puts the question of the usefulness       of treating hypertension       in the very old to rest and provides important guidance to physicians and       writers of such       guidelines'.5.1     As a result, updated national and international guidelines started to       appear from 2009 onwards, all       of which cited HYVET as their main source of evidence to support change.
While no guideline is       binding, in each case these are strong recommendations intended to improve       standards, assist in       the knowledge and training of health care professionals and help patients       make informed decisions       about their care.
The 2009 Canadian Hypertension Education Program recommendations for the       management of       hypertension stated `HYVET clearly demonstrates the beneficial effects of       antihypertensive therapy       in reducing the risk of stroke and death in very elderly patients; these       results form the basis of the       new recommendation to prescribe antihypertensive therapy regardless of       age'.5.2     The 2011 American College of Cardiology and American Hypertension       Association published a       joint consensus report with the European Society of Hypertension, and a       number of American       societies for various patient groups and clinical conditions.
Emphasising       the shift brought about by       HYVET, the report was divided into two sections &#8212; evidence before the       trial and evidence after.
The report stated `The HYVET results provide clear evidence that BP       lowering by drugs is       associated with definite CV benefits in patients &#8805;80 years of age'.5.3     In the UK the most influential guidelines are those from NICE.
The       revised guidelines prepared in       consultation with the British Hypertension Society were published in 2011       based on a meta-analysis       of HYVET data &#8212; used both in its entirety and divided into patient       subgroups.
The       guidelines provided a firm recommendation to offer treatment to people       aged 80 and over with       hypertension.5.4     Updated guidelines were also published in a number of other countries       including Poland (2012)       and Russia (2012).5.5 Outside Europe, organisations including       the Brazilian Society of       Hypertension (2010)5.6 and the South African Hypertension       Society (2011) also published reviewed       clinical guidance as a direct result of research findings.
A further influential guideline update was anticipated in mid-2013 in the       USA but has been delayed.
The eighth report of the Joint National Committee on Prevention,       Detection, Evaluation, and       Treatment of High Blood Pressure (JNC 8) will be published by the National       Heart, Lung and Blood       Institute, part of the US Department of Health and Human Services, and       will replace the current       2003 guidelines.
The reach of these recommendations extends beyond the USA       and they will be       seen and adopted by practitioners throughout the developed world.
The HYVET trial has been widely reported by the media, with both the       national and medical press       picking up on the story and highlighting the positive findings of the       trial.
In 2008 HYVET was the       subject of articles in the New York Times, the Guardian       and the BBC and British Heart Foundation       websites, all of which praised the HYVET researchers for addressing the       needs of a frequently       neglected age group.
The Guardian article quoted James Goodwin,       Head of Research at Help the       Aged, as saying the findings had `serious implications for the treatment       of hypertensive people       over 80'.5.7     Mentions of HYVET in online clinical resources are too numerous to list       but include the Primary         Care Cardiovascular Journal (2008), American Medical News       (2009) and Swiss Medical Weekly       (2012) as well as the influential F1000 (2008), which highlights       recent research of clinical       importance.
The HYVET trial has been recognised for its outstanding contribution to       research by a number of       awards including the Society for Clinical Trials Trial of the Year Award       2009.5.8 HYVET was       nominated as one of the most important clinical trials of the year in 2009       by Medscape, an online       resource for clinicians5.9 and recognised in the F1000       Medicine All time Top 10 in 2009.
The       American Heart Association voted HYVET among the top 10 major advances in       heart and stroke       research.5.10
