     The Centre for History's research has demonstrated that emigration from       the northern Highlands was far more geographically and temporally diverse       than scholars have previously thought.
This research stresses the       importance of Europe, both as a destination for emigrants and somewhere       from which immigrants came to the region, while also establishing a more       complex interpretation of the role of the Clearances in Highland history.
The key impacts of this research, as evidenced by curator and public       testimony, have been:     1) To inform and change curatorial practice in the region's museums;     2) To inform and change public understanding of the role of emigration in       the region's history.
Curatorial Practice       The Centre for History's research has had a significant influence on the       curatorial practice of museums in the region.
Growing out of the Centre's       strategy for public engagement and its original research focus on the       Highlands and Islands (see REF3a), staff at the Centre have worked with a       number of cultural bodies in designing exhibitions, providing content and       creating social networks, bringing together academics and the public       across the UK and Europe.
This approach has changed both the heritage       sector's and the public's understanding of emigration from the northern       Highlands.
The Centre's research on emigration from the region has found a wide       public audience through its work with local museum and heritage bodies.
Staff have collaborated with Timespan Heritage Centre in Helmsdale to       develop a host of activities and projects to commemorate the 200-year       anniversary of the start of the Sutherland clearances in 2013 and the       emigration which followed, principally contributing content to an       innovative iPhone app.
Public talks and workshops held in Timespan have       attracted good audiences, including those returning to the region from       North America, such as the 45 people who attended Elizabeth Ritchie's talk       on `Why did the Clearances happen?'
at Timespan in September 2011(5.2).
The main feature of the project is a digital trail iPhone app, developed       in conjunction with the company Bluemungus and funded jointly by Museums       Galleries Scotland (&#163;22,407) and the Heritage Lottery Fund (&#163;45,900) (5.4).
The app takes visitors on a tour of the cleared Strath of Kildonan and       involves the stories of local people, reconstructions of pre-clearance       houses, maps, documents and the reflections of those whose ancestors were       cleared and subsequently emigrated.
The app can be used as a tour guide       for those who visit the Strath or accessed virtually, so people can       explore the history of the region and learn about the Clearances from       anywhere in the world and has been downloaded almost 1000 times.
Along       with new exhibitions and various talks, the app was launched in 2013 and       formed the basis for a UHI fieldtrip jointly with students from the       University of Aberdeen (5.5; 5.6).
In particular, the app       details the emigration of Kildonan tenants to the Red River settlement in       Manitoba, Canada, emphasising the centrality of the migratory experience       in the region's history, one of the key findings of the Centre's research,       principally in the work of Hunter and Ritchie (3.1; 3.2).
The Centre for History had a direct impact on curatorial practice at       Timespan, through the membership of James Hunter and Elizabeth Ritchie on       the original steering group committee at the museum, to direct       collaboration with the museum staff over the content of the Kildonan trail       and accompanying app (5.3).
As Jacquie Aitken, archivist at       Timespan, stated `from 2011, Timespan was delighted to form a fruitful and       lasting curatorial partnership with the UHI Centre for History...This role       involved providing advice at all stages in the development of the app,       considerable input into the historical content and a bench mark for       maintaining high standards.
This expert knowledge helped the steering       group to focus on the important aspects of the history of the Clearances       and condense it into a clear and concise narrative for the app' (5.3).
The impact of Worthington's research about northern Highlanders in early       modern central Europe on curatorial practice has been showcased in a       recent exhibition organised by the Special Collections department at the       University of Aberdeen (`Wanderlust: travel journals and explorers' notes'       exhibition, The Gallery, The Sir Duncan Rice Library, 27 April to 7       September 2013) (5.10).
Drawing on Worthington's recent article in       Britain and the World, this exhibition presented travel journals       from the Special Collections, including the papers of James Fraser.
As Dr       James Foster, Fulbright Scholar and visitor to the `Wanderlust'       exhibition, wrote: `I found the piece that you wrote [3.6] very       useful in helping me to understand more about the life of James Fraser and       the context in which he operated' (5.3).
In addition, Worthington       has presented public talks on the Fraser memoirs to the Saltire Society       and the Highland Archaeology Festival 2012.
Public Understanding       The Centre for History's research has also had impact on public       understanding of the role of emigration in the region's past.
The       testimony below demonstrates how the Centre's commitment to disseminating       its research to a public audience has then achieved this impact.
James       Hunter's research on the diasporic character of the MacLeod clan has been       communicated to a wide public audience in the region and beyond.
His book,       Scottish Exodus has sold many thousands of copies and he has given       public talks on this subject to large audiences at a number of significant       events.
Moreover, Professor Hunter was a key part of the Scotland's       `Global Impact' conference (October 2009), a major international event       which attracted a wide-ranging public audience from across the Scottish       diaspora.
Elizabeth Ritchie's research on the region has been disseminated       widely through digital media and public talks.
Through her membership of       the board of the award-winning Dornoch History Links Museum, Ritchie uses       her blog connected with the museum (http://historylinksdornoch.wordpress.com/)       to encourage research into the region and to engage with the local       community, stressing in particular, the connections with the wider world       forged through emigration.
Ritchie has given public talks on the Highlands       and emigration to the following bodies: Tarbet Ness Heritage Centre, 2010;       Timespan, Helmsdale, 2011; Dornoch Heritage Society, 2011; U3A, Nairn,       2012; Highland Family History Society, Inverness, 2013; Helmsdale 2013;       U3A, Inverness, 2013.
Moreover, the research that was used for Timespan's       iPhone app has shaped public understanding.
For example, positive public       feedback stated that `This is a fantastic app.
Crammed full of info about       the clearances...Would like to see it in book form for iPad too' (5.3).
Historians at the Centre have also been instrumental in using insights       from research on early modern migration from the Highlands to central       Europe in order to change public perceptions of both historical and more       recent migration to and from the region.
In his research on this theme,       David Worthington has developed numerous connections with community       groups, especially in Poland and Scotland.
Developing from his programme       of public engagement, Worthington is now involved in a number of       initiatives in which the Polish community in Scotland contributes to       historical understanding about emigration to the region.
He engaged these       groups with his research through a number of activities including: a       public lecture at the Institute of Cultural Studies of the University of       Wroc&#322;aw, two public lectures at UHI Executive Office, one in English, the       other in Polish (5.7); an interview on the BBC Highland website; an       interview for the Inverness Courier; a radio interview for BBC       Highland; a series of talks to local history societies (in Portree,       Dornoch, Inverness, Cromarty, Dingwall and Nairn); a public lecture in       Inverness as part of `Polish Week' celebrations; a podcast for the Heritage         North website; and the authoring of several newspaper articles in       English and Polish.
From these public engagement activities arose the       opportunity to become involved in a number of Scots-Polish community       groups, through which Worthington's research has influenced public       understanding of the region's past.
During 2011-12, he was a member of the       steering group for an oral history project assessing Polish veterans of       World War Two and their families in the eastern Highlands.
In addition,       Worthington created and administers a Facebook site on Scottish-Polish       historical links along with colleagues at Adam Mickiewicz University in       Pozna&#324; (Poland).
This has brought together a range of public and academic       users interested in both historical and contemporary connections between       Scotland and Poland and how emigration has shaped both countries (5.8).
This Facebook site has been the direct inspiration for the forthcoming       Polish-Scottish Heritage Trail Project (which has received &#163;50,700 from       the Heritage Lottery Fund and includes Worthington on its Advisory Board),       once again demonstrating the capacity of Centre staff to shape curatorial       policy and practice (5.9).
A key feature of the Polish-Scottish       Heritage Trail website will be an interactive map on 'The Highlands and       Poland' derived from Worthington's research.
The impact of the       Scottish-Polish historical links website has also been demonstrated by the       extensive testimony from leading members of the Polish community in       Scotland, indicating how the public have engaged with and helped shape the       research process.
For example, Leszek Wieciech, former Consul General of       Poland in Edinburgh, wrote that the website `is extremely valuable in the       context of Polish-Scottish studies and preservation of the role the       Scottish community have played in the development of Poland and how Poles       &#8212; not just during and after WWII &#8212; have contributed to the development of       Scotland.
I hope it will be continued &#8212; it is even more important now,       when so many Poles have moved to the U.K.
Knowledge of our centuries-old       relationship will definitely improve mutual understanding.
Your page also       helps in developing a sense of belonging to the Scottish community among       some descendants of Scots in Poland' (5.3)
