     LSHTM models measuring the cost effectiveness and impact of new vaccines       are now being used by key stakeholders and vaccine policy-makers at       national and international levels to provide evidence for and support       health initiative decisions.
The models have been used by country teams       including experts from Ministries of Health and Finance, and national       vaccination programme managers.
In 10 of these countries the new vaccine       in question has been introduced, benefiting many thousands of children.
Sanderson and Clark have also been regularly called upon to provide       analysis and advice for policy-makers, donors and stakeholders at the       highest level.
TRIVAC and CERVIVAC     Launched in 2010, TRIVAC is now an integral part of international efforts       to collect and disseminate data and research to help countries build or       scrutinise the case for adopting vaccines.
TRIVAC has been used to       expedite national decision-making around Hib vaccination in the developing       world (through GAVI's `Hib Initiative') 5.1 and to support       country-level evidence-based decisions about adopting new vaccines in       countries who are members of the PAHO through its ProVac Initiative.5.2       It has also been used by the GAVI Alliance (a public-private health       partnership aimed at increasing international access to immunisation).
Between 2010 and July 2013, TRIVAC and/or CERVIVAC were used in 14       vaccine cost effectiveness studies in the PAHO region.
Typically, this has       followed an invitation from national policy-makers to conduct workshops       for teams made up of local Ministry of Health and immunisation officials,       during which an LSHTM researcher (usually Clark) uses the model(s) to       scrutinise data, consider plausible scenarios and carry out sensitivity       analyses.
Following these studies, a pneumococcal conjugate vaccine (PCV) has been       introduced in Argentina, Bolivia, Costa Rica, Ecuador, El Salvador,       Nicaragua, Paraguay, Peru and Guatemala.
Guatemala has also introduced a       rotavirus vaccine.
CERVIVAC was launched in 2011, and a study using this       model was reviewed prior to HPV vaccination being introduced in Argentina.
Decisions are pending following studies in Bolivia, Ecuador and Jamaica.5.3     In October 2012, a TRIVAC analysis by the Costa Rican Department of       Social Security restored public confidence in PCV for children under the       age of 2, after a controversially expensive universal vaccination       programme was introduced.5.4     In 2009/2010 TRIVAC was used by Sanderson in a World Bank/GAVI study of       cost-effectiveness and financial consequences of new vaccine introduction       in Pakistan.5.5 Since 2010 TRIVAC has also been used by WHO to       generate annual immunisation progress reports for GAVI.5.5       These reports include estimates of deaths prevented by new vaccines in the       world's 70 poorest countries, and estimates of the health benefits       attributable to GAVI-financed vaccines.
Seven further TRIVAC cost-effectiveness analyses are currently (7/2013)       in progress in Albania, Azerbaijan, Croatia, Egypt, Georgia, Iran and       Senegal.
The rotavirus risk/benefit model     In April 2012 Sanderson presented the results of the LSHTM rotavirus       study at a meeting of WHO's Strategic Advisory Group of Experts (SAGE) on       immunisation.
LSHTM evidence regarding the additional lives saved by       changing the age restrictions for initiation of the rotavirus vaccination       resulted in their review.
Further LSHTM findings were presented in a       follow-up meeting which resulted in SAGE issuing that same year a new       recommendation to relax age restrictions for rotavirus vaccination.
LSHTM       findings are quoted as evidence in related WHO documents.5.6, 5.7     The schedules model     Results for Hib from the schedules model were presented by Clark and       Sanderson to SAGE at meetings in October and November 2012 and April 2013.
Drawing on this evidence, at the April meeting SAGE recommended two       possible schedules countries should choose between dependent on local       epidemiology and health system considerations.
SAGE also recommended use       of the schedules model to help countries with this task,5.8 and       Clark and Sanderson have developed a website for WHO that carries relevant       country-level data and analyses (www.vaccine-schedules.com).
Making research findings available to policy-makers and other users     In 2012, supported by PAHO and WHO, LSHTM launched a new website `OLIVES'       (On-line International Vaccine Economics and Statistics) which provides       access to new analyses of data from LSHTM, new data and literature reviews       from universities in the PAHO region, including details and quality       assessments of studies reviewed, and relevant extracts from international       databases.5.9 Designed to be used by policy-makers and analysts       to provide financial and health benefit evidence and support for vaccine       decisions, the site is regularly updated and provides an accessible       reference source for information on vaccine economics and statistics, for       use in conjunction with LSHTM models or otherwise.
