     The impact of climate change, population migration towards cities and       increasing regulation will put increasing strain on the world's water       distribution systems in the coming years.
They will need to be capable of       delivering an increasingly scarce resource to a greater number of people       whilst minimising the financial and environmental costs of the provision       of clean water.
By providing optimised water distribution system designs,       the research undertaken by Keedwell, in conjunction with industrial       partners Mouchel Ltd, Delcan Corporation and the City of Ottawa, has made       a significant and lasting impact on the water distribution system and       therefore the people of Ottawa as indicated by the Program Manager for       Infrastructure Policy at the City: "The use of EA had a direct           influence on the Master Plan that was finalized in 2009, and the           direction established at that time has been maintained in the current           Master Plan update" [D] and the Project Manager at Delcan       Corporation: "The current Master Plan is derived from our [genetic           algorithm based] solution, and there are many projects that will be           implemented based on the plan."
[E]     The Ottawa Water Distribution Master Planning project is intended to       deliver the necessary capital infrastructure upgrades to accommodate the       projected population increases in the Ottawa area for planning horizons       ranging from 2011 to 2031; see [C] for the full scope of the project.
To       facilitate EA optimisation of the master plan, a large software model was       created, incorporating a hydraulic model developed by the team, that       calculated the objectives, capital and operational costs and engineering       quality scores for each WDS configuration proposed.
Configurations were       described by the EA decision variables, which were pipe and tank       diameters, pump and valve settings.
A significant innovation in this area       was the specification of `custom decision variables' that combined several       network settings into one EA variable [A][B], which allowed the engineers       to specify local combinations of settings that correspond to known       feasible configurations, reducing decision variable complexity.
The       resulting software was therefore capable of integrating detailed       engineering knowledge into the optimisation, leading the Program Manager       to comment: "Application of EA technology to the preparation of the           2009 Master Plan permitted the efficient evaluation of a very large           number of combinations and permutations of infrastructure and system           configuration alternatives that were identified at the time.
"[D]     Inspired by the work in [1], a local search heuristic was developed to       locally optimise the EA solutions and correct sub-optimal decision       variable settings individually, rather than as part of a much more       computationally complex combinatorial problem.
This heuristic was often       able to create simultaneously lower-cost and better-performing solutions       even after long optimisation runs.
As an example, after one EA run of       174,000 iterations, the heuristic was able to improve on the highly       optimised solution by $77,000CAD with a simultaneous increase in       engineering performance.
The optimisation process has been used to support master planning       decisions for the City of Ottawa estimated to cost almost $225M CAD       (approx.
&#163;135m at current exchange rates), and is part of a wider master       planning project including wastewater and other infrastructure upgrades.
This capital investment will provide the residents of Ottawa with a system       designed to optimise water quality, quantity, reliability and       affordability.
The evolutionary algorithm and the additional innovations       incorporated from the research at Exeter have contributed to the level of       service for customers and affordability (by minimising future capital and       operating costs) of the final master planned solution as described by the       City themselves: "The results of the EA study ultimately guided the           development of a cost-effective plan which will improve the level of           service to a large and rapidly developing community in the City's           South Urban Area."
[D].
It is not possible to derive an exact       figure for the savings yielded by the EA-based solution as the study       relates to the expansion of existing infrastructure for which there is no       comparable human-derived solution.
What is certain though, is that with       projects of this magnitude, even small efficiencies in the EA and       EA-heuristic design will significantly impact the wellbeing of the       residents of this large city far into the future, to 2031 and beyond.
In       addition, this project has had wider impact on the practice of       infrastructure planning at the City of Ottawa, as described in the       corroborating letter: "The experience that the City of Ottawa           gained with this project has encouraged staff to consider similar           approaches to infrastructure planning and design, as well as other           activities that can benefit from EA technology, such as the           calibration of complex system models".
[D]
