     THE IMPACT: Official EU policy for increasing employment now includes       healthcare and low-skill domestic services.
There is more emphasis on       labour-intensive sectors than on technologically advanced sectors.
This       was not previously the case: the `Lisbon strategy' of 2000 established       overall targets without reference to sectors of employment.
The overall       target for the rate of employment across the EU was 70% of the 15-64 age       group, to be achieved by 2010.
Despite the failure to reach this target,       the Europe 2020 Strategy (currently in force) raised the target to 75% for       the age group 20-64.
Initially, the guidelines for increasing employment       rates to these levels were based on recommendations about the acquisition       of skills, increasing labour mobility, computerisation, technological       innovation and `good jobs' (a phrase that lacked precise definition).
Now       more emphasis is given to sectors such as `green' employment and       healthcare.
LINKS BETWEEN RESEARCH AND IMPACT: Pissarides has been active in the       policy debate on employment and unemployment for several decades.
Beginning with his keynote at the Employment Conference of the Austrian       Presidency in Vienna in 2006 [A], he became a key contributor to European       debates about the sources of job creation.
In March 2011, at an event to       celebrate his recent Nobel Prize attended by the Commission President and       all the Commissioners connected with economic policy, Pissarides made his       argument about the importance of labour-intensive services more       forcefully, urging the Commission to shift its emphasis in that direction.
In the Commission's Growth Strategy 2012, published in September 2011 (and       follow-up documents published in April 2012), there is a new emphasis on       healthcare and unskilled services.
At the `Jobs for Europe' summit in September 2012, the emphasis was on       job creation in ICT, the green economy and healthcare, respectively       addressing new technology and productivity growth, environmental concerns       and employment at lower skill levels [B].
Pissarides was given the most       prestigious platform to explain his analysis of employment creation and       several members of the Commission staff connected with employment,       including the Commissioner, credited him in their presentations at least       partly with the shift in emphasis.
The way in which the 2012 Employment Package put the concept of dynamic       labour markets into the heart of EU employment policy, had a direct       connection with Pissarides's scholarly work.
The March 2011 event was the       first intellectual milestone in its preparation and his continued presence       in the policy debate strengthens the implementation [C].
Following the summit, work currently at the Commission is examining the       potential of healthcare and unskilled household services for employment       generation.
When the work is completed, there will be another summit to       discuss the next phase in the role that could be played by these sectors       in the pursuit of the Europe 2020 employment objectives.
Pissarides has       been invited to participate in the next phase of this work.
Pissarides has repeatedly emphasised in his involvement in EU policy       debates that raising employment opportunities is the best social policy,       in terms of both income growth and social inclusion.
But apart from the       benefits to society overall, the emphasis on the healthcare sector is also       important in light of the ageing population.
The sector will be both       provider of services to an ageing population and a source of employment       for many older people, especially women, who have a comparative advantage       in healthcare.
This shift of emphasis in the type of jobs that are created is important       for Europe, as the eurozone emerges from the financial crisis.
Unemployment is high, especially for young people, mainly because of the       austerity associated with the debt reduction programme.
The key question       debated at both national and EU levels is how to create new jobs that will       absorb the unemployed, and how to encourage more women and older people to       enter the labour force and stay on at work.
National governments look to the Commission for guidance, in addition to       their own research.
In that respect, the Commission's new emphasis on       employment expansion sectors could prove very influential in the design of       national policies for employment.
Pissarides has been active in this       dissemination process.
Over the past 12 months, he has been involved in at       least five high-level events focused on these issues.
In October 2012, in       connection with the Cyprus Presidency of the European Union, he was the       invited speaker at the Informal Meeting of Education Ministers, where he       outlined his views on youth unemployment and education.
In January 2013,       he was invited as an academic expert on austerity and rebuilding Europe's       labour markets at the Informal Meeting of World Leaders during the World       Economic Forum's annual meetings in Davos.
In July 2013, he participated       at the European Leaders Summit on youth unemployment in Berlin, with the       participation of the majority of EU heads of government and employment       ministers.
And in October 2013 he was invited back in Brussels to be the       guest of honour at the tenth annual high-level "State of Europe" summit       that Friends of Europe co-organised with the Lithuanian EU       Presidency and the Financial Times, where he spoke again about the       need to shift the emphasis to job creation in Europe from the current       austerity agenda.
Better understanding of the sources of job creation enables better       educational and infrastructure planning.
It also enables better national       polices with respect to wages and social transfers.
In countries like the       UK, this research is of particular interest because of the involvement of       the state with healthcare.
With healthcare spending expected to increase       rapidly as the demand for healthcare services increases, the UK government       needs to formulate a policy for the future of the NHS and the extent to       which it wishes to see an expansion of employment under the public sector       umbrella.
A commitment to continue meeting healthcare demands within the NHS would       necessitate higher taxes, which is likely to be incompatible with other       government objectives, such as encouraging a low-tax corporate culture.
Other countries in Europe face similar problems as they plan their       healthcare systems for the future.
A recent plea to the Chancellor to       think of the bigger questions about future job creation and the fiscal       balance is in Pissarides' comment on the Autumn Statement 2012, published       by the British Academy [D].
More recently, in October 2013, he was invited       to a discussion between a small group of experts and the deputy Prime       Minister where he again emphasised the role of NHS in job creation and the       dilemma of public sector funding, a topic that attracted a lot of       attention in the subsequent discussion.
WHY THE IMPACT MATTERS: Higher employment drives a rise in living       standards and the reduction of poverty, as more people share in Europe's       prosperity.
Enhancing it at the top end of the skills distribution       improves EU competitiveness and becomes a driver for growth.
But unless it       can also be improved at the bottom end, the benefits from growth are not       equally shared and poorer sections of society must rely on social       transfers to maintain their living standards.
This is not a satisfactory       situation.
