     As indicated above, the Caldecott/Jeggo/O'Driscoll laboratories have       identified a number of human       genes which, if mutated, result in neurological disease.
As a result of       these discoveries, blood and       tissue samples from patients with the relevant disease pathology are       routinely tested for mutations       in these and closely related genes by the Caldecott/Jeggo/O'Driscoll       laboratories, at the request of       clinicians in hospitals within the UK National Health Service (NHS) and       Europe (e.g.
Great Ormond       Street, Newcastle General Hospital, Bristol Genetics Laboratory, Nijmegen       Medical Centre), or       within external diagnostic laboratories within the UK and Europe directly       (e.g.
Birmingham).
For example, in 2011/2012, based on its identification that APLF and TDP2       are novel human DNA       repair genes, the Caldecott laboratory conducted genetic/biochemical       analyses for defects in       APLF, TDP2, and XRCC1-dependent DNA damage responses in blood samples and       fibroblasts       from patients with neurological/developmental delay, at the request of NHS       clinicians in Bristol (St       Michael's Hospital) [see Section 5, C1] and London (Great Ormond Street)       [C2], and by clinical       geneticists in Nijmegen (Medical Centre).
These diagnoses uncovered       mutations in TDP2 as a       cause of epilepsy and spinocerebellar ataxia in four patients [C3].
In like manner, during the current REF period, the Jeggo laboratory has       conducted similar       diagnostic testing at the request of clinicians from a variety of       hospitals in the UK and abroad,       including Great Ormond Street, identifying 11 individuals with RS-SCID out       of 140 who were       screened [C4, C5].
Some of these hospitals have recently established       sequencing procedures/       assays based on guidance from the Jeggo laboratory to aid diagnosis, and       the Jeggo laboratory       continues to advise and carry out a diagnostic service for those patients       in whom sequencing fails       to reveal a mutation or who display a pathology that is suggestive of a       novel or unusual DNA       damage-response-related genetic defect [C5]     In addition, these diagnostic tests are now also conducted externally at       a variety of medical/clinical       genetics centres worldwide, independent of our laboratories, thereby       expanding the reach of our       impact.
For example, as a direct result of novel genetic defects       identified by the O'Driscoll/Jeggo       laboratories, multiple clinical genetics centres in the UK (Birmingham,       Great Ormond Street,       Newcastle General Hospital), in North America/Canada (University of       Chicago Genetics Services,       Greenwood Genetics Centre South Carolina, Baylor College of Medicine       Texas, Nemours       Children's Hospital Delaware, and Children's Hospital of Eastern Ontario,       Canada) and in Europe       (Nijmegen Clinical Genetics Center, Dept of Human Genetics Belgium,       Neckar-Enfants Malades       Hospital Paris, Institut f&#252;r Humangenetik Erlangen and Institut f&#252;r       Humangenetik Freiburg) provide       molecular diagnostic analyses of causative genes in a clinical genetics       context, and are registered       on the GeneTests service [C6].
As a result of this work, since 2008 the Caldecott/Jeggo/O'Driscoll       laboratories have identified the       underlying genetic defect in more than 150 patients with a range of       hereditary DNA damage-       related disorders.
In terms of beneficiaries of this impact, the results       of diagnostic tests are       provided to the relevant clinicians in the form of written reports, which       are employed to inform       additional diagnostic tests and patient care and management.
These       diagnoses thus benefit both       the clinical geneticist and the patient; identifying not only the cause of       the patient's disease but also       enabling better disease management.
For example, if not first diagnosed,       standard       chemotherapeutic regimes can be fatal in cancer patients who harbour       homozygous TDP2       mutations, and standard conditioning regimes used during bone-marrow       transplantation can be       fatal in LIG4 Syndrome patients.
These diagnoses can therefore translate       into increased patient       survival.
