     Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder has a worldwide prevalence in       children of about 5% and persists in adulthood in 50-60% of cases.
ADHD is       not a primary learning disorder but its core diagnostic features are       deficits in cognitive performance and response control [`hyperactivity',       `inattentiveness' and `impulsivity'].
These impairments       disrupt academic development and can lead to complex social problems in       adulthood.
The majority of adult patients further experience serious       co-morbidity including: perseveration, substance misuse, emotional       lability, bipolar disorder, criminality and suicidality, all of which       impair the quality of life of the patient and their family and can reduce       life-expectancy.
An unexplained increased risk of other medical conditions       (e.g.
obesity, asthma) as well as accidents and social problems leads to       ADHD patients costing 2-fold more than the average patient (NICE, 2009).
It was predicted that about &#163;78 million would be spent on pharmacotherapy       alone for ADHD patients in the UK in 2012 (NICE, 2009).
This figure did       not take into account the broader economic costs of this illness.
Only three drugs are licensed to treat ADHD in the UK: the       psychostimulants d-amphetamine &amp; methylphenidate, and the       noradrenaline uptake inhibitor atomoxetine.
There is widespread unease       about long-term use of psychostimulants, and all these treatments can have       harmful cardiovascular side-effects and carry a risk of misuse.
Furthermore, more than 25% of patients do not respond to any of these       treatments.
Thus, there is a pressing need for a new approach to       pharmacotherapy of ADHD, based on a strong scientific rationale.
New ADHD Animal Model: Commercial Impact     Our research has led to the discovery that disruption of NK1 receptor       function causes deficits in cognitive performance and response control       similar to those seen in ADHD patients.
This research has opened up new       directions for investigation of the underlying causes of ADHD as well as       the discovery and development of new drug targets.
A paper describing some       of our recent findings has received more than 2,700 hits since it was       published in May 2011.
This research has already received MRC funding of       more than &#163;600,000 [a].
We were awarded an EU patent in 2010 relating to the use of the NK1R-/-       mouse to investigate the underlying neurochemical abnormalities in ADHD       and as a screen for putative drug treatments for ADHD [b].
We have       a US patent application pending [c].
A subsidiary of Charles       River, Cerebricon (based in Finland), which specializes in validation and       marketing of rodent behavioural models, has negotiated an exclusive       licence with UCL Business [d].
This enables them to market the       NK1R-/-for use in research related to the causes and treatment of ADHD and       now advertise this on their website.
This venture is expected to be highly       successful: "In conjunction with Cerebricon's strategy of increasing         our portfolio of pre-clinical models by extending from neurology to         psychiatry we are very pleased to have the opportunity to in-license         what we believe will prove to be the best and most fully validated mouse         model of ADHD for our drug development clientele" &#8212; Dr Yrjanheikki,       CEO of Cerebricon [e].
New Genetic Locus for ADHD in Humans: Health Impact     Our research using the NK1R KO mice led us to discover a link between the       mutations in the human homologue of the gene, tacr1, and ADHD.
This discovery is significant to clinical psychiatry at two levels.
One is       that new treatments targeted at specific individuals, according to the       genetic subtype of the disorder that they have inherited, can now be       attempted.
Secondly, the findings identify a molecular pathophysiology       which cuts across traditional diagnostic boundaries and indicates that the       use of biomarkers which identify genetic effects acting in sub categories       of mental illness will be more powerful and useful than traditional       clinical diagnostic categories [f].
Public Engagement     Because of ADHD's often disruptive nature, sufferers can face difficulty       in public situations.
Increasing public understanding of the disorder is       therefore extremely important.
Clare Stanford makes regular media       appearances to discuss psychopharmacology in general [g], and has       written an article on ADHD, which is aimed at the general public and       posted on the website (Information for the Public) hosted by the British       Association for Psychopharmacology [h].
The development of new treatments for almost all human diseases and       disorders requires animal research.
However, this can be a contentious       issue.
Clare Stanford is President of the Laboratory Animal Science       Association and has contributed to meetings that aim to increase public       understanding of animal research (e.g.
meetings for the RSPCA) [i].
