     As part of the EPSRC CASE award and the current TSB-funded second stage       of the PpTek-Sussex       collaboration, close examination of the current technology and processes       that are       deployed in the UK biogas market by PpTek (which currently has an 80 per       cent market share)       was undertaken.
In 2008, PpTek's technology was adequate to remove       siloxanes from the       relatively consistent composition of biogas emitted from landfills.
As a       result of Sussex research, a       new process has been developed which allows expansion of PpTek's       commercial activity to biogas       sources with more chemically difficult and variable gas compositions       emitted from an&#230;robic       digesters and sewage treatment works.
Previously, application of this       technology in these chemical       conditions was problematic and, in some cases, required the replacement of       parts under a       contractual obligation.
There are a number of beneficial outcomes from the Sussex research work       that has been brought       to market through PpTek.
One beneficial impact is that 81 additional       biogas installations have been       deployed on sites that generate on average 2-3 MW of green energy per year       each, enabling the       UK to better meet its target under the Climate Change Act of 2009 [see       Section 5, C1].
There are also economic benefits in a number of areas, such as growth in       turnover, increased       graduate-level employment with accompanying HMRC returns, reduction in the       balance sheet       provision PpTek has to make for replacement parts, increased income from       servicing and       expansion of the client base overseas.
In 2008, the turnover of PpTek was &#163;910,000.
In 2013/14, turnover will       rise to &#163;3M &#8212; an increase of       233 per cent.
The company has grown from 3 employees to 15, all of whom       are employed as       engineers working on product development or electronic/process       engineering.
This expansion in       staff numbers at the company has had a substantial effect on the benefits       to HMRC [TEXT REMOVED FOR PUBLICATION]     According to the Technical Director [C1], the changes that have effected       this increase have       depended critically on the research and analysis conducted by Sussex and       would not have been       possible in its absence.
Following analysis of biogas at Sussex, the       company has been able to       successfully deploy its technology into some highly contaminated landfill       sites by filtering some       components from the gas before the siloxanes removal system, thus avoiding       media failure before       end-of-life expectancy.
In 2008, PpTek was required to make financial       provision for the failure or       recall of part of their systems [TEXT REMOVED FOR PUBLICATION] for the five UK       installations.
By 2012,       provision by PpTek had fallen to [TEXT REMOVED FOR PUBLICATION] for 11 units installed.
This fall in the provision is due to the analysis at Sussex and in       particular the complex analysis of       the compounds blinding the media from the incoming biogas.
The resulting       changes in processes       and equipment design by PpTek has enabled them to argue scientifically the       case that the cause       of failure was the species contained in the biogas stream and not the       failure of the media.
In       product design, PpTek have been able to reduce the amount of media used in       each system, giving       savings in its large systems [TEXT REMOVED FOR PUBLICATION].
Similar improvements have taken place in the income derived from       servicing installations:       [TEXT REMOVED FOR PUBLICATION].
Without the ability to deploy on progressively more       chemically difficult       sites, these increases would not have materialised.
As of June 2013, PpTek       purification systems       are now deployed in sites owned by CLP Envirogas (Bolton), Southern Water       (Worthing), Wessex       Water (Bath), Coxhoe Landfill (Durham), United Utilities (Manchester) and       Severn Trent Water       (Nottingham), amongst others.
The collaborative research between PpTek and Sussex formed the technical       core of negotiations       with [TEXT REMOVED FOR PUBLICATION] in 2012-13, the result of which was the award of contracts       to PpTek with a       value in excess of &#163;1M during 2012-13, where four systems were sold       [TEXT REMOVED FOR PUBLICATION]       Chile, [TEXT REMOVED FOR PUBLICATION], and two systems to [TEXT REMOVED FOR PUBLICATION] in       Argentina       [TEXT REMOVED FOR PUBLICATION].
Importantly, these contracts are serviced in South       America and constitute       the first expansion of PpTek outside the UK and into South America.
