     The reach of the research impacts created by this work lies in a       number of areas,, where it has influenced and informed policy debate.
First,       there is the creation of networks involving EU and non-EU academics,       officials, diplomats at international and national levels, and       Non-Governmental Organisation representatives.
In the case of the work on       diplomatic innovation, this took the form of collaboration with the UK,       Canadian, Finnish and Australian Ministries of Foreign Affairs and with a       range of academic institutions [such as the Asia Pacific College of       Diplomacy (Australian National University, Canberra] of whose       international advisory board Professor Hocking is a member] and think       tanks [5.2, 5.3, 5.4].
Between 2005 and 2008, Professor Hocking       was invited to address meetings at the Department of Foreign Affairs and       International Trade (DFAIT) in Ottawa attended by a DFAIT and other       government official and representatives of civil society groups [5.2].
At the EU level, a series of meetings on the changing role of foreign       ministries were held in Brussels, Paris and London convened by       DG-Relex/European External Action Service.
Second, there is       knowledge transfer through workshops, policy papers, reports and policy       recommendations to a variety of official and non-governmental audiences.
On the public diplomacy agenda, a major forum for disseminating       information has been a series of three conferences held at Wilton Park       (the Foreign and Commonwealth Office conference centre) sponsored by the       FCO and attended by some 150 diplomats from around the world together with       meetings convened at the Institute of Government by the Cabinet Office and       FCO on the uses of `soft power' in UK diplomacy [5.1].
BH assisted       in the organisation of these meetings and gave presentations at them [5.7].
Third, the Futures for Diplomacy: Integrative Diplomacy in the         21st Century report has now been released       by the Finnish Ministry of Foreign Affairs and is available on the       Clingendael Institute (The Hague) website where it has registered `hits'       placing it in the top five of the institute's major reports.
A major       meeting of 45 policy planners from foreign ministries and international       organisations was held in The Hague in March 2013 and has been followed by       the first of a series of policy papers (The Future of Foreign Ministries)       on the changing nature of diplomacy [5.3].
Further meetings are       planned and are being discussed with national foreign ministries &#8212; ]such       as the South Korean and Swedish Ministries of Foreign Affairs.
The Chinese       Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Chinese Foreign Affairs University are       convening a conference in Beijing in November 2013 to discuss the Futures       report.
Fourth, key issues relating to the research have been       communicated to a broader audience through op-ed articles and media       presentations.
Thus, for example, when BH was advising the Australian       Senate Foreign Affairs Committee enquiry into Australian public diplomacy       (Canberra 2007) he was asked to write an article [`Diplomacy adopts a new       style', Canberra Times, 28 May 2007] and this was followed by       interviews on news programmes.
Similarly, the Futures report has       been followed by op-ed articles in the China Daily, Japan         Times and Korea Herald.
The significance of the impact can be measured in part by       continuing requests from foreign ministries for briefings on change in       diplomatic structures.
Current work is in progress with the FCO [e.g.Counterpoint         2020 - 5.6], and has been undertaken with the Dutch [5.5]       and Swedish MFAs.
The explicit focus here is on policy innovation       especially in terms of diplomatic institutions, personnel and practices &#8212;       ]particularly in the public diplomacy area.
Much of this work represents       the application of scholarly research to the demands of policy makers in       new and changing environments.
As section 5 indicates, this is evidenced       by: (i) the commissioning of reports and briefings by, foreign ministries       &#8212; ]for example, the Finnish Foreign Ministry and the FCO and Cabinet       Office in the UK [5.3, 5.4, 5.6, 5.7]; (ii) Work with UK Cabinet       Office, Foreign and Commonwealth Office and the Australian Government on       the ways in which `soft power' resources might be enhanced [5.1, 5.7];       (iii) Enhancement of debate on diplomatic processes globally and in the       European Union specifically, especially the European External, Action       Service (EEAS); (iv) Incorporation into diplomatic training activities at       European and broader international levels [5.8, 5.9].
For example:       College of Europe (Bruges), Clingendael Institute (Netherlands), Geneva       Centre for Security Policy and a number of diplomatic academies (BH is a       member of the International Forum for Deans and Directors of Diplomatic       Academies and was chair of the UK section 2004-7).
The research has thus       contributed significantly to enhancement of policy debate among the       diplomatic and related communities, and has helped to shape the responses       of diplomats and diplomatic organisations to a changing global       environment.
