 The findings of the Marmot Review and subsequent work conducted through the Institute of Health Equity (IHE) have contributed to the shaping of England's health policy.
Health inequalities are at the centre of the new health system in England.
In December 2010, the government's White Paper "Healthy Lives, Healthy People: Our strategy for public health in England" stated that it "responds to Professor Sir Michael Marmot's Fair Society, Healthy Lives report and adopts its life course framework for tackling the wider determinants of health" [a].
In 2011, the Department of Health's Public Health Outcomes Framework set out the strategy for achieving this with the intention to follow the Review's life course framework for tackling the wider social determinants of health, stating that: "In improving the wider determinants of health, we have included a range of indicators that reflect factors that can have a significant impact on our health and wellbeing.
These indicators are in line with those recommended by Sir Michael Marmot in his report Fair Society, Healthy Lives in 2010, and focus on the "causes of the causes" of health inequalities.
Wherever possible, the indicators will follow the formulation published by the Marmot Review team and the London Health Observatory" [b].
The principles set out in these documents were then followed by inequalities duties - introduced for the first time by the Health and Social Care Act 2012.
As part of democratic scrutiny of these policies, members of the team have given oral and written evidence to several Select Committees [c].
The Institute has worked with the Department of Health and other national and local bodies, including NHS bodies and local government to help embed a social determinants approach to health inequalities throughout the health system in England, including advising and influencing national organisations such as the Department of Health, local authorities, Clinical Commissioning Groups, health sector and public health professionals.
The IHE's work has had measureable and important impacts across England, including influencing national and local government, the NHS, third and private sector organisations.
The shape of national health services has been influenced by our work.
Public Health England (PHE) was established in April 2013, bringing together specialists from more than 70 organisations into a single public health service.
The organisation reports that "the recommendations of the [Marmot] report have informed the design of PHE in general, and the Health and Wellbeing directorate in particular" [d].
Over 70% of local authorities are now working to embed `Marmot principles' in their approaches to improving health and reducing inequalities [e].
For example, Coventry Council describe its approach as follows: "Coventry is a Marmot City, and the aim of the Health and Well-being Board is to improve health and well-being levels in Coventry so they match the best in the Country.
The Health and Well-being Strategy is based around the six Marmot Themes which were identified in February 2010 by Professor Michael Marmot in his report "Fair Society, Healthy Lives" (link below).
These themes identify the wider social determinants of ill-health and have been adopted by the Coventry Health and Well-being Board" [f].
The Institute is engaged in a high profile programme of activity to encourage and support health professionals to tackle health inequalities.
The programme has been enthusiastically supported by Royal Colleges, the British Medical Association (BMA) and other relevant organisations who have provided many practical ideas for action and made commitments to embed them over the next few years.
For example, the Royal College of General Practitioners (RCGP) committed to: "ensuring that health inequalities are taken into account across all areas of RCGP activity and policy" and the Royal College of Nursing committed to "developing the workforce in terms of emphasis on the awareness of public health and social determinants of health in pre and post registration training" [g].
We have also been commissioned internationally to expand the impact of this work.
The WHO Regional Office for Europe commissioned us to lead a review to support the development and implementation of the new common health policy framework for Europe: Health 2020.
It was carried out to answer demands from policy makers and public health advocates for practical guidance on identifying "policies that work" to reduce the inequities in health1 between and within low-, medium- and high-income European countries [h].
The European Commission awarded a contract for IHE to lead a consortium to review progress made by its Member States in reducing health inequalities action and recommend action by Governments and the EC [i].
IHE has established international partnerships to support implementation of work on social determinants, including a sub-network of WHO European Health Cities network [j].
IHE has also worked with the Pan American Health Organisation (PAHO) to embed social determinants of health in its five year strategy, as shown in its recent update to Health in the Americas [k].
