     The research outlined above has `provided an immensely important catalyst       in securing action across a wide range of policy, science and practice       activities aimed at restoring and conserving peatlands' [a].
These       both include and stem from its influence on the formation of IUCN UK.
Lindsay's research for the RSPB peatbogs review [1] identified ways to       help build consensus and stimulated the inception of the International         Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) UK Peatland Programme (IUCN       UK PP), set up in 2009 to promote conservation and restoration of       peatlands in the UK and its Dependent Territories.
The Programme is       overseen by a coalition of environmental bodies including the John Muir       Trust, Scottish Wildlife Trust, Yorkshire Wildlife Trust, RSPB, North       Pennines AONB Partnership, Moors for the Future, Natural England and the       University of East London, which is the only academic partner to sit on       its Steering Group [a].
Contributions to UK and international policy debate and formulation:       The research has also subsequently informed policy discussion, debate and       decision-making across the UK, including in Scotland, which supports over       80% of the UK's deepest blanket bog peatlands.
At an All Scottish       Parliament debate on 4 November 2010 on 'Investing in the future of       Scotland's peatlands', members from across the political spectrum cited       the work of the IUCN UK Peatland Programme in calling for action to       restore Scottish bogs.
A subsequent Scottish Government discussion paper       (published December 2010) on the Management of Carbon-Rich Soils also       cites [1].
Since then, policy discussion and development has led to       allocation of substantial (&#163;1.7 million plus a further &#163;15 million)       funding by the Scottish Government to restore Scotland's peatland       landscape [b].
Findings from the 2011 IUCN UK PP's Commission of Inquiry of Peatlands       [2] were launched at the Scottish Parliament (by Rob Gibson MSP on 16       November 2011), at the House of Lords (by Lord Lindsay on 13 March 2012)       and at Stormont (20 March 2012 by Willie Clarke MLA and Danny Kinaham       MLA).
Coupled with the research published in Lindsay's earlier Peat and       Carbon Report, the Commission's findings prompted a joint statement of       commitment to peatland conservation and restoration from all four UK       Government Environment Ministers [c].
Meanwhile, Lindsay's       contribution to Natural England's Upland Evidence Review [3] has informed       that body's policy development for the English uplands: as Natural       England's Head of Profession for Climate Change has acknowledged, the       Review set out evidence in an authoritative way on the controversial issue       of managed burning, influencing their advice to land managers, approach to       sites protected under law, delivery of agri-environment schemes and       management of their National Nature Reserves [d].
Lindsay was able to extend the reach of his impacts on policy makers'       awareness and understanding of issues relating to his research during a       two-month Visiting Professorship with the Graduate School of Agricultural       and Life Sciences at the University of Tokyo.
In August 2011 he delivered       a major keynote speech to around 50 key researchers, agricultural       engineers and policy makers about the conflicts arising from agricultural       drainage of peatlands, carbon management, soil degradation and       biodiversity loss.
This has stimulated an entirely new debate among       practitioners and policy makers about agricultural use of peatlands in       northern Japan [e].
Contributions to global biodiversity and climate change policies:       The impacts arising from Lindsay's research have been extended through his       work in relation to the Strategic Plan of the Convention on Biological       Diversity (CBD), a global agreement addressing all aspects of       biological diversity.
In 2010, Lindsay was commissioned by the IUCN UK PP       to run a Defra-sponsored side event for contracting parties (government       delegations) and official partner NGOs at the 10th Conference       of Parities (COP10) of the CBD in Nagoya, Japan.
Here, Lindsay set out the       need for increased conservation and wise use of peatlands to some 30 key       delegates from various governments and policy-making organisations.
Peatlands, and the importance of their carbon management, were       subsequently highlighted within of the Aichi Targets of the CBD Strategic       Plan for 2011-2020, which provide the overarching framework for the       development of global biodiversity policy.
Contracting Parties, including       the UK Government, are now seeking to honour these new obligations by       developing programmes to achieve these new Aichi Targets [f].
Lindsay's work has provided valuable background for UK scientists who are       developing the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) guidance       on peatland rewetting, helping the interpretation of the variety of carbon       metrics arising from peatlands which will enable agreed values that could       have huge benefits in securing carbon funding for peatland restoration.
The 2013 Wetland Supplement to the 2006 Kyoto Guidelines, approved by the       IPCC in October, specifically includes peatlands as part of the reporting       process for National Greenhouse Gas Inventories [g].
Meanwhile the       UK's Climate Change Committee has drawn on Lindsay's work to inform its       deliberations about the role of peatlands in relation to climate change in       the UK [h].
Contributions to the development of peatland carbon codes, UK and         Germany: Between 2012 and 2013 Lindsay contributed to the production       of the Defra-sponsored UK Peatland Carbon Code, intended to support       markets to pay for the restoration and re-wetting of degraded peatlands       across the UK.
The development of such a Code was identified by Defra's       Ecosystem Markets Task Force and the UK Climate Change Committee as a key       priority for the UK Government.
Lindsay is a co-author of the underpinning       Defra Research Report [4], and of the Code itself, which was launched by       the Environment Minister, Mr Richard Benyon, on 10th September 2013 [i].
In January 2013, Lindsay participated in a joint workshop in Berlin to       support the development of MoorFutures, a similar investment instrument       for climate and nature conservation set up in March 2011 by the Minister       of Agriculture and Environment of the German federal state of       Mecklenburg-Western-Pomerania.
The workshop, which involved more than 50       specialists from a range of EU countries, helped to clarify and strengthen       the science underpinning the UK and German Codes.
Contributions to windfarm and track debate, and influence on legal         cases: Lindsay's research and provision of specialist advice on       windfarm and related impacts, indicating the actual and potential damage       caused when windfarm or other access roads are constructed on peatland       ecosystems, has influenced the outcome of several legal cases.
His 2004       report on the bogslide at Derrybrien, Co. Galway, was cited in 2008 by the       Irish High Court, finding in favour of the local community.
It formed part       of the evidence to the European Court of Justice (ECJ) by the European       Commission in its successful 2008 prosecution of the Irish Government [5].
All individual Derrybrien landowner compensation claims supported by       Lindsay's research have been successful in the Irish High Court [j].
His 2008 report on the very large windfarm proposed for the Isle of Lewis       [6] formed part of the RSPB's 2008 objection to the Scottish Minister, who       subsequently rejected the proposal.
Lindsay's evidence for Natural England       in relation to a moorland track constructed illegally on peat led to a       successful landmark prosecution in the High Court [k].
Impacts on public awareness of and engagement with environmental         issues relating to peatlands: As the Chair of IUCN UK National       Committee has noted, `the apparent contradictions in the science       [previously] made it difficult to convey a compelling case for peatland       conservation and restoration'; Lindsay's work has helped overcome such       confusions [1].
His research has also underpinned &#8212; and improved       the accuracy of &#8212; popular media coverage of peatland-related issues.
He       has drawn on it to contribute directly to coverage of windfarm development       in The Daily Mail (25 Feb 2013; average daily readership       4.25million), Sunday Telegraph (24 Feb 2013, 1.38million readers);       Telegraph (23 Feb 2013, 1.35million readers) and Yahoo News       (700million users per month).
Lindsay has also been interviewed about his       peatland-carbon work by BBC Radio Farming Today (2010), BBC       Manchester Radio (2010), and National Geographic Radio (2008) [l].
