     Our studies were initially established to understand the potential spread       of HIV, but have informed       many aspects of sexual health policy and practice over 20 years, becoming       a primary source of       information about sexual behaviour in Britain.
They are used widely by       policy makers and service       planners in both setting and monitoring strategy.
We provide key examples       of impact since 2008.
Impact on HIV service planning.
Natsal data are used by the Health       Protection Agency (HPA)       (now Public Health England [PHE]) in their annual estimates of the       population burden of HIV,       combining anonymous prevalence surveillance data with Natsal estimates of       the size of the       population at risk, to estimate the number infected and the proportion who       remain undiagnosed [a].
These data have underpinned national campaigns to increase and expand HIV       testing, for example       those run by the Terence Higgins Trust [b], and to assess the       impact of these campaigns [c].
Estimates of HIV distribution and other Natsal data are used to plan HIV       services locally and       nationally, for example in a sexual health needs assessment for London in       2008 [d], enabling NHS       resource distribution for effective service delivery.
Johnson served as a       Specialist Adviser to the       House of Lords Select Committee on HIV/AIDS in the UK (2011; Chair Lord       Fowler) which       emphasised the need to re-invigorate HIV Prevention Services [e].
Among their recommendations,       the final report of the Select Committee argued for the ban on HIV       home-testing kits to be       repealed, an outcome which is being processed following announcement by       the Chief Medical       Officer in August 2013.
Impact on the National Chlamydia Screening Programme (NCSP)       Natsal-2 data were used in       mathematical models to assess the impact of a screening programme on       chlamydia prevalence in       men and women.
This contributed to the evidence base for establishing the       NCSP [f], which has       opportunistically screened young people aged 15-24 for chlamydia since       2003.
Our data showing       similar chlamydia prevalence in men and women were used to support       inclusion of men in the       programme, rather than women only, as originally recommended and cited as       evidence for the       importance of increasing testing in men in the NCSP strategy Men too.
To date, NCSP has       delivered around 7.5 million tests, diagnosing over 470,000 infections in       young adults aged 15-24       (The vast majority of this impact occurred within the REF period &#8212; the       2008 NCSP annual report       stated that by that time only 700,000 tests had been carried out).
Although both the design and       cost-effectiveness of the programme have been criticised [see case study         UCL02-STE], the NCSP       report that "modelling suggests that the substantial increases in the         number of diagnoses made in         England between 2000 and 2010/11 has probably decreased the prevalence         of chlamydia among       sexually active under 25 year olds".
In 2010, Natsal questions were       included for the first time in the       Health Survey for England, and this survey demonstrated a high uptake of       the programme (44% of       women and 27% of men aged 16-24), greatest in those at highest risk [g].
Impact on HPV vaccination policy: In 2008, Natsal-2 data on sexual       behaviour and age at first       intercourse were used by the Joint Committee on Vaccination and       Immunisation (JCVI) in models       which showed the cost effectiveness of introducing bivalent HPV vaccine in       Britain for girls aged 12       to 14 at 80% coverage with a catch-up to age 18 [h].
A vaccination       programme commenced in       2008 and by 2012, 6 million doses of the vaccine had been delivered in       schools [i].
It is estimated       that about 400 lives could be saved every year in the UK as a result of       vaccinating girls [j].
Data       from Natsal-3 show high uptake of the catch-up programme (61.5%).
The JCVI       is undertaking an       HPV immunisation review and our data on prevalence of HPV vaccine and       non-vaccine subtypes       have been submitted as evidence which is under consideration (outcome       awaited).
Impact on young people's sexual health: Natsal-2 data on teenage       sexual partnerships and       contraceptive use were used in a modelling project for the Departments of       Health and Education in       2009 to contribute to a new approach to sexual health communications       recommended in the       Teenage Pregnancy and Sexual Health Marketing Strategy in 2009 [k].
It was implemented in the       2009 Sex: Worth Talking About campaign by NHS choices.
This print,       radio, digital, and television       campaign was designed to help young people make more informed choices       about their sexual       health and contraception, and to promote honest discussions about sex,       relationships, and       contraception between 16 to 24 year olds and their parents [l].
Natsal data on early sexual       experiences have been used as part of the evidence base for improved       provision of sexual health       services in schools and further education settings, including a guidance       document produced by the       Sex Education Forum for commissioners and practitioners in 2010 [m].
Data from the survey are       used on a number of public information websites as a reliable source of       information about sex.
Examples include: NHS Choices sex myth buster; Brook; one-plus-one; the       Family Planning       Association [n].
Contributing to Health Technology Assessments: Natsal-2 data were       used in three Health       Technology Assessments in the period 2008-13 [o]: 1) Natsal data on       sexual behaviour were used       to set the parameters for economic evaluation models assessing behavioural       interventions for STI       prevention STIs in young people; 2) Natsal data on the age-specific       prevalence of men who have       sex with men (MSM) were used in models to assess the cost-effectiveness of       screening HIV       positive men and women, and MSM, for anal cancer; 3) Natsal data were       cited as part of the       existing evidence base for school-linked sexual health services.
Impact on the Diagnostic and Statistical manual of mental disorders:       Natsal data were used       to define the minimum duration for sexual dysfunction in the latest       American Psychiatric       Association Diagnostic and Statistical manual of mental disorders (DSM V)         [p].
Public Engagement: Our public engagement work from 2008-2013 has       included media       interviews, for example an interview by Johnson on Radio 4's Am I         Normal?
(2011, Series 8,       Episode 1), in which the Natsal results on sexual behaviour were       contrasted to less reliable       impressions often given by the media.
Natsal has been used in two public       lectures which are       available via YouTube: a mini-lecture on the Natsal study in 2010       (Johnson; over 4,400 views) and       a UCL lunchtime lecture in 2011 (Johnson; over 1,800 views).
Johnson gave       a lecture about HIV at       the Cheltenham Science Festival in 2010.
Natsal was included as one of 14       case studies for its       impact at the Wellcome Trust 75th anniversary celebrations (2011) [q],       and for an oral history       recorded and available on open access from Wellcome Trust Witness seminar       series [r].
