     The Context: One of India's largest states, Andhra Pradesh       (AP) has around 57 million rural inhabitants.
Lack of financial       institutions meant that the rural poor, especially women, had few       opportunities to enhance their livelihoods.
In response to this, the State       Government started a microfinance programme in 1990.
Referred to as the       Self-Help-Group (SHG) programme, its main remit is to extend small loans       to groups of poor rural women to help enhance their livelihoods.
It is       administered by the state's apex rural bank &#8212; Andhra Pradesh Grameen Vikas       Bank (APGVB).
The livelihood wing of the bank is supported by a unit       within the State Government's Department for Rural Development &#8212; Society       for Elimination of Rural Poverty (SERP).
SERP operates in all the 22 rural       districts of AP and implements the Indira Kranti Patham (IKP) &#8212; a       programme with the remit to enhance the livelihoods and empower the women       of rural AP.
By March 2013, the SHG programme had over 10 million members       with a further 500,000 women joining every year.
The Problem: Despite these initiatives, until around 2009,       the administrative culture surrounding microfinance in AP was mainly       focused on loan repayments, irrespective of how repayments were made.
There was little attention paid to how loans were used and even less to       whether loans were used to enhance women's and their household's       livelihoods.
For instance, APGVB's         SHG Loan Application &#8212; a 19 page document &#8212; did not have a single       question on loan use or livelihoods.
Instead the focus was entirely on       loan repayments.
The Effort: Using this research and its policy related       messages, Dr Garikipati actively lobbied practitioners and policy makers       since 2003 for changes to the policy and practices surrounding loan       disbursement to poor rural women.
She attended and presented at several       meetings with SERP, APGVB and the National Bank for Agriculture and Rural       Development (NABARD) from August 2009 to July 2013.
Dr Garikipati has       nurtured a long term collaborative relationship with these institutions,       especially with SERP.
These efforts have contributed to a shift in       thinking among policy-makers and practitioners in the microfinance       industry in AP and resulted in changes to the loan application procedure       in terms of explicitly linking loans to enhancement of livelihoods.
The       research has also featured in several influential workshops organised by       NABARD, the British Council and the Institute of Financial Management and       Research between August 2009 and November 2012.
It is acknowledged by the       United Nations Research Institute for Social Development (UNRISD) as a       major contribution and stimulus to the debate and features in one of their       podcasts, entitled `Feminization         of Agriculture in a neoliberal India' (9 August 2012).
The Change: Specifically, these efforts have led to the       introduction of the Livelihood Enhancement Plan (LEP) -       which was designed and developed by Dr Garikipati.
The implementation of LEP       was supported by SERP and APGVB.
The main emphasise in designing LEP       was to simplify the survey instruments to facilitate its implementation.
All the LEP documents described below are submitted as       corroborating evidence (Source 1).
The LEP Framework, also developed by Dr Garikipati, introduces LEP       and details its implementation methodology.
LEP has two       components.
(1) Village Investment Opportunity Survey (VIOS) and       (2) Household Livelihood Plan (HLP).
Both are administered       by the Livelihood Assessment Officers, who are IKP employees and trained       by SERP.
VIOS is a village level survey and is administered when a village       is enrolled in the SHG programme.
It captures the existing profile of the       village and helps identify livelihood opportunities in the local       enterprise economy.
HLP is similar to the VIOS, but at the       household level.
It is administered in relation to a SHG member when she       applies for a microfinance loan.
It has two further sub-components (1) Household         Information Survey and (2) Household Appraisal Form.
The       first component is used to construct a detailed profile of the household,       with a focus on livelihood activities.
It also captures how the applicant       intends to use the loan for livelihood enhancement.
The second component       has three forms: for Farm activities, for Agro-Allied activities and for       Non-Farm activities.
Depending on the profile of the household and the       applicant's plans for the loan, an appropriate form is selected.
This form       is used to capture the current activities of the household in the relevant       area and explores the possibilities of enhancing livelihoods in that area.
All the processes and forms under LEP were developed by Dr       Garikipati.
The Beneficiaries: LEP has been in use by SERP via       its IKP programme since 2009.
LEP was first introduced in three       semi-arid districts and was rolled out to all 22 rural districts of AP by       April 2012.
LEP has contributed to a change in loan disbursement       culture both within SERP and APGVB.
Letters from the Director of SERP and       the Chairperson of APGVB have been submitted as corroborating evidence       (Sources 2 and 3).
The other beneficiaries of LEP are the IKP officers, who work at       the grassroots to improve rural livelihoods.
LEP has given them a       structured way in which to work towards enhancing women's livelihoods.
They use VIOS to carry out the village level surveys to understand       the structure of the local economy and identify livelihood enhancing       opportunities.
The IKP officers interact with the SHG-women when they come       to apply for loans at APGVB's rural branches.
They use this opportunity to       administer HLP, with a view to understand how women intend to use       their loans, especially their livelihood plans.
The IKP officers then link       these plans with the needs of the local enterprise economy.
The IKP       officer's perspective on LEP has been submitted as corroborating       evidence (Source 4).
SERP has carried out studies which suggest that LEP has had a       beneficial impact on the entrepreneurial behaviour of SHG-women and has       resulted in enhanced livelihoods in rural AP (Source 2).
In SERP's       official e-newsletter (2013), the present state of the SHG bank linkage       project includes the implementation of VIOS "to identify all investment       opportunities in the village economy" (Source 5).
Since April 2012, LEP       is estimated to have been used on 500,000 new women who join the SHG       programme every year (Source 4).
Dr Garikipati has initiated negotiations       with government organisations to roll out LEP at the all India level.
