     `New Conservation' has been used to structure Chandler's       development in 2012/13 of the RIBA's       first education programme for Conservation architecture, engaging with up       to 50 Diploma students       at each of 10 schools of Architecture across the UK, linking the       experience of materials and       technique through `hands-on' construction workshops, social history,       strategy and philosophy as       integrated aspects of Conservation practice [a].
The `New         Conservation' education programme       connects Conservation architects on the RIBA Conservation Register, chosen       by Chandler, to       participating schools of architecture, giving contributing practitioners       RIBA continuous professional       development credits and promoting the benefits of entering the       Conservation Register (Registrant       level) to graduating students.
Chandler's research publications led to an invitation in 2011 to sit on       the RIBA Conservation Group       (CG).
His subsequent CG-commissioned research (April 2012) [4] explored       the potential       requirement for Conservation teaching within RIBA-validated professional       programmes.
In       concluding that a formal requirement was inappropriate, Chandler       recommended the development       of a RIBA-led teaching programme to engage design teaching with       Conservation philosophy       through case studies and construction material workshops.
Approval was       granted by the RIBA       Director of Education in January 2013, and at the RIBA Practice and       Profession Committee in       February 2013 [b].
In approving the `New Conservation' education       programme, Chandler was       asked to act as education adviser to the Conservation Group and to be the       RIBA link to COTAC       (Conference on Training in Architectural Conservation), the Edinburgh       Group (the UK forum for       Professional Conservation Registers), and the SPAB.
Chandler's `New Conservation' research, and his standing within       the RIBA, led to an invitation       (October 2012) to collaborate with a team of Chilean architects led by       Cecilia Puga.
Together they       went on to win the International `Recuperacion y Puesta en Valor del       Monumento Historico Palacio       Pereira' competition (December 2012).
The competition, established by       Chilean President Manuel       Pinera, was a national project to celebrate the Bicentenary of Chile,       providing a national, public       centre for the Directorate of Libraries, Archives, Museums and National       Monuments.
Key to the       competition for the 5,700sq.m redevelopment was the requirement for the       winning scheme to       articulate not only a new vision for the restoration of the ruined       Palacio, but to establish priorities       for the wider practice of conservation in Chile.
The Heritage Directorate       recognised limitations with       conservation practice to date in Chile, and sought to use this prestigious       competition to articulate a       new direction.
Lead architect on the competition, Cecilia Puga, summarised Chandler's       strategic contribution in a       letter in which she states: "our success in this competition was due         to a genuine response         combination of design and philosophy, and was recognised by the         Government in its praise of the         strategy and the sensitivity we as a team had shown" [c].
The       National Monuments Council of Chile       organised a strategy development workshop in Santiago to expand the ideas       that underpinned the       Palacio success &#8212; "the Workshop, held with the key members of the         Government and the design         team really came together around the ideas you put forward and the         analysis you presented on         international exemplary projects, locating our project within a new         attitude towards conservation         that our Government is embracing" [c].
Linking material understanding to conservation philosophy, Chandler's       `Conservation Strategy'       (translated as the text for the competition entry) presented new       correlations of ideas within a South       American context, elaborated through his ongoing project involvement and       site documentation.
In       March 2013 Chandler presented a paper on new relationships between       conservation philosophy       and practice to the Chilean Authorities in Santiago, and led a workshop       with leading Conservation       professionals looking at the implications of his strategy for wider       conservation policy [d, e].
These       activities generated high profile Chilean media coverage, including in `El       Mercurio', the country's       paper-of-record       and part of a network of 19 regional dailies and 32 national radio       stations, with a       circulation of over 200,000, and numerous web platforms [f, g], and a       documentary film of the site       based strategy workshops, made by the Governments National Archive.
Policy change is ongoing, engaging professionals, academics and decision       makers in the issues of       `New Conservation' addresses the lack of Conservation design debate       within Chilean       architectural education as part of a broader strategy to renew government       policy on historic       building management.
As a result of the contribution to critical debate in       Chile on the practice of       conservation, Chandler will be a keynote speaker at the `Dialogues on       heritage 2013' conference in       Santiago run by the National Monuments Council, in conversation on stage       with its Executive       Secretary, Emilio De la Cerda on the 6th November.
