     Since their launch in the UK in 2009, the UK-WHO growth charts developed       by Cole and others are now used universally.
They were introduced in       England in May 2009, in Wales and Scotland in January 2010 and in Northern       Ireland in October 2010 [a].
The charts are available in two       formats: A5 charts that are included in the personal child health record       (PCHR) known as the "red book", and A4 professional charts (0-4 years,       2-18 years, NICM).
All new mothers receive a copy of the PCHR, [b]       so that in 2012, for example, the PCHR was distributed to all parents of       the 813,000 infants born in the four countries that year.
The charts and       their interpretation were also discussed in the government's Birth to         Five book, produced by the Department of Health in 2009 and       distributed free to all new parents in England until 2011; in Wales a       bilingual edition is issued [c].
The A4 professional charts are used in primary, secondary and tertiary       care, and for the year to April 2013 the numbers sold by the publishers,       Harlow Printing Limited, for each chart were as follows:            0-4 years - 400,000 copies       2-18 years - 287,000 copies       NICM - 95,000 copies [d]           These numbers are impressive, not only in terms of their size, but also       because they show how rapidly the UK-WHO charts have superseded the       previous British 1990 charts (amounting to 90% of total growth chart       sales).
As they enable practitioners to recognise the range of normal       development, the UK-WHO charts are uniquely well designed to achieve UK       government policy aims in relation to child health, namely with regard to       early recognition of growth disorders and risk factors for obesity, as       defined in the Healthy Child Programme [b, e].
In June 2013, the       CPCM chart was released.
This is a modification of the main school age       chart for use in children with growth or nutritional problems.
It extends       to age 20 years and features a body mass index (BMI) chart; low and high       lines to monitor unusually short, thin or overweight children; puberty       phase specific thresholds to assess small children with late onset puberty       and tall children with early onset puberty [f].
The UK work has also had an impact internationally.
For example, the 0-4       years and NICM charts have been adapted for use in New Zealand [g],       where they have been used since mid-2010.
From January 2013, they have       also been in use in Ireland [h], where all newborn infants are       assessed using them.
As an indication of reach, 72,000 babies were born in       Ireland in 2012 [i].
The guiding principles in the chart design were that the charts should be       evidence-based, useful and easy to use &#8212; and hence more likely to be       effective.
Parents often claim to understand growth charts, yet they show       only limited comprehension when tested [j].
Therefore the charts       were developed with better layout than before, and with instructions for       the PCHR and A4 charts targeted at their respective audiences, parents and       professionals [k].
The new and improved elements on the charts also benefit both parents and       professionals.
These include a reduced emphasis on the 50th       centile, as sometimes parents expect all `normal' children to grow along       the 50th centile line.
On the new charts however, there are more centile       labels and the curve labels sit on the 50th centile to assist orientation       when plotting and interpreting [l].
A `dip' in weight between 2-4       weeks is no longer seen, as the charts have more information on weight       gain in the first few weeks, and they allow for the average tendency for       infants to show a slower net weight gain up to age 2 weeks [l].
The new adult height predictor tells parents how tall their child will       be, a matter of endless interest.
It also allows professionals to compare       the prediction with the parents' heights, and hence detect a possible       growth disorder.
For this a graphical parent height comparator is       provided, which improves on the British 1990 calculator by avoiding the       need for any calculations.
Child obesity is a considerable public health concern, and these charts       provide better tools for assessing possible weight problems in children.
In the past, BMI in children has been relatively little used as a       screening tool, due to the need for calculation and a separate BMI chart.
The new charts include a BMI look-up, which provides the BMI centile from       the height and weight centiles, avoiding both BMI calculation and a BMI       chart.
This makes it easy to plot the child's BMI centile over time, and       it is likely to considerably increase parental and professional awareness       of a child's overweight, which parents are poor at recognising [m].
