     The underpinning research described above has prompted an international       effort to understand the       emergence, distribution, epidemiology, impact and control of Bd.
This work has illustrated how Bd       is unrivalled among pathogens in host range and its impact on       biodiversity.
Before Bd, wildlife       disease was considered a specialist, peripheral subject of interest, but       is now firmly on the ecology       and conservation biology agendas.
Bd surveillance     As a result of his research into Bd, Cunningham was invited in       2006 to become a founder member       of the World Organisation for Animal Health (OIE) amphibian disease ad         hoc group.
This group       reviewed available research (much from IOZ) and unanimously agreed to       recommend that       amphibian chytridiomycosis be listed by the OIE.
This was agreed by the       OIE General Session in       May 2008, making amphibian chytridiomycosis (along with ranaviral disease)       the first OIE-listed       amphibian pathogen [a].
This listing made chytridiomycosis       internationally notifiable and thus       subject to OIE standards, which aim to assure the sanitary safety of       international trade in live       amphibians and their products.
A total of 178 Member Countries are       Signatories to the OIE - these       countries are now obliged to instigate surveillance and control measures       for chytridiomycosis.
As a       result, a network of government agencies, research institutions, NGOs and       other parties have       developed regional and national surveillance schemes.
Our work has led to       diagnostic labs for Bd       detection being set up and staff trained by Cunningham, Garner and Becki       Lawson (IOZ Research       Fellow) in several countries [b].
Since 2009, the European surveillance effort has been coordinated through       the IOZ via the RACE       project, which involves NGOs, universities and government agencies in 15       EU Member and       Associate States [c].
Data from this and other projects, including       the UK national Bd surveillance       project (commissioned by the UK conservation agencies and Defra and       conducted by Cunningham       in 2008 and 2011), are open access and used by disease researchers across       the globe.
The       results of our 2008 UK Bd surveillance, which involved the       training and engagement of hundreds of       citizen science volunteers, led to Natural England requiring any protected       amphibians being       translocated to be tested for, and free of, Bd prior to issuing a       translocation licence [d].
The       surveillance results also led to Defra commissioning IOZ to conduct a       three-year study to       investigate the epidemiology of the pathogen in the UK, which will be used       to inform UK       government policy on the control of Bd in the UK.
International policy     Although amphibians are not listed in the Appendices of the Convention on       Migratory Species,       chytridiomycosis was one of the diseases that alerted the Convention on       Migratory Species (CMS)       Scientific Council to the importance of disease as a conservation threat       to wildlife, prompting the       adoption of two CMS Resolutions: 9.8 Responding to the Challenge of       Emerging and Re-Emerging       Diseases in Migratory Species, Including Highly Pathogenic Avian Influenza       H5N1 (2008), and       10.22 Wildlife Disease and Migratory Species (2011).
Resolution 9.8 led to       the creation of the       UNEP-CMS and FAO Co-convened Scientific Task Force on Wildlife and       Ecosystem Health.
In       2012, Cunningham was technical editor for the disease factsheet on       amphibian chytridiomycosis       which formed part of the Ramsar Wetland Disease Manual (Ramsar Technical       Report No.
7),       produced by the Wildfowl &amp; Wetlands Trust for the Ramsar Convention       (an international treaty on       the conservation of wetlands) [e].
Mitigating the effects of Bd     Research by Cunningham, Garner and their students have developed chemical       antifungal       treatments for Bd (primarily using Itraconazole) for captive       animals and these are now used by       zoos (e.g.
by the Team Leader in Herpetology, ZSL London Zoo) and others       across the world.
Working with Defra, we produced a national risk assessment for Bd       in the UK - the first of its kind       in the world [f].
In 2008, Cunningham convened an international workshop in Dominica, from       which       representatives of nine governments in the region attended.
This workshop       produced a       Chytridiomycosis Management Plan for the Lesser Antilles Region [g].
This plan markedly raised       awareness about amphibian conservation and wildlife disease amongst       wildlife departments and       others in the region, leading to conservation measures in the region [h].
Biosecurity measures used in amphibian conservation programs in the       Caribbean, across Europe,       and in China were first developed by Cunningham and are communicated to a       wider audience as       best practice guidelines for field researchers working in aquatic       environments and are available on       the websites of a variety of GOs and NGOs [i].
