     Wilson's research had sweeping impacts on the policy of the European       Union towards its eastern neighbours, the former countries of the Soviet       Union.
His recommendations, based on his research described in section 3,       to upgrade and give extra resources to the `Eastern Partnership' programme       since its formal launch in May 2009 have been taken up by the EU, leading       to a highly successful advisory mission to Moldova.
He has consistently       argued for twin track policies of `sign and sanction' (`carrots and       sticks') in Belarus and Ukraine and contributed to making the Ukrainian       media more free and fair around election time in 2012.
Wilson has pursued an active engagement strategy with senior and       influential decision-makers across Europe, both independently and as a       senior policy fellow in a leading European think tank, the European       Council on Foreign Relations (ECFR).
Drawing on his research, Wilson's       high-level policy engagement - writing briefing notes, attending policy       meetings and seminars, and private advice - has substantially shaped the       EU's relations with its key Eastern neighbours.
European Union (EU) relations with Moldova     An Eastern Partnership (EaP) policy was formally launched on 7 May 2009.
This EU policy is a technocratic, long-term strategy of offering       partnership countries (the post-Soviet states of Armenia, Azerbaijan,       Belarus, Georgia, Moldova, and Ukraine) the prospect of eventual political       and economic alignment with the EU while dampening hopes of actual       accession.
In 2008-2009, a series of crises (conflict in Georgia, a gas       crisis in Ukraine and the burning of the Moldovan parliament) indicated a       need to rethink the EaP.
In 2008-10 whilst a Senior Policy Fellow at the       ECFR, Wilson collaborated with Nicu Popescu, a Moldova expert, to draw on       his arguments in [a] to show that the EU's policy of `enlargement-lite'       would not be successful in eastern Europe.
Wilson and Popescu argued that       the EU was ineffective in responding to crises in partnership countries       and that, consequently, Russia was strengthening its influence in the       region [c].
Moldova had recently held disputed elections with serious       violations of human rights.
As a result, relations with the EU were at an       all-time low.
Wilson and Popescu argued that the best way to improve EU       relations was through `soft' approaches such as sending policy advisors to       support the development of democratic institutions.
This report was widely praised in the press, including by the Economist       and the Guardian [1].
Wilson and Popescu launched a highly       activist advocacy strategy, including three EU-Russia seminars in Brussels       with key EU officials (July 2008-May 2009), private meetings and       delivering briefing notes to key policy makers, such as French Foreign       Minister Bernard Kouchner (August 2008), and EU Foreign Policy High       Representative Catherine Ashton (June 2010).
The report was quoted in a       speech by Poland's Foreign Minister, Radek Sikorski, at the Eastern       Partnership summit in Warsaw in September 2011 [2], demonstrating that       policymakers were listening.
Wilson and Popescu's arguments proved successful.
The EaP was upgraded,       made more conditional (the `more for more' policy) and given greater       resources [3].
In 2011 the EU declared a need to revise its European       Neighbourhood Policy which governs EU relations with countries to the East       and South of the EU: Wilson's research and advice [c] is evident in one of       the four strands of the new approach, "to provide greater support to         partners engaged in building deep democracy" (rights to free speech,       competitive political parties and impartial justice) [4].
Wilson's and Popescu's recommendation to send policy advisors to Moldova       to support democratic reforms was adopted: the EU High Level Policy Advice       Mission (EUHLPM) to Moldova was constituted in January 2010, with a team       of 15 international expert advisors, and a current budget of &#8364;6.6 million       funded by the European Union and co-funded and implemented by the United       Nations Development Programme in Moldova [5].
Since then, the EUHLPM has       helped to make this tiny and impoverished country a `star pupil'.
By 2012,       Moldova ranked first in the Eastern Partnership Index for the liberal       reforms encouraged by the EU and was the only one to buck a trend towards       increasing authoritarianism [5].
The importance of the EUHLPM's       contribution was recognised by the extension of its term to October 2013       and the increase of resources allocated to the EUHLPM from &#8364;1.5 million       initially to &#8364;6.6 million in 2013 [5].
EU sanctions policy in Belarus     Shortly after a rigged election in 2010 and an aggressive crackdown on       protests by Belarus, Wilson argued in an ECFR policy paper that, based on       his analysis of President Lukashenka's hold on power [d], the EU needed to       raise the stakes for both Belarus and Russia through a mixture of targeted       and `smart' isolation, selective sanctions and engagement [6], including       the cessation of high-level contacts, visa bans for those responsible for       the December 2010 election fraud (the `sticks') and simultaneous       investment in civil society (the `carrot').
These recommendations were       disseminated among EU policymakers through meetings, briefings and       discussions, including two events (2010, 2011) where Wilson was lead       speaker at the UK Foreign &amp; Commonwealth Office (FCO).
As a direct       result [6], EU sanctions policy for Belarus changed to a `twin-track'       policy of selective sanctions against Belarusian officials and support for       civil society.
This was announced by the European Commissioner for       Enlargement and European Neighbourhood Policy (&#352;tefan F&#252;le) on 2 February       2011, who also announced an increase in funding for civil society from &#8364;4       million to &#8364;15.6 million [7].
Suspension of the EU free trade agreement with Ukraine     The Deep and Comprehensive Free Trade Area (DCFTA) aims to give Ukraine a       framework for modernising its trade relations with the EU through market       liberalisation and various trade-related regulations to bring key sectors       of the Ukrainian economy into alignment with EU standards.
With a       population of 45 million, Ukraine is the largest country in the Eastern       Partnership and the EU is one of its most important trade partners.
Yet       relations were at an impasse because of concerns about the selective       persecution of regime opponents and increasing authoritarianism and       corruption.
In 2011 when EU-Ukraine relations were at a low point and negotiations on       the DCFTA almost at an impasse, Wilson argued in a memo [8] for the ECFR       that, based on his findings in [c], the EU should take a `sign and       sanction' approach to keep the DCFTA alive and allow Ukraine time to       implement the policies recommended by the EU.
As a result of Wilson's       advice [6] disseminated through policy papers and talks, these       recommendations were adopted by the EU in late 2011 [8].
Influencing election monitoring in Ukraine     Wilson's research [a] had showed how some political elites in post-Soviet       countries systematically use political technology to `fake       democracy'.
This was instrumental in shaping the strategy used by the       Election Observation Mission (EOM) of the Organisation for Security and       Co-operation in Europe (OSCE) for the 2012 parliamentary elections in       Ukraine.
In 2006, Wilson was appointed advisor [9] to the OSCE, which monitors       elections to check compliance with standards for democratic elections.
Here, he drew on [a] to argue that election monitoring in post-Soviet       countries should consider the election process as a whole instead of       focusing on election day itself.
Manipulating the cast list for the actual       participants in elections, he argued, is as important for the elections       outcomes as fraud in the counting process.
As a result of this advice, there were tangible changes in how the       623-member strong OSCE Office for Democratic Institutions and Human Rights       (ODIHR) EOM approached the 2012 parliamentary elections in Ukraine.
In the       early 2000s, the OSCE-ODIHR only looked at due process and clean counting       on election day, whereas in 2012 its EOM in Ukraine was an embedded       mission lasting several weeks to examine whether the whole process may be       corrupted [10].
As a result, the EOM identified specific political       technologies used to `fake democracy' [a], including abuse of state       resources, lack of transparency of campaign and party financing and the       lack of balanced media coverage [11].
Following the recommendations of       this report, Ukraine announced the start of an electoral reform process,       and the OSCE was requested to comment on the draft laws in April 2013.
Some of the positive changes of the proposed reform which derive       ultimately from Wilson's research are:            Introducing requirements for reporting on the origin and use of         campaign funds before election day and for publication of these reports         on the CEC website;       Including provisions intended to result in less biased coverage of the         elections by the media and to reduce privileges given to government         candidates over other candidates (p. 5, [12]).
