     Nature of the Impact: This ICS is claiming impact in terms of       public discourse and policy debates as specified in Table D 1 of Section D       3 of the Panel Criteria and Working Methods guidelines.
Professor       Ritschl's work on Germany's interwar debt crisis and the debt forgiveness       that fostered post-war Germany's economic miracle has had a strong impact       on public discourse and policy debates about Greece, both within Germany       and abroad.
In June 2011, Christiane Giesen, a journalist from Deutschlandradio         Kultur [A] contacted Professor Ritschl specifically to discuss his       new interpretations of Germany's deflationary policy in the years       preceding Hitler as an austerity policy imposed by her foreign creditors.
The interview explored the possible risks to Greece's society and economy       of imposing similar austerity policies.
Ritschl argued the only way to       prevent political destabilisation in Greece was a major debt haircut, the       sooner the better.
The next day, Yasmin el-Sharif from Spiegel Online, the largest       German-speaking news website, contacted Ritschl for a similar interview,       specifically to place Greece's threatening bankruptcy in an historical and       international context.
Over the course of the extended interview, Ritschl       also mentioned how Germany's various debt defaults easily made her the       largest debt defaulter in the 20th century, a remark that the interviewer       promptly turned into the headline.
This interview appeared on 21 June 2011 [B] and caused a minor media       sensation.
The morning it was published, el-Sharif contacted Ritschl to       report that over 100,000 readers had clicked on it; later in the day, the       tally had more than doubled.
During the day, Ritschl was contacted by The         Guardian for an op-ed piece summarizing his views [C].
Other interview requests came in starting on the same day, including from       Greece's leading newspaper, To Vima [D].
This paper has since been       a major catalyst of the debate, with many interviews and mentions.
During       the 12 months up to July 2013, this outlet mentioned or interviewed       Ritschl eight times.
An avalanche of similar interview requests followed       [samples in E].
These interviews covered public concerns such as, "Is       there a way out of the debt crisis through austerity?
Will the Eurozone       break up?
Would the technocratic governments of Monti, Papademos and       others bring stability to Southern Europe and achieve a turnaround?
Could       political extremists be kept at bay?"
[typical sample F].
Such concerns, buttressed by the public impact of Ritschl's historical       evidence on Germany's own past as a debt defaulter, also led to a       political rift in the German government, which became apparent in 2011.
Discussions within the Economics Ministry's advisory board (of which       Ritschl is an active member) were bringing about a consensus that some       sort of insolvency process for Greece should be initiated.
The minister,       Philipp Roesler, took this to the public in September 2011 and started an       open spat with Schaeuble, the German finance minister.
Schaeuble's harsh       answer provoked an open letter by prominent academics [G] from the       advisory boards of both Ministries, as well as a related plan for debt       writedowns by Germany's Council of Economic Advisors       (Sachverstaendigenrat).
Sharp rises in transfers to Southern Europe within the ECB's Eurosystem       payment facility, Target-2, caused some concern amongst members of the       advisory board of Germany's economics Ministry.
At a meeting of that board       in September 2011, Bundesbank president Helmut Schlesinger pointed out a       suspicious increase in the short-term Target-2 balances of the Bundesbank.
Ritschl drew parallels with the Reichsbank's short term clearing balances       from World War II, which also reflected substantial current account       imbalances, just with signs reversed.
Hans-Werner Sinn, also present at       the meeting, weeks later presented the first of a series of warnings       against the transfers to southern Europe in this system.
This culminated       in an op-ed in the New York Times in the summer of 2012 [H] in       which Sinn charged that, through Target-2 and other programmes, Greece had       already received more financial assistance than Germany under the postwar       Marshall Plan.
Ritschl was invited by The Economist to respond.
Ritschl's op-ed       pointed out a fundamental fallacy in Sinn's argument: Sinn had forgotten       to include the large amounts of debt forgiveness, inter alia on its World       War II clearing balances, which Germany received after World War II as a       dowry to her postwar reconstruction [I].
The angry exchange that followed       [J] again caused a spike in interest with Ritschl's media mentions       doubling [K-Reference from LSE media mentions].
Ritschl reiterated his calls for an orderly Greek debt workout in an       interview with Germany's Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung (FAZ) in       February of 2012, which was again widely reported in the European press       and led to another spike in his press mentions.[K].
Ritschl has twice       appeared at European Parliament conferences, has featured in a German TV       documentary on Germany's postwar reconstruction [L] centring on Ritschl's       narrative and with him as the lead expert, and he has been interviewed by       major international media outlets.
Ritschl's influence has been described as `immense' [M] by the honorary       head of the British-Hellenic chamber of commerce and his influence and       predictions have been cited in a survey of leading economists [N].
