     The work of ICR scientists on the BRCA genes has had a major       clinical impact and has resulted in significant improvements in care for       those with BRCA mutations, as well as having the commercial impact       of stimulating the development of new drugs by pharmaceutical companies.
These impacts stemmed from the identification of the BRCA2 gene in       1995 (Research Ref 1 above).
For affected patients, genetic testing for       cancer predisposition genes is key to the precise diagnosis of the       disease; it also guides the subsequent treatment and management of the       patient, with significant benefits to their care, wellbeing and treatment       outcomes.
Genetic testing also provides guidance to relatives by       identifying at-risk, but unaffected, individuals for screening or       risk-reducing interventions.
The identification of genetic factors may       also provide clues as to the origins of a patient's cancer and alleviate       their often distressing concerns over the causes of the disease.
The ICR, with its clinical partner the Royal Marsden NHS Foundation Trust       (RM), has prepared genetic testing protocols to facilitate implementation       of BRCA testing in mainstream oncology [1]), is coordinating an       audit of the new protocols which will inform national guideline,s and has       provided resources for BRCA2 patients ("A beginners guide to BRCA1       and BRCA2" [2]).
This guide is regularly downloaded (for example, 316       downloads in the period 15 May to 24 July 2013).
The ICR/RM clinical teams       run regular patient update days for BRCA carriers and (in       collaboration with Macmillan) have produced a patient information booklet       for carriers; "Cancer genetics &#8212; how cancer sometimes runs in families"       [3].
ICR/RM have also developed a Carrier Clinic model for the management       of BRCA carriers, which has been widely adopted [4].
BRCA2       testing is now routinely used by health services worldwide to identify       those at high risk of developing cancer and to advise on preventative       strategies (NICE clinical guideline CG41 [5]; US Preventative Services       Task Force).
It is estimated that in the US alone over 100,000 individuals       are screened per year (Myriad.com web site).
NICE estimate that currently       in the UK 7 per 100,000 population are undergoing testing and that this       number is likely to treble in the next few years.
Following on from the discovery of the BRCA1 and BRCA2 genes and       the recognition of their role in conferring predisposition to breast       cancer, a team led by Professors Martin Leach and Ros Eeles (ICR Faculty,       UoA1) carried out a national multicentre study, the MARIBS clinical trial,       looking at the role of magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) in women who are BRCA       mutation carriers [6].
The study demonstrated that in this group of women,       screening for tumours by MRI was significantly more sensitive than X-ray       mammography.
The results of the MARIBS clinical trial formed the       foundation of new NICE guidance (NICE clinical guideline CG41, replaced in       June 2013 by CG164 [7]).
MRI screening for such women is now standard care       in the UK, and since this group of women at higher risk of cancer is more       regularly screened and from an earlier age, the use of MRI rather than       X-ray exposure has had an additional major benefit of improving screening       safety.
The outcomes of the MARIBS study also resulted in American Cancer       Society recommendations for MRI screening for early breast cancer       detection in high risk women without breast symptoms [8].
Research by Ashworth's team at the ICR has demonstrated the critical role       of BRCA2 in DNA repair and later the synthetic lethal effect of PARP       inhibitors in BRCA1 and BRCA2 mutated tumours (Research       Ref 3 above).
These research findings rapidly led to clinical trials of       olaparib (AZD2281), a novel, potent, orally active PARP inhibitor, and in       July 2009, the Phase I results were published, showing remarkable clinical       impact in breast, ovarian and prostate cancer patients carrying mutated       forms of BRCA1 or BRCA2 [9].
Olaparib was initially       developed by the UK company KuDOS (later acquired by AstraZeneca) as a       potential chemo- and radiotherapy sensitiser.
ICR work showed how this       drug could be used to most effect in BRCA carriers, leading       AstraZeneca to invest in further research.
Olaparib has now been tested in       multiple clinical trials worldwide involving over 3,000 patients       (ClinicalTrials.gov; for example trial NCT00753545, conducted at RM) and       is moving into Phase III studies (Nature News 11 Sep 2013).
A number of       other companies are developing PARP inhibitors as a direct result of the       insight provided by the research at ICR (for example, Clovis &#8212;       NCT01009190, Biomarin &#8212; NCT01286987, Eisai &#8212; NCT01618136, Abbott &#8212;       NCT01051596; see ClinicalTrials.gov).
The research by ICR in this field has had a major impact on patient       treatment and outcome.
In particular, the presence of a BRCA       mutation in ovarian cancer patients is predictive of a good response to       treatments such as carboplatin and PARP inhibitors.
It is now becoming       common for HGS (high grade serious) ovarian cancer patients to be tested       for BRCA mutations to guide treatment choices.
ICR and RM, under       the leadership of Professor Stan Kaye (ICR Faculty), led an international       and multi-centre Phase II study of olaparib in BRCA mutated ovarian cancer       which confirmed the high level activity of this type of drug and       established the likely importance of dose, recommending monotherapy with       olaparib 400 mg twice per day as a suitable dose to explore in further       studies (Research Ref 5 above).
This encouraged investigators and       AstraZeneca to focus on this particular subgroup of patients, and on the       basis of a positive outcome from a further randomised trial, olaparib has       been put forward to the regulatory authorities for approval and       registration in Europe for the maintenance treatment of BRCA       mutated ovarian cancer.
