     The research described above has been used to contribute new knowledge,       advocacy, technical advice and capacity development at country level, and       to strengthen pro-poor and gendered land tools in the Muslim world.
This       has resulted particularly from its influence on the policies and       activities of the Global Land Tool Network and UN-Habitat, and its use as       the basis for developing and implementing training tools and material used       by policymakers and practitioners around the world.
It has also been used       to develop important new land laws; most recently, it has underpinned the       production of an entirely new Interim Legal Framework for the Benadir       region of Somalia.
Through mainstream platforms such as the World Urban       Forum organised by the UN, the research has helped lead to new thinking       and synergies on innovative, pro-poor and gendered land and property       rights in the Muslim world.
Contributions to the development of GLTN policy: GLTN is the       world's leading pro-poor land and property rights network; its 60 global       partners include the World Bank, UN agencies, professional associations       and civil society networks (www.gltn.net).
UEL was a founder member of the Network when it was set up in 2006, and       led its International Advisory Board for research and training       institutions between 2006 and 2012.
Recognising the gap in understanding       of Islamic dimensions of land in Muslim countries, in 2007 the GLTN       peer-reviewed and subsequently adopted the research underpinning and later       published in LLI [1] as the baseline for its `Islamic Mechanism'       cross-cutting theme.
That Mechanism has since allowed the Network and its       members to adopt an Islamic lens as appropriate within a legal pluralist       approach.
The influence of the research is evident in the inclusion of the Islamic       Mechanism in key GLTN policy documents, including Handling Land:         Innovative tools for land governance and secure tenure [a], which       had been downloaded from the GLTN website more than 350 times as of 31       July 2013.
That document likewise reflects the influence of UEL research       on the development of the GLTN's `gender' and `youth' themes.
The insights       published in LLI are also highlighted prominently in the influential       report UN State of the Arab Cities Report 2012 [b, p.103].
Contributions to UN-Habitat policy: On the basis of his research &#8212;       and subsequent expertise &#8212; in Islamic dimensions, Sait has made invited       contributions to policy discussion and formulation within various       UN-Habitat forums.
These have included his role as chair of the Evaluation       Panel of UN-Habitat Iraq operations (2011), and membership (since 2012) of       its Executive Director's Advisory Group on Gender Issues [c].
He also sits       on its Institutional Reform Panel (2011) and an ad hoc review panel for       projects relating to land law in Muslim countries including Somalia, Iran,       Iraq, Saudi Arabia and Syria.
One of the most significant contributions made by the research to       UN-Habitat policy has been its influence on the development of the Gender       Evaluation Criteria (GEC) framework, a set of 22 evaluation questions used       to assess, and where necessary improve, the gender responsiveness of       large-scale land tools.
The GEC was developed jointly between 2008 and       2009 through consultation meetings and e-forums involving the UN-Habitat,       the International Federation of Surveyors (FIG), the Huairou Commission       and UEL.
Sait (who was seconded to the GLTN as its Gender Officer in       2005-06) particularly influenced the incorporation into the GEC of the       cross-cultural perspective characteristics of the research described       above.
According to the Human Settlements Officer of UN-Habitat's Somali       Programme, Sait's research contributions were "vital in the       operationalizing of the Gender Evaluation Criteria...[his] gender and       Islamic research contributing to its pioneering cross-cultural       methodology" [d].
He also co-authored the GEC implementation guide, which       was published in its most recent format in 2011 [e].
This guide, which is       the GLTN's primary gender tool, is now being rolled out to support       assessment of the gender responsiveness of programmes and institutions in       dozens of countries.
An earlier version of the guide co-authored by Sait is credited with       helping 55,000 residents achieve secure land tenure in the informal       settlement of Ponte do Maduro, Recife (Brazil) in 2010.
The Brazilian       government, which had planned to evict all 55,000 from their homes,       announced at a GLTN roundtable meeting at the 2010 World Urban Forum that       they would instead regularize the area, granting ownership of the occupied       land to more than 8,000 low-income families.
Implementing the Gender       Evaluation Criteria enhanced the capacity of the local community in Ponte       do Maduro to lobby the government to reach this decision [f].
Capacity development and training to support land and property rights         and gender equality: In 2007, LLI was converted by Sait and Lim into       a 250-page training package on land issues in the Muslim world [g].
A       series of three training events using this training package were held in       Nairobi for UN-Habitat staff (April 2009), GLTN partners (November 2009),       and government officials from 20 Muslim countries attending the UN-Habitat       Governing Council (April 2011), where it was further endorsed at a GLTN       side-event [g].
Since 2008, the training has been delivered to a total of       some 200 government representatives, professionals and civil society       representatives from dozens of Muslim countries.
Training programmes, each       of which typically involves 25-30 high-level government, professional and       civil society participants, have included country training focussed       specifically on Asia (event held in Kuala Lumpur, 2009), Africa (Nairobi,       April 2011), Gulf and Arab countries (Kuwait May 2012), and North Africa       and the Middle East (Cairo, May 2013) [d, h].
The training package has       also been adopted for roll out in Iran [a, p. 89], and Sait has recently       been invited to Tehran to provide technical support during the First       Global Assembly of Islamic Cities in September 2013.
Some of these events       &#8212; including that in Cairo &#8212; have combined training in Islamic law with GEC       gender rights training to particularly support the improvement of women's       rights in Muslim countries.
Sait has also contributed to World Bank land       strategies through presentations made there in 2008 and 2012, and through       his use of the research to evaluate project proposals on development       issues in the Muslim world [i].
Development of the Benadir Interim Legal Framework: Somalia's       decades-long lack of a proper legal framework has had serious consequences       for the country's political and social stability.
Previous attempts to       develop laws typically failed because of the difficulty of ensuring their       compatibility with Islamic law.
From April 2013, LLI [1] has made a direct       and crucial contribution to the development of an interim legal framework       by the Regional Administration of Benadir, Somalia's principal region and       location of the national capital Mogadishu [k].
In April 2013, Somali       officials approached Sait through the UN to request that he provide       technical advice in and oversee the drafting and validation of that       interim framework.
Sait subsequently provided extensive legal advice, much       of it drawing very heavily on the methodology used and insights published       in LLI [1].
The Human Settlements Officer of UN-Habitat's Somali Programme       acknowledges the direct and significant impacts of Sait's work on the       development of the Legal Framework for Somalia's Benadir Region: as well       as overseeing "the difficult drafting process of the interim legal       framework...[Sait] visited Mogadishu and chaired the validation process       effectively, which led to the adoption of [the] legal framework in       September 2013" [d].
The nature and impact of Sait's contribution &#8212; and       specifically of the use made of LLI [1] - is further acknowledged by the       Governor of Benadir Region Administration (and Mayor of Mogadishu).
The       "main reason" for approaching Sait was, he says "his book, Land, Law and       Islam...which we consulted at our meetings".
Highlighting the significance       of that contribution, he continues: "I am very grateful to [the]       University of East London and Mr Siraj for his expertise and diplomacy,       which is the main reason why the Interim Legal Framework was adopted" [j].
He also emphasises the significance of that legal framework, not just to       the Benadir Region, but to Somalia more broadly, describing it as: "one of       the most important achievements of my career and partnership with       UN-Habitat.
It serves as a model for other regions in my country, and also       other States" [j].
The five framework regulations on land and human rights, governance,       business and investment, urban services and building regulations were       promulgated on 30 September 2013.
The contributions made by Sait and the       use made of LLI [1] in the development of the Bendair Legal Framework are       acknowledged explicitly in that document [k].
UEL's contribution here       represents a continuation of engagement in Somalia since 2007, when Sait       and Lim provided technical advice on land tenure reform to the country's       Federal Government.
Somali officials also participated in the Islamic law       training event in Nairobi (April 2011), and Sait contributed to Articles       43-48 of the draft Somali Constitution 2012 (Chapter 3), which deal with       land, property and environment.
