     On the basis of expertise garnered through the research outlined above,       Professor Slavo Radosevic has been invited to participate in a succession       of high-level advisory groups; their recommendations for the design of       research and innovation policy in Eastern Europe and the Commonwealth of       Independent States (CIS), as well as the EU's research policy and       programme for the Central and Eastern European (CEE) region, have been       underpinned by his work.
Radosevic's continuous engagement with both       individual states and European bodies is an important indicator of the       impact of his research.
Supporting scientific and technological innovation       as a driver of economic growth is a central facet of EU policy, and one of       the major areas of Structural Funds for new EU member states.
Impact on EU policy on funding research: EU support for research       and innovation is administered through its Framework Programmes (FPs) for       Research and Development.
FP7, which ran from 2007 to 2013, administered a       total budget of over &#8364;50 billion, representing a 61% increase over its       predecessor, FP6.
In 2008, Radosevic was appointed chair of an expert       group on innovation policy established under the EU Czech Presidency       (October 2008-January 2009) [see 1, section 5].
In this role, he promoted       country-specific approaches to innovation policy, dependent on their       distance from the technology frontier.
This neo-Schumpeterian idea was       also articulated in applied policy analysis published in [a], and in 2010       led, for the first time to a specific call within the EU FP7 programme       devoted to the CEE region, as part of the 2011 work programme [1].
This       call, `Addressing cohesion challenges in Central and Eastern Europe',       allocated an indicative budget of &#8364;5.4 million to small or medium-sized       research projects on this subject.
Impact on Slovenia's Research and Innovation Strategy: In 2010,       Radosevic was appointed Team Leader of the Policy Mix Review expert group       constituted by the Slovenian government to advise on the country's       innovation policy [2, p. 1].
On 22 December 2010, he presented the group's       recommendations to the Slovenian Council for Science and Technology,       chaired by the then-President of Slovenia, Dr Danilo Turk.
Following       recommendations made in [a] and [e], the gist of the advice given to and       taken on board by the Council was that, in transforming from innovation       follower to moderate innovator, Slovenia would need to improve       coordination of RTD policies across different stakeholders [2, especially       recommendation 1, p. 28-29].
This was followed by the adoption by the       National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia of the Resolution on       Research and Innovation Strategy of Slovenia 2011-2020 (OG 43/2011) [2],       which became legally binding in May 2011, and which refers explicitly to       recommendations made by the expert group as one of the three sources       forming the basis for the design of the policy, specifically the `systems       innovation' approach described in section 2.
The key recommendation for       improved coordination across different stakeholders, rather than just an       increase in the R&amp;D budget, was also followed in the design of the       Slovenian strategy for smart specialisation, which was the main       precondition for Slovenia in 2013 to draw on European Structural Funds in       2014-2020 [3].
Impact on EU Research Policy Design and Evaluation: In 2009,       Radosevic was appointed a member of the EC DG Research expert group       chaired by Professor Luc Soete (Maastricht) on `The role of community       research policy in the knowledge-based economy' [4, p. iv].
The group's       objective was to develop recommendations on how to frame and articulate       the EU's research policy, its objectives and means of action (both       financial and non-financial) after 2010, in order to improve its role in       fostering the development of the EU knowledge-based economy, strengthening       the competitiveness of industry in the EU and stimulating innovation-based       growth.
In its analysis of cohesion issues, the expert group report draws       on four of Radosevic's publications.
His research contributed to the       group's recommendations on cohesion policies and the application of `smart       specialisation' strategies as the approach to innovation and growth within       the EU Structural Funds for 2014-2020 [4: p.177-201].
The group's recommendations were subsequently taken on board in design of       the new EU research policy `Horizon 2020'.
Five expert groups &#8212; including       the EC DG Research group &#8212; published a joint statement in January 2010,       arguing for a new approach to research and innovation in Europe [4].
This       statement informed and influenced discussion and debate within the       European Parliament and eventually fed into the development of Horizon       2020 policies.
The on-going significance of this contribution is       demonstrated by the fact that, based on his in-depth understanding of the       interaction between innovation and growth of CEE countries, Radosevic was       invited in 2012 by the EC DG Regio to assist and evaluate `smart       specialisation' strategies in several new member states (Bulgaria,       Slovakia and Slovenia) and to provide recommendations for improved       implementation.
Radosevic has since done this: in 2012, for example, he       co-authored a special report on the implementation of smart specialisation       in Bulgaria [5], and was appointed by the EC DG Regio as advisor to the       Slovak government advising on country-specific strategies during 2013 [5].
UNECE Study on Innovation Systems and Its Application in Belarus:       The UN Economic Commission for Europe (UNECE) seeks to promote an       environment conducive to economic growth, competitiveness and       knowledge-based growth in Europe and central Asia.
In 2007 it commissioned       a study titled `Creating a conducive environment for higher       competitiveness and effective national innovation systems: Lessons learned       from the experiences of UNECE countries, 2007'.
This study, which was       revised and republished the same year by the United Nations, acknowledged       Radosevic's `major substantive contribution' (including the majority of       the report), and referred repeatedly to his research outputs, drawing       particularly on [d] [6].
Since 2008, this report has been used in former Soviet countries as a       state-of-the-art review of issues in innovation policy.
In Belarus, for       instance, a country-specific Innovation Policy Review was carried out in       2010 on the basis of the UNECE report.
Radosevic authored a chapter on       knowledge generation and transfer and co-authored an assessment of recent       performance as part of that Review, the recommendations from which formed       the basis for new state policies to encourage innovation [7].
Policy       changes following these recommendations included:     - The law `On the state innovation policy and innovation in the Republic       of Belarus', provided a broad concept of innovation policy and recognising       the importance of entrepreneurship in state promotion of innovation.
- The newly adopted law `On amendments and additions to certain laws on       the legal protection of intellectual property' assigned clearly defined       property rights to R&amp;D organisations and individuals.
- Presidential Decrees 503 (8 Nov 2012) and 357 (7 Aug 2012) introduced       changes in public financing in order to increase tolerance for risk in       public support for innovation activities.
This included increased       resources for the Belarusian Innovation Fund with budgetary funding for       science and innovation.
Radosevic has continued to engage with this change in innovation policy:       thus, for example, he made an invited appearance on 15 November 2012 at a       workshop organised by UNECE and the State Committee on Science and       Technology on the `National Innovation Capacity Index and its application       in countries of Central and Eastern Europe', held for Belarus policymakers       in Minsk [8].
Radosevic also evaluated a similar report for Kazakhstan [9], contributed       to a similar review in Ukraine in 2012 [9] and, on the basis of these       contributions, was invited to join the expert team reviewing progress in       Armenia, which began in September 2013.
