     The formation of Domainex has had a strong commercial impact worldwide       across a number       areas, including drug discovery, monoclonal antibody production and       agrochemical development.
The invention of combinatorial domain hunting (CDH) by the Pearl team at       the ICR, involving       collaborating scientists from UCL and Birkbeck, represents a major       breakthrough in protein       biology.
Before this it was extremely difficult, if not sometimes       impossible, to produce soluble       quantities of many natural proteins.
Drug discovery, vaccine development,       monoclonal antibody       production and agrochemical development depend on high throughput       screening combined with       structural biology, and these approaches are not possible without large       quantities of soluble       protein.
The three founding institutions decided that the best way to make       an impact with CDH       would be to form a start up company to exploit CDH commercially as a       service to science-based       companies worldwide.
On this premise, the company Domainex was established       in 2002 with Pearl       as Chief Scientific Officer and a non-executive directorship was held by       the ICR, representing the       three founding institutions.
On the basis of the underpinning research studies by teams led by Pearl,       proof of concept of the       application of CDH to intractable proteins of commercial biotechnological       interest has subsequently       been established.
Domainex has made significant advances, particularly in       the impact period, 2008       onwards.
Domainex has raised around &#163;5 million in investment finance (&#163;4       million post 2008) and       has expanded such that it now employs over 30 people at its premises in       Cambridge [1].
In 2008,       Domainex' services business became profitable and it continues to do so       today.
Domainex uses its CDH technology on projects paid for by a wide range of       international clients,       and since 2008 over 20 collaborations have been successfully completed.
Drug discovery is the       usual objective of these collaborative projects, but there have also been       monoclonal antibody       development and agrochemical projects.
At least one of the CDH drug       discovery projects that       Domainex has serviced reached the clinical trials stage of development by       2013 [2].
Most of these       collaborations are not in the public domain for reasons of commercial       confidentiality.
Collaborators       Domainex has worked with since 2008 that can be publically disclosed are       UCB Pharma Ltd       (UCB), Ark and Pharmidex.
Domainex' clients come from the US, Europe and       Japan.
Domainex' collaboration with UCB was one of its early commercial CDH       projects.
This led to       successful engineering of human MEK-1 and the work has now been published       (Research Ref 3       above).
Domainex now offers medicinal chemistry services as well as CDH.
Three       medicinal chemistry       programmes in which Domainex has been engaged have resulted in compounds       that are now in       clinical trial and two other programmes are at the pre-clinical stage.
Published examples of the       work of Domainex using its innovative chemistry are Robinson et al.
[3]       and Jarvis et al.
[4].
Domainex has its own in-house drug discovery programmes based around the       CDH discovery and       its long term objective is to grow this aspect to add value to the       company.
Currently, Domainex has       support from the government through the Technology Strategy Board (TSB)       for these programmes       [5].
One in-house drug discovery programme that has used CDH is the       collaboration with the ICR       on developing inhibitors of IKK03b5 [6].
The current status is that the       lead chemical series is in the late       lead optimisation phase and work is progressing towards identifying a       pre-clinical candidate.
Domainex is also collaborating with the ICR and the University of Sussex       on a programme to       develop inhibitors of tankyrase [7, 8].
This programme has been the       successful recipient of two       Wellcome Trust Seeding Drug Discovery awards totalling nearly &#163;8 million.
Pre-clinical candidates       have now been developed and are being actively commercialised [9].
Domainex' success has merited a number of awards, including the       Innovation in Enabling       Biotechnology Prize at the UKTI Bioentrepreneurial Company of the Year       Awards (2009) and the       2010 Genesis Life Science Innovation and Enterprise Programme of the Year       Award.
