     John Mullan's research has introduced a vast national and international       public to new ways of       reading and understanding the novel.
This has been achieved through       large-scale media and       public engagement activities that have reached a wide range and large       number of beneficiaries,       engaging a substantial sub-set intensively through the long-running       Guardian Book Club.
He has       also provided secondary school teachers with professional training based       on his research       expertise, and developed reusable educational resources in the form of       recorded talks for sixth-       form students and teachers, made available through the British Library.
These activities have brought to a large audience beyond academia an       expanded literary critical       vocabulary, and a means of appreciating the ways in which literary history       can illuminate present       habits of reading.
Mullan's research has focused on `how novels work', to       use his own title,       highlighting aspects of the craft of fiction that often go unnoticed; his       media work has then made       available his understanding of the novelist's craft to a large       constituency of readers.
The reach of       the impact of Mullan's research is demonstrated by the examples which       follow.
Public engagement with literary history and criticism     Mullan's influential analysis of the elements of literary fiction, How         Novels Work [a] was first       published in 2006; the paperback edition sold more than 12,000 copies       between 2008 and 2013       [1].
This book led to the making of Twelve of the Best, an       hour-long BBC2 programme about the       state of British fiction that he scripted and presented in 2011.
This was       screened on World Book       Day (3 March 2011) with 783,000 viewers [2].
The programme focused on 12       first-time novelists,       chosen by a panel of critics and writers chaired by Mullan himself.
This       followed on the heels of a       2,000-word feature by Mullan in The Guardian, in which he wrote       about the choice of writers and       the recent development of British literary fiction, which attracted 102       comments from readers [3].
The programme brought to public attention some lesser-known novelists,       four of whom were later       long-listed for the Man Booker Prize.
Mullan's research into the eighteenth-century novel for Anonymity       [b] and for his edition of Defoe's       Journal of the Plague Year [d], as well as his ongoing research for       his forthcoming volume of the       Oxford English Literary History, The Eighteenth Century,         1709-1784, largely informed `How       Reading Made Us Modern', a 60-minute programme for BBC 4 that he scripted       and presented.
This described how reading and how literary production (including       printing, publishing, and the       circulating of books) changed during the eighteenth century.
It described       the eighteenth-century       invention of a reading public, and the emergence of new genres such as       periodical journalism and       the novel.
It was broadcast in February 2009 (and repeated 3 times) in a       BBC season on reading.
In November/December 2011, he composed and presented a series of five       half-hour programmes       on comic writing for Radio 4's Open Book.
Following a       chronological progression, these explored       the continuities between comedy in Chaucer or Elizabethan drama, on the       one hand, and the       British comic novel since the eighteenth century, on the other.
He       determined the texts and       established the themes and readings for all of the programmes, each of       which involved discussion       with a notable enthusiast for the comedy of the period (for instance Terry       Jones on Chaucer, Jenny       Uglow on Fielding).
Other media activities included:     - For BBC2's the Culture Show, features on the novelists Alan       Hollinghurst (May 2011) and A. S.       Byatt (July 2011).
- Frequent appearances as a panellist on BBC 2's Newsnight Review       and (since 2009) BBC2's       Review Show (on topics such as the Man Booker Shortlist of 2010 and       2012).
- Further appearances on Open Book, including for discussions of       Sibling Rivalry in Fiction,       December 2010, and Funerals in Fiction, July 2012.
- Appearances on Radio 4's Today programme, including for       discussions of George Orwell's 1984,       the role of the Booker Prize, and the history of literary anonymity.
The significance of Mullan's research is demonstrated by the       popularity of the Guardian Book Club,       a weekly Guardian column on contemporary fiction that he has       written since June 2002.
This       addresses the needs of the growing constituency of readers interested in       the analysis of literary       fiction, to whom it makes available a specialised critical vocabulary, and       the tools for analysis that       Mullan developed in his research.
The column examines a recent novel,       focusing on particular       formal and technical features.
It uses parallels with fiction of previous       centuries to show that       narrative devices have a history, and that contemporary novelists learn       from earlier writers.
The success and longevity of the Guardian Book Club illustrates both the       impact of Mullan's       research, and the growing interest of non-academic readers in       sophisticated analysis of literary       fiction of the kind that he provides.
The depth of the engagement of       readers with this research is       demonstrated by the Book Club blog, where readers reply to the discussions       and to the arguments       presented in Mullan's weekly columns.
These articles often engender a       significant amount of       debate: a typical example would be a December 2012 piece on Hilary       Mantel's Wolf Hall which       received 40 comments, while a recent column on Zadie Smith's NW       attracted more than 50       comments, was shared on Facebook by 219 people, and tweeted 93 times [4].
From 2008-13 Mullan's column was linked to a monthly interview that he       conducted with a leading       novelist before a paying audience of up to 500 people.
Over 7,000 readers       are signed up to The         Guardian newsletter established to publicise these events.
During       the REF period more than 60       events were held, many of which were sold out: Ian McEwan, Margaret Atwood       and Zadie Smith all       filled venues of more than 400 people.
So far over 15,000 people have       attended Mullan's       interviews with novelists, for which tickets are &#163;9-&#163;12.
Other       interviewees have included Salman       Rushdie, Martin Amis, Hilary Mantel, Philip Pullman, Jonathan Franzen,       Brett Easton Ellis and       Richard Ford.
At these live events the novelists respond to Mullan's       column, and afterwards       contribute a matching column, offering their own account of the       construction of the novel in       question.
The Guardian Book Club archive has made all interviews since 2008       available as podcasts,       expanding the reach of this impact.
The Guardian Books podcast, which       includes the Book Club,       has 362,000 followers on SoundCloud.
There have been c. 40,000 iTunes       downloads [5].
Mullan's Guardian Book Club feature on Doris Lessing's The Golden         Notebook was read by       members of the Nobel Organisation, who then commissioned him to undertake       a filmed interview       with Doris Lessing that has been available since 2009 on the Nobel Prize       website.
Public engagement with the works of Jane Austen     Between its release in 2012 and 31 July 2013, What Matters in Jane         Austen?
[c] sold, in the UK       alone, 8,000 copies in hardback and 17,000 copies in paperback and Kindle.
Mullan wrote a 4,500-       word article on Jane Austen in The Guardian in May 2012 that       generated significant interest in the       book's research.
On publication it was widely covered in both broadsheet       and tabloid papers,       garnering laudatory reviews in The Lady, The Guardian (net       and print readership of 2,211,000),       The Independent (net and print readership of 743,000), The         Telegraph (net and print readership of       2,106,000), and the Daily Mail (net and print readership of       6,062,000) [6].
In the wake of its publication Mullan gave lectures on his Jane Austen       research at literary festivals       in Hay-on-Wye, Edinburgh, Cheltenham (the Annual Cheltenham Lecture),       Dartington, Sheffield,       Keswick, Cambridge, Buxton and Bath.
He also strengthened an ongoing engagement with the Jane Austen Society       in the UK, giving       invited lectures at its meetings in London, York, Kent and Hampshire, all       on topics based on the       research that informed What Matters in Jane Austen?
His engagement       with Jane Austen societies       also extends overseas: in September 2009 he was the guest lecturer at the       annual general       meeting of the world's largest and most influential Jane Austen Society,       the Jane Austen Society of       North America (JASNA), in Philadelphia.
His talk was entitled `Sisterly       Chat' and was based on the       research for a chapter (`Do Sisters Sleep Together?')
of What Matters         in Jane Austen?
He was       then invited to deliver the plenary lecture at the JASNA annual general       meeting in Minneapolis in       September 2013.
Mullan's research made an important contribution to the bicentenary       celebrations of the publication       of Pride and Prejudice in 2013.
Prominent in this was his role as       a consultant and interviewee for       `Pride and Prejudice: Having a Ball', BBC 2's restaging of the Netherfield       Ball in Pride and         Prejudice, transmitted 10 May 2013 to 1.6m viewers [7].
His role was       to keep the reconstruction       true to the narrative uses of balls and of dancing in Jane Austen's       writing, and to insert into the       programme a commentary on Pride and Prejudice.
The programme was       widely discussed in Jane       Austen blogs, and on Jane Austen message boards [8].
In addition, in January 2013, he presented a feature on Pride and         Prejudice for BBC 2's Culture         Show.
He was interviewed about the novel on Radio 4's Today       programme, and was a panel       member for discussion of its impact on Radio 4's Open Book and on       Radio 3's Nightwaves.
Prior       to this, Mullan was interviewed about Jane Austen's `Sanditon' for Unfinished         Masterpieces, BBC2       (November 2011), and contributed to The Many Lovers of Miss Austen,       BBC 2 (December 2011),       on the history of Jane Austen's reputation.
Outreach to schools and impacts on secondary education     Another aspect of the impact of this research derives from the ideas and       guidance he has provided       to secondary school teachers in their efforts to help pupils appreciate       the formal features and       patterns of narrative fiction.
For instance, in February 2008 How         Novels Work led to an invitation to       speak on contemporary fiction at a day conference for secondary school       teachers given by the       Prince's Teaching Institute at RIBA, London [9].
23 teachers attended this       event, which impacted       2,070 students, with one delegate commenting: `The talk by John Mullan in       particular really       provided me with some useful ways into texts.
Excellent food for thought'.
The significance of this impact is demonstrated by the fact that       the positive reception of these       lectures led to an ongoing engagement with the Institute: in November 2008       he was again guest       lecturer at a residential course for teachers at Crewe Hall, Cheshire.
40       teachers attended this       event, which impacted approximately 3,600 pupils.
Delegate evaluation       results from the 3-day       course showed that 100% agreed that they had `found attending the Summer       School a valuable       experience,' while 93% agreed that they had `come out of this experience       reinvigorated and more       excited about teaching and the teaching profession'.
96% believed `that       within six months this       approach will be having an impact on my pupils'.
He lectured again on       contemporary fiction in July       2009 to a Prince's Teaching Institute day conference, and has been invited       to speak again at       another conference for teachers in January 2014.
Mullan also provided filmed talks on Dickens, presented at the Dickens       House Museum in London,       for the British Library.
Aimed at teachers and sixth formers studying       Dickens at A level, they are       available via the British Library website [10].
