     The impact of De Grauwe's research can be observed at two levels:       influencing ECB's highly significant policy decision to become a lender of       last resort; and informing the wider policy debate on reforms of Eurozone       governance.
Influencing European Central Bank policy:     The ECB decided on 6 September 2012 to become a lender of last resort in       the government bond markets of the Eurozone.
It accepted the key element       that was stressed by De Grauwe, i.e.
that it will commit itself to       unlimited purchases of government bonds.
It labelled this programme       "Outright Monetary Transactions" (OMT).
The effect of this programme was a       quick stabilization of the government bond markets, as predicted by De       Grauwe [1].
In his 11 September column, the Financial Times' Chief Economics       Commentator Martin Wolf, considered one of the most influential writers on       economics &#8212; and himself a distingues economist &#8212; noted that this decision       "marks belated acceptance of strong arguments made by the Belgian       economist Paul De Grauwe, at the London School of Economics" [A].
Indeed, in justifying the decision of the ECB Governing Council, ECB       President Mario Draghi used the theory developed by De Grauwe [1] in       explaining that "you have large parts of the euro area in a bad       equilibrium in which you may have self-fulfilling expectations that feed       on themselves...So, there is a case for intervening...to "break" these       expectations, which...do not concern only the specific countries, but the       euro area as a whole.
And this would justify the intervention of the       central bank" [B].
The ECB's decision came after experimenting with the "Securities Market       Program" (SMP) &#8212; a program of government bond purchases.
However, the SMP       was explicitly designed to be limited in size and time.
De Grauwe warned       that the limited nature of the bond purchase program would make it       ineffective [1].
This turned out to be correct, and the ECB decided to       abandon it.
Another design failure of the SMP was that the ECB insisted on having       seniority on the government bonds it acquired in the program.
De Grauwe       warned that this would lead private holders of government bonds (who had       become junior and thus faced future losses) to sell their bonds, forcing       the ECB to buy large amounts of government bonds [2].
The ECB dropped its       seniority claim on the government bonds acquired under the OMT program.
This also suggests that De Grauwe has been influential in shaping       policies.
In addition, in 2012 the European Commission (DG ECFIN) proposed that De       Grauwe would provide consultancy services to inform the EU on how to deal       with the fragility of the Eurozone.
More specifically he was asked how the       Eurozone design failures which led to the current fragility are to be       corrected, focusing on the long run conditions for making the Eurozone       sustainable.
This research led to a first draft of a paper "Design       Failures of the Eurozone.
Can they be fixed?"
which was presented at a       workshop organized by the European Commission on 19th November       2012 (made available by LSE in 2013) [C].
Paul De Grauwe has since 2012 had a similar arrangement with the National       Bank of Belgium to help design common Eurobonds, another feature that De       Grauwe has stressed will be necessary to correct the design failures in       the Eurozone.
On 26 February 2013 Martin Wolf reviewed De Grauwe and Ji's paper [6] and       concluded that "By adopting OMT earlier, the ECB could have prevented the       panic that drove the spreads that justified the austerity.
It did not do       so.
Tens of millions of people are suffering unnecessarily hardship.
It is       tragic."
[D] Despite these costs, Simon Tilford, Deputy Director and chief       economist of the Centre for European Reform, believes that "Paul De       Grauwe's academic work has played a crucial role in stabilising the       eurozone.
In particular, he showed that unsustainable borrowing costs in       struggling eurozone economies had little do with their mismanagement of       public finances and a lot to do with the absence of a central bank       prepared to act as lender of last resort to governments in times of       crisis.
His research helped provided the intellectual cover needed by the       ECB, and in particular its President Mario Draghi, to face down opponents       of a more activist ECB, and take on these lender of last resort functions.
The announcement of the ECB's Outright Monetary Transactions (OMT) has       provided crucial breathing space for the euro" [E]     Informing policy debate:     A key impact of the research of De Grauwe on the fragility of the       Eurozone is on the policy debate, where he has contributed significantly       to the quality of evidence and understanding of the major issues facing       the governance of the Eurozone.
Media and public figures engaged in the       policy debate frequently cite De Grauwe's research when discussing the       Eurozone crisis.
Paul Krugman has referred to De Grauwe's analysis on the       fragility of the Eurozone as a new way to analyse a monetary union [F], as       well as writing that "Nobody has taught me as much about the euro crisis       as Paul De Grauwe, who brought to the fore the crucial point almost       everyone was overlooking: the importance of self-fulfilling debt panics in       countries that no longer have their own currencies.
Now he has a new paper       with Yuemei Ji following up on that insight, and offering yet more       evidence of the incredible unwisdom of European economic policy" [G].
The need for having a lender of last resort in the government bond       markets has also been stressed by Wyplosz [H], Delbecque [I], and Johnson       [J], among others.
VoxEU, which is probably the major policy       discussion website, frequently cites De Grauwe's work [H,I].
De Grauwe has       also written seven articles posted on VoxEU, with "Panic-driven austerity       in the Eurozone and its implications" having over 140,000 'reads' [K].
(The other six articles range from approximately 4,200 to 134,000 reads.)
De Grauwe's proposal to issue common Eurobonds as an instrument for       reducing the Eurozone's fragility led to a debate in The Economist       in July 2012 on "Mutualization of the debt" between him and Professor       Ansgar Belke [L].
Moreover, De Grauwe's proposals to strengthen the       Eurozone have been discussed in many newspapers, including Lib&#233;ration,         Handelsblatt, Frankfurter Algemeiner, El Pais, Publico, New York Times,         Wall Street Journal, Republicca [e.g.
M,N,O], and De Grauwe       has explained his views on television and radio in many countries .
His       youtube video on the Eurozone crisis [P] has been watched by 3,590       viewers.
Martin Wolf believes that "Prof De Grauwe's brilliant work has influenced       not only economic columnists, such as professor Krugman and myself, but       also many policymakers....All future work on cental banking in crises will       need to build upon [his] insights.
In sum, no economist working in academe       or elsewhere has had more influence on the debate on the eurozone crisis       than professor De Grauwe" [Q].
