     The discovery and development of abiraterone at the ICR has had impacts       on health and commerce, resulting in the improved treatment and patient       survival for prostate cancer patients, changes to international clinical       guidelines and the introduction of a new drug into the pharmaceutical       market with major commercial benefit to the sector.
In the UK, more than 10,000 men die of prostate cancer every year, making       it the second most common cause of cancer death in men.
Worldwide, more       than 258,000 men died from the disease in 2008 [1].
In 2010, only three       agents were approved for treatment of castration-resistant prostate cancer       by the US FDA, having demonstrated improvements in overall survival in       clinical trials.
Since that date, the introduction of abiraterone into       clinical use is now significantly prolonging survival and improving       quality of life for tens of thousands of patients worldwide for whom other       forms of treatment have failed [2].
From 2008 onwards, patients have benefited from abiraterone, initially       through clinical trials and now through prescribed use.
17 clinical trials       involving 1648 patients have been completed and currently 62 trials are       ongoing (estimated enrolment of over 14,000 patients).
Abiraterone has now       been approved for use in more than 80 countries [3].
Since its 2011       approval in the USA, abiraterone's share of the endocrine therapy market       in prostate cancer reached 30%; this has increased further to 43%       following the FDA ruling of December 2012, when abiraterone was also       approved for use in metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer       patients who have not yet received chemotherapy.
In the USA, abiraterone       is the preferred second-line treatment of metastatic prostate cancer &#8212;       with nearly 60% share of the market &#8212; and in the third-line setting it is       used in approximately 30% of patients [3].
In 2012, 13,000 patients in       Europe benefited from this drug [4].
ICR researchers played a key role in the discovery and development of       this new drug from target identification and compound synthesis through       pre-clinical evaluation to clinical trials research.
Briefly, the       development of abiraterone was stalled by the concern of pharmaceutical       companies regarding the potential side effects of targeting CYP17, such as       adrenal insufficiency, and the licence for development was returned.
Professor de Bono and Dr Gerhardt Attard (ICR Clinical Research Fellow)       proposed that CYP17 blockade would not result in adrenal insufficiency       based on previous reports describing congenital autosomal recessive CYP17       deficiency in children [5].
This proved to be the case in the initial       clinical trials, giving the biotechnology company Cougar Biotechnology,       Inc. confidence to take up the license to commercially develop       abiraterone.
The phase I/II trials at the ICR and the RM provided the confirmation       that abiraterone elicited anti-tumour effects in prostate cancer patients,       and the impetus to escalate the studies to large multi-centre phase III       trials.
The randomised placebo controlled phase III trial led by de Bono       provided the evidence that abiraterone could increase survival in       castration-resistant prostate cancer patients.
Interim overall survival       analysis demonstrated a statistically significant improvement in survival       in patients receiving abiraterone acetate compared to those on the       placebo, to such an extent that the trial's Independent Data Monitoring       Committee recommended that the study be unblinded to allow any patient on       placebo to receive the drug.
Following an expedited review, the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA)       approved abiraterone acetate in April 2011 [6] for the treatment of men       with late-stage (metastatic) castration-resistant prostate cancer who have       received prior docetaxel chemotherapy.
Also, after accelerated regulatory       review by the European Medicines Agency (EMA), abiraterone was approved by       the European Commission for use in Europe [7] (EMEA/H/C/002321), followed       by approval by NICE in June 2012 (NICE guideline TA259) [8].
Most recently, an international, randomised, double-blind, placebo       controlled study (NCT00887198), involving 135 locations and 1,088       asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic patients with metastatic       castration-resistant prostate cancer, was unblinded based on the interim       analysis.
This led to the expansion of the FDA (December 2012) and EMA       (January 2013) approval for the use of abiraterone, in combination with       prednisone, in the treatment of patients with metastatic       castration-resistant prostate cancer who have not yet received       chemotherapy [9].
During the development of the drug, ICR researchers have worked with BTG,       Cougar Biotechnology, Inc and Johnson &amp; Johnson, all of which have       greatly benefited commercially.
BTG have reported receiving a better than       expected revenue from abiraterone royalties, becoming their largest       royalty stream in 2012 [10].
Cougar Biotechnolgy, Inc was acquired, in       2009, by Johnson &amp; Johnson for just under $1billion [11].
Worldwide       drug sales of abiraterone between 2011 and 2013 have reached $2.755       billion [12], which is expected to increase dramatically this year due to       the recent approval for abiraterone to be used in a wider patient       population.
The ICR has also received &#163;15.5 million in royalties during       the REF period.
A further commercial impact stems from the important concept, revealed by       the ICR research, that late stage prostate cancer remains hormone driven.
This has focussed pharmaceutical company resource investment into       inhibition agents targeted at androgen hormone action, such as       enzalutamide &#8212; developed by Medivation &#8212; which the FDA approved for the       treatment of castration-resistant prostate cancer in 2012 [13].
