     The studies at the ICR, in collaboration with others, on the use of AIs       in breast cancer have made a vitally important contribution to how these       drugs are used clinically.
As such, they had a very significant impact on       patient survival outcomes and wellbeing, and substantially improved the       control of this disease.
The ICR's research into the use of AIs has also       had impacts on commerce.
Impacts on health       Impact on patient survival and treatment outcomes came from the       demonstration, by the collaborative team involving ICR, of the superiority       of AIs to tamoxifen in preventing disease recurrence in early       post-menopausal breast cancer patients.
This led to a rapid change in the       choice of therapy in clinical practice.
Clinical guidance for these       patients was changed to AI treatment in 2004 in the US, followed in 2006       in the UK through changes to NICE guidelines [1].
These guidelines remain       in place, illustrating that the ICR research has continued to make an       impact on patient health throughout the assessment period.
AIs are now the       international standard of care in early breast cancer in post-menopausal       women.
In 2012, approximately 470,000 breast cancer patients in the USA,       Europe and Japan initiated treatment with an AI [2].
In the UK, in 2012,       an estimated 33,000 patients commenced adjuvant AI treatment for       resectable breast cancer (about 70% of newly diagnosed resectable       patients), with a further 6,000 patients receiving AI treatment for       advanced and metastatic breast cancer [2].
The ICR Clinicial Trials and Statistics Unit, led by Bliss, was       instrumental in the exemestane AI study, thereby influencing the       recommended change in clinical practice; an impact that continues [1].
Dowsett's team initiated a translational research study to identify and       validate biomarkers of patient prognosis on AI treatment using a tissue       collection of over 2,000 tumour blocks from the ATAC trial.
This research       has had a significant clinical benefit to patients by sparing endocrine       therapy-responders from further cytotoxic chemotherapy, improving their       wellbeing.
In the USA, for example, there has been a substantial fall in       the number of patients receiving cytotoxic chemotherapy based on the use       of the Oncotype-Dx test validated by the Dowsett team, and this impact       continues: 37% of treatment decisions have changed because of the       employment of this test [3].
The IHC4 biomarker test that the Dowsett team developed is at least as       accurate as Oncotype-Dx and is also simpler and less expensive (Research       Ref 4 above).
The details of the IHC4 test have been openly published and,       with appropriate standardisation of local testing practices, can be       employed worldwide.
The ICR ensured that it retained access to the       intellectual property developed during its work on Oncotype-Dx and was       therefore both able to demonstrate the comparative value of the IHC4 test       and to make it widely available.
In countries with lower budget healthcare       systems the IHC4 is a highly attractive proposition.
Further development of biomarkers for AI responsiveness by the Dowsett       and Smith teams has focussed on Ki67 as a surrogate marker of treatment       effectiveness (Research Ref 5 above).
Use of this marker enables swifter       trials and therefore a patient benefit with earlier access to new drugs.
This has reach beyond the use of AIs, as Ki67 is used in the commercial       testing of targeted therapies such as EGF receptor antagonists.
Professor       Dowsett created and chairs the International Working Party on Ki67 in       Breast Cancer that has published guidelines for method harmonisation [4];       these guidelines help pharmaceutical companies worldwide to measure Ki67       and deliver the consequent patient benefit of earlier access to new drugs.
Impacts on commerce       The Dowsett team at the ICR developed and validated plasma oestradiol       assays as a marker of the effectiveness of AIs, enabling the team to play       a central role in the selection of AIs and their dosages for full clinical       development by pharmaceutical companies.
Measuring plasma oestradiol in       Phase I clinical trials of the AIs anastrozole and letrozole enabled       AstraZeneca and Novartis, respectively, to gain regulatory authority to       take these drugs directly from Phase I to Phase III clinical trials and to       get to market quickly.
Together, these two drugs therefore captured the       majority of the market share for AIs, to the considerable commercial       benefit of the companies involved.
This impact was still seen in the       period 2008 to 2013.
In 2012, across the major markets of USA, Europe and       Japan, anastrozole and letrozole respectively secured approximately 48%       and 36% of AI patient share [2] generating $6.6 billion [5] and $5.3       billion [6,7] in revenue within the REF period.
Dowsett's work on the Oncotype-DX test has had commercial impact       benefiting the developers of the test (Genomic Health Inc.).
Its revenues       from the test totalled over $230million in 2012, with even further growth       anticipated in 2013 [8].
The development of the IHC4 test has also had commercial impact, as it is       currently being marketed by Genoptix [9].
The work of the Dowsett and Smith teams on Ki67 as a surrogate marker of       treatment effectiveness (Research Ref 6 above) enables swifter trials and       therefore a commercial benefit from reduced trial costs.
