     Research into Health Technology Assessment (HTA) undertaken at Liverpool       has led to significant       impacts at the local, national and global levels.
Local Level Impact.
Liverpool provides Health Economics support to       the Liverpool Clinical Trials       Unit (LCTU), the largest CTU in the North West.
Each proposal for clinical       research, submitted to       LCTU, is assessed in terms of the quality of its Health Economics content       and, in appropriate       circumstances, the health economics research component is improved or       added to the trial design.
Through this work, as well as relationships with local providers and       commissioners of healthcare,       Liverpool research has optimised resources allocated to a wide range of       therapeutic areas.
These       areas extend from evaluating the Liverpool care pathway in end of life       care to a range of research       projects with Liverpool Women's hospital in the fields of paediatric and       neonatal medicine.
The       corroboration offered by Wirral Primary Care Trust (Wirral PCT), a       healthcare commissioner with       whom Liverpool researchers have worked particularly closely, is evidence       of Liverpool research       directly impacting on the optimisation of healthcare resource allocation       for local populations, both       in terms of the optimisation of local commissioning and the provision of       care in a wide range of       particular patient groups and therapeutic areas (section 5.2).
National Level Impact.
HTA research at Liverpool has played an       important role is establishing the       policy and practice of drug adoption in the NHS.
As an independent       academic unit funded by NHS       R&amp;D, and working directly with NICE, the research that it undertakes       has a direct and significant       impact on healthcare provision within the UK.
Each of the research       projects identified in section 2,       has led directly to a change in national policy (Section 5.1) in order to       enhance the provision of       health care in a range of therapeutic areas, including thrombolysis,       treatment of insomnia,       malignant mesothelioma and coronary artery disease.
For example, by       identifying the optimal       relationship between resource allocation and clinical pathways and       outcomes, for patients suffering       a heart attack, the research emphasised the importance of providing       patients with access to       Thrombolysis during the one hour period (the 'golden hour') following the       attack.
Additionally, the       research into treatment for insomnia (Section 3.3) identified that new       drugs (the 'Z' drugs) were       found to be of limited clinical effectiveness and did not provide 'value       for money' for the NHS.
As a       consequence of his international reputation as a research leader, Dr.       Haycox was invited to join the       NICE Appraisal Committee in 2008, and his role in NICE has been crucial in       extending the impact       of the research undertaken at Liverpool globally.
International Level Impact.
Liverpool has contributed       substantially to International Healthcare       Policy; specifically research in South East Asia, North Africa and Central       Eastern Europe,       facilitating the implementation of structures and skills of HTA that       optimise the introduction of new       drugs into national healthcare systems.
Many of the health systems of low       to middle income       countries are in flux with regard to the nature and structure of their       healthcare systems.
HTA       research at Liverpool has impacted on health systems in countries of North       Africa and South East       Asia favouring a move towards universal health coverage rather than a more       'market' oriented       approach.
In support of universal coverage, Liverpool research has been       helped to champion the       use of structures of Health Technology Assessment as a 'rationing' device       to maintain healthcare       expenditure within sustainable levels.
Health technologies that are       introduced into a health system       that provides universal coverage serve all of the population and not just       the rich, so HTA provides       a mechanism by which to allocate scarce healthcare resources.
To       facilitate this, Liverpool       developed research-based guidance concerning optimal structures of HTA to       support the       establishment of universal health coverage in Indonesia and Egypt.
Another       crucial element of       such guidance was to identify the skills and expertise that must be       developed within national       research-based academic groups to support the establishment of effective       systems of HTA.
The       contribution of Liverpool to research-based policy and skills development       is widespread, with       exemplars to demonstrate the impact and reach of the research in three       areas: Central and       Eastern Europe (CEE), South East Asia (specifically Indonesia) and North       Africa (specifically       Egypt).
The impact and reach of HTA research at Liverpool has been extended       through collaborative       relationships with Pharmaceutical Companies.
A particularly close       collaborative partnership with       Novartis (the second largest drug company in the world), at both the       national and global level, has       been instrumental to diffusing the Liverpool HTA research to inform policy       and practice in North       Africa and South East Asia (Section 5.5).
Also, optimising the management       of new medicines is a       particular challenge for countries in CEE, given their limited experience       of market-based healthcare       provision.
The Piperska alliance, led by Liverpool, has developed       research-based collaborations       between leading academics and policy makers from Poland, the Czech       Republic, Slovakia,       Slovenia, Latvia, Lithuania, Estonia, Serbia, and Turkey.
This has led to       enhanced HTA research       structures being established in many CEE countries leading to greater       control on the introduction       of new drugs and a consequent improvement in resource allocation and       population health (for       further details see Section 3.6; Section 5.5).
The principal beneficiaries of the impacts are:            Patients in the UK, through the use of research-based HTA to target         resources on         interventions of proven clinical and cost effectiveness;       Healthcare practitioners, both managerial and clinical, in the UK,         through the establishment of         optimal structures of healthcare provision based entirely on         research-based evidence;       Pharmaceutical companies through joint research-based HTA projects         which independently         evaluate the clinical and cost effectiveness of new drugs;       Patients in SEA, North Africa and CEE, through the optimisation of         healthcare provision to         support the establishment of universal healthcare coverage;       Health services within SEA, North Africa and CEE through joint         research and training         initiatives.
