     Contributions to discussion, debate and policy formulation relating to       counter-terrorism:       The influence of Silke's research has been realised particularly through       his membership of and contribution to numerous expert panels and policy       committees, including the British Psychological Society's working group on       the Psychological Risk Assessment of those Convicted or Detained under       Terrorist Related Offences from 2007 - 2011.
In 2009, he was appointed a       Specialist Advisor to the House of Commons Communities and Local       Government Committee for its inquiry into the UK Government's programme       for preventing violent extremism, in which role he provided an invited       briefing on understanding radicalisation to the Committee at the start of       its enquiry at the House of Commons, 14 July 2009 [a].
Major research findings, including about the implications of contemporary       discourses of radicalisation and extremism for the remit and parameters of       counter-terrorism policymaking [4], have also been shared with       policy-makers via their invited presentation in local and national policy       forums.
These have included briefings provided to the Home Office       (Office for Security and Counter-Terrorism leadership programme: Silke,       July 2009; and Office for Security and Counter-Terrorism, Home Office:       Richards, February, 2013); Foreign and Commonwealth Office       (Richards, July 2010); and local `Prevent' coordinators in Newham       and Birmingham (Richards, July 2012 and June 2010 respectively).
Richards'       paper on radicalisation and `Prevent' [3] was presented in Birmingham as       part of a one-day conference (`Unravelling Extremisms: Informing the       Debate') to enhance the local authority's understanding of radicalisation       and `extremisms'.
Attendees, who numbered around 100 in total, included       local authority employees, those involved in the delivery of `Prevent'       (including private contractors), and local police representatives.
Contributions to international policy formulation.
Contributions       have also been made to international policy discussion through Silke's       presentation of research findings to a Pakistan delegation,       Foreign and Commonwealth Office (London, 11 February 2011); and to Senior         Government Officials from Azerbaijan (Foreign and Commonwealth       Office, London, 16 June 2009).
In some cases, those findings have informed       significant shifts in international policy formulation.
On 22 November       2010, Silke used expertise gained through the underpinning research on the       psychology of counter-terrorism to provide invited oral testimony (via       video link) to the Canadian Special Senate Committee on Anti-terrorism       (CSSC), a body created in May 2010 to undertake a "comprehensive review of       the provisions and operation of the Anti-terrorism Act and to study       legislation related to anti-terrorism".
Silke drew on findings published       in [1] and [2] to advise the Committee on radicalisation,       de-radicalisation and counter-terrorism; this testimony informed the       development by the Committee of its 2011 report Security, Freedom and         the Complex Terrorist Threat: Positive Steps Ahead.
That report       draws strongly on advice provided by Silke in recommending the provision       of federal government support for further research into "the transition       from radicalization into violence in Canada...in order to better       understand and prevent violent extremism."
It acknowledges Silke as an       expert witness, and cites his support for its recommendation that Canada       should make use of its existing justice system for criminal offences in       responding to the threat of terrorism [b].
Since the debate was judged to       be in the public interest Silke's testimony was, moreover, broadcast live       on the internet and recorded for later broadcast on television in Canada;       a transcription of his testimony was also made available online [c].
As       such, his expertise in this area contributed, not just to specialist       policy discussion and debate, but also to broader public awareness of       important issues relating to the research.
Improving understanding and developing new tools for counter-terrorist         professionals.
Prison staff: In 2009, Silke drew on research conducted as part of       the NOMS study [2] to give invited presentations at two national       conferences organised by the Ministry of Justice.
Those presentations       focussed on key findings relating to the management and reform of       terrorist prisoners, around 130 of whom are currently incarcerated in       prisons in England &amp; Wales.
These led to further invitations to share       those findings more widely &#8212; and thereby improve understanding of       prisoners convicted of terrorism-related offences - through guest lectures       for a combined total of more than 250 staff working with such prisoners at       UK prisons including: HMP Full Sutton (13 October 2009), HMP Frankland (27       April 2010), and HMP Feltham (29 March 2011).
Silke has also used his       research to enhance understanding of terrorist psychology among       representatives of policing and security bodies, including the Territorial       Policing CT Showcase 2008 (31 July 2008), Olympic Security Directorate (30       June 2009), and Metropolitan Police (13 January 2010).
That research has further supported the development of new risk         assessment tools for use in evaluating terrorist and extremist       offenders.
In 2008, Silke applied his expertise in terrorist psychology,       terrorists in prison and terrorist disengagement as a member of an       advisory group of experts on psychological risk assessment, set up to       inform the development by the NOMS Operational Intervention Services Group       of the Extremism Risk Guidance (ERG22+).
This new risk assessment       tool, which was launched in 2011, particularly followed the group's       recommendation for a structured risk guidance approach specifically       designed for use with terrorist prisoners [d].
Prior to its development,       prison authorities had no risk assessment tool validated for use with such       prisoners.
Between 2011 and the end of 2012, the new tool had been used to       improve the ability of prison psychologists and offender managers to       conduct risk assessments of more than 80 terrorist and extremist prisoners       in England and Wales; it is expected that assessments of the remaining       40-45 prisoners will be made by the end of 2013 [e].
The ERG is now       regarded as the primary risk assessment tool for such prisoners in England       and Wales; a modified version has been adapted by the Police, who use it       in community settings to divert potential extremists from pathways to       terrorist activity [e].
Silke's research also helped inform the       development of VERA-2 [f], the only other risk assessment tool       available for use with terrorist and extremist prisoners, which is used       widely in prisons in Australia and Canada.
Finally, in 2012, precisely in       line with the recommendations made in [2], the National Offender       Management Service introduced its Healthy Identities Intervention         programme to support extremist prisoners' disengagement from       extremism.
The programme is now available to all terrorism- and extremism-       related prisoners in England and Wales.
Military personnel: Invited talks have also been delivered to       improve understanding among UK and international military professionals,       including through addresses to the Advanced Command and Staff Course of       the UK Defence Academy (28 March 2011); and Higher Command and Staff       Course, Joint Services Command, and Staff College, Defence Academy       (Swindon, 23 January 2009).
Between 2010 and 2011 Morrison was the project       manager on the government-funded Violent Dissident Republicanism project,       in which role he gave regular private briefings to both the Police Service       of Northern Ireland and the British Security Services.
Silke has       contributed to a Senior Command and Staff Course of The Military College,       Irish Defence Forces, (Ireland, 18 January 2010).
Further afield, Morrison       was invited in 2012 to present his findings on radicalisation within       prisons at a NATO Advanced Research Workshop in Ankara at the NATO Centre       of Excellence-Defence Against Terrorism (COE-DAT).
Attendants included       approximately 25 senior military personnel from North Africa and       South-Eastern Europe who are currently involved in NATO's Mediterranean       Dialogue [g].
As a result of his participation in this event, Morrison was       commissioned in November 2012 to help develop a programme to assist the       Nigerian government in countering Boko Haram: a 5-day workshop was       subsequently delivered in 13-17 May 2013 [h].
Enhanced public awareness of and engagement with important social and         political issues.
As well as informing policy discussion and formulation and supporting       improvements in practice, the research has fed into public debates on       issues relating to terrorism and counter-terrorism.
Silke's research has       been covered extensively in both national and international media outlets,       allowing him to inform media discourse, share key findings with a wide       non-academic audience and thereby increase public awareness of and       engagement with significant social and political issues and events       relating to terrorism.
To that end, he has appeared on over 100 national       and international media programmes since 2008, including news and current       affairs programmes for the BBC, Sky News, CNN, ITV and Channel 4.
He has       also been interviewed regularly on radio and in printed press outlets with       very large readerships, including The Guardian, The         Independent, The Daily Telegraph, The Observer, Newsweek,       Time magazine, and La Republica.
His work on terrorist       psychology and critical incident psychology has also been the focus of a       number of television documentaries, including the BBC Horizon episode "How       to Survive a Disaster" first broadcast on 10 Mar 2009 on BBC 2 to 1.7       million viewers [i].
More recently, Morrison has also made a significant       contribution to national and international media-led debates on terrorism:       in the aftermath of the Boston bombings he was commissioned to write       analysis for both the Irish Post and City AM, whilst a piece on cnn.com,       analysing the threat posed by dissident Irish Republicans to the G8       summit, made a significant contribution to international media and public       discussion of that event.
The original article, which drew on his research       on the rising threat of dissident Irish Republicanism from the Violent       Dissident Republicanism project [5], received 456 separate comments on       CNN's webpage and was recommended by 325 people on Facebook; it was       reproduced by at least 23 news outlets across three continents [j].
