     Briggs' significant contribution to the development of the practice-near       research method and his       expertise in infant observation contributed to his development and       application of the distinctive       approach outlined above to the evaluation of services and organisations.
Funded evaluative       studies employing this approach to address complex practice and policy       issues have been       commissioned by governmental organisations including Skills for Care and       the Department for       Education; health commissioners such as Surrey PCT; and charitable       organisations including the       Trust for London, Goldsmith's Charity, and Kids Company.
The application       of Briggs' approach in       evaluations for such organisations has had significant impacts on the       quality and delivery of the       services they provide, with subsequent benefits not only to the       organisations themselves but to the       many people who use them.
The benefits to these organisations have       resulted particularly from the       capacity of Briggs' novel evaluative methodology to produce rigorous,       systematic research findings       responsive to sensitive and/or unusual organisational settings and complex       social problems.
Thus,       for example, the Kids Company CEO explains: "We are very pleased with the       results of the       research and we are using the report to show our stakeholders how our work       helps young people,       and also to support our government funding: Professor Briggs has an       exceptional ability to capture       significant and complex issues and communicate them in an accessible way"       [a].
Two key       examples illustrate the benefits of the application of Briggs' approach in       the context of its       commissioned use by organisations dealing with (i) suicide prevention and       adolescent self-harm;       and (ii) child abuse linked to Witchcraft and Spirit Possession in       London's African Communities.
(i.)
Suicide prevention and adolescent self-harm       Improving service delivery through practitioner training: Briggs       has transferred the specialist       insights and expertise developed through his work on relationship-led       approaches to suicide and       self-harm through CPD and other training influencing professional practice       both within and beyond       the UK.
Important examples since 2008 include the provision of training       to: 200 social workers in       Tower Hamlets (6 June 2013); over 100 social care staff at a Hounslow       Safeguarding Board       Conference (11 November 2011); 35 cognitive and behavioural therapists at       an evidence-based       skills class (BABCP 17 July 2013); 60 Bromley Samaritans (10 November       2012); Sussex Central       YMCA Counselling (February 2010, 80 attendees); Kent CAMHS (November 2012,       55 attendees);       KCA (Drug, Alcohol and Mental Health Services, April 2013, 25 attendees).
Feedback from two       nScience UK seminars on adolescent self-harm (23.06.2011; 25.04.2013; 105       attendees) indicates       that sessions were "very well received" and of practical relevance to       attendees [b].
The reach of these impacts has been extended internationally through       Briggs' delivery of training to       160 psychotherapists, health and social care workers in Australia (Sydney       and Canberra, August       2012 and Feb 2013) [c].
A 10-week CPD programme, `Relating to       self-harm', devised by Briggs       using his UEL research, has been delivered annually since 2008 through the       Tavistock Centre and       attended by between 15 and 20 participants per year (96 in total since       2008).
Course feedback,       including a DVD, recording participants' reflections on their experiences,       demonstrates the       beneficial and, for some transformational, impacts of the course on       working practices: reported       changes include an increase in relational focus, and confidence in       assessing risks and working in       emotionally intense situations.
One participant described how the course       had "opened up her       mind" and helped her overcome her fear of self-harm by being able to build       relationships and focus       on how the work affected her emotionally [d].
The reach of the       impacts on practitioner services -       and subsequently the benefits to patients - has also been significantly       enhanced by BMJ       Learning's inclusion in its online course for GPs working with       self-harming patients of a video       commissioned from Briggs in 2012.
This video addresses key factors in       assessing risks of self-       harm, and emphasises the need to assess motivations in each case through       relating to the patient.
It is one of two videos on the site and the only one produced by an       academic.
Feedback from 131       course participants showed that the video was well received: comments       included "excellent", "very       informative", and "really thought provoking and useful" [e].
Informing changes in policy and guidelines: Briggs' work was valued     highly by Maytree, who have     since made extensive use of his evaluation report: "There is no doubt", its     Director states, "that the     report...assists us in securing funding, promotes our service to medical and     non-medical     practitioners, in building new partnerships with statutory and voluntary     sector services, and     reassures potential service users that our model is effective" [f].
Maytree have used the     evaluations to support successful funding applications amounting to &#163;284,950     in the past 2 years     alone, a considerable sum for this small organisation; the research has also     supported the     development since 2012 of a partnership with the British Transport Police [f].
In 2008, Briggs'     invited presentation of the findings of his work with Maytree persuaded the     then-lead for NHS     mental Health, Louis Appleby, to accept the case for NHS support for     Maytree.
The research (particularly [6]) has also attracted interest from       policy-makers and practitioners in       Norway, and in 2012 Briggs advised suicide prevention specialists in       Australia on the replication of       the Maytree model.
On the basis of his expertise in this field, Briggs was       also an invited member of       the National Clinical Institute for Excellence (NICE) Clinical Guideline       Development Group for `Self-       harm, longer term management (2009-11).
He was subsequently invited to       contribute to panels       advising on commissioning (2012) and evidence update (2013).
His       involvement influenced the       incorporation into the Guidelines of a paradigm-changing focus on the       centrality of relationship-led       approaches to working with self-harm, which is now being implemented       across the NHS [g].
(ii.)
Safeguarding Children's Rights       Supporting the development of organisations tackling child abuse linked         to witchcraft and spirit         possession in London's African communities.
Briggs' commissioned       work for the Trust for London       [8] included the provision of a supportive, consulting relational approach       for use by practitioners in       newly-founded, small African community organisations.
Based on the       practice-near approach, this       facilitated the structural, strategic and operational development of       organisations including the       Victoria Climbie Foundation (VCF), Africans Unite Against Child Abuse       (AFRUCA), and Congolese       Family Centre.
VCF found the evaluation findings "helpful in developing       the VCF organisation, both       in terms of communicating our work around child abuse linked to witchcraft       and spirit possession to       safeguarding and other statutory professionals, and in raising child       protection awareness in the       communities with whom we work" [h].
Informing changes in policy and guidelines.
The findings of the       Trust for London evaluation were       shared widely with relevant professionals and government bodies through       contributions to policy       discussion and debate, helping to reduce the `wall of silence' around the       important social problems       addressed in the research.
The evaluation outcomes were also announced at       a conference for 100       practitioners, chaired by Baroness Howarth on 13 May 2011.
They were       shared with a further 170       practitioners via two conferences hosted by AFRUCA and the Tavistock in       October and November       2011: participants evaluated these as positively informing their       understanding of the complex       issues involved.
A 2012 National Action Plan produced by the Department for Education       Working Group to tackle       child abuse linked to faith or belief cited the Trust for London       evaluation report as providing "critical       learning which should be taken into account in future projects or activity       by statutory and non-       statutory partners" [i, p. 5].
It also repeated key findings of       that evaluation, including recognising:       "the importance of engaging with faith leaders and of training to help       build understanding" and that       "broader engagement with communities is more effective than narrower       engagement on the issue       of witchcraft and spirit possession" [i, p. 6].
A literature review       of evidence on child abuse linked to       faith or belief was commissioned from The Childhood Wellbeing Research       Centre in 2012 by the       Department for Education, in conjunction with the National Action Plan.
That review, which was       commissioned to help inform future policy in the area, likewise repeatedly       used key evaluation       findings to suggest future directions of travel in generating evidence in       this area [j].
In April 2012       Briggs was invited with another member of the UEL/Tavistock research team,       Elaine Ryan, to       contribute specialist insights to a House of Commons summit sponsored by       Chuka Umunna MP       and AFRUCA on the abuse of children of African heritage linked to belief       in witchcraft or       possession.
Briggs and Ryan drew, again, on the evaluation findings to       highlight the complex       relationships between beliefs and child protection, and to recommend       training professionals to use       the child protection framework for assessment of cases of suspected faith       abuse.
This resulted in       the allocation from 2012 of funding to support AFRUCA's training of 100       `children's champions'.
Increasing public awareness: The findings of the evaluation report       were communicated to much       wider public and practitioner audiences through their coverage in popular       media and practitioner       outlets including The Times (14/05/2011: average daily circulation       of 475,250 in January 2011) and       Community Care (16/052011: 300,000 online users).
The evaluation       was widely cited again, both       in the traditional media and online, in coverage of the verdict in the       Kristy Bamu case in January       2012, and Briggs discussed issues raised by that case on Radio Five Live's       Victoria Derbyshire       Programme (02/03/2012: average audience of 6.3 million March 2012).
