     Nature of the Impact: The influence of MSU's research on EU       policymaking debate and practice on refugees can be traced through its       direct interactions with policymakers and in the way pre-legislative       policy reports have used its research findings.
MSU's research has shaped       key debates on refuge protection in Europe.
Some of its key policy       recommendations regarding the need for reformed burden-sharing policies       have been taken up by legislators.
These reforms have started to       re-balance responsibilities across EU Member States and have been       acknowledged to have helped improve protection capacities in over-burdened       countries such as Greece [A].
In doing so, MSU's work has helped to       improve the chances of the tens of thousands refugees who come to Europe       each year to find effective protection from persecution.
i) Informing policy debate       In EU policymaking, research reports commissioned by EU institutions are       highly influential in the EU legislative process.
They inform White and       Green papers through which they can influence legislative programmes and       ultimately new EU directives and regulations.
In recent years, the EU has commissioned three major research reports in       the area of migration management and refugee burden-sharing.
Dr Thielemann       contributed to all three of these reports, as lead academic author for the       European Parliament's 2010 report [B]; as a member of the steering       committee of the European Commission's 2010 report, in which he was the       single most referenced author (21 separate references to six publications)       [C].
The report's conclusions supported Dr Thielemann's research findings       that policy harmonisation was insufficient by calling for an intra-EU       relocation pilot scheme for refugees [C, p.79,82].
In the third report, to       which Thielemann was also invited to contribute, three of Thielemann's       publications were referred to and the report's conclusions agreed with       Thielemann's call [3 in section 3 above] for stronger complementary       burden-sharing mechanisms and the expansion of a reformed European Refugee       Fund [D]     At the invitation of the Council of Ministers, Dr Thielemann served as a       Special Rapporteur for EU burden-sharing initiatives at its       inter-ministerial conference on Justice and Home Affairs in 2010 [E],       which led to a renewed impetus from the highest political level to address       solidarity issues in the negotiations of the EU's new legislative asylum       package [14].
He has given evidence on new physical relocation initiatives       to the all-party working group on asylum of the European Parliament and to       several workshops organised by the national contact points of the       intergovernmental European Migration Network, most recently hosted by the       Cypriot government [G].
Within the UK, two of Thielemann's publications on migration management       [1,2 in section 3 above] were specifically referred to by immigration       minister Phil Woolas in his written response to a parliamentary question       on asylum management in November 2009 [H].
In 2010, Thielemann was asked       by the UK Government's Chief Scientific Advisor to write a paper on the       effectiveness of policy on migration flows for the Foresight report on       Global Environmental Migration [I] which the BBC referred to `the most       detailed study carried out on the effect of flooding, drought and rising       sea levels on human migration patterns over the next 50 years' [J].
ii) Impact on policies       Important shifts in the EU asylum policy debate in recent years have       incorporated some of MSU's key policy recommendations on EU       burden-sharing.
First, the European Commission and the Member States have increasingly       acknowledged the central role that structural pull factors play in       influencing the size and direction of asylum flows.
In 2007, the European       Commission recognised publicly for the first time that `the establishment       of a common asylum procedure and a uniform status will not completely       eradicate all reasons why asylum seekers may find one Member State a more       attractive destination than another', and accepted that `thought should       mainly be given to establishing "corrective" burden-sharing mechanisms'       [K, p.11].
Second, the European Commission and Member States have responded to the       MSU's criticism of the insufficient size of the European Refugee Fund       (ERF).
In its 2007 Green Paper, the Commission states: `We need to       consider ways of further maximising the effectiveness of the European       Refugee Fund (ERF) as a supporting instrument for Member States' efforts       to implement EU asylum policy... ways must be explored to ensure ERF       funding can be put to better use in order to complement, stimulate and act       as a catalyst for the delivery of the objectives pursued, to reduce       disparities and to raise standards' [K, p.11].
Since then, the ERF's       resources have been expanded from around &#8364;200 million to a budget of       &#8364;3,869 million for its successor, the Asylum and Migration Fund (AMF).
Europe's principal refugee NGO (ECRE) is using MSU research to lobby for       further reform, particularly of the Fund's allocation mechanisms, citing       Dr Thielemann's 2010 research for the EP [L].
Third, the EU's legislative bodies have reacted to the criticism of the       `Dublin mechanism', led by MSU, in adopting the reformed Dublin III       Regulation in 2012.
Some Member States took up Dr Thielemann's       recommendation for more physical relocation mechanisms by establishing the       pilot scheme EUREMA, which led to refugees in Malta being relocated to       other Member States.
The review of this scheme by the International       Organization for Migration (IOM) prominently acknowledged the contribution       of Thielemann's research in the report's foreword [M].
Fourth, MSU's promotion of new physical relocation instruments was picked       up by the `Alliance of Liberal and Democrats for Europe' (ALDE) party       group in the EP, which in September 2012 convened a special refugee       relocation conference with all stakeholder groups at the EP, inviting Dr       Thielemann as the principal academic keynote speaker.
The meeting resulted       in a resolution by the EP plenary [N] that calls on the Commission to       include an "EU distribution key" for the physical relocation of       beneficiaries of international protection in its future legislative       proposals for new refugee burden-sharing instruments and a report with an       invited contribution by Dr Thielemann [O].
Wider Implications: Six million asylum seekers have entered Europe       over the past two decades.
By helping to shift the debate on       burden-sharing, Dr Thielemann's research is helping some of the world's       most vulnerable individuals to find protection from persecution.
