     From 2008 onwards, the social, cultural and commercial impacts of these       themes of research are       evidenced by their influence on UK coaches, coach education practices, and       through professional       club and national governing body policies.
With respect to Theme 1: Directly from the original research work       at Loughborough [3.1, 3.2],       the Performance Environment Survey (PES) has reached into National       Governing Body policy and       significantly influenced methods of international team performance       assessment.
Specifically, in       order to review and inform tournament preparation, the PES is now used as       part of FA Policy by       FA Club England and the National Coaches as a tournament evaluation tool.
Within point 120 in       the FA's (2011) Raising Our Game policy document, the FA states       "Whilst The FA always seeks to       understand the reasons for disappointing results, and has collected       feedback previously from       coaching and playing squads, it should seek to go further in formally       collating qualitative and       quantitative feedback from all international squads to better understand       the successes and failures       of team environment and preparation from their perspective."
This point is       acknowledged within       two of 25 recommendations summarized and reported by the FA from this       policy [5.8].
Subsequently, this process of tournament evaluation by players and the       role of the PES is       supported by a testimonial from the FA National Coach for the England       U-16's team [5.1].
With respect to Theme 2: From his original intervention research [3.3]       conducted at a single       youth academy, Harwood's 5C's programme and its principles and practices       have significantly       impacted upon the national approach of the FA towards its psychological       education of coaches and       clubs.
Moreover knowledge of the 5C's is having an extensive reach into       1000's of coaches and       parents through direct promotion via FA channels.
Specifically, the 5C's       now form the basis of the       FA Level 4 Psychology for Football education module for coaches.
Based on       the delivery of mental       skills on the pitch, this national course has already served over 450       coaches from amateur youth       soccer, professional academies and centres of excellence.
In further       support of this level 4 module,       the FA commissioned a coaches textbook based on the 5C's due to be       published by Harwood in       December 2013.
In addition, the FA art and design team have worked with       Loughborough       University to create three 5C's educational wall posters for youth       football clubs, coaches and       parents.
These wallposters have been distributed to 500 FA Charter       Standard football clubs in       conjunction with the creation of two FA webpages that have made these 5C       educational tips and       practices available for download by all registered coaches and visitors [5.7].
These 5C education       resources have been directly sent to 14,900 licensed coaches, and have       been promoted via       Twitter to 20,587 worldwide followers at #StGeorgesPark.
To date, the       websites have been       accessed by 2456 unique visitors with over 1600 having actively downloaded       the 5C resources       [see 5.8].
This initiative is supported by the testimonial from       the FA Head of Player Development       [5.2].
The 5C principles have also influenced the development of the new FA       Advanced Youth Coaches       Award, established in 2012, and directly form the content of a textbook       and e-resource to support       the award.
This is affirmed in a testimonial from the FA Director of Youth       Awards [5.3].
Finally, in       terms of internal impact within a professional club's long term player       development plan, the 5C's       philosophy is integrated within coach, player and parent education       policies at Nottingham Forest       FC and Leicester City FC.
This integration of the 5C's approach is       documented in Nottingham       Forest's Player Development Strategy as an element of sport science       provision [see 5.6].
With respect to Theme 3: Harwood's research [3.4] on       psychological momentum revealed both       team and individual psychological strategies used by players and coaches       to maintain and regain       momentum during soccer games.
Informed by this material, the resultant       professional textbook       `Momentum in Soccer' has been the core text for the FA Level 5 Psychology       for Football coach       education module.
The book's framework focuses on how momentum within a       team is influenced       by individual and team factors, forming the structure of the three day       course.
The book has sold       over 2300 copies to date with the course having served over 150 coaches       and support staff from       FA Academies, Centres of Excellence, Clubs and Schools since 2008.
This       impact is confirmed       within the testimony from 5.2.
With respect to Theme 4: Cushion's research with CAIS in football       has led to the development of       a coach behaviour analysis software for use with tablet devices [see 5.10].
To date 20 software       licences have been sold.
Axis Coaching Technology has been promoted to       1952 followers on       Twitter and has 450 signed up via LinkedIn.The software is being used       within professional football       at Leicester City FC, Southamption FC, Plymouth Argyle and Wigan Athletic       as part of continuing       professional development for coaching staff, coach behaviour evaluation       and informing the practice       environments created by coaches.
This integration of the CAIS is       reinforced in testimony from       Academy Managers at Leicester City FC [5.4] and and Wigan Athletic       FC [5.5].
CAIS is also being       used within UK Sport's Inspire/Aspire coach development programme, coaches       (including football       coaches) are supported with mentors in this programme and the mentors are       embedding CAIS       within their support programme.
The CAIS is referred to within the Sports       Coach UK prospectus for       the Performance Coach Development Programme [5.9]     In summary, one of the fundamental indicators of significance in terms of       impact is the progression       and translation of these pieces of research into the policies and       practices of football's sport       governing body; the FA.
Sport governing bodies are the service providers       and policy makers for       coaches and clubs with respect to coach and player education and       development.
Through the FA       (its courses, website, social media outlets and management of national       teams) as well as direct       applications at club level, the various outputs from this research       programme have reached over       20,000 youth coaches (including international coaching members), from       1000's of clubs and teams       at all levels of the game.
This is significant in integrating       sport psychology within the system of       youth development in football, and specifically through the behaviour and       applied practice of       coaches with youth football settings.
