     The research has expanded knowledge of the Tamil people's languages and       cultures in early 18th century South India, and their reciprocal       interactions with German missionary scholars.
It emerges from a conviction       that archival research acts to reclaim cultural memory, which is essential       to community self-understanding, identity, and positive pride.
There are       three primary spheres in which this work has had benefit and impact.
Firstly, the work on manuscript recovery has contributed to academic       practice and discourse among professional archivists and librarians,       particularly in relation to palm leaf manuscripts.
Secondly, it has       contributed to public discourse on the Tamil language: its development,       literary heritage, and reception and representation by European       (particularly Germans, Danes, and the Portuguese).
It also brings to light       a very significant aspect of Indic studies: the dominance of Sanskrit       study has minimized the importance of Tamil Studies in Europe, where,       however Tamil was the first Indian language to be taught.
Thirdly, this       research highlights the contributions of a minority community, namely       Protestant Christians, to nation building: Christians have introduced new       patterns of thinking and living that have caused redefinition of inherited       beliefs, customs, and practices.
The prominent position of the Tamil       vernacular in the activities of the Tamil Christians stirred up a new       Tamil consciousness; their indigenous Christian communities provided       alternative ways of being Indians and Christians at the same time.
The       research brings new insights and awareness regarding this into the       international public sphere.
The specific impacts are described below       under four headings: 1) Manuscript Recovery; 2) Translation of       Ziegenbalg's Grammatica Damulica; 3) Documentary Video Beyond         Empires; 4) Public Speaking in Christian Contexts.
Manuscript Recovery.
The Francke Foundations in Halle arranged for       special protection of the palm leaf manuscripts discovered by Jeyaraj       because their linguistic and cultural value is unique and irreplaceable.
Jeyaraj chose key palm leaf manuscripts for microfilming and the microfilm       reels are kept in the Lutheran Heritage Archives in Chennai, Tamil Nadu,       available free of charge to the general public and to scholars.
This       represents a significant widening of access, as those interested do not       need to travel or obtain the Schengen Visa.
Jeyaraj was further invited to       the National Library of M&#252;nich for the first week of July 2013, in order       to identify hitherto unidentified palm leaf documents.
The palm leaf collections have inspired technical initiatives for the       safe-keeping of similar documents, e.g.
using modern technology to protect       from pests.
As part of the Germany-India Year 2011-2012, the Foreign       Office, Federal Republic of Germany, sponsored a workshop entitled       "Science Transfer as Cultural Dialogue" (23-24.2.12)1 directly       inspired by Jeyaraj's continuing work with the palm leaf manuscripts.
The       workshop aimed to analyse sources of common cultural history preserved in       Indian and German archives and to explore avenues for closer cooperation       between Indian institutions and the Francke foundations.
The Zentrum       Moderner Orient in Berlin, the Roja Muthaiah Research Library, the Francke       Foundations, and archivists of leading libraries in India participated in       this workshop.
Jeyaraj was invited to give the only public lecture       ("Introducing Indian Teachings and Ways of Life to Europeans: Exchange of       Ideas between Tamil Pundits and European Missionaries in pre-colonial       India").
This lecture stressed the importance of recovering, preserving       and spreading memories of people in cross-cultural contexts to deepen       awareness of interdependence and learn best practices from one another.
Public interest in these palm leaf manuscripts persists in the UK and in       Halle; the Francke Foundations will host a further workshop entitled Palm-leaf         Manuscripts in Europe and India (7-8.9.13).
Jeyaraj was invited       (April 2013) to speak about the palm leaf collections and their       preservation.2     Translation of Ziegenbalg's Grammatica Damulica.
This has attracted significant attention beyond academia.
A reviewer for       the Berlin Society for Mission History (March 2013) commented that the       book recovered "a forgotten aspect of the Tamil cultural heritage," and       offered a valuable case study for practitioners of mission and ecumenism       (as well as scholars) of the "transcontinental role of a grammar in       communicating and simultaneously preserving Tamil language, culture and       memories.
"3 Of particular note is the interest that arose from       the organizers of the First World Classical Tamil Conference (June       2010) in Coimbatore, Tamil Nadu.
The Government of Tamil Nadu initiated       and sponsored this mega-conference, with 913 papers and 2605 delegates, to       celebrate the classical status of the Tamil language and to evolve       strategies for the future in accordance with policies of the Government of       India.
Jeyaraj was one of two representatives invited from the United       Kingdom, in order to speak on the Grammatica Damulica.
The       conference itself and a personal interview with Jeyaraj were featured in       FRONTLINE (30.7.10),4 the leading bi-monthly national magazine       of India with an average issue readership of 152, 000.
The conference       itself was said to be "surcharged with Tamil pride", and included       "euphoria caused by the cultural programmes got up to ensure public       participation on a large scale".
The plenary chair emphasized the       importance to the Tamil diaspora of highlighting the "antiquity and       greatness of the Tamil language in all UNESCO-recognised languages."
The       personal interview with Jeyaraj, "Of the German who took Tamil to       Europeans", brought Jeyaraj's research on Ziegenbalg to the attention of       the broader Indian public, and thereby brought into greater prominence a       significant figure in Indian cultural history.
Jeyaraj continues to       receive public enquires and feedback in response to this article.
Documentary Video Beyond Empires.
Jeyaraj's       research also led to a request from an independent producer and director       in the USA, Christopher Gilbert (of LampPost Media), to act as research       consultant for a documentary video on Ziegenbalg, Beyond Empires-itself       inspired by reading Jeyaraj's work.
The film is now complete and release       is planned for December 2013, first on ACCTV in Australia and then in       other countries.
Gilbert commented that "when just some of [Ziegenbalg's]       achievements and the celebration of them by an emerging global power like       India is known, his invisibility in the west seems an incomprehensible       injustice".5 Jeyaraj's research is, then, instrumental in       addressing this "incomprehensible injustice" and bringing Ziegenbalg's       life and works to a broader audience.
As Gilbert says: "There are few       experts on Ziegenbalg's life, the foremost, Dr. Daniel Jeyaraj... has       agreed to be the primary expert witness on this project on location in       India.
Scottish national Andrew Walls [Liverpool Hope Adjunct Professor       since 2004], acknowledged as the foremost living scholar on Christian       Missionary History, is also willing to participate further".5       The collaboration extended over four years; Jeyaraj provided expert advice       and helped the director to shoot the film in India in 2010.
Gilbert       attests that the film crew received significant attention from Indian       newspapers and from Reuter's television news, Indian division.
Stories       also appeared in The           New Indian Express, the           Deccan Chronicle, The           Statesman and a Tamil language newspaper.6     The LampPost Media site includes both a synopsis of the documentary       project and three letters of testimony.5 Comments, underlining       the contemporary public significance of research on Ziegenbalg, include:       Kullberg (The Veritas Forum), "we have much to learn from this story right       now, when most of us long for a circuit breaker on sectarian violence";       Martin (Lutheran World Federation), "the fruits of these initiatives need       to be harvested not only to continue the memory of B. Ziegenbalg, but more       so to participate and provide momentum to the social reform movements       already taking place in India, vis-&#224;-vis the Dalit liberation and       education revolution."
The Beyond Empires team publicized the forthcoming documentary on       YouTube;7 the site hosts eleven videos with total views       exceeding 4110.
One video, "A Reason to Tell the Story: Beyond Empires" is       narrated by Jeyaraj himself, Andrew Walls and Theodore Bhaskaran; this       feature, with 870 views, includes testimony from Christians, Hindus and       Muslims about the significance of Ziegenbalg's contributions to Tamil       culture (and hence, indirectly, about the significance of Jeyaraj's role       in contributing both to knowledge of Ziegenbalg's life and work, and to       assisting in bringing this knowledge to a wider audience).
A further       indicator of the significance and reach of this impact is that funding for       the post-production phase of the documentary was crowdsourced via       Kickstarter (a specialist fundraiser site for independent creative       projects).
In 2011, 103% of the target amount was reached within one       month, with $7688 raised from 57 backers.8     Public Speaking in Christian Contexts.
Jeyaraj also delivers       seminars and lectures for the interested public.
As a consequence of the       publication of `The Malabarian Correspondence', the Madras Christian       College invited Jeyaraj to give their annual Dr. Michael C. Lockwood       Endowment Lecture (26 August 2011).9 He expounded the theme       "Bartholom&#228;us Ziegenbalg's explorations into South Indian Culture,       Philosophy and Religion.
This was featured in a Times of India       article (27.8.11).10 On 20 April 2012, he gave a further       seminar to the Madras Christian College on the subject of India-initiated       churches, which brought together academics and clergy, as well as       representatives of leading mission agencies.
The Tiruvarambur Pastorate of       the Tamil Evangelical Lutheran Church invited him to give four lectures in       Tamil to a church in Trichy, India, on "Contributions of Ziegenbalg's       Family to Indian Society" (20.8.12).
TELC is a government-funded       educational provider; as a consequence of these talks, the Secretary of       the Church Council invited Jeyaraj to share his insights with the teachers       of the Tamil Evangelical Lutheran Church during their retreat       (24-27.8.12), commenting that his work on Ziegenbalg was "very useful" for       school teachers in teaching their students about him.
