     The impact sought from the research was not with policy makers post 9/11       and 7/7, but rather the enrichment and expansion of the cultural life of       British Muslims, and psychological and social impact on the communities of       Muslims when provided with positive self-images of their historic presence       in Britain.
In 2007 I was becoming increasingly aware of community       sensitivities and the need that scholars of religion should `put something       back' into these communities and offer some reciprocal benefit.
I had       recognised that Abdullah Quilliam and his Liverpool Muslim Institute were       significant to the identity quests of British-born second and third       generation Muslims because (i) they increasingly saw him as an iconic       figure whose conversion to Islam marked him out as neither economic       migrant nor a refugee fleeing persecution or war, but demonstrated a       Muslim presence in the UK that predated the WWII migrations.
(ii) Quilliam       reflected upon the nature of being Muslim in Britain during a period of       international conflict between Britain and Muslim territories and examined       British Muslim identity, citizenship and conflicting loyalties.
Quilliam       was significant in attempts by Muslims to reclaim their history in the       West and as a figure who cements Islam in Britain as a religious       conviction.
Individual Muslims and some organisations, for example, the Quilliam       Foundation, perceived him as an ideal of an integrated and moderate       Muslim, able to provide an exemplary bulwark against extremism.
Quilliam       was also significant because he was a leader of British Muslims in an       urban environment rapidly transforming into a multi-cultural city.
I       wanted to tell this story to British Muslims in a milieu in which negative       narratives were becoming the norm.
Kube Press was chosen for publication,       as it could access a wide Muslim readership.
The book launch (16th       April 2010) at Liverpool Hope University was announced at juma'a prayers       in the central mosque Liverpool and attracted around 250 to attend,       including a number of Muslim leaders from the city and beyond.
Enquiries       to provide community lectures to various Muslim audiences (religious and       ethnic) concerning the impact of Abdullah Quilliam for 21st       Century Muslims arrived from 2010.
To date over 35 lectures have been       delivered within a variety of Muslim audiences including summer camps       (attendance 5000) to retreats (attendance 25).
The invitations have       crossed ethnic boundaries with lectures to Yemeni, Turkish, Pakistani,       Indian, and Bangladeshi societies in London, Birmingham, Manchester,       Cambridge, and Preston (https://info.hope.ac.uk/aps/user.php?id=geavesr).
There was also a lecture invitation to address the foreign office on       contemporary resonances between British foreign policy in the 19th       Century and the Gulf Wars (4th November 2010) .
The impact of the book continues with such invitations in 2013 and was       further disseminated by two BBC radio documentaries (Radio 4 and BBC World       Service ) in 2010 and 2011 on the subject of Abdullah Quilliam.
In 2012,       BBC 1 put out a documentary Great British Islam with me as one of       the `talking heads' to mark the first night of Ramadan.
The programme       focused on the significance of Abdullah Quilliam.
The overall theme of the       programme was the historic importance of Muslim communities in Britain       prior to the post WWII migrations.
The programme attracted 776,000 viewers       even though it went out at 11pm.
A further 106,000 have watched the       programme on You-Tube to the present.
These programmes have been utilised       by the Abdullah Quilliam Society in Liverpool to reclaim the historic       mosque (the first in Britain) from the City Council, and the book forms a       considerable presence on the Abdullah Quilliam Society website.
The       society exists to further Muslim heritage in Britain by promoting       Quilliam's activities in Liverpool and to re-establish the building in       which he promoted Islam as a mosque and heritage centre for British       Muslims.
The Society has drawn upon my status as the author of Quilliam's       biography to assist in their campaigns to recover and restore the mosque.
To mark the 80th anniversary of Quilliam's death in April 2012 the society       invited me to give the first of a series of annual Memorial lectures and       made an Honorary Award.
This consisted of a Communication Award given to       me as the biographer of Sheikh Abdullah Quilliam, and an Engagement Award       to Bishop James Jones, a long time supporter of the Muslim community and       the Abdullah Quilliam Society.
The communication award is offered to an       individual who has either communicated Islam or Muslim life and issues in       a positive or creative way to a non-Muslim audience (http://www.abdullahquilliam.com/wp/pdfs/AQ-Awards-2012-screen.pdf).
The       Muslim book review site (kitaabun.com) states that the book is: `A Must       Read For All Muslims in Britain' (http://kitaabun.com/shopping3/product_info.php?products_id=3317).
In November 2012 I was invited to speak on Quilliam in Manchester and       give away the 2013 awards to the winners, the journalist Victoria Brittain       and the Liverpool Cily Councillor, Alan Dean.
In addition I have been       interviewed on Quilliam and his contemporary significance by the Muslim       cable television networks (ATN Bangla UK, Muslim Television Ahmadiyya       (MTA) and Jordan Radio and TV).
In 2013, I was interviewed by Malaysian       State Television on Abdullah Quiliam and the subsequent programme Syahadah       opened Ramadan in Malaysia on 9th July 2013, an extremely       unusual honour for a non-Muslim.
On 28th June 2013, I took part       in Episode 4 of Britain's Secret Homes, where I was interviewed by       Rageh Omar in the ruins of Quilliam's mosque as part of ITV and English       Heritage series (9pm-10pm Friday nights) looking at houses across the       British Isles that have had an impact on British social life.
The Quilliam       mosque reached the top 20 out of 100 houses explored by the series.
Rageh       Omar stated: "As a British Muslim I think Liverpool should also be famous       for one more thing, for the pivotal role it played in bringing Islam to       this country" (http://www.itv.com/presscentre/ep4week26/britains-secret-homes#.Um-JDXA716g).
Assessing the impact on `the enrichment and expansion of the cultural       life of British Muslims and the psychological and social impact on the       communities of Muslims when provided with positive self-images of their       historic presence in Britain' is not easy to assess empirically.
The       continued invitations, media attention and reinforcement from British       Muslims by e-mail and various on-line sources provide some indications of       the impact of the research within the British Muslim communities and are       appropriate `proxies' for cultural impact.
