     Recognition of our research on food safety led to preliminary impact       resulting in the development of a KITE programme (13).
Delivered through       the Food Industry Centre at Cardiff Metropolitan University, it was set up       as a feasibility study to run between 2008 and 2015, with additional       investment added in 2012 (12).
Its aims included addressing the critical       need for food sector SMEs to meet technical demands required for business       sustainability by implementation of effective delivery mechanisms to       facilitate the transfer and embedding of food science / technology       knowledge and expertise.
Recognised in the Food Strategy for Wales (11) as a provider of       innovation and for instilling best practice, and in the report of the       European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development, Making Wales a         Better Place 2007-2013 (8), the Welsh Government also made explicit       the impact of our work.
Under the banner headline `KITE project gives lift       to Welsh food industry', it commented on "A ground breaking programme       financed by &#163;3.9 million", and explained that the intention was "to get       more Welsh food on the shelves of large retail stores across the world,       which in turn will allow SMEs to grow, providing local jobs for local       people including young food science graduates who would have traditionally       had to move to England to further their careers."
Having established the KITE programme, the impact of our research for       end-users (i.e., the food industry in Wales) have been concerned with: (i)       impacts on commerce &#8212; sales of new products, business performance       measures, employment figures, and commercial adoption of new technology,       process and knowledge; (ii) impacts on production &#8212; new products and       reduced wastage; and (iii) impacts on practitioners and services &#8212;       adoption of best practice.
The KITE programme has undergone a rigorous second party evaluation that       has been submitted to the Welsh Government.
The Evaluation Report for       2008-2011 (10) made clear that there were also secondary outcomes linked       to investment, sustainability, nutrition and health, supply chain       efficiency, food culture, regeneration, market development, tourism,       reduction of environmental impact, business remodelling, focus on Welsh       Government convergence areas, workforce development, increased exports,       links with Welsh Government food and other policies, and food `hubs'.
The       Report indicated progress on each of these spheres of influence and       projected more in the future.
Through the KITE programme a food science graduate is placed in a food       industry business with the aim of making improvements against four main       key performance indicators (KPIs),- technical management, new product       development, production management systems and waste control.
Food safety       culture change philosophy and practices are fundamental to delivering       these KPIs.
The clearest evidence of the impact on the food industry in       Wales is from the Quarterly Claim Report (9) which is verified by Welsh       Government (14).
The most recent of these (to March 2013) shows that       against every measurable criterion, the actual performance has matched,       and often exceeded significantly the contractual target for the programme:            Participation in the scheme: target 31 companies, actual performance         31       Dissemination of outputs: target 86 companies, actual performance 86       Increased sales of Welsh produce: target &#163;16.3 million, actual         performance &#163;27.2 million       Creation of quality assurance roles: target 38, actual performance         38.8       Creation of manufacturing roles: target 219, actual performance 270       Waste reduction at source within processing: target &#163;223k, actual         performance &#163;540k       Jobs safeguarded: target 620, actual performance 764       Technical transfer conference to share good practice: target 1, actual         performance 1.
Particular examples illustrate the ways in which the KITE project has       impacted on SMEs in the food industry in Wales (15), and the role of       Cardiff Met has featured in a Welsh Government news bulletin on nutrition       for national sports teams (15).
As a result of this work, Food Industry Centre researchers have been       invited to become involved in other activities.
Fielding acted as a       consultant to the Food and Agriculture Organisation of the United Nations,       on a European Union funded programme about curriculum design for sanitary       inspectors in Bangladesh (7) as well as contributing to the Centre for       Medical Education and the Institute of Public Health, advising on risk       based food safety management, and updating the curriculum (implemented in       July 2012).
Lloyd contributed to public engagement through broadcast and       electronic media (16).
