     This case study is an example of `immediate impact' of our research that       has informed policy and services linked to the health and well-being of       composting workers.
Specifically, the benefits to the industry are a       reduction of the risk of harm, improved working conditions and control       measures, enhanced prevention of illness and disease, and reduced criminal       and civil litigation.
There has also been a heightened awareness of       related health risks.
As a result, the medium and longer-term social and       economic impact will be fewer incidences of absence from work, gains in       productivity through more effective working arrangements, and reduced       statutory sick pay.
Composting is the recycling of organic waste such as vegetation and       foodstuffs.
It is a sector that has experienced rapid recent growth in       order to reduce the amount of waste going to landfill.
According to the       Waste and Resources Action Programme, in 2012 there were 23 mechanical       biological treatment facilities in the UK and over 300 composting sites.
It is also known that there are a further 3000 sites that have exemptions       under environmental permitting rules.
The Health and Safety Executive have       estimated that in 2006 across the UK there were more than 175,000 workers       employed in the waste and recycling services industry.
As a large-scale commercial activity composting is carried out either in       open windrows or enclosed systems and to encourage efficient composting       effective aeration is required.
In open windrows this is achieved by       regular turning of the material which creates bioaerosols including human       allergens and pathogens which affect respiratory health and may cause       headaches, nausea and fatigue.
In chronic cases bioaerosols can lead to       asthma, alveolitis, bronchitis, gastro-intestinal and skin disorders.
The trade body, the Renewable Energy Association, was formed in 2013 by       the merger of the AfOR and the Renewable Energy Association.
It describes       itself as a "modern proactive not for profit organisation within the wider       waste industry" (http://www.organics-recycling.org.uk)       and has a membership of approximately 1,100 companies, organisations and       individuals.
In 2012 AfOR published a guidance document for the sector, The         Health and Safety at Composting Sites: A Guide for Site Managers       (7).
Based on his research (4, 5 and 6), Sykes was commissioned to write       chapters on composting and bioaerosols, control of substances hazardous to       health, health surveillance and personal protective equipment (13).
As       AfOR makes clear, "This updated Guide has been written for site managers       and aims to impart sound practical advice regarding occupational health       and safety.
It is intended that this new updated Guide will enable       managers to make employees aware of their legal obligations and to ensure       that appropriate on-site procedures are implemented" (8).
The Guide builds on a previous health and safety guide for composters,       which was published in 2004, and is endorsed by HM Inspector for the       Health and Safety Executive (7 and 10).
LondonWaste, a large commercial       waste management company has also affirmed its support for the Guide:       "This guide will assist in promoting safe working conditions throughout       the biological waste industry" (7).
There have already been impacts on the       professional practice in the composting industry (confidential reports),       and the management of an occupational hazard has improved (14, 15 and 16).
There are some specific illustrative examples of how our research (4, 5       and 6) has informed the recommendations contained in the Guide (13)       regarding the monitoring required to assess and evaluate workers' exposure       to compost organisms (p.28/29 and Appendix 1; 14, 15 and 16), use of       respiratory protective equipment (p.51), model procedures for       task-specific risk assessments (p.31), health surveillance (p.34), early       warning symptoms of bioaerosol exposure (p.18), introduction of risk zones       and workplace exposure limits (p.28), and evaluation of exposure to dust       as an indirect or proxy measure of harmful endotoxins (p.29).
All of which       are informing the practice of the industry (14 and 15) in the way that was       anticipated by the British Occupational Hygiene Society when it commented       on one particular project it funded on vehicle cab drivers' exposure to       bioaerosols: "It is hoped the research will raise awareness and change       working practises within the composting industry and beyond, especially in       relation to the impact that poor practises have on operator exposure in       this working environment" (9, 14, 15 and 16).
The research and its impact continue to inform the sector through other       forms of industry engagement.
Sykes is a member of the Chartered Institute       of Wastes Management's special interest groups on Food Waste Collection       and on Health and Safety, a member of the AfOR Health and Safety Committee       (13), a member of the Welsh Government's Health Impact Assessment Steering       Group for the Wales Waste Strategy, and an invited delegate and       contributor to     Environmental Agency workshops on bioaerosols from green-waste       composting.
He has also disseminated our research through media       communication (e.g., Daily Mail, Daily Telegraph, BBC Radio Sussex).
