     In relation to the impact on gender equity and governance in the Olympic       world, in terms of reach,       the initial 2004 report was presented as a keynote at the IOC's World       Conference on Women and       Sport in Marrakesh, 2004, and adopted in the Action Plan of the Conference       [5.1].
The second       report was a follow-up study commissioned by the Women and Sport       Commission of the IOC,       reporting to, and adopted by that Commission in Lausanne in June 2010 and       was subsequently an       invited presentation at the IOC's World Conference in Los Angeles in 2012       [5.2, 5.6, 5.7].
In terms of significance its presentation to the Women in       Sport Commission and the World       Conference informed policy change amongst key members of the global policy       network on Women       and Sport in the Olympic Movement.
In addition, as a consequence of the       Loughborough Univerity       research, Professor Henry has regularly been invited to address NOC, IF,       and IOC staff on the       MEMOS [Master Ex&#233;cutif en Management des Organisations Sportives]       staff development       programme on measures to foster gender equity in governance and more       specifically he has acted       as advisor to studies by staff from NOCs in Poland, Israel and the Sudan       in relation to enhancing       electoral policies and practices in their national systems [5.7].
As regards issues in the governance of anti-doping, the period since 1999       has been one of       dramatic change in the global and domestic anti-doping regimes.
The most       significant events at the       global level were the establishment of the World Anti-Doping Agency (WADA)       and the ratification       of the UNESCO Convention Against Doping in Sport.
WADA (and the National       Anti-Doping       Organisations) and UNESCO are the foundations of the global anti-doping       effort.
The       Loughborough University research has had an impact on the way in which       education programmes       are planned by WADA and by the Japan Anti-Doping Agency [5.3, 5.4].
The research has also       impacted on the policy towards using legislation to underpin anti-doping       policy.
In terms of reach the research of Houlihan and Garcia has       provided WADA with evidence to       support its policy of encouraging governments to introduce legislation       specifically concerned with       controlling trafficking in performance enhancing drugs [5.3].
The       policy analysis instrument       (Improving and proving: A handbook for the evaluation of anti-doping       education programmes,       available at http://www.wada-ama.org/Global/Houlihan_Final_Report.pdf       ) developed by Houlihan       has been promoted by WADA as a model for the planning and evaluation of       anti-doping education       programmes.
It is used by some of WADA's staff [5.3] and has been       adopted by the Japan Anti-Doping Agency `for the purpose of planning its work in the area of       anti-doping education' [5.4, 5.5].
In many respects the evidence of significance of impact comes from       the foundational role of both       WADA and UNESCO in shaping global anti-doping policy.
The adoption or       endorsement by either       of these two organisations of research is significant insofar as they,       especially WADA, are the       reference points for all National Anti-Doping Organisations and all       international sports       organisations when devising their own anti-doping policies and activities.
