     BEAA research has had continuing economic and commercial impact       throughout the REF period locally on Aber Instruments and nationally and       internationally on their distributors, customers and product consumers by       changing the methods used by practitioners in breweries and biotechnology       companies worldwide.
Patenting of BEAA intellectual property has       continuing impact by protecting the market for Aber Instruments (see       section 3).
The company has established its independent viability,       increased its workforce and commercialised a range of high specification       on-line instruments with worldwide patent cover, including the Futura,       which largely replaced the Biomass Monitor in 2009 for biotechnology       applications, and the development and improvement of the Yeast Monitor for       use in breweries [5.1].
Aber Instruments' Engineering Director has confirmed [5.2] that the       company "continually works with Dr Hazel Davey and her research team in an       effort to understand cellular processes further and pass that knowledge on       to the marketplace".
He has confirmed that Dr Hazel Davey's research has       impact through "her presentation at Aber Instruments' Distributors       Conference in May 2013 and through other avenues such as papers, websites       and posters" and that "this helps Aber Instruments to maintain its       presence in the marketplace and to promote its products."
He goes on to       state that "without this on-going work Aber Instruments would not be able       to maintain its profits" and that "Dr Hazel Davey's expertise on cell       vitality and the instruments that measure it is extremely useful to Aber       Instruments for exploring new market potential".
The impact of BEAA research has significantly raised the profile of Aber       Instruments technology.
This has resulted in it being considered a robust       and verified method and has led to a change in practitioner approach to       monitoring and decision making in a wide variety of processes that involve       cellular material.
Aber Instruments launched its third major generation of       products, the Futura range, in 2009 [5.1].
The Futura is a new generation       of compact, lightweight biomass monitoring instrumentation that can be       used on conventional as well as disposable bioreactors.
Research conducted       at the university has directly contributed to these developments by       providing methods to reduce and correct for interference in the biomass       signals.
Aber Instruments' Sales and Marketing Director has confirmed that       BEAA research has led to "an extensive list of key publications that are       often referred to by customers of Aber Instruments" and that the two books       written by Dr Christopher Davey (see section 3) continue to be "the       standard references used by practitioners in industries using Aber       Instruments technology" [5.3].
In addition to the local impact on Aber Instruments, the impact of BEAA       research is much further- reaching as over 1000 systems based on the       technology that resulted from this research have been supplied worldwide       [5.1] and these are used in a wide variety of applications and sectors.
Worldwide, industries adopting Aber Instruments radio-frequency impedance       technology for fermentation and cell culture monitoring include breweries,       major biotechnology companies and increasingly biofuel plants.
Thus, it       can be seen that, via Aber Instruments, the research conducted by a team       of scientists within AU is directly impacting on companies and end users       worldwide.
The technology developed with input from AU staff is used for       research, process development and manufacturing by the world's leading       biotechnology companies such as Genetech, Novartis, Novo, Biogen Idec,       GlaxoSmithkline, Centocor, Sandoz, Eli Lilly and Genzyme [5.3,5.4].
The       Yeast Monitor is now established as the standard for on-line yeast       concentration measurement in large breweries including AB Inbev, SAB       Miller, Coors, Diageo, Heineken, Suntory, Kirin, Asia-Pacific and San       Miguel [5.1,5.3,5.4].
Aber Instruments' Engineering Director has confirmed       that these customers run trials prior to purchasing biomass monitoring       systems to determine cost-benefit analyses and that the "research,       knowledge and understanding in this area lead to cost-benefit analyses       which show a typical saving in the process of 10%" [5.2].
In the brewery industry, the approach to viability measurement developed       at AU is used mainly for on-line control of the rate and total amount of       yeast added to fermentation vessels to convert wort into beer.
It is also       used for off-line measurements of yeast quality to decide the number of       times yeast can be recycled from one batch to the next.
This is important       as recycling is quicker and reduces propagation and disposal costs.
Aber       Instruments' Sales and Marketing Director has confirmed that on-line       pitching control alone has the following on-going benefits for breweries       adopting this technology [5.3]:            Improving fermentation efficiency leads to cost savings of &#8364;158,184         per million hl of beer.
A reduction in labour costs of &gt;&#8364;40,000 per brewery, per annum as         the on line, automated monitoring of yeast quality and concentration         reduces the need for technical staff.
Outlay on additional fermentation vessels is reduced through improving         identification of brew completion via on-line, real-time monitoring.
This allows the fermented beverage to be processed more quickly; for         example, cutting the brew time from 5 days to 4 increases the production         of the brewery by 20% without the need for financial outlay on an extra         fermentation vessel.
With each fermentation vessel and associated         instrumentation system costing approximately &#8364;700,000 this is an         important cost saving.
Better consistency of product flavour; this is especially important         for global brands where poor consistency leads to customer         dissatisfaction and loss of market share.
Locally, Aber Instruments is benefitting from BEAA research through       growth of the company workforce and profits and opportunities for       accessing further investment in research.
The impact of BEAA research has       also significantly raised the profile of Aber Instruments technology,       confirming its status as a robust and verified method and this in turn has       led to a change in practitioner approach to monitoring and decision making       in a wide variety of processes that involve cellular material.
Worldwide,       industries adopting Aber Instruments radio-frequency impedance technology       for fermentation and cell culture monitoring include breweries and major       biotechnology companies.
Thus, it can be seen that, via Aber Instruments,       the research conducted by a team of scientists within BEAA is directly       impacting on companies and end users worldwide.
