     The experimental work described above has been "critical in providing       evidence to support       management and policy decisions in the uplands" [5.1].
The research was       funded primarily by       DEFRA, with additional funding contributions from English Nature (now       Natural England) and the       Countryside Council for Wales (now Natural Resources Wales).
Findings were       presented to and       discussed with policy officers from these government departments/agencies       and other key       stakeholder organisations, such as the RSPB, National Trust and Welsh       Government.
Through       these interactions the research has been "important in underpinning policy       and agri-environment       scheme development in recent years" [5.2].
In particular it has informed       the development of mixed       grazing options within the Glastir Entry (Option 15c and 15d) and Glastir       Advanced (Option 41b)       agri-environment schemes in Wales [5.1,5.2].
Glastir was launched in 2012       to replace the four       existing schemes at that time (Tir Cynnal, Tir Gofal, Tir Mynydd and the       Organic Farming       Scheme).
In 2012 around 1,700 Glastir Entry (also known as All-Wales       Element) contracts were       signed, covering a total area of 154,000 ha; and around 500 of these       applicants were selected for       entry into Glastir Advanced (also known as Targeted Element).
In addition,       the research findings       have informed the development of specific polices and initiatives       targeting the restoration and       maintenance of priority habitats within Wales, including support payments       to encourage cattle       grazing on Sites of Special Scientific Interest (SSSIs) [5.1].
There are       currently 179 SSSIs in the       Welsh uplands, covering over 138,000 ha.
The research has also provided an evidence base for policy implementation       in England [5.3], and       within the impact assessment period influenced the development of the       priority UL18 cattle grazing       option within the Upland Entry Level Scheme (UELS; launched in 2010), and       a related       reprioritisation of the EK5 mixed grazing option within the Entry Level       Stewardship (ELS) scheme.
The cattle grazing option has been one of the most popular UELS options       across England [5.4],       and to date has been included within 3200 agreements covering an area of       nearly 200,000 ha       [5.3].
In addition to influencing the development of these environmental       schemes, output from the       research has informed the individual agreements put in place by land       management advisors to       meet the specified conservation targets for holdings entered into higher       level schemes [5.3].
As well as influencing government policy, the research has had an impact       on the work by leading       conservation bodies.
For example it has "shaped the science, practice and       policy" of the RSPB;       informing the advisory materials they produce, the advice they give to       farmers, and the       management implemented on their own sites [5.5].
The National Trust has       similarly drawn on the       work by BEAA in respect of upland grazing systems.
Management       prescriptions for upland habitats       and future research proprieties have also been influenced through Fraser's       membership of the       Upland Ecosystem Group of the Wales Biodiversity Partnership and her       appointment as a       "recognised independent expert" on the Moorland Grazing Group for Natural       England's Upland       Evidence Review in 2012 [5.6].
Through membership of the advisory group       for PONT (a not-for-profit       organisation affiliated to CCW/NRW which exists to encourage and       facilitate grazing for the       benefit of the wildlife, landscape and cultural heritage of Wales) the       research has influenced       management regimes put in place as part of conservation projects across       Wales [5.1,5.7];       including the Anglesey Grazing Animals Project, the Gwendraeth Grasslands       project in       Carmarthenshire, and the Forgotten Landscape Project centred around the       Blaenavon Industrial       Landscape World Heritage Site in South Wales.
The wider environmental benefits that arise from increased efficiency of       resource use within mixed       grazing systems are associated with enhanced productivity for upland       farmers.
Higher growth       rates can potentially lead to improved market returns, lower costs and       reductions in associated       greenhouse gas emissions.
The advantages for producers of including       grazing by cattle were       summarised in a specific booklet prepared for farmers in Wales by Hybu Cig       Cymru (the strategic       body responsible for the promotion and development of the Welsh red meat       industry) as part of its       EU-funded Sheep and Beef Development Programme [5.8], which quotes results       from grazing       trials at Bronydd Mawr.
The booklet states that in the years prior to its       publication the total number       of breeding beef females in Wales dropped by 5.5%, and that "a       continuation with this trend could       not only impact on efficiencies of production on the farm but also have a       detrimental effect on the       Welsh landscape".
The benefits of retaining a mixture of cattle and sheep       advocated include: "a       much higher utilisation of the pasture than sheep or cattle alone;       improvements in animal       performance; improvements in the utilisation of marginal land; more       productive swards; and       reductions in worm burdens reducing drench costs".
There is also growing       recognition of the       production benefits of utilising native grassland.
One of the       opportunities for improving       sustainability within the supply chain that was highlighted by the HCC       Welsh Red Meat Roadmap       (2011) is maximising the use of grazeable habitats of principle importance       (or Section 42 habitats);       the policies and prescriptions for which have been influenced by the       research as outlined       previously.
The link between environmental and economic benefits is also       recognised in a recent       report commissioned by the Farmers Union of Wales, which references work       by Fraser and Davies       on the impact of different breed types of cattle [5.9].
The research       findings relating to breed       differences and grazing options for Molinia-dominant vegetation       have also informed a recent       analysis of the likely biodiversity implications of changing livestock       numbers in the uplands [5.10];       again contributing to the on-going debate regarding the future of LFAs       within the UK.
