     The most promising plant species for biomass production are those which       produce high outputs       with low inputs in terms of nutrients, husbandry and water.
Miscanthus       is a tropical grass which       exhibits the C4 photosynthetic pathway and a particularly advantageous set       of physiological traits       which make it one of the most promising energy crops worldwide.
Impact on commerce where industry has invested in research and           development     To realise the potential of Miscanthus as an energy crop requires       research and the development of       new varieties.
BEAA has collected one of the world's largest ex-situ       collections of genetically       diverse Miscanthus outside Asia and used this to build a crop       improvement programme for UK and       Europe.
This has created significant interest in the programme from       industry resulting in investment       by Ceres Inc, a US based energy crop company).
Since 2008 Ceres has       invested &gt;&#163;1M in cash       and has provided further in kind contributions to enable large scale field       trials in the EU and USA.
This includes new seed based varieties which were planted on farms in the       UK in 2012 and 2013.
This is a successful example of exploiting novel genetic resources through       partnership with       industry [5.1].
In addition since 2011 a Renewable Materials Link project,       GIANT, has expanded       industrial investment into Miscanthus research and development in       BEAA to now also include E-On,       Biocatalysts, Blankney Estates, NFU and Terravista.
The total value of       this project is       approximately &#163;6M with &#163;3M coming from industry.
This is a public-private       partnership with public       funding from DEFRA and BBSRC which was announced alongside a speech by PM       David       Cameron in April 2012 to energy ministers from 23 leading economies [5.2].
For example to quote       this announcement: "Today also saw the announcement from Aberystwyth         University Institute of         Biological, Environmental and Rural Sciences that it has secured funding         from the UK Government         to work in collaboration with industry to develop an integrated         Miscanthus breeding platform.
This         industry-led research project will generate new plant varieties which         enable the production of new         feedstocks for commercialization."
Since 2008, the total investment       on Miscanthus at BEAA by       private and public sectors has been &gt;&#163;17M.
This has included funding by       DEFRA [3.1, 3.2, 3.3],       BBSRC (BB/E014933/2, BBS/E/W/10963A01, BB/L003953/1, BB/I025727/1,       BB/G016216/1,       BB/E024319/2), NERC (NE/H01067X/1), EPSRC (EP/E039995/1), Welsh       Government, Energy       Technologies Institute, EU Framework (OPTIMISC FP7-KBBE289159, OPTIMA       FP7-KBBE289642,       and WATBIO FP7-KBBE311929 projects) as well as the industrial partners       mentioned above.
In addition between 2009-2013 there have been five BBSRC       CASE student       projects with Ceres on Miscanthus (Grant references: BB/G017484/1,       BB/H016481/1,       BB/J012572/1, BB/K012258/1, BB/K012509/1).
Impact on public policy and service through implementation of           international policy     Through our research and implementation of an international conservation       policy, the United       Nation's Convention of Biological Diversity (CBD), BEAA has achieved an       impact toward the       implementation of public policy at the global-scale for the conservation       of genetic resources.
The       CBD entered into force on 29 December 1993 following the United Nations       Conference on       Environment and Development (the Rio "Earth Summit").
The Convention was       inspired by the       world community's growing commitment to sustainable development and       represented a dramatic       step toward the conservation of biological diversity, the sustainable use       of its components, and the       fair and equitable sharing of benefits arising from the use of genetic       resources.
New crop breeding programmes are dependent on the collection and       characterisation of diverse       genetic resources.
Importantly since the domestication of the staple       crops, legally binding contracts       including the CBD have been put in place to ensure that where genetic       resources are collected       from one country and commercially exploited elsewhere, the benefits of the       exploitation are shared       with the donor country.
BEAA researchers pioneered the making of new Miscanthus       collections and the negotiation of the       necessary agreements in the absence of clear national legislation for the       implementation of the       access and benefit sharing arrangements under the CBD and prior to the       implementation of the       Nagoya Protocol on Access and Benefit Sharing in 2011.
BEAA scientists       worked closely with       DEFRA and partners in Asia to implement the CBD and access and benefit       sharing protocols       through organising joint workshops, collaborative research and legal       negotiations.
For example an       International Workshop on Green Chemistry and Biomass Energy which was       jointly funded by the       National Science Council of Taiwan and the BBSRC, was held at the National       Cheng Kung       University on 3 November.
Aberystwyth University and National Cheng Kung       University formally       signed a memorandum of understanding at the workshop, the signing of which       was presided over       by the vice chancellor of the Cheng Kung University and the CEO of BBSRC       [5.3].
In May 2012, Taiwan was the first Asian country to sign a full access and       benefit sharing       agreement [5.4] under the CBD framework with the UK, and this was followed       by successful       negotiations with South Korea during January 2013 to July 2013 and an       official signing in October       2013 [5.5, 5.6].
On both occasions the UK was represented by BEAA in the       negotiation.
This has       created one of the first examples for implementing Nagoya protocols in the       UK and our partnering       countries.
Not only have BEAA scientists implemented two international       agreements but their       experience and knowledge of setting up bi- lateral access and benefit       sharing agreements under       the CBD framework is now also being used as a proven example for others to       follow, supporting the       UK government's approach to proposed EU legislation in this area [5.7,       5.8].
This includes the UK       government's approach to the proposed "Access to Genetic Resources and the       Fair and Equitable       Sharing of Benefits Arising from their Utilization (Nagoya Protocol):       Union implementation and       ratification", an EU-wide legislation to be submitted to the European       Parliament which was voted       on in committee on 4 July 2013 [5.8, 5.9].
The main beneficiaries of this       policy impact are therefore       the UK government's agriculture policy legislation body (DEFRA), donor       countries in Asia,       commerce (only compliant germplasm can be commercially exploited in       signatory countries) and       the global society on the conservation of natural resources.
