     BEAA research by Lawther formed the basis for a series of patents on the       fractionation of oats, which were central to the development of a number       of BioVelop products and responsible for its large commercial success.
BioVelop specializes in the development and scaling-up of cornerstone       technologies relating to the chemical-free extraction of functional       ingredients from cereal grains and brans.
Specifically, BioVelop produces       five oat fibre derived products (PromOatTM, released 2010;       AvenaCareTM, released 2011; PrOAteinTM, released       2012; Oat insoluble fibre and Oat Maltodextrin, released 2013) as a direct       impact of BEAA research [5.1].
PromOat is a betaglucan (hemicellulose) soluble fibre-rich ingredient       sold as a nutraceutical for its beneficial effects on maintaining healthy       cholesterol levels.
It has a number of allowed health claims, including       those which have been approved by the European Food Safety Authority, the       Food and Drug Administration and Health Canada, for lowering cholesterol       and reducing post- prandial glycaemic response.
Because of these health       benefits and its binding and emulsifying properties, PromOat is a very       attractive additive for many food products, ranging from low fat sauces       and dressings, to yoghurts, baked goods, meat products and ready meals.
Thereby, BEAA research not only provides commercial benefits to BioVelop,       but additional health benefits to consumers of a range of food products       [5.1].
PromOat was released on the market in 2010 and by 2012 a biorefinery had       been built for the commercialisation and upscaling of production for       BioVelop's patented oat products.
PromOat retails for at least &#8364;15 per kg       and with a cost for the raw ingredients of only &#8364;0.20, provides a high       commercial benefit to Biovelop.
Currently, the entire production capacity       of the refinery is used and produces 180 tonnes of PromOat&#8482; per year with       an annual value of &#8364;600,000 [5.2].
In recognition of the importance of       this technology and its application in the food sector, PromOat was       awarded Best Natural Ingredient for Functional Drinks at the Beverage       Innovation awards in 2011 [5.3].
PrOAtein, a protein and oil rich ingredient, and Oat insoluble fibre,       have been sold successfully and increasingly since 2012 and 2013       respectively.
Oat Maltodextrin was made ready for market in July 2013       [5.2].
Avenacare&#8482; is BioVelop's first personal care product.
This       hypoallergenic liquid form of oat betaglucan, was commercially released in       2011 and is incorporated into a wide variety of skin care, hair care,       personal care and baby care products to deliver the well-recognized and       scientifically-substantiated benefits of oats.
Its soothing, revitalising       and strengthening properties have made this a highly successful product       selling at &#8364;20 per litre [5.4].
The commercial impact of BEAA research for the commercialisation of       fractionated biomass is further reflected in the success of Biovelop on       the international market.
In May 2013, Tate &amp; Lyle, one of the world's       leading providers of specialty food ingredients and solutions, acquired       Biovelop, to expand its production of oat betaglucan as PromOat and       AvenaCare [5.5].
As a consequence of this takeover, the production       capacity of PromOat is being expanded to be more than tripled during the       last 12-18 months [5.2].
As the patents are worldwide and held until at       least 2022, continued success of the sales of these products derived from       the BEAA technology is near guaranteed.
This research also demonstrated the potential of plant biomass to replace       fossil fuel derived products and provided important background for the       funding of new commercially focused projects such as the &#163;10M investment       by the Welsh European Funding Office in the BEACON Biorefining Centre of       Excellence involving BEAA scientists (Iain Donnison, Rob Elias, Joe       Gallagher, Adam Charlton, Ana Winters) with commercial partners and       investment.
BEACON provides a mechanism by which academia and businesses       can collaborate and so far it has assisted 45 enterprises, entered       collaborative R&amp;D projects with 14 companies and induced investment of       &#163;3.6M.
The focus of BEACON is therefore on the translation of academic       research to create new products and processes.
For example within BEACON       oat phenolics (avenanthramides) are being profiled from BEAA bred oat       varieties for use as active ingredients in skin care products, and xylose       is being recovered from oat hulls and converting to xylitol.
The EU       Climate-KIC project "ADMIT BioSuccinovate" is developing the process for       conversion of xylose to xylitol.
The &#8364;13M project led by David Bryant in       BEAA involves the fractionation of cereal straw with the primary objective       of determining sustainable and economic commercial grade bio-succinate       production from next generation C6 sugars.
The work has therefore gone       beyond the impact with BioVelop to create a lasting legacy and a culture       of industry relevant research.
