     Impact on the economy       The BEAA forage grass breeding programme generates economically important       varieties that       contribute to the improved efficiency of livestock production.
The HSG       varieties bred within BEAA       are marketed by Germinal Holdings in the UK and overseas.
In 2012, the       BEAA bred HSG       perennial ryegrasses accounted for 28% of UK perennial ryegrass seed sales       [5.1] and there are       currently 12 HSG's on the England and Wales Recommended List [5.2] within       the different heading       Scotland [5.3], Northern Ireland [5.4] and the Republic of Ireland [5.5]       and marketed in many other       countries around the world.
The direct value of seed sales alone are       estimated at &#163;5.5million by       Germinal Holdings [5.6].
The HSG varieties also have growing markets in       Europe and the       Southern Hemisphere with approximately 5,000 tonnes of HSG varieties sold       overseas since 2003       [5.6].
The Institute of Biological, Environmental and Rural Sciences       (IBERS) was awarded the       British Grassland Society Innovation Award in 2011 in recognition of the       beneficial impact of HSG       on livestock production.
HSG also formed part of the award of the Queens       Anniversary Prize for       2009 that was awarded to Aberystwyth University [5.7] for "successfully       producing improved plant       varieties that combine high yield with reduced greenhouse gas emissions".
The award was also in       recognition of combining fundamental research on plant genetics with plant       breeding techniques to       develop new commercially viable plant varieties that are designed to       tackle some of the pressing       issues faced by communities across the world, those of food, water and       energy security.
Impact on commerce       BEAA has been at the forefront of the breeding of HSG perennial ryegrass       varieties that are now       on the National (NL) and Recommended Lists (RL) of a number of countries.
The Irish NL and RL       system record water-soluble carbohydrate (WSC) content and thus provides       independent       verification of the levels of WSC within the HSG varieties.
BEAA have four       HSG ryegrass varieties       on the Irish RL for 2013 [5.5].
The intermediate heading variety AberMagic       has a WSC of 123% of       the trial average, while the highest competitor's variety, Premium scored       96%.
BEAA's later       heading variety AberChoice scored 128%, with the highest competitor 112%.
The tetraploid late       variety AberGain scored 123% with Twymax the highest competitor at 112%.
For hybrid ryegrass,       the variety AberEcho scored 129%, with the highest competitor, Alliance       scoring 107%.
Impact on production       The impact of high sugar grasses on the livestock sector has been       significant.
Approximately 6000       MT of HSG [5.3] has been sown in the UK since 2005, covering an area of       175 000 ha, with some       150,000ha sown since 2008.
The benefits to the dairy sector over 5 years       have been estimated at       up to &#163;78.2 million [5.8].
The environmental and economic value of HSG       varieties has been       recognised by a number of supermarket chains (Asda and Sainsbury), who are       encouraging       farmers in their supply chain to include HSG varieties in their swards.
Asda have suggested that       the use of HSG's on farms has the equivalent impact of cutting emissions       by an estimated 186,000       tonnes of CO2 per year, while also seeing farmer profitability       increased by over &#163;10m in the first       year alone [5.9].
Impact on the environment       Ruminants contribute to agricultural losses of N through their excreta       generating ammonia and       nitrous oxide, as well as leaching nitrate into groundwater.
The improved       efficiency of plant protein       conversion that depends on HSG varieties provides an economic benefit to       farmers through       improved feed conversion and an environmental benefit through reduced N       pollution [see section 2].
This environmental impact of HSG formed part of the award of the Queens's       Anniversary Prize       to IBERS in 2009.
Independent analysis of the benefits of higher water       soluble carbohydrates and       hence HSG varieties on animal production have confirmed a consistent       response of improved N       utilisation across a number of studies.
Although substantial variation in       livestock production       responses was noted, the effect of HSG was often positive and no negative       effect was recorded.
They also concluded that in trials where an elevated WSC:CP (water soluble       carbohydrate: crude       protein) ratio was noted, a significant positive enhancement in animal       production response was       recorded.
