     The impact of this research has been twofold: firstly it has influenced       major planning decisions and also environmental policy decisions.
Secondly, it has established that fungi, along with other microbes should       be considered in conservation planning and conservation practice, a       process that has involved the raising of public awareness that fungi       deliver important ecosystem services and that they can be threatened by       human activities.
As noted above, semi-natural grasslands are amongst the most threatened       habitats in Europe.
In the UK many such sites are legally protected       following notification as SSSIs.
It is only very recently that distinctive       fungal populations have factored in the notification of any SSSIs and in       this respect the UK leads the world in recognising that sites with       distinctive fungal populations merit legal protection.
For two of the four       such SSSIs in the UK , there has been significant input from G. W.       Griffith, as follows:     The notification of Eithinog (Bangor, Gwynedd) as an SSSI was based on an       assessment of the fungal diversity by BEAA.
Following plans by the site       owner (Gwynedd Council) to undertake a building development at the site       and resultant objections, G. W. Griffith was commissioned by CCW to       undertake an assessment of the mycological value of the sites [5.1].
Based       on his report, CCW decided to notify the site as SSSI in 2008 [5.2], with       a press release from CCW stating "An in-depth assessment by Aberystwyth       University commissioned by the Countryside Council for Wales, revealed the       development would not affect the site's important fungi, provided       appropriate measures were put in place to protect the new SSSI during the       work".
This notification was accompanied by several newspaper reports       [5.3] and the site has since been sold to the North Wales Wildlife Trust       and established as a nature reserve for the local community.
A similar proposed housing development of Llanishen Reservoir (Cardiff)       also led to the notification as an SSSI based on its diverse populations       of grassland fungi (on the embankment areas).
The notification was based       on work by G. W. Griffith that discovered 28 species of waxcap on the site       and his assessment that this site was of international importance for       these fungi.
This notification was upheld following judicial review at the       Royal Courts of Justice and subsequent challenges to the notification by       the site owners between 2009 and 2013.
The fate of the reservoir and the       legal challenges generated considerable press attention and were discussed       in the House of Commons (Hansard, 25th Feb and 6th       July 2010) [5.4].
The development plans were ultimately quashed by the       Welsh Assembly Government (24th April 2013) [5.5].
This legal       saga [3.1], is described in a recent legal textbook with specific       reference to data generated by G. W. Griffith (Rodgers, 2013; [5.6]).
In light of these SSSI notifications, JNCC (Joint Nature Conservation       Committee; statutory adviser to the UK Government on national and       international nature conservation and part of DEFRA) undertook a review of       guidelines relating to the selection of biological SSSI's and specifically       grassland fungi [5.7].
These new guidelines relied heavily on BEAA       research findings and informal advice from G. W. Griffith.
These       publications and other advice have also been widely used to inform       prioritisation of sites important for conservation, for example in UK       Local Biodiversity Action Plans [5.8].
The fundamental research at BEAA has been accompanied by activities to       raise public awareness of the conservation importance of fungi (and other       microbes).
These activities have involved the establishment and       maintenance of the `Waxcap Website'       (http://www.aber.ac.uk/waxcap/;       &gt;100,000 hits and `top hit' in Google search for `waxcap') which       provides a valuable online resource for both conservation specialists and       the general public, offering unpublished survey data and other relevant       publications for download.
Articles written by G. W. Griffith about       conservation of fungi and other microbes in magazines read by naturalists       (British Wildlife; Y Naturiaethwr [In Welsh]),       environmental consultants (IEEM's In Practice) and the broader       scientific community (New Scientist) have led to invitations to       appear on radio programmes, such as Radio 4's Living World [5.9]       and Interviews which are available as online podcasts (Naked Scientists;       28th Oct 2012 [5.10]).
Other radio broadcasts involving G. W.       Griffith include `Country Focus' with Huw Jenkins about grassland       fungi and `Dan yr Wyneb' with Dylan Iorwerth about microbial       conservation (16th Jan 2012; 15 min Live interview in Welsh;       BBC Radio Cymru).
Several of these contributions have appeared online on       the New Scientist website and the major US online magazine The         Slate and generated significant response from readers [5.11].
Expertise in the ecology of grassland and other fungi at BEAA has also       been called upon in various TV/film productions, through contacts with       present and past members of the BBC Natural History Unit in Bristol, with       G. W. Griffith providing specialist advice for a TV programme Kingdom         of Plants 3D (broadcast on 26th May 2012 and written and       presented by David Attenborough) [5.12] and the film Chimpanzee       (US release 20/4/12; UK release 3/5/13; boxoffice income USD28,972,000       [boxofficemojo.com/]) [5.13] This advice took the form of provision of       fungal cultures and samples and advice on how to induce these fungi to       fruit under `studio' conditions.
