     In 2010, DMAP staff successfully influenced working of the young people's       organisation, Urdd Gobaith Cymru in relation to science activities at       their annual National Eisteddfod festival for young people.
This was in       the context of the Solar System Physics research group's successful       assimilation and visualisation of satellite and terrestrial data on the       solar system, including the earth's ionosphere and the solar corona.
It       allowed us to address HEFCW's strategic aims and needs in STEM subjects,       in access to HE and in Welsh-medium delivery.
Enthusing the young people       of Wales in physics is essential to addressing these strategic aspects,       and the solar system captures the imagination of the general public and       generates interest in physics.
The Urdd National Eisteddfod [5.1, 5.2] is one of Europe's largest       cultural/youth festivals; every year it attracts close to 100,000 Welsh       speakers and Welsh learners, 15,000 competitors and over 200       organisations.
Having run for almost a century, it has wide media       coverage, reaching an additional audience on television and radio.
In 2010 the Urdd Eisteddfod was held on the Llanerchaeron estate in West       Wales, close to Aberystwyth.
In the preceding years, the movement had       decided not to support science activities at the Eisteddfod site and, in       response, Pryse and Morgan established a group involving universities, the       IoP and local organisations to provide leadership for the local and       national campaign to reinstate science into this large and popular event.
This is confirmed in a letter from the Urdd Co-ordinator of the Eisteddfod       and the Arts, who said "...there were no plans to hold science         activities in the Eisteddfod in Llanerchaeron before discussions were         held with Aberystwyth University" [5.1]).
The group grew into a       science committee, chaired by Pryse, that was recognised by the movement       through senior representation; it was also recognised by the Institute of       Physics through membership and significant support of its national       co-ordinator for Wales.
The key enabling factor was the establishment of a central exhibition       drawing from the research excellence of Aberystwyth researchers in the       physics of the Sun and the Solar System.
This excellence, combined with a       track record of outreach from the department and our partners, attracted       funding from STFC to ensure a professional centre-point to the exhibit.
Building on this, further participation was attracted from bodies such as       Techniquest, the British Science Association, BBC Breathing Places,       Institute of Physics in Wales, and the Royal Society of Chemistry.
The       scale and variety of the exhibit persuaded the central organising       committee of the Urdd to re-introduce science to the festival in the form       of the Science Pavilion proposed by the committee.
As a result of an       on-line poll, the pavilion was named GwyddonLe (the "Place of       Science") [5.3]; a name that has been adopted for the event ever since,       growing at each Eisteddfod since 2010 ("...GwyddonLe has gone from         strength to strength, and has been established as a permanent feature..."       [5.1])     Attendance at the first GwyddonLe was recorded, totalling almost       10,000 (on average, 10% of the daily attendance at the Urdd Eisteddfod as       a whole), which included members of the Welsh Assembly Government and       other national organisations, and attracting wide media attention [5.1].
The chief executive of Urdd Gobaith Cymru commented on the pioneering       nature of the GwyddonLe, saying "GwyddonLe is an innovative         project and one of the festival's flagship exhibitions" [5.4].
Following the introduction of the GwyddonLe in 2010, the Urdd has       "succeeded in attracting funding from public and corporate sources in         subsequent years to fund the venture" [5.1].
The event initiated by       Aberystwyth physicists has thus been welcomed by the science research       community in Wales, and by the Urdd administration; and the result is that       tens of thousands of Welsh-speaking young people have been exposed to       cutting-edge physics.
The department's promotion of science through its research continued at       subsequent events, for example using the discovery of a solar tornado as a       vehicle for outreach at the 2012 Urdd Eisteddfod.
This discovery also       attracted a large online discussion and interaction including more than 60       comments at space.com [5.5], more than 80,000 views of the video posted on       youtube by Russia Today [5.6], more than 10,000 likes on facebook, 186       tweets, and 50 public recommendations on google+ for a news article from       National Geographic [5.7], and 1,206 tweets and 138 public recommendations       on google+, for the article at wired.com [5.8].
