     Research by the EOED has had a direct impact on the professional practice       of individuals and organisations involved in monitoring vegetation change       and developing and implementing conservation policies, from government,       industry and agency scientists engaged in collating and interpreting data,       to field conservationists.
Due to the collaborative nature of the research       undertaken within EOED, which has involved staff visits for extended       periods (in both directions) and regular interchange of ideas, software       and datasets, the outputs and methodologies developed through this       research have been incorporated into their collaborators' everyday working       practices.
By improving the information available to agencies involved in       monitoring environmental change and making conservation decisions, the       research has also had a secondary, indirect impact on the environment,       supporting measures to protect endangered habitats in Australia and       Europe.
Three key impacts of the research can be highlighted:     i) Improved knowledge and information about land cover and         environmental change in forest and brigalow ecosystems in Australia,         supporting effective management strategies.
Research by EOED has developed of new techniques for the use of ALOS       PALSAR data and Landsat-derived Foliage Projected Cover (FPC) data in       quantifying and mapping vegetation cover, structure and biomass.
This has       been applied to improving knowledge about forests and specifically the       brigalow ecosystems in Queensland, Australia5.1.
As the       Assistant Director-General for Science Delivery in the Queensland       Government Department of Environment and Resource Management has       confirmed, the application of AU research in the period since 2008 has       generated new policy options for managing vulnerable ecosystems:     "The partnership with Aberystwyth has significantly added to the global       knowledge of how the information content of radar and optical data can be       integrated for discriminating and mapping the growth stage of vegetation       communities.
In a study of the entire Brigalow Belt Bioregion in southeast       Queensland, an area of over 36.5 million ha was mapped using a combination       of ALOS PALSAR and Landsat sensor data to derive four stages of growth:       cleared areas, regrowth, mature and remnant of Brigalow dominated       communities.
Such information has contributed to knowledge of the       distribution of carbon and biodiversity and provided options for       management of these vulnerable ecosystems"5.2.
Data processing and methodological innovation by AU has further enabled       the Queensland Government to strengthen its own technical capacity to use       satellite-based observation data in its operational programmes:     "Targeted research at the Injune study area (established in 2000 by       Professor Lucas and colleagues in Queensland) using airborne hyperspectral       imagery and LiDAR has resulted in methods for mapping regrowth stages,       individual tree species, tree death and changes in tree cover over the       reporting period.
As a result of this research, the Queensland Government       has improved validation of several core products, including Foliage       Projective Cover (from Landsat sensor and LiDAR data), and is in a much       better position to take advantage of future radar, LiDAR and hyperspectral       satellites for operational programs.
"5.2     Additionally, the Queensland Government has benefited from the       development of its researchers' skills and knowledge base through staff       exchanges and cooperation with AU, such that "the work with Aberystwyth       University provided an important link to extend our base knowledge for       mapping at the Statewide and continental level"5.2.
Methods and data products developed by AU have also been used in the       expansion of biomass mapping from Queensland to the rest of Australia,       with a woody biomass map of Australia due for completion in late 20135.1,5.3.
The Queensland Governments notes the critical contribution of Lucas and       the EOED in facilitating this project:     "Professor Richard Lucas has been the key collaborator and responsible       for establishing and maintaining the links with the Japanese Aerospace       Exploration Agency (JAXA) which have resulted in cost-free access to ALOS       PALSAR imagery for Australia"5.4.     ii) The completion of a comprehensive digital map of habitats in Wales         to inform policy-making.
An object-orientated rule-based approach to classifying habitats       developed by the EOED has been applied since 2010 to the production of the       Habitat Inventory for Wales, in collaboration with Natural Resources Wales       (NRW)5.5 and commercial partner Environment Systems Ltd5.6.
The inventory updated the previous Phase I habitat map5.7,       which had been produced from field observations, and made Wales the first       country in Europe to have a national habitat map produced from       satellite-based observation data5.8.
The map was identified as       available evidence for natural resource management by the Welsh Government       consultation on its Sustaining a Living Wales Green Paper in 2012       ("We have a complete survey of our terrestrial habitats, now being       repeated using remote sensing"5.9), which informed the       development of a new integrated approach to natural resource management in       Wales.
Furthermore, the development of the Earth Observation Dynamic       Habitat Mapping (EODHAM) system, a generic technique based on the Food and       Agriculture (FAO) Land Cover Classification Scheme (LCCS) for generating       classifications of land covers and translating these to General Habitat       Categories (GHCs).
The EODHAM system is now being used within number of       collaborative projects with NRW through which field ecologists are being       trained in EO and the use of EO imagery alongside some automated is now       becoming an accepted method of working within NRW, a significant change in       work practices5.5.
This research that led to the new Phase I map for Wales has also formed       "a foundation enabling Environment Systems to developed a wider commercial       service using remote sensing that is now highly regarded across the UK and       overseas"5.6.
The research from EOED has therefore directly led       to the expansion of the services Environment Systems are offering, with       the service having been applied within "England, Scotland, Republic of       Ireland, Canada, Anguilla and Georgia"5.6.     iii) The increased capacity of the global remote sensing community in         forest characterisation using open source software developed by EOED.
Open-source software developed by Bunting within EOED has been adopted       for use in forest and land-cover characterisation, mapping and monitoring       by public agencies and commercial organizations worldwide.
Remote Sensing       and GIS Software Library (RSGISLib) software has been downloaded 1659       times since January 2009, and Sorted Pulse Data Software Library (SPDLib)       software downloaded 1412 times over the same period (data captured       20/10/135.10).
Software in the KEA file format has been       installed and is in use by a number of institutions including the       Queensland State Government (Australia) and has been downloaded &gt;112       times since August 20125.10.
Additionally, the python scripting       training materials made available by EOED has been download 321 times       since February 20135.10.
The benefits from using this software       have been described by the Manager of the Remote Sensing Centre in the       Queensland Government Department of Environment and Resource Management:     "Open source software tools developed by Peter Bunting and colleagues, in       particular RSGISLib and SPDLib, have enabled more efficient storage and       operational analysis of remotely sensed datasets including LiDAR and high       resolution optical data.
These software tools are used daily by up to 35       scientists within the Remote Sensing Centre, Queensland Government"5.2.
