     With between four and six faculty staff actively engaged at any one time       in outreach and dissemination activities throughout this REF period, the       Centre for Glaciology's contribution to the public understanding of the       response of the Earth's ice masses to climate change has been substantial.
This impact has been achieved through the following outlets.
I. Informing television, radio and newspaper coverage.
Geography       and Earth Sciences staff have been closely involved in the planning,       production and filming of a wide range of traditional media reports.
CfG       researchers, led by A. Hubbard, have guided and featured in several       flagship TV documentaries addressing the causes and consequences of       climate change on the Greenland Ice Sheet (GrIS).
Foremost amongst these,       Frozen Planet was partly filmed at CfG field locations and       influenced by the advice and logistical management of the CfG's research       team5.1.
Indeed, the initial decision to film this series in       Greenland was made on the basis of meetings between Hubbard and the       programme's Executive and Series Producers at BBC's Natural History Unit       in 2008.
Frozen Planet was shown on BBC1 and Discovery Channel at       the end of 2011, when it broke all previous viewing records for natural       history documentary in both the UK and the US5.1.
The series       was viewed by over 9 million people in the UK alone, and the final       episode, `On Thin Ice' (in which Sir David Attenborough challenges society       to come to terms with the profound influence of anthropogenic climate       change on the GrIS [and the episode with the greatest CfG involvement]),       was watched by 10.85 million viewers in the UK alone, who awarded it an       unprecedented `audience appreciation index' score of 94%5.1.
Similarly, the first episode of Operation Iceberg, `Birth of an       Iceberg', was filmed exclusively at CfG's field location of Store Glacier,       while its evidence-based portrayal of the response of the GrIS to climate       change was guided by CfG staff at all stages from inception and       commissioning in early 2011, through to scripting to final production5.2.
Operation Iceberg was shown on BBC2 in late 2012, and on Discovery       Channel (USA) in late 2013.
Like Frozen Planet, the breadth and       impact of this series have been significant, reaching an average audience       of 3.15 million UK viewers and with 60% of poll respondents replying that       they had learnt `a lot' (over double the genre average)5.2.
The       successful influence of these landmark documentaries on public perception       is further supported by individual comments on feedback forums.
These       include, for example: "What a powerful documentary.
Loved every second ...       but concerned for our planet's future"5.1, "Thank you for a       programme both educating and inspiring for myself and my 10 year old son"5.2,       and "This was a marvellous science programme (from) which I learned       genuinely new things"5.3.
CfG staff have also featured in many       national and international news features, including the BBC, Sky News,       CNN, NBC, C4, and ITN.
For example, an extended article featured in the       Daily Mail and Mail Online followed from a 3-day visit by their Science       Editor to CfG's Greenland ice camp in 2010.
The Mail Online reaches an       average of 5.5 million visitors per day, and this particular article       stimulated &gt;300 online comments5.4.
The article is notable       in that it unequivocally supports CfG's research-driven evidence for       climate-change-induced impacts on the Greenland Ice Sheet &#8212; a rare       position for this particular newspaper and therefore bringing       evidence-based information to those who may not already have been       sympathetic.
Away from Greenland, Glasser for example recently appeared on       BBC news to report research on the accelerating recession of Patagonian       glaciers5.5, a story that also featured both in print and       on-line in the Daily Mirror and the New York Times5.6, the       latter being accessed by an average of just under 5 million visitors per       day.
Together, these newspaper and TV outlets have reached several tens of       millions of people.
The impact of these media representations has been       widespread and demonstrably profound5.1-5.6, moulding attitudes       to the impact of climate change on the cryosphere.
II.
Informing the public through web resources and social media     The CfG and its outreach programmes have always maintained a strong       web-based presence.
CfG's AU-based web page (www.aber.ac.uk/en/iges/research-groups/centre-glaciology/),       Twitter site (twitter.com/AU_CfG)       and Facebook site (www.facebook.com/AUCfG)       report up-to-the-minute developments in cryospheric research and act as       discussion forums connecting the public with these research activities and       publications.
Outreach thereby forms a central plank of these       internet-based resources, summarizing glaciological findings in language       that is easy to understand and hosting bespoke engagement-based sections,       often inviting queries from visitors to the sites.
These internet and       social media sites are extremely popular, with the CfG's Facebook page       having &gt;350 followers and typically being accessed by &gt;400 `unique       users' each month5.7.
Hambrey was co-founder of, and remains the principal contributor to, the       world's most comprehensive repository of photographic images of ice-mass,       hosted by `Glaciers Online' (www.glaciers-online.net).
This internet site includes scientific descriptions of several thousand       images illustrating the variety of Earth's ice masses and their dramatic       geometrical response to climate change.
The site is very widely accessed       by the general public, schools, and the media; a snapshot for the calendar       month of September 2013 indicates that the site successfully received       115,279 views from 7,770 unique international visitors5.8.
More regionally-specific web sites established by the CfG include `The       Greenland Ice Sheet' (www.aber.ac.uk/greenland/index.shtml)       and `AntarcticGlaciers.org' (www.antarcticglaciers.org)       which provide comprehensive information relating to our research       addressing the response of these ice masses to climate change.
These sites       include public engagement sections such as `Why study glaciers?
', `Ask a       scientist', as well as hosting blogs from scientists actively engaged in       field campaigns.
As an illustration of their reach, AntarcticGlaciers.org       receives over 4,000 unique visits every month from a global following of       over 26,000 unique visitors5.9.
III.
Informing the public through lectures, books and articles     Since 2008, CfG staff have contributed to a wide variety of public       lectures covering the full range of venues and scales.
For example, B.       Hubbard and Hambrey lectured to ~200 members of the public as part of the       Climate Change Consortium for Wales' (C3W) lecture series entitled       `Climate Change: The Evidence' hosted by Bangor University, while A.       Hubbard presented a lecture to &gt;800 attendees at the Royal Geographical       Society5.10, both in 2011.
The former is just one of many such       engagements organised and presented under the auspices of C3W, a &#163;4M body       established in 2009 as a direct result of CfG initiatives (led by Hambrey,       who was also C3W's inaugural Director).
C3W organised a launch event for       politicians and the user community (http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/wales/8381744.stm)       in 2009, and the body continues to host numerous outreach events for the       wider public, each with a strong cryospheric component (http://c3wales.org/resources/),       including a bespoke `Climate Day' in 2009.
C3W's formal outreach programme       provides a `platform for interaction ... between scientists, social       scientists, government, business and the public', summarized on C3W's       outreach internet site (http://c3wales.org/category/news/outreach-news/).
To date, these lectures have reached several thousand attendees and       continue right up to the end of the REF census period with a series of 12       public lecture evenings hosted by AU, and to include presentations on       ice-mass change by CfG's Hambrey, B. Hubbard and Glasser (see: http://c3wales.org/events/category/aber-lecture/).
These public lectures typically attract &gt;150 attendees from a broad       cross-section of the community.
As well as contributing to public lectures, CfG staff have written a       number of books and articles, aimed at informing the wider public about       glacier and ice mass response to climate change.
At a very general level,       Hambrey's recent Gletscher der Welt (2013) supplements previous       general-interest books that together engage the public by conveying both       the beauty of our planet's glacial regions and the dramatic changes they       are currently undergoing.
As well as books, CfG staff have also written       popular science articles broadly addressing the response of Earth's       glacierized regions to climate change.
These include, for example, a very       widely-reported correction to the Times Atlas' flawed mapping of ice loss       from the Greenland Ice Sheet5.11 and a broad rebuttal of       scientifically-flawed arguments that climate change has not been       responsible for measured cryospheric change5.12, both heavily       informed by research but also written to be accessible to an educated, but       non-expert, readership.
