     Through engagement with policy-makers and policy-informed studies over a       number of years, the epidemiologically-based research undertaken by CREH       at Aberystwyth University has shaped the development and implementation of       new EU bathing water quality regulations which came into effect in 2012.
These regulations affect over 24,000 bathing water sites across all EU       member states.
This represents a significant impact both on public policy       and on the environment, which has two principal dimensions.
Shaping Public Policy: Providing the Scientific Basis for Bathing           Water Quality Standards     Firstly, the EU bathing water regulations implemented in 2012 enforce       water quality thresholds recommended by World Health Organization (WHO)       guidelines and adopted by the EU Bathing Water Directive that are based on       scientific analysis and methodologies developed by Kay and his team in       CREH.
Principles first established in early research by Kay were adopted       by the WHO in defining standards, as recounted by the Lead Scientist at       WHO at the time, who confirms that the "WHO expert group, decided,       therefore, to use the CREH dose-response relationship published in Kay et       al.
(1994) as the principal science evidence-base for the risk assessment       used to define the microbial standards outlined in Chapter 4 of WHO       (2003)".5.1 Critically, however, the development of the WHO       guidelines was particularly shaped by the stochastic compliance criterion       governing enterococci concentrations formulated by CREH in further       research at AU, as the WHO Lead Scientist explains:     "This approach allowed `standards' to be expressed as a parameter of the       microbial probability density function describing microbial distributions       in the specific environment.
This approach explicitly recognizes the       stochastic nature of contaminant variability in natural waters.
Thus, the       2003 WHO Guidelines were based on 95 percentile values of intestinal       enterococci in recreational waters with a value of 200 cfu/100 ml equal to       a risk level of 5% transmission of self-limiting gastroenteritis".5.1     The WHO guidelines, initially issued in 2003 and modified in 2009,5.2       formed the first link in the policy chain leading to the implementation of       new EU bathing water regulations in 2012.
The WHO guidelines established       high-level principles for translation into regional and national       `standards' that have legal force, including the EU Bathing Water       Directive (BWD) 2006.
The new bathing water standards adopted by the BWD       came into effect across the European Union in 2012, with the       implementation of sampling, laboratory and reporting procedures.5.1,5.3     Additionally, the WHO/EU water quality standards derived from AU research       have also been adopted by the Foundation for Environmental Education (FEE)       as a criterion for the award of `Blue Flag' status to beaches world-wide,       with the FEE compliance guidance stating that "the beach must comply with       the Blue Flag requirements for the microbiological parameter faecal coli       bacteria (E. coli) and intestinal enterococci/streptococci".5.4       This requirement, based on epidemiological research by CREH at AU, is       hence being used to assess the designation of `Blue Flag' beaches as the       undisputed gold-standard of bathing water quality not only in the UK and       Europe, but also in a growing number of countries including South Africa,       Morocco, Tunisia, New Zealand, Brazil, Canada, Jordan, UAE and the       Caribbean.5.5     Improved Implementation of Environmental Policy: Enabling Increased           Compliance with Predictive Modelling and Notification     Secondly, research by CREH at AU has not only shaped the scientific       principles and parameters underlying the bathing water regulations       implemented in 2012, but has developed mechanisms for the more accurate       and sensitive monitoring of compliance with these standards.
The       `predictive modelling and advisory notification' approach, developed by AU       in the Smart Coasts project, allows beaches to meet compliance even if       samples intermittently fail to meet water-quality thresholds, and is a key       component of the WHO/EU regulatory framework.
This crucial refinement       involves the provision of a real-time notification system, enabling users       to make a decision on whether or not to use a beach at times when       modelling predicts that standards may not be met.
The approach has been piloted at Swansea Bay, where scientists from CREH       at AU oversaw the first operational use of real-time predictive modelling       and notification in 2013, improving on the alternative system of reporting       daily mean values.
As Natural Resources Wales (formerly the Environment       Agency Wales) has reported:     "As this project comes to a close, we have an operational predictive       model working at the Swansea Bay compliance point.
This is the only such       site in England and Wales to have an operational system to date.
The       project has delivered far more than we, in NRW, or indeed the funders       envisaged.
The model developed has a remarkably high explained variance       and provides hourly water quality predictions which are now driving a new       `signage' system used to inform members of the public using the beach.
"5.6     The roll-out of the operational hourly notification system across the UK       and Europe will enable a large number of beaches to retain `Blue Flag'       status even as the higher thresholds for water quality in the new       regulations are enforced.
As the Divisional Officer for Pollution Control,       Public Health and Housing at the City and County of Swansea Council       explains, "without this provision the Environment Agency have calculated       that the UK could lose ~50% of its `Blue Flag' awards, but with the       real-time prediction, and appropriate local signage, there would be no net       change in UK awards as the new Directive standards come into force.
"5.7 	  The Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs'       `regulatory impact assessment' of the new bathing water regulations       estimates that the inclusion of this prediction element will benefit the       UK by &#163;1.4 - 5.3 billion, and the EU by &#8364;71 - 272 billion, over the 25       years following implementation in 2012.5.8     The `predictive modelling and advisory notification' approach developed       by AU therefore has significant social, economic, environmental and health       benefits, as noted by Natural Resources Wales and by the former Lead       Scientist for WHO respectively:     "(Predictive modelling and notification)... offers considerable public       health and compliance benefits and DEFRA have estimated benefits to the UK       of several billion UK pounds attributable to the predict-and-protect       provisions in the 2006 BWD.
This is the first area of environmental       regulation where mathematical modelling, designed to predict water quality       compliance, has been built into legislation".5.6     "If such a management system is proven and implemented, then samples       taken when the public had been advised of likely adverse water quality are       not counted into the calculation of the bathing water's 95 percentile       values used to determine its legal compliance with, for example, the EU       (2006) Directive.
This approach was promoted by WHO principally as a       public health protection measure but it also has significant regulatory       benefits and ... the UK regulators and Government (DEFRA) have calculated       the potential financial benefits attributable to this approach at 1.4-5       billion (UK&#163;) in the DEFRA regulatory impact assessment of the 2006       Directive.
"5.1     In summary, CREH's research into bathing water quality has been central       to the development of policy at an international scale with notable public       health, regulatory, and financial benefits already accruing in the UK, EU       and internationally.
As the former Lead Scientist for the WHO observes:     "Overall, I would judge the CREH, Aberystwyth epidemiological studies,       together with the parallel predictive modelling and related research on       catchment microbial dynamics, have comprised the single most significant       set of published research investigations world-wide guiding WHO policy       during the development of the WHO Guidelines.
The adoption of the WHO       Guidelines by the EU in their 2006 Directive [implemented in 2012]       provides convincing evidence of a major influence on EU policy design.
"5.1
