     Piotrowicz's research for the UNHCR trafficking guidelines has had a       direct impact on how states       deal with those at risk of being trafficked and has influenced the       development of policy.
The       Guidelines have been cited in court judgments (eg, AZ v Secy of State         for the Home Department       [2010] UKUT 118, para 116) (5.7).
His academic work has had impact through       his appointment       and election to international bodies (5.4).
This recognises his expertise,       which in turn he has used       in his work with these organisations.
He has contributed to the       development of law and policy on       trafficking in the EU through his participation in the European       Commission's Group of Experts.
As       stated by the Chairperson of the Group, Dr Uhl, "[h]e contributed       profoundly to the work and       discussions of the Group with his legal expertise" (5.6).
Piotrowicz's       nomination in 2012 by the UK       Government for election to GRETA was based on his academic work,       demonstrating external       recognition of its quality.
He has already made one country-monitoring       visit, to Macedonia, and the       recommendations made subsequently are assisting the country concerned to       fulfil its anti-trafficking       obligations.
In 2012 Piotrowicz was appointed by the Special Coordinator for       Anti-Trafficking of the OSCE to       advise on the development of guidelines on how States should apply the       principle of non-punishment       to victims of trafficking.
This was based on recognition of his academic       expertise as       developed in his publications.
His work resulted in a report (April 2013),       which will have direct       impact on how States execute their obligation, through its elucidation of       the legal basis of the       principle and its application in different legal systems.
The report has       already been cited by the       English Court of Criminal Appeal (L, HVN, THN and T v R, [2013]       EWCA Crim 991) (5.8).
Piotrowicz was nominated to be the rapporteur for two Opinions adopted by       the EU's Group of       Experts, and the adopted Opinions were about 70% and 90% of his work       respectively.
The first       (5.2), on residence permits for victims of trafficking (2009), drew partly       upon Piotrowicz's previously       published research ("European Initiatives in the Protection of Victims of       Trafficking Who Give       Evidence Against Their Traffickers", 2002 (14) International Journal         of Refugee Law pp.
263-278).
The Opinion has been referred to by the European Commission in the       drafting of a new Directive       on the subject.
The second Opinion (5.1)was an evaluation of the first ever judgment of       the European Court of       Human Rights on human trafficking.
The research for this has been       incorporated in an article       published in 2012 (3.2) The Opinion clarifies in practical terms States'       human rights obligations       towards people at risk of being trafficked.
Its impact will be that it       contributes significantly to States'       awareness of their obligations towards victims and promotes their welfare.
Subsequently,       Piotrowicz was invited to address a high-level conference (government       ministers and       ambassadors) of the OSCE in Vienna in 2011 (5.9), the effect being to       communicate the results of       his research to the highest levels with regard to policy-making in the       field.
Piotrowicz has also had significant impact in anti-trafficking law       through training programmes in       migration law, organised by International Organisation of Migration and       the European Union, to       which he has been invited to contribute in many countries, including       Austria, Turkey, Latvia, Italy       and Germany.
These involve the delivery of concentrated training sessions       on anti-trafficking law       and policy to those working in anti-trafficking, such as immigration       officials and non-governmental       organisations.
Also in the area of direct dissemination of expertise,       Piotrowicz participated in a       project leading to publication of a handbook on migration law, by CUP, in       2012 (3.3), aimed at       practitioners in migration (government, international organisations and       non-governmental       organisations).
The impact of Piotrowicz's published work is illustrated       by the comment on one of       his articles on trafficking by the Head of the International Migration Law       Unit at the International       Organization for Migration, Dr Touzenis, who wrote "how valuable that       article has been to me in my       work, both research and in training activities, because of its clarity,       its approach and its very       complete analysis" (5.3).
In addition, Piotrowicz is a regular contributor to the mass media,       including print journalism (The         Guardian, Times Higher Education) and the radio (BBC, Voice       of Russia, Voiced of America),       which regularly invites him to offer comment and analysis on the legal       dimension of major       international news stories.
Consequently his research-driven expertise       enables him to contribute to       public debate of major issues and has impact by raising awareness of these       issues.
In October 2012 Piotrowicz was appointed adviser to the Government of       Romania on an       international project aimed at preventing trafficking of people for forced       begging.
The appointment       was based directly on his expertise as shown by his research and       experience in the area.
His work       has led to a handbook for police and judicial authorities on how to deal       with the phenomenon.
He       has co-organised four international workshops on the subject in 2013 (in       Poiana Brasov, Vienna,       Paris and Brussels) and is co-organising a conference in Bucharest in       November 2013 at which       the handbook will be launched, This handbook will be made available to       police and judicial       authorities throughout Europe.
