     The research has conferred benefit, and had impact, on society outside       the academic world at       three levels: local (via addresses to societies such as Local History       Groups and Women's Institutes       (see 5 a, 5e)), national (via broadcasting, see 5b,) and international       (via a website, see 5f).
In       general terms it has brought a knowledge of Welsh Legal History to a range       of audiences largely       unaware of that history.
At a time of focus upon legal identity,       uniformity and difference (due to the       Devolution settlement) it has helped towards bringing historical context       and insight to lay       understanding.
The engagement with these varied lay audiences (often       elderly, often female) is       important, since a knowledge of Wales's legal past (largely ignored even       by professional legal       historians beyond Wales) raises awareness of the social context within       which the law has operated       and draws attention to aspects of past Welsh experience (language,       rurality, etc) which continue,       and will continue, to be of significance in contemporary Wales ("It gave       us a completely new       perspective on the whole subject of law and order", 5a).
It also seeks to       contextualise, realistically       and by reference to the study of archival sources, the operation of past       criminal justice history, a       subject which attracts considerable public interest, yet one in which,       dogged by stereotype and       sensationalism, the public are often poorly served.
More specifically the engagement has taken a number of forms.
Addresses       to public bodies,       societies and associations have been prominent.
Ireland has taken part, by       invitation, in talks and       lectures to a variety of clubs and societies within West Wales.
These       include Womens' Institutes,       Local History Societies and the like, often in small villages.
Around 35       such speaking engagements       have been undertaken since 2008, and whilst some have been more general,       many have involved       presenting the results of specific research projects detailed above (crime       and punishment in       Victorian Wales, early criminal photography, women and crime, the Jacob       case and Victorian       prison life have been popular themes, see 3 a.)
to 3.e) supra)).
It should be stressed that such       latter presentations (and others considered below) are detailed and       specifically related to original       sources explored by the author and are not undertaken for personal reward.
The result is a local       population as informed of its legal-historical heritage as any.
The       contact also serves to challenge       any perceived barriers between the University and the locality within       which it is situated.
In similar vein Ireland has taken part in broadcasts, both in discrete       programmes (such as the BBC       Radio Wales Past Masters programme on The Sarah Jacob Case       (broadcast 26 April 2009) and in       appearances on magazine programmes (The Roy Noble Show BBC Radio       Wales).
In 2013 a piece       on which he worked and in which he appeared on early criminal photography       and filmed, at his       suggestion, in Ruthin Gaol appeared on BBC 1's The One Show (27       June 2013: note the director's       comment "Without his research and participation the film would have been       third-rate" in 5b).
Ireland has been involved, having been invited for a preliminary       assessment of the material held, in       consultations with staff of Dyfed-Powys Police in relation to the       conservation, housing and display       of the Force's important historic archive ("has provided invaluable advice       and support that has       made a significant impact on the future of the artefacts and archives" see       5c).
Discussions arising       out of this matter further led to a meeting also with the county       archivists of Carmarthenshire,       Ceredigion, Pembrokeshire and Powys (14 April 2011) with a view to the       long term allocation,       preservation and accessibility of the archive.
On a related subject, but       specifically addressing the       issue of the public presentation of historical material, Ireland was also       involved in a meeting (10       May 2012) with individuals from Dyfed-Powys Police and a designer working       on a newly opened       display of crime and punishment in Carmarthen, at which he briefed those       present on the findings       of his work on criminality in the County and advised accordingly ("with       this invaluable insight we       were able to recreate the prison cell...", 5d).
He established in 2008 and maintains (with technical assistance by       Technoleg Taliesin) the       website of the Welsh Legal History Society/Cymdeithas Hanes Cyfraith         Cymru.
A founder       Committee member of this Society, Ireland devised the fully bilingual site       not only to give details of       the Society and its functions (to spread knowledge of, and promote       research into, the history of law       in Wales) but also (with the co-operation of archival repositories and       private individuals) to       establish a free online resource of research materials.
The project is       ongoing, but includes a freely       accessible, searchable database of persons remanded to gaol in       Carmarthenshire between 1844       and 1871.
The website, as evidenced by the detailed analytics, an overall       synopsis of which is       provided at 5f showing 4876 visitors to the site viewing 36,230 pages from       2008-end July 2013)), is       used by family and local historians as well as academics (as evidenced by       name searches within       the database).
It is used internationally (in North America perhaps       particularly, but widely       elsewhere) as well as nationally and locally.
It may be found at http://welshlegalhistory.org/.
A presentation concerning this resource was made to delegates (largely       members of the legal       profession) at the important Legal Wales Conference in October 2009.
In all of these activities, public participation and debate is promoted       or assisted through the       responsible and informed involvement of a wide variety of individuals in       engagement with high       quality research in areas where there is otherwise public ignorance or,       worse still, partial and       stereotypical knowledge.
Individuals are encouraged and assisted to       understand the nature of       historical information and its location, and to engage in their own       interaction with it.
