     The project's engagement with democracy promotion practitioners and       policy makers reflects the critical theoretical principles which underpin       the research.
The engagement process which led to impact included       communication of research findings through public blogs and through       preparation of plentiful dissemination materials, including a       practitioner-oriented `policy paper' which sought to communicate the       implications of the reflective conceptual approach to democracy promotion       in an easily accessible way.
However, in order to ensure direct       communication of research findings and especially to ensure that a process       of `reflection' by practitioner communities could be achieved, further       steps were taken.
The dissemination of research became structured       centrally around the delivery of a series of `conceptual politics       workshops' in 2012.
Two aims guided the workshops.
First, they sought to communicate research       findings with regard to the contested nature of democracy and current       conceptual frameworks in democracy promotion.
Second, they sought, in       relation to research findings, to facilitate focused reflection and debate       on the beneficiaries' part on the policies and practices of the individual       target organisations and thereby to enhance practitioners' awareness of,       and capacity to perceive and debate, conceptual issues in relation to       their work.
The focus was on impacting beneficiaries' awareness of, and       capacity to think about, democracy promotion in new conceptually informed       ways, although some behavioural change also arose as a result of changes       in awareness and capacity to engage in conceptual reflection (see below).
Through these workshops, the research findings have had significant       global reach among the relevant practitioner community.
Eleven conceptual       politics workshops were organised in 2012 at key practitioner sites such       as: the US Department of State, USAID and National Democratic Institute       (NDI) in Washington D.C.; UN Secretariat/United Nations Democracy Fund in       New York; Friedrich Ebert Stiftung, Berlin; International IDEA, Stockholm;       Heinrich B&#246;ll Stiftung, Brussels; Danish Institute for Parties and       Democracy, Copenhagen; and DEMO Finland, Helsinki.
Also, a one-day       conference at Chatham House was organised, which aimed to generate debate       on project findings amongst high level policy makers and NGO actors.
Practitioner participants at events included: EU Commission officials, US       Department of State officials, UN officials, government ministers,       development practitioners, think-tank leaders and officials, trade union       officials and representatives of party-political democracy support       organisations, political foundations, private consultancy firms, NGO       movements and other network organisations.
An estimated minimum of 120       participants attended the workshops and another 60 participated in the       Chatham House conference.
Access to a number of high profile practitioner       organisations resulted from initial positive contacts developed through       dissemination events.
For example, access to the US Department of State       was facilitated by early positive engagement with a representative of the       organisation (5.1).
Significance of impact on these practitioner communities is indicated by       both survey returns from participants at events and testimonials.
Survey       returns, completed between three to twelve months after the initial event,       strongly support our claim to have altered the way in which practitioners       think about, and indeed practice, democracy promotion.
Feedback from       participants (5.2) indicates that 95% of the participants who responded       were of the view that `essential contestability' is a notion relevant to       their work.
While most responding participants (90%) indicated that they       were aware of the notion of essential contestability prior to the       workshops, the feedback also indicates that following the events 75% of       participants had an increased awareness of the multiple meanings of       democracy and 60% had an increased capacity to identify the often hidden       conceptual dimensions of democracy promotion.
Feedback reviews indicate that 65% of the participants who responded       recorded changes in their thinking about their work in the aftermath of       the project events.
For example, one participant indicated that when she       plans `the content of activities (of the democracy project of her       foundation) [she] think[s] more carefully about how the concepts are used'       with specific consideration given to the potential differences of meaning       attached to democracy by recipients and donors.
Another participant       indicated that participation at a conceptual politics event had the impact       of `emphasizing stronger the risks of "technicalisation" of democracy       support, as well as underscoring the very real differences of       interpretation of key democratic values, such as participation,       representation, solidarity and equality' (5.2).
Furthermore, 35% of participants indicated that exposure to the project       findings has already had an impact on the practices of his/her       organisation.
For example, one participant, whose organisation had been       thinking about the possibility of a summer school on trade union policies       and democracy reported that `the project helped clarify the approaches       (sic) and confidence it is worth making an effort' (5.2).
Another       NGO-practitioner noted that they had since the event delivered a talk       specifically addressing the role of `alternative democratic actors' in her       specialist geographical area (5.2).
Testimonials from key practitioners verify the significance of impact       generated by project findings.
A UK-based international development       consultant and practitioner also attests to the impact of his engagement       with the project.
This consultant practitioner not only participated in an       event organised at Chatham House, but also developed close links with the       project team, up to the point of working together with a project team       member on a co-authored paper which sought to express the project's       insights on conceptions of democracy in the context of specific case       expertise of the practitioner.
He highlights that he has `been able to       apply the aspect of [his] academic engagement in practical ways' (5.3).
He       recognises that many impacts amount to `subtle alterations to the way in       which [he] approach[es] these practical and professional issues with       absorbed knowledge from the project' (5.3).
He claims that `there are also       some quite specific practical areas in which [his] approach has been       enhanced as a result of [his] involvement in the project' (5.3).
He gives       as an example that he `was able to draw upon the project work to promote       increased emphasis on social transition rather than reliance on       institution building as a sign of progress towards democracy.
[He] sought       to reassure donors and agencies involved in democracy promotion that it is       not just acceptable, but also necessary, to allow political space to       develop within the implementation of a democracy promotion programme in       which contextualised forms of democratic process at the social level can       emerge' (5.3).
This has informed his practices in specific cases, in       relation to particular assignments, such as work undertaken in relation to       a long term contract (from January 2012 to February 2013) with the British       Government Stabilisation Unit (FCO-DfID-MoD) through which he provided       advice for the UN on the broader concepts of support for elections in       South Sudan.
The Director of DEMO Finland (Political Parties of Finland for Democracy)       also attests that, as she seeks to implement the Finnish government's new       Development Policy Programme, `the findings of the Political Economies         of Democratisation-project raise important questions that we should       consider when we try to concretize the new development policy's democracy       focus'.
She highlights especially the findings of the project on       standardization of democracy assistance (discussed in publications 3.3 and       3.4) as highly relevant (5.4).
Also, beneficiary sources record impact.
One workshop participant wrote a       lengthy blog entry on a political foundation website calling for attention       to be paid to the political nature of democracy support.
In so doing, she       makes numerous direct references to the research and dissemination       materials of the Political Economies of Democratisation-project       (5.5).
Another report on an event records the reflections of the Danish       Minister for Development on the project ideas (5.6), while the EU's Office       for Promotion of Parliamentary Democracy highlights the Conceptual         Politics of Democracy Promotion book as an important source in its       newsletter's section `New and noteworthy &#8212; Publications and Resources'       (5.7).
The UN includes the project's `policy paper' Rethinking         Democracy Support, which directly refers to project publications, on       its Global Issues Resources site (5.8).
Furthermore, impact on practitioners is reflected in on-going invitations       to contribute to practitioner workshops, projects and conferences       (exemplified by 5.9).
Importantly, the unique conceptual angle of the       research seems to have generated interest in the project amongst       practitioners, demonstrating the relevance of this kind of conceptual work       for practitioner communities.
As is indicated by the correspondence       attached to one invitation received by Professor Kurki to contribute to an       event organised by a prominent democracy promotion organisation       (specifically, for the benefit of internal debate amongst its staff), it       is the project's `thinking outside the box' which motivated the       practitioners to extend the invitation (5.9).
