     McInnes' research has generated impact on both public policy and on       public policy discussions of officials and policy makers, nationally and       globally.
This impact has been had in two areas: in policy framings of the       relationship between health and foreign and security policy, and in       understandings of HIV/AIDS and security.
First, the research on the relationship between global health and       foreign/security policy had a direct impact on the White Paper Health         is Global: A UK Government Strategy 2008-13.
The process leading up       to this impact started with initial dissemination of findings in       co-operation with The Nuffield Trust, which organised a series of       seminars, conferences and workshops with practitioners.
These were held in       the UK, US and Australia and included senior level policy makers (up to       and including Foreign Minister) and senior civil servants.
From the UK,       senior officials from Department for International Development (DfID),       Department of Health (DoH) and the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO)       attended, including the Permanent Secretary at the Department of Health.
Following these initial contacts, McInnes was subsequently invited to a       series of workshops held jointly between the Department of Health and       Foreign and Commonwealth Office, under the auspices of the UK Chief       Medical Officer.
McInnes' research findings on a broadened agenda with       regard to health and security provided the focus of a dedicated workshop       in this series.
These provided the background to the development of a UK       Global Health Strategy.
This process of informing policy discussions culminated in policy impact       in 2008, seen in the publication of Health is Global: A UK Government         Strategy 2008-13, a cross-Departmental White Paper linking health       and foreign policy as well as development.
The impact of McInnes' work for       The Nuffield Trust is reflected both in the broader perspective taken in       the White Paper on the relationship between health and foreign policy, and       by his recommendations on assessment being openly cited in the White Paper       as providing a potential template for judging the Strategy's       success (5.1).
In the subsequent Impact Assessment of `Health is         Global: A UK Government Strategy 2008- 13', five of the ten       underpinning principles in the impact assessment (principles 2,3,4, 6 and       10) directly reflect questions in McInnes' template (questions 2, 4,5 and       8) (5.2).
Further impact on policy discussions of McInnes' research on the       broadened agenda of health and security is reflected in the invitation to       speak to a High Level Cabinet Office meeting in 2009.
The purpose of the       meeting was to assess the National Security Strategy and discuss its       future development.
Reflecting his research expertise on global health and       security, McInnes was specifically asked to speak to the meeting on the       position of health as a security issue for the UK (5.3).
The impact of McInnes' research on policy discussions in the UK has been       on-going.
In 2012 McInnes was also invited to attend a meeting of the       Health Protection Agency's Global Health Technical Committee (5.4).
This       was a sub-committee of the Health Protection Agency's Board, chaired by a       Non-Executive Director of the Board.
It reported directly to the Board on       global health issues affecting the UK.
McInnes, on the recommendation of       the Chair of Global Health Technical Committee, was approached `regarding       global health and security issues, given HPA's role in improving global       health security, as part of the UK government's Health is Global         outcomes framework (sic).'
He was specifically asked to `present on       [his] work on new global security challenges' and to participate in the       subsequent discussion on developing the UK's preparedness for health       threats (5.4).
Internationally, McInnes' research on health and foreign and security       policy also led to him being invited to become a Temporary Adviser to the       World Health Organization in developing its global health diplomacy       network (5.5).
Specifically, the World Health Organization, on the       recommendation of the current Global Health Security Adviser at the US       National Security Council, requested that McInnes and Rushton's `really       good paper' on health as a bridge for peace be provided as the background       brief to a meeting in July 2009 (5.6).
This paper was based on the       research funded by the ESRC and had been published as 3.4.
Second, CHAIR's research on HIV/AIDS and security has also impacted on       policy discussions.
Research on this relationship led to an invitation for       McInnes to speak on the subject at a workshop in Thailand in April 2009       (5.7).
The workshop, on the politics of HIV/AIDS, was co-organised by the       Senior Adviser to the Executive Director of the Joint UN Programme on       HIV/AIDS (UNAIDS), and was sponsored by UNAIDS.
The workshop's agenda was       to inform discussions building up to the UN High Level Meeting on HIV/AIDS       and the subsequent Special Session of the Security Council, both held in       2011, and the 2012 conference of the International Aids Society, the       largest and most significant professional/civil society actor in the       global fight against the disease.
McInnes' research and contribution to the workshop led directly to him       being asked by the Senior Adviser to contribute to the framing of the       General Assembly and Security Council meetings by commenting on the draft       `White Paper'.
McInnes' contributions were received as being of `immense       help' (5.8).
The influence of McInnes' contributions to policy discussions       in the UN is seen in the address of UNAIDS' Executive Director to the       Security Council in 2011.
His statement was in stark contrast to that of       his predecessor, Peter Piot's, declaration of a strong link between HIV       and security, made in the January 2000 meeting of the Security Council.
In       2011 UNAIDS Executive Director, directly echoing McInnes' argument on       HIV/AIDS and security (3.6, that 'the links between HIV/AIDS and security       are far from straightforward and a greater appreciation of nuances is       required'), and repudiating the claims of a few years previously that       there was no link, stated that: `The risk HIV poses to peace and security       is far more nuanced than we thought in 2000'.
This was reiterated in the       official UN press release accompanying the meeting, and in the report on       the UN website (5.9).
CHAIR staff remain very active in public engagement and impact       generation.
For example, in 2012 McInnes and colleagues hosted a major       symposium at Chatham House presenting research findings of recent research       on global health governance to an audience of 100 practitioners and policy       makers, which in turn resulted in CHAIR staff being invited to consult for       the Norwegian-government funded Commission on Global Governance for       Health, and produce the Commission's report for presentation at the UN       General Assembly.
CHAIR under the leadership of Professor McInnes is then       set to continue to serve as a site of important nationally and globally       relevant high-quality research on global health.
