     Dissatisfied with the lack of critical public debate on the shortcomings       of the existing non-proliferation       regime and the discourse surrounding it, and aware of the difficulty of       introducing       change through the more conventional `public policy route' (for reasons       identified in the research,       namely, the constraints imposed on debate by the existence of the       non-proliferation complex),       Craig and Ruzicka sought to bring their research findings directly to the       public sphere in order to       increase public understanding of and debate on the issue.
In 2010 Campbell Craig had started to explore the possibilities for       informing public debate       through the media with the publication of an op-ed piece `Just like Ike       (on deterrence)' in the New         York Times.
This was followed up in 2012 by a jointly-authored essay       by Craig and Ruzicka `Who's       In, Who's Out?
The Non-proliferation Complex' in the London Review of         Books (LRB).
As       documented below, this essay generated substantial media coverage, which       in turn has       contributed to the research becoming influential in informing public       discussions on the issue.
This       section will first set out the nature of the influence on media reporting,       followed by a discussion of       how this has translated into impact on the wider public, commentators,       policy observers and civil       society.
Shortly after the publication of the LRB piece, the claims made       in it featured prominently in an       opinion article by a Daily Mail columnist (5.1).
He cites Craig       and Ruzicka's piece in the first       sentence of his column and then structures most of the ensuing argument       precisely along the lines       of the LRB piece.
He uses Craig and Ruzicka's major points to       question Western rationales for a       war against Iran, and to identify the long-term dangers of the cynicism       generated by the non-proliferation       complex.
Further prominent media coverage of the core claims of Craig and Ruzicka       arose as a result of       an article in the Guardian commemorating the 50th anniversary of       the Cuban missile crisis in       October 2012.
The author, having read the LRB piece `with great       interest and admiration' (5.2),       also directly referred to the work of Craig and Ruzicka, specifically       their analysis of the hypocrisy of       the current nuclear non-proliferation regime (5.3).
The Guardian       article has since been cross-posted       in a large number of other outlets, ensuring extensive secondary reach of       the research       findings nationally and globally (5.3).
Media interest in the LRB piece has also been reflected in       several invitations to contribute to       television and radio programmes.
The provocative nature of the research       findings communicated in       the LRB piece has generated this interest.
For example, when a       major American radio programme,       particularly noted for its progressive social agenda, interviewed Craig       about non-proliferation and       the hypocrisy of US nuclear policy on an extended live radio transmission,       the invitation was issued       specifically `to discuss your [London Review of Books] article'       (5.4).
Also, when Al Jazeera English       TV invited Craig and Ruzicka to comment in its discussion programme       `Inside Story' on double       standards in nuclear security, the reporter stressed that the invitation       was extended because the       `op-eds were very interesting' (5.5).
The BBC also invited Craig in March       2012 to participate in a       live radio debate on the Iranian nuclear programme, stressing that 'we       feel you could make a       valuable contribution to this following your stance in your recent essay       in the [London Review of         Books] about nuclear non-proliferation politics' (5.6).
In this       debate Craig contended vociferously       with Matthew Kroenig, a prominent American advocate of war against Iran.
Success in informing and shaping media coverage of the issue has       translated into       considerable impact on public understanding, discourse and debate on       nuclear non-proliferation.
Impact on public discussion was exemplified in online commentaries of       prominent media       articles covering the research.
For example, on the Daily Mail's       commentary site, a number of       readers, echoing Craig and Ruzicka's arguments, commented specifically on       the hypocrisy of       singling out Iran as a nuclear rogue (5.1).
Also, of the 181 public       comments generated by the       Guardian article several engage in a discussion of the consequences       of the ownership of nuclear       weapons by nuclear powers as the basis for dealing with nuclear danger,       the issue specifically       pointed to by Craig and Ruzicka.
A number of commentators indicate, along       the lines of Craig and       Ruzicka's argument, that they are sceptical of the current state of       affairs (5.3).
While much of the initial debate among members of the public was       generated by the two       media articles, numerous cross-postings of these articles demonstrate       substantial secondary reach       of the research and have generated further public commentaries (5.3).
Wide-spread media       attention is arguably also partly responsible for the many references to       the research on various       blog entries and newswires (5.7).
A Google search at the end of July 2013       highlighted up to       191,000 results for the search entry `Craig+Ruzicka+nuclear' (5.8).
It       should also be noted that       references to the research insights produced by Craig and Ruzicka have now       appeared in posts on       the subject on websites hosted, for example, in Chinese, French and       Spanish, further       demonstrating global reach (5.9).
The volume and global reach of       cross-postings and references to       the research demonstrate impact which extends beyond the UK.
Further evidence of impact on the public is provided by the fact that       Craig and Ruzicka's       research has been used as a reference point in public debate on the issue       of nuclear non-proliferation.
When a public seminar on nuclear non-proliferation was organised in       Amsterdam, the       Craig-Ruzicka article was distributed as background reading (5.10).
The research has not only informed discussions among media and the       members of the public,       but it has also been acknowledged, discussed and reflected upon among       prominent commentators       and policy observers.
In a letter to a journal oriented towards policy       makers, a leading former UN       diplomat and an opinion-former in the nuclear policy field, for example,       states that: `Painful though       it is, given the contribution the NPT has, in fact, made to global       security, it is difficult not to agree       with security theorists Campbell Craig and Jan Ruzicka's criticism of what       has become the real       state of affairs with respect to the NPT: ``selective non-proliferation       and ineffectual abolition'''       (5.11).
Another senior fellow at a major US-based think-tank concludes:       `As somebody who lives       among those in the nuclear proliferation "complex" I certainly recognize       the effects that [Craig and       Ruzicka] laid out' (5.12).
Craig and Ruzicka's research then has informed       and shaped       understandings and discourse among nuclear policy commentators, even those       who work `within'       the nuclear non-proliferation complex.
This opens up possibilities for       reflection on the problems of       the current nuclear non-proliferation regime `inside' as well as `outside'       the nuclear non-proliferation       complex.
Craig and Ruzicka's research has also been acknowledged, cross-posted,       referenced and       discussed amongst a number of civil society organisations active in       rethinking nuclear policy (see,       for example, 5.13).
A notable example of impact on civil society is       provided by a report by       `Reaching Critical Will', one of the most influential and respected global       non-proliferation NGO       actors, which features Craig and Ruzicka's research in its discussion of       social movements and the       creation of `critical will' to achieve global nuclear policy change       (5.14).
The report cites and       addresses the core arguments of Craig and Ruzicka's LRB essay at       length.
Specifically of concern       to the authors of the report are the constraints which arise, as Craig and       Ruzicka argue, from the       funding patterns of the `non-proliferation complex' for NGO actors and the       nature and scope of       their activity.
Craig and Ruzicka's research features as a core reference       in the report's thinking       about the future direction which social movements should take in order to       achieve critical will and       thus change states' nuclear policies (5.14).
In sum, while the impact of their research on public understanding,       discourse and debate on       nuclear proliferation is on-going, Craig and Ruzicka's research, as a       result of its public       dissemination strategy, has already achieved considerable impact upon       media coverage,       discourse and debate among members of the public as well as on policy       commentators and civil       society groups.
In this context it is significant to note that a June 2012       analysis by Truthout, a US       organization which counts more than 150,000 followers, referred to Craig       and Ruzicka's essay as a       prominent demonstration of the fact that awareness of the proliferation       double-standard `has finally       begun to rear its head in established media' (5.15).
