     The research has impacted on i. public policy processes relating to the       Welsh devolution settlement, and ii.
public discourse on, and       understanding of, devolution in Welsh society.
The impact of the research on public policy processes is       three-fold.
First, the research influenced the recommendations of the All       Wales Convention (AWC), a public enquiry, established in 2008 to assess       public attitudes towards devolution, and in particular, the desire to       transfer primary legislative powers to the NAW.
Informed by their research       on public attitudes in Wales, Scully and Wyn Jones presented summaries of       their work to the Convention in 2008.
This work was, as members of the       Convention confirm, `a key contribution to the considerations of the AWC       and a determinant of its final recommendations' (5.1, 5.2).
As one member       of the Convention explains, the research was `an essential and pivotal       component of evidence collected by the Convention as part of its work'; it       `weighed heavily in discussions and unquestionably helped to shape the       recommendations of the Convention' in a way which `constitutes clear and       unambiguous impact' (5.2).
The AWC recommended moving to a referendum on       further legislative powers for the NAW as they, in line with Wyn Jones'       and Scully's research findings that broad support for devolution in Wales       had developed, noted `a context of substantial support for devolution as       it stands, and clear signs of an appetite for more' (5.3).
It was       `following the findings of the All Wales Convention' that on February 2,       2010 the First Minister and Deputy Minister of Welsh Government announced       their intention to ask for a referendum, a motion which was debated and       agreed to by the Assembly Members on February 9, 2010 (5.4).
The resultant       `yes' vote in the 2011 referendum impacted the Welsh and British       constitutional settlement.
Second, the IWP's research has impacted on other actors involved in       public policy-making processes on devolution in the UK more generally.
The       research informed, for example, the more recent work of the UK       Government's Commission on Devolution, established in October 2011 to       review the present financial and constitutional arrangements in Wales.
The       Commission's 2012 report on Part I of its work, prepared in November 2011,       acknowledges directly the arguments made by Wyn Jones and Scully on the       problems of conducting a referendum on a technical question (as       articulated in an article in the current affairs magazine Agenda,       drawing directly on research in their book Wales Said Yes) (5.5).
The research on public attitudes has also informed the opinions of other       key actors on future constitutional change as is evidenced by the Welsh       Government's reference to this data in its submission to Part II of       Commission's work (5.6).
Third, the IWP's work on the legitimacy of devolution has also had       secondary impact on the policy work of other organisations.
This can be       seen in the Welsh Office Green Paper proposals on the reform of electoral       arrangements for Welsh Assembly elections.
Some of the recommendations       made in 2012 are informed by a 2006 Electoral Commission investigation       into turnout among Welsh voters, which in turn draws on the IWP's survey       data and research findings (5.7).
In respect to the impact of IWP's research on informing and shaping         public discourse on, and understanding of, devolution in Wales,       three distinct claims for impact are made.
First, the research findings have been disseminated widely through Welsh       and English-language media (e.g.
BBC radio and television, S4C, The         Guardian, Agenda, Barn).
This resulted in public       commentary on the core arguments of their work.
Thus, for example,       referring to their work, discussions on the motivations and structure of       the 2011 referendum, reasons for the referendum outcome, and legitimacy of       devolved institutions featured in prominent Welsh publications in 2012.
A       notable example is an article `The impact of civic Wales' featured on a       prominent Welsh news magazine website `Click on Wales'.
In this article       the author `reads between the lines of [the Wales Says Yes] book'       highlighting the significance of its core findings and agreeing with many       of its major conclusions.
Through closely engaging with Wyn Jones' and       Scully's and arguments, the author offers his own interpretations of the       referendum process, as do the online commentators on his piece (5.8).
This       indicates impact on public understanding and debate on the Welsh       referendum.
Second, the research has also contributed to improving public knowledge       and debate through having influenced the work on Welsh public opinion of a       major national polling organisation, YouGov.
In 2009, Scully collaborated       closely with YouGov to develop their first Wales-specific surveys.
These       were very closely informed by Wyn Jones' and Scully's previous research       expertise on Welsh public opinion (5.9).
The survey findings of YouGov's       work were disseminated in co-operation with Scully at well-attended       seminars in Cardiff and at Aberystwyth in October 2009, and were widely       reported in the Welsh media (5.10).
This led directly to ITV commissioning       YouGov to conduct further polls between May 2010 and May 2011 (5.9).
Through assisting in further knowledge gathering and public dissemination       in this way, the research has contributed to the furthering of knowledge       on Welsh public opinion, which in turn has assisted in informing the       public debate and discourse on democracy in Wales, as the media and blog       discussions of YouGov data attest (5.10).
Third, various IWP staff have contributed to the continuous dissemination       of the research findings of Scully and Wyn Jones through educational       activities outside the HEI.
For example, Dr Anwen Elias's contribution       entitled 'Political Representation' to the Open University course, Understanding         Contemporary Wales, specifically promoted Scully's and Wyn Jones'       research findings on the subject and has impacted several staff at BBC       Cymru.
BBC programme makers completed the course as part of a broader       skills and experiences programme, in part `to help them give context to       items on devolution when producing content for broadcast' (5.11).
BBC       Wales External Affairs Manager confirms: `Anecdotally a number of staff       members who took part in the project have mentioned that they feel they       have a better understanding and confidence in dealing [with] contemporary       and on-going issues because of the knowledge they learnt as part of the       course'.
(5.11) The role of the discussion of public opinion and       devolution is mentioned specifically as continuing to be `beneficial by       giving BBC Wales' staff a basis on which they frame current and future       debates' (5.11).
Further, between 2008 and 2013, research on Welsh public opinion was       promoted by IWP staff through development of online sources and delivery       of workshops for A-level and Welsh Baccalaureate students across Wales.
In terms of the former, Scully drew directly on his work on the 2011       Welsh Referendum in an article prepared for the A-level Government and       Politics website, www.politicscymru.com       (5.12).
From December 2011 when the material was submitted to the website       to April 2013, this article had received more than a hundred hits (5.12),       which, considering the number of students taking Government and Politics       in Wales (estimated at around 260 a year across AS- and A-levels),       demonstrates considerable interest in public opinion on Welsh devolution       amongst the non-higher education student population in Wales.
School children's perceptions on Welsh devolution and public opinion have       also been informed through workshop sessions with secondary school       students.
The most recent round of `schools sessions' which directly       focused on public opinion and devolution in Wales were delivered in June       and July 2013 by IWP staff Dr Elin Royles and Dr Huw Lewis.
These       workshops promoted directly the work of Scully and Wyn Jones.
Feedback       surveys of these events indicated a significant impact on the attendees.
87% either strongly agreed or agreed that the session had improved their       understanding of public attitudes towards devolution in Wales, and 85%       strongly agreed or agreed that the session had improved their       understanding of how people voted in the 2011 Welsh Devolution Referendum       (5.13).
