     Warm-up exercise has an important role to play in optimising performance       during subsequent exercise.
Prior to this body of research,       pre-competition activity was undertaken, in part, to warm the muscles       prior to the event.
Research conducted at Aberystwyth University showed       clearly that rather than an increase in muscle temperature, it is a change       in muscle activation that leads to the ergogenic effect observed.
This       research provided key evidence in the development of "priming" exercise       regimes for use prior to athletic competition.
Within this impact case study we are claiming two forms of impact.
First,       the impact upon the professional practice of sports scientists, coaches,       and elite athletes who now employ priming exercise regimes (in the place       of other "warm-up" exercise) with prior to competition.
Specifically, the       examples below show impacts upon the English Institute of Sport (EIS),       Team Sky professional cycling team, a professional UK based cyclist.
It is       likely that others will have been impacted, and those discussed are not a       conclusive list.
Secondary impact is claimed from the dissemination of       this work to amateur athletes and the wider exerciser community.
This was       an impact upon society, and in particular, informing their behaviours.
Impact upon sports science practitioners and elite athletes     The key difficulty in "proving" impact within elite sport where the       differences in performance are miniscule, and the reward for success is       huge, is that the precise practice of practitioners and elite athletes are       closely guarded secrets.
Whilst investigating the impact of this research       it became evident that there was a disconnect between the "research" and       its "application" within sport.
It was clear from the research that there       was a significant benefit of priming exercise within the laboratory, but       these benefits were potentially not realised by sports scientists and       their athletes.
Example 1 - English Institute of Sport (source 1)     The head of physiology at the English Institute Sport (EIS) was clearly       influenced by the work on priming exercise of Dr Mark Burnley and       investigated the warm-up practices performed by elite UK athletes and       found that similar protocols were performed by sprinters all the way       through to marathon runners.
He questioned this approach and presented an       alternative - priming exercise.
This was met with resistance by coaches       and athletes alike - maybe unfairly, they suggested that "your evidence is       circumspect so this is off limits" and "we don't want to spend all of our       pennies in the warm-up for fear that they would suffer in the main       performance".
During a relaxed phase between competitions, Dr Ingham and colleagues       (with the backing of UK Sport) conducted applied work using an adapted       "high-intensity" priming protocol, based on our research, and found a 1 s       (0.8%; or 6 m) improvement in running performance in a group of elite 800m       runners.
The majority of this performance improvement came in the final       400m, where the pace slowed less than the control.
This new priming protocol was on first glance similar to what athletes       previously performed, but contained a "competition specific protocol"       which elicited a marked improvement in performance.
This testing using       elite athletes and a competition specific strategy brought the       breakthrough in application, which was fuelled from the research.
This has       now been infused into the systems at EIS and their long-term strategy.
EIS       network fed this practice to other physiologists and to other "engine room       sports" such as swimming, cycling and rowing and was used at the Beijing       Olympics and other major championships since.
Example 2 - Professional cycling (sources 2 and 3)     Our second example covers the use of priming exercise within professional       cycling.
An interview broadcast live on ITV4 with a UK based professional       cyclist (riding for the metaltek_KOO professional cycling team).
The       protocol performed prior to competition was based upon knowledge learned       from research performed at Aberystwyth University, and mentions that his       goal is to "prime the muscles for the race".
Interestingly, he also states       a negative effect of not performing priming exercise prior to competition.
Further to this interview we provide a youtube clip that shows a       performance coach for the Sky pro- cycling team talking about their       warm-up procedures prior to time-trial events (source 3.1).
The specific       details of their practice are shown in a screenshot taken from the clip       (source 3.2).
This shows a "progressive" 8 min warm up", a number of short       accelerations to "activate" [the muscle fibres], and the instruction to       finish the protocol "10 minutes before the start of competition".
It is       very clear that their practice is based upon the priming exercise       literature.
They also state the usefulness of this practice across a range       of event distances, and that its use is also applicable to amateur       athletes.
Wider dissemination / impact upon amateur athletes and regular           exercisers     This body of research was selected for an independent Research Councils       UK (RCUK) report that detailed the impact of academic research on sport       and exercise practice published prior to the 2012 London Olympic games.
This research was not funded by RCUK, and so being cited in this report       shows clearly the significance of this research and the importance of the       timing of publication prior to the London Olympic games.
Once we move away from elite sport it is far easier to "prove" the impact       of the priming exercise research conducted at Aberystwyth University.
We       have provided clear examples of the wider dissemination of this research       in which each states either the name of the author of the research, or       specifically Aberystwyth University with the text of each source.
In       addition to widely available TV interviews (2.2), youtube clips (3.1), we       provide specific evidence in cycling magazines (5), general fitness       websites (6, 7) sports science websites (8, 9) and blogs (1, 10) that this       impact is directly attributable to researchers at Aberystwyth University.
Given the range of format and accessibility of these examples, it is       argued that the reach of this body of research is significant.
