     The research conducted by Aberystwyth University's Physical Activity in       Ageing, Rehabilitation and Health Research Group has influenced provision       of, access to, and protocols for, community exercise schemes,       particularly, but not exclusively, in the rural context.
Before 2005,       there were no community exercise schemes in operation in the rural region       of West Wales.
The role of Aberystwyth University researchers in securing       the research funding to develop and implement CESs influenced directly the       change in provision of such services.
Impact has been achieved by       partnership working with key stakeholders (i.e.
purchasers and providers       of CESs) to develop and implement research-based exercise protocols and       through the collection and delivery of robust, relevant evidence directly       to health care decision-makers.
Exercise referral scheme:     Following the delivery of our research report to the Service Planning       Strategy Group at the NHS Trust, in which we recommended the provision of       continuation funding for the scheme, the service was awarded core funding       for a period of three years.
The continued provision of service is       now funded through the National Exercise Referral Scheme.
In addition, our       evidence-based recommendation that the delivery of the scheme be       integrated into the local leisure centre is consistent with the scheme       being re-located entirely to the leisure centre in 2009.
(1)     Our initial work provided a framework for subsequent services.
Specifically, Doust was the academic, expert consultant for the Welsh       Government's (GW) (2006) published guidance on setting up, running and       evaluating exercise referral schemes and the specification of core       training competencies that underpin the National Occupational Standards       (NOS).
(2) In 2008 the WG funded the appointment of a National Coordinator       to commission approved training which met the new NOS for chronic       conditions and develop standard protocols.
These protocols have been       implemented across Wales where there are rehabilitation programmes       delivered by exercise professionals with the necessary qualifications.
(2)     Cardiac rehabilitation scheme:     Before 2005, the only cardiac rehabilitation schemes (CRSs) in operation       in the rural region of West Wales, was a centralised, hospital-based       programme.
As part of the Aberystwyth research programme led by Doust,       four community-based CRSs were developed and implemented in the region,       three of which are still in operation, i.e.
Aberystwyth, Cardigan and       Lampeter.
(4)     The availability of a community-based CRS significantly impacted patient       engagement with the treatment regimen, such that there has been a 75%       increase in the proportion of referred patients who complete the exercise       programme, rising from 40% to 70% for the hospital-based and       community-based programmes, respectively.
(5)     Increased engagement and the enhanced treatment regimen have, either       alone or together, led directly to improved health of individuals and       cost-savings for the health authority.
More specifically, Ceredigion       Cardiac Rehabilitation Service estimates that the community-based scheme       prevents avoidable admissions to secondary care for at least 150 patients       pa, with a cost-saving, based on average days in hospital, of &#163;242,316.75       pa.(4-5)     As noted by the Locality Service Co-ordinator, `we have gained a service       which has been properly researched using validated physical and       psychological tools, ... providing opportunity to improve our standards       and develop protocols'(6, p39), and which `... prevent avoidable       admissions to secondary care'.
(6, p42).
Falls prevention scheme:     The findings of our research have had a direct impact on regional       planning and delivery of community exercise schemes for falls prevention,       such that one scheme continues to operate at an optimal level,(7) whilst       another entirely new scheme has been launched(8).
Our research findings       enhanced the decision-making process regarding the planning and delivery       of services and, in so doing, increased access to, and provision of, falls       prevention services for older people living in the rural community.
(7-9)     This impact was achieved through the delivery of robust and relevant       evidence directly to decision-making bodies.
More specifically, in January       2012 Hudson and Oliver presented the findings of the research to the Tywyn       Falls Steering Group (TFSG), which has responsibility for planning and       delivery of services locally.
(7) In addition, the TFSG Chair (also       Clinical Director of Therapy Services, BCUHB) invited Hudson and Oliver to       present the work to the Executive Director of Public Health for North       Wales (April 2012), so as to inform the pan-North Wales strategy.
(9) To       date, three of our five recommendations have been implemented:             the scheme should remain a 32 week programme: unbeknown         to us was that the evaluation had been commissioned following a         suggestion that the exercise scheme be reduced from 32 weeks to 16         weeks, which was the norm at that time.
(7)        integration of the scheme with the local leisure centre:         the scheme re-located entirely to the leisure centre in May 2012.
(7)        expansion of the service to meet increasing demand: a         new 32-week Falls Prevention Service was launched in Tywyn in January         2013, along with a newly created post to deliver the service in the         Dwyfor Leisure Centre.
(8-9)          The contribution of Aberystwyth University's falls prevention research is       discussed nationally through the Director of Public Health Development       Reports.
(9)
