     The first area of impact, on public discourse, came as a result of the       dissemination of research in various public engagement activities.
A       `Disability History Roadshow' held in Swansea in March 2013 and, organised       by Thompson, was one of the public engagement activities of the five-year       Wellcome Trust-funded collaborative research project `Disability and       Industrial Society: A Comparative Cultural History of British Coalfields,       c.1780-1948'.
The Roadshow attracted a large and enthusiastic audience,       made up of former miners and their families, disabled individuals and       members of the public; the average attendance at the Museum on the       previous five Saturdays was 973 while the attendance on the day of the       Roadshow was 1,213.
Questionnaire responses indicated considerable       engagement with the various themes in disability history that were pursued       through the various activities.
Attendees were stimulated by the various       talks by historians, enjoyed the historic documentary films, literary       readings and ballad performances, and found the discussion of disability       in the industry with former trade union leaders to be moving and       thought-provoking.
As one attendee commented, `'It would be nice if the       Welsh Assembly guided by appropriate people and organizations develop a       type of educational roadshow to visit schools in Wales and show the       children the hardships suffered by people in the coal industry' (5.1).
Another attendee stated 'I did not realise how many people died, were       disabled until I saw the statistics' (5.1).
Writing in a blog on       the impact of the Roadshow, the Head of the National Waterfront Museum       described the event as a `resounding success' (5.2).
In addition, the dissemination of the research in a variety of media       contributions served to extend the impact to a much broader public       audience.
Feature-length articles on two aspects of the research, workers'       medical schemes as inspiration for the NHS and artificial limbs in modern       Welsh history, have appeared in the Western Mail, the largest       daily newspaper in Wales with an average daily circulation of about 30,000       and a readership of over 100,000; the newspaper's website reaches 1.4       million unique visitors each month.
The article `Carving out the story         of a false limb's true worth' caused one of its readers to connect       the information provided by the article to his pre-existing knowledge       about a particular type of artificial limb (5.3).
Furthermore,       numerous appearances on radio and television programmes and documentaries       have served to further disseminate the research to a wider audience and       give historical perspective to contemporary issues and discussions.
These       include an appearance by Thompson on the Post Prynhawn programme on Radio       Cymru in 2008 on the history of voluntary hospitals; this was intended to       offer historical insights in a longer item on the state of hospitals in       contemporary Wales and the threatened closures to local hospitals that       were under discussion at that time.
Thompson has also appeared on a       documentary programme on health services in Britain before the NHS (5.7)       and his contributions on a variety of issues were included in the       programme, most notably in relation to the Tredegar Workmen's Medical Aid       Society, an aspect of his research.
The programme was presented by       Professor Robert Winston and broadcast on BBC4 in September 2012.
In a       review published in The Guardian, Sam Wollaston contrasted the       inequalities in health care before the creation of the NHS made apparent       by the programme: `People with money lived longer of course.
They could       buy medical treatment.
They could take out health insurance.
Perhaps their       company provided them with schemes; they could go to nice hospitals when       they got sick.
But if you didn't have a job, or a policy, or you'd let it       lapse, you were screwed.
On the scrapheap.'
(5.4).
Other comments       on the programme focused on the material on the Tredegar Workmen's Medical       Aid Society as of particular interest (5.6).
Thompson also appeared on an edition of Darn Bach o Hanes (A Little Bit       of History) that considered the medical provision of the Ivorites friendly       society (produced by Cwmni Da and broadcast on S4C in April 2013), and two       episodes of Corff Cymru (The Welsh Body) (produced by Boom Pictures       Company and broadcast in April 2013) to discuss diet, health and       childbirth in recent Welsh history.
He has also contributed to features on       living standards, health and illness in interwar south Wales for various       programmes being produced by Green Bay Media, in English and Welsh, some       of which are intended for broadcast while others are being made into       teaching resources for school-children.
Thompson also appeared live on the       live magazine programme Prynhawn Da in March 2013 to discuss disability in       the coal industry in south Wales.
A second area of impact, in relation to public services, came with the       publication of Public Health in Wales c.1800-2012: A Short History,       co-authored with Pamela Michael.
This publication places the fruits of       academic research at the heart of public health practice and policy-making       in Wales.
This publication, written in a more accessible style, was       commissioned by the Chief Medical Officer of Wales in 2011 as a means to       provide historical context to politicians, civil servants, and health and       medical professionals in the course of their everyday work and to enable       them to make decisions and policy that is informed by historical       perspectives.
As he stated in the preface, the publications helps to       explain `the distinctive Welsh tradition in public health and build the       confidence in these roots to secure our healthy future' (5.8).
As       a result of its location on the NHS Wales website and its distribution at       a series of public events, the publication has reached policy-makers,       civil servants, politicians and public health practitioners throughout       Wales.
Hard copies of the book were also sent to all Assembly Members,       including the First Minister and the Health Minister, all MPs representing       Welsh constituencies, Welsh members of the House of Lords and other       academic and medical personnel.
Another example of the impact of Public         Health in Wales can be seen in a comparison of the mental health       services for elderly people in Wales and France written by a French       Director of Health and Social Services Trainee from the French Public       Health School (EHESP, Ecole des Hautes Etudes en Sant&#233; Publique) who was       due to take on an appointment as a Director of a nursing home in France (5.9).
These various research outputs and public engagement activities allow       individuals working in the sphere of medicine and public health, either as       practitioners or as policy-makers, to better appreciate the contexts in       which their work has been continued in the relatively recent past.
It also       enables patients, disabled people, and members of the general public to       contextualise and arrive at a deeper understanding of their contemporary       experiences within the health system and to manage their interactions with       health providers and services.
