     Gas demand forecasting has been a challenging problem faced by National       Grid for many years.
National Grid's published daily gas demand forecasts from the National       Transmission System       (NTS) are used by the market to aid trading and operational decisions in       balancing supply and       demand.
The NTS takes gas from producers and delivers it to consumers.
Gas       shippers nominate       quantities of gas entering and exiting the NTS.
National Grid is       responsible for the physical       transportation of gas through the NTS, and for ensuring the physical       balance of the total system       (which is important both for efficiency and safety).
Each gas shipper is       financially responsible for the       costs incurred for the management of an imbalance in its supply and demand       or a difference       between its gas nominations and actual flows.
If the actions of gas shippers are out of balance, then National Grid       takes residual balancing       actions: it buys or sells gas in the 'On-the-day Commodity Market' (OCM),       which is part of the gas       trading arrangements introduced in the UK in October 1999.
When the NTS is       short of gas National       Grid tends to force prices up; when the NTS has an oversupply of gas, the       price is forced down.
These residual balancing trades in the OCM determine marginal system buy       and sell prices.
At the       end of any day, gas shippers that are out of balance are automatically       balanced through a 'cash-       out' procedure in which the shipper is made to buy or sell the required       quantity of gas at the       marginal system buy or sell price for that day.
More accurate published gas demand forecasts by National Grid allow gas       shippers to pursue       actions that are more likely to be balanced.
The more balanced the actions       of gas shippers, the less       balancing actions need to be taken by National Grid, and in turn there is       a reduced associated cost       for gas shippers.
This is important for the economy as a whole because the       costs incurred by gas       shippers are ultimately passed on to end users, resulting in higher energy       bills.
In the future, it will be even more difficult to make accurate gas demand       predictions, as the       decarbonization agenda promotes a greater dependence on renewable energy       sources, which       inherently suffer from extreme variability.
The intermittent energy       generated by these renewable       sources directly translates to variability in the demand for traditional       energy sources like gas.
In order to improve the accuracy of forecasting, National Grid operates       within a framework which       includes penalties for inaccurate prediction and incentives for reduction       of forecasting errors.
As       evidence for the large scale and significance of the problem: in April       2013 Ofgem (the regulator for       electricity and gas markets in the UK) proposed an incentive scheme with       an annual reward of up to       &#163;10M for National Grid.
The level of the reward will depend on the quality       of National Grid's daily       gas demand forecasts (see [B] in Section 5).
Earlier methods used for national gas demand forecasting by National Grid       were based on global       prediction methods, as described above.
Forecasts were calculated using a       globally fitted model to       the historical data using standard regression techniques.
The results were       often unsatisfactory (in       fact, National Grid had to pay significant penalties for inaccurate daily       forecasts).
Professor Henry Wu has a long-standing collaborative research       relationship with National Grid plc       of over 15 years.
In July 2011, the joint project "Daily Gas Demand       Forecasting" between Wu and       National Grid started.
The aim of the project was to apply the methodology       developed in [1] to daily       gas demand forecasting.
The project was funded by National Grid plc with       cash contribution of       &#163;100,115 (see [C] in Section 5).
On the National Grid side the project was       led by Chris Aldridge       (commercial analyst) with a project team of five engineers.
National grid       collected local and national       gas demand data and Professor Wu jointly with postdoctoral researcher Dr       Li and PhD student Zhu       applied the local predictor techniques developed in [1] to the data       provided by National Grid and       developed the required software.
Initial investigations showed that Wu's       approach, which combines       local prediction techniques with kernel methods to deal with       non-linearities, is well-suited to the       problem of forecasting gas demand and showed improvements over National       Grid's previous       forecasting method.
A live trial of a prototype of the new model ran from October 2011 until       December 2011.
The results       showed an improvement in forecast accuracy (over the old method, which was       still used for       published forecasts) by 0.5 to 1 million cubic meters (mcm) per day.
Daily       gas demand varies       through the year but is on average around 240mcm.
This volume of gas (0.5       to 1 mcm), priced at       typical current wholesale gas price of 70 pence per therm, is worth &#163;130k       to &#163;260k per day.
The new forecasting method was implemented in December 2011 and since       then is in daily       operational use.
The main direct beneficiaries are gas shippers, since       they bear costs from       inaccurate forecasts.
In 2012 balancing actions were taken on around 200       days, with an average       cost of &#163;700k/day.
The improvement in performance over previous methods is       conservatively       estimated at about 5 days less on which balancing actions would have been       needed.
This       corresponds to an estimated saving of &#163;3.5M per annum for gas shippers,       and ultimately for end       user's energy bills.
These economic impacts have arisen directly from the       application of the       techniques developed in [1].
Based on the first project discussed above, and because of its huge       success, a second phase       started in October 2012 and will last for two years.
It was funded by       National Grid plc with cash       contribution of &#163;200,443.
The project is again led by Professor Henry Wu       and Chris Aldridge, where       the Liverpool team is responsible for algorithms and software system       development and the National       Grid team is responsible for daily live trials of the developed software.
Within this project, the       models now used will be refined, and further economic benefits in the       forecasting of gas demand       within the transmission network are expected.
