     Interpreting `lost' cultural capital for the benefit of society,       exhibiting previously unseen       artworks by artists hitherto overlooked or marginalized, and disseminating       new research on       them, clearly captures the public imagination.
Visitor Book comments       evidence Meyrick's       impact on public knowledge and perception.
Both attracting national and       international       audiences, the Williams exhibition was considered an `enrichment',       `inspiring' and a       `revelation', while Lee was deemed `a remarkable exhibition that lights up       the imagination', a       `stimulating', `unmissable' and `marvellous re-discovery' [5.1, 5.2].
Both       organisations invested       significant financial, physical and human resources staging Meyrick's       research outcomes.
`It       was Prof. Meyrick's original research into and detailed documentation of       the career and work       of the painter-printmaker Sydney Lee,' wrote the RA's Director of       Collections, `that proved       the sine qua non for an exhibition that, through judicious       curatorship and the engaging       interpretation that he was uniquely able to provide, succeeded in bringing       the full range of       Lee's achievements as a printmaker to the notice of more people than ever       before, either       during the artist's lifetime or since.
[...] The moral Meyrick draws from       this clear- eyed view       of the realities of the art world is in fact extremely positive, in that       it has led him to place the       beholder&#8212;rather than the artist or the critic&#8212;at the centre of his       concern.'
[5.5] &#163;30,000       corporate sponsorship was raised for the Lee exhibition.
Its sponsor       considered `the       exhibition, catalogue and supporting research were all hugely indebted to       the work of Robert       Meyrick [who has] done both the Academy and Lee's reputation a       considerable service ...       largely due to his energy, innovation and ability to appeal to and inform       a wider art audience       than reached by most professionals.'
[5.4] Considered the foremost expert       on the artists       about whom he writes, NLW has staged 9 of Meyrick's exhibitions from Gladys         Vasey (1991)       to Christopher Williams (2012).
His research assists our national       institutions fulfil their       mission; the RA to showcase its history and collections, and NLW to tell       the world about       Wales.
Such exhibitions demonstrate that work of international standing       can be produced at       national and regional levels.
Lee attracted 18,348 visitors, the RA's       largest audience for a       print exhibition, while Williams received 6,464 visitors at Aberystwyth       and 1615 at Bangor       Museum [5.8].
For Lee, a free interpretative guide (5,000 copies taken),       regular curator tours       (30 at each), 4 video introductions [5.11] and Twitter/YouTube activities       engaged the public,       stimulating debate on blogs in the UK, USA and Thailand.
BBC blog and news       pages       followed the progress of the Williams exhibition [5.3].
Appreciative that       Williams had been       `rediscovered after a century of neglect', Wales' first First Minister       reviewed the exhibition,       while a former UK Sport and Culture Minister thought the exhibition had       `much to tell us       about Williams, the painter and humanitarian from Maesteg, [and] about the       world of British       and European art that he inhabited' [5.3].
Following positive public       feedback [5.1&amp;2], the RA       has commissioned a 2015 exhibition and book by Meyrick on Stanley Anderson       (full       sponsorship secured) and National Museum Wales is staging his 2016       exhibition Christopher         Williams' War to mark the Battle of Mametz Wood centenary and       publication of Meyrick's       monograph on Williams.
In addition to exhibitions, publications, television and public speaking,       online resources       initiated and managed by Meyrick further disseminate his research and       improve the range       and quality of evidence available.
Regarded nationally important, www.robertmeyrick.co.uk         is       periodically archived by UK Web Archive `to preserve it over time and to       make it available to       the public', a rare distinction for a personal web domain [5.6].
Such       accessible research       leads to invitations to speak to special interest groups, eliciting       further interaction and       discussion, be it a public lecture to the Aberaeron Society in a chapel       vestry (2012) or       presentation to the international press in Geneva (2012).
Meyrick has       regularly addressed       the Contemporary Art Society (2008, 2013), Victorian Society (2009, 2010,       2012) and       ArtFund (2010, 2011, 2012).
Television guest interviews [5.9, 5.10],       recently for Fishlock's         Wales (ITV, 11 May 2012) and Framing Wales &#8212; on location       with Dr Kim Howells &#8212; (BBC, 17       Feb. &amp; 2 Mar.
2012), widen exposure to and stimulate interest in the       research.
As indicator of Meyrick's cumulative impact and esteem, he has been       invited to serve on       numerous bodies concerned with the practice, history and display of art.
He is: Honorary       Fellow of the Royal Society of Painter-Printmakers, in recognition of his       `contribution to the art       of printmaking in Britain' (2001); member of the UK Print Curators Forum       (2003-); first Trustee       of Gregynog (2103-); and Wales' only representative on the Public       Catalogue Foundation's       Oil Paintings Expert Network steering panel.
An author, curator and panel       advisor, Meyrick       has both enriched cultural life and helped shape our understanding of       Welsh visual culture       and print culture of the 20s and 30s.
His books are the principal sources       of reference for a       wide range of beneficiaries: individuals, academics and students,       curators, auction houses,       dealers, broadcasters, private collectors, the press and general public.
Curators now use `RM'       prefixes when cataloguing (e.g.
British Museum online collections       catalogue, search `Edgar       Holloway') and his publications are in libraries from Yale and NYPL to the       BM and       Rijksmuseum.
Requesting advice or information, correspondence from the       public, national       and international dealers, auctioneers, academics and broadcasters,       demonstrate an       engagement with and recognition of Meyrick's research.
Evidence suggests collectors now seek out works by artists upon whom he       writes.
After the       exhibition opened, print dealers Allison (Connecticut) and Harvey-Lee       (Oxford) sold out Lee       stocks, while in July 2013 a London saleroom estimated the aquatint Sleeping         Square &#8212; with       Meyrick's catalogue raisonn&#233; &#8212; at &#163;500-700 (likely &#163;80-120 in 2012).
In       2011, Meyrick's       influential research on Blaker provided evidence required to authenticate       Modigliani's       previously unknown 1918 portrait Anne Bjarne (Private Collection,       Italy).
Blaker research also       led to an invitation to speak as one of four international scholars at the       2012 Geneva launch       of Mona Lisa: Leonardo's Earlier Version attended by the world       press and web live streamed       [5.7].
Reuters followed the launch story with another on Meyrick's       research that was taken up       by press worldwide, from NBC News and Chicago Tribune to the Caribbean         Herald, Talk         Vietnam, Himalayan Times and China Daily.
