     Capel: The Lights Are On presented cultural heritage through new       artistic expression to people with learning disabilities, academics,       farmers, artists, residents of Bronant and other parts of Ceredigion,       Welsh and non-Welsh speakers .
It opened a former site of collective       identity and foregrounded the capacity of an individual to develop an       aesthetic and a continuing relationship with his culture (Evidence 5.1).
The work was developed by Adrian Jones, working for one hour a week over       nine months.
Fourteen people participated in the making of the work.
With       indirect involvement from families, the professional support framework as       well as key local individuals, around 100 people were involved.
The       marginal position of people with learning disability in relation to those       without is both implicitly and, through the performances, explicitly       critiqued and adjusted.
The researcher proposed an approach that ordered the site with the       material.
Rehearsals on site were conducted over two weekends and the week       of the performances.
Moving the company outside of the studio where work       is usually performed opened the communities of Ceredigion to innovative       theatre practice that these audiences would not usually engage with.
Evidence states that the work was: `a creative and innovative combination       that would almost certainly have been outside of the experience of most       members of the audience' (Evidence 5.1).
The appearance of performers with       disabilities alongside trained dancers, athletes, mixed ages and those       with no training provoked audiences to consider disability and ability,       theatre and community in rural Wales (Evidence 5.2 DVD 1 58:28 - 59:27).
New ways of thinking about equality and creative practice were generated.
From the evidence the following is stated: `...at the end of the day they       are people and have exactly the same talents as everyone else'(evidence       5.2 DVD 2 49:12 - 50.18 and DVD 3 21:58 - 24:00 ).
Further evidence offers the following: `In this context performance art,       which is often perceived in rural cultures as an intrusive fad, a cultural       imposition, came into its own as the legitimate medium for investigating       the way in which individual identity flows around and within cultural and       concrete constructs' (Evidence 5.1) and: `Cyrff Ystwyth is a group       which deals with everyone in the same way.
Everyone is treated the same       way because of the discipline which is in the dance, and people, disabled       people, able bodied people, people learn so much from disabled people and       vice versa' (Evidence 5.2 DVD1 4:49 - 5:22).
The cultural precedents of       these communities were remembered and current discourses of `belonging'       and action were questioned as the company engaged in rehearsal on site.
Who is cared for by whom, who makes authoritative statements and what       bodies and capabilities carry our cultural memories were questions       provoked by performance and the presence of the company at work in the       village.
The output exemplifies new approaches to site specific dance that       contribute to wider public understanding of the importance of place and       history in the present (Evidence 5.2 DVD1 43:26 43:52) as well as making       explicit the creative capacities of learning disabled people in       contributing to the community's understanding of itself (Evidence 5.1, 5.3       ,5.4, 5.5,).
Evidence states that: `Their action in re-entering and       repossessing the Chapel during the period of performance challenged not       only the contemporary culture of marginalisation and impotence, but also       the limitations and restrictions which operated in the past' (Evidence       5.1).
The site, closed since the early 1980s was no longer activated by       community practices.
The output produced a renewed connection with the       chapel.
The performances opened the various aspects of the place and at       the same time revealed the surrounding village.
Bronant hosted audiences       from other places.
Rather than a sense of loss, people reported that       familiar yet long since forgotten emotions emerged and a sense of       belonging and a removal of barriers between site and between people.
Evidence offers: `The place which I thought was Adrian's also belonged to       me' (Evidence 5.4 and evidence 5.2 DVD 3 18:00 - 21:56 and 51:31 - 53:02).
Beneficiaries include the participants in Cyrff Ystwyth and their       families and support workers.
Testimony evidenced positive impact on their       daily life such as increased confidence and pride, particularly amongst       performers (Evidence 5.3).
Key users of the research such as the Calvinist       Methodist congregation of Chapel Bronant who witnessed a re-engagement       with their chapel were consulted throughout the process via conversations       between the Deacon and the researcher       (Evidence 5.4).
The opening of the redundant chapel was facilitated       through this disabled artist's practice.
Evidence states: `Bringing him       out of the institutional enclosure back into his own community and giving       him the power to comment on, and in his own terms, analyse, the       disjunctions from which all his neighbours suffer, was in itself a       dramatic challenge to a prevailing malaise'(Evidence 5.1).
Former social       practices were evident in the choreography by Jones as he responded to the       themes.
Evidence 5.4 states: `It was felt that the performances created a       very strong link between place and belonging and this link was powerfully       conveyed with passion and feeling by members of the performing cast, this       being particularly poignant for chapel members in the case of Adrian       Jones, one of the disabled performers, as he himself is a chapel member'       and (Evidence 5.2 DVD 1 57:33 - 58:20 DVD 3 17:3 - 18:56).
Challenges to       perceptions of learning disability are evidenced in the interviews with       participants (Evidence 5.2).
Presenting cultural heritage is evidenced in       letters, for example: `Historically the Nonconformist Chapel was the       cultural and religious centre of these communities...' (Evidence 5.1).
(Evidence 5.2 DVD1 49:11 - 50:32 and 57:01 - 59:26 and DVD2 interview 3       9:13 - 24:44).
Through constant dialogue with support workers and in particular Canolfan       Padarn (Evidence 5.6) the Ceredigion Social Services day care centre for       people with learning disabilities and Mencap, understanding of learning       disabled people's capabilities were made apparent.
(Evidence 5.2 DVD 1       49:11 - 50:23, DVD 2 13:03 - 16:14 and 16:53 - 18:12 and DVD3 42:08 -       43:27) Evidence also states that:       `Firstly I believe the project is fantastic, I myself have experienced       individuals with a learning disability develop into confident performers'       (Evidence 5.3) and: `Because of the varied skills of the performers the       project captured the audience and got them thinking about the creative       capacities of individuals who do have a learning disability, also getting       them to consider disability and ability' (Evidence 5.3).
The links between the University and external organisations were developed       and strengthened.
The management and staff at the Centre have agreed to       carry out the Informed Consent to Participate in Research process on       behalf of the researcher and as a way into developing this critical aspect       of research engagement invited the researcher into a closed discussion       group with staff and service users.
Issues of consent and refusal were       discussed over several meetings and the researcher compiled a discussion       document for staff training at the end of the series of weekly meetings.
This has since been used by centre staff and has helped in addressing       their requirements for understanding the dynamics of informed consent.
This was made possible through a Strategic Insight Programme Project that       Ames applied for entitled `Investigating the Requirements towards an       Assessment Method to Demonstrate Informed Consent'.
