     The most significant and sustained impact that What's Welsh for         Performance?
(WsWfP) has     achieved from its research into the history of performance art in Wales       has been on the professional and creative practices of arts practitioners       in Wales, and increasingly also in the UK more widely.
These practitioners       comprise two main groups: artists engaged in live and performance art,       past and present; and curators, administrators and policy makers who have       responsibility for the presentation, preservation and funding of       contemporary art in Wales.
WsWfP has succeeded in generating its impact by endeavouring from       the outset to widen its audience beyond the scholarly community with the       help of a variety of publicly staged research events, including public       oral history conversations, re-enactments and participatory installations       [see Section 2 for details], which were attended by around a       thousand people.
The project has furthermore created a number of resources       (database, oral history material) that it has made freely available via       the project's bilingual website [see Section 2 for details; Source         5.1].
In addition to addressing general audiences with an interest       in live art or contemporary art in Wales, these activities and resources       have aimed at two specific communities of interest: the generation of       artists who pioneered performance art work in the 1960s and 1970s; and the       community of young live and performance artists working in Wales today.
The artists whose past work has been the subject of WsWfP's       research &#8212; the majority of whom are now based in different parts of the UK       &#8212; have been given a renewed stake in their artistic histories through the       increased scholarly and public attention their work has received.
In       response, a number of the artists (or their families) have been inspired       to undertake their own investigations into this history, often leading to       new creative works.
These have included reunion performance events (eg.
Memorial for Ian Hinchliffe at London's Beaconsfield Gallery, 2011); the       exhibition of performance documentation (eg.
by Ivor Davies at London's       Laure Genillard Gallery 2013); and the commissioning of younger artists       (John Gingell Award, g39 Gallery Cardiff, 2012-13).
[Source 5.7]     In addition, WsWfP has made a particular effort to build       relationships with young artists engaged in live art in Wales (eg.
Rowan       O'Neill, the Showroom collective, Kathryn Ashill, Sam Hasler) and to       familiarize them with the local history of their practice.
The Arts       Council of Wales's Arts Director has praised the project for providing       `the encouraging context for a new generation to see this work as possible       and realisable in Wales'.
[Source 5.4] Several of these artists       have created works that have drawn for inspiration on the resources that       the project has made available.
[Source 5.8]     The momentum created by WsWfP's public events has led to further       activities through which the reach of the research has been significantly       increased.
Several media outlets in Wales have covered the research:       including BBC Radio Wales' weekly Art Show (which ran two       features) [Source 5.2]; Pitch art show on Radio Cardiff;       the online arts platform Culture Colony; Wales's leading literary       magazine, New Welsh Review; and the British Council-published Platfform       magazine.
A number of Welsh bloggists have reviewed the project, including       Anthony Brockway [Babylon Wales], who advised readers that Roms       `has discovered an avant-garde we never previously knew existed.
Be sure       to check out her brilliantly researched archive'.
[Source 5.3]       Roms has been invited to lecture extensively on the research to general       (non-academic) audiences &#8212; between January 2008 and July 2013, she gave 18       public talks on various aspects of the history of performance art in       Wales, hosted by high-profile cultural organisations in Wales, the UK and       Europe.
These have included the National Library of Wales, the National       Museum of Wales, Chapter (Cardiff) and Aberystwyth Arts Centre, Artes       Mundi, Axis, National Review of Live Art (Glasgow), The Institute of       Contemporary Arts ICA and Live Art Development Agency (both London), the       European Performance Art Festival (Warsaw) and Akademie der K&#252;nste       (Berlin).
Their geographical and institutional spread is testimony to the       extent to which WsWfP has succeeded in building national and       international recognition for Welsh performance art among cultural       institutions and in promoting an attention to marginalized performance       histories.
In consequence, WsWfP has managed to enhance significantly the       public awareness of and engagement with performance history in Wales, and       to encourage an appreciation of the important contribution that the       artform has made to cultural life in the country, as well as to grow our       under-standing of Wales as a place of longstanding, vibrant and       internationally relevant artistic activity.
As a result Roms is now       regularly invited to consult on aspects of Welsh artistic history, and       performance work is routinely considered for exhibitions, publications and       media coverage devoted to Welsh contemporary art on a national and       international platform.
The Arts Council of Wales's Arts Director has       stressed how Roms's research has `stimulated public institutions to engage       in important new exhibitions and presentation of material in the public       domain'.
[Source 5.4] To provide examples: WsWfP was       consulted by BBC Wales on late 20th century art in Wales for       its series Picturing the Century, 2010; WsWfP informed the       exhibition of John Cale by Wales at the Venice Biennale 2009 by       helping to connect the avant-garde activities of emigrated Welsh artists       such as Cale with those based in Wales; WsWfP provided the       National Eisteddfod's Visual Arts Committee with information on past       performance activities in Wrexham (for its Lle Celf exhibition, Eisteddfod       2011) and Barry (Eisteddfod 2012); and WsWfP contributed       documentary material and expertise to the Vale of Glamorgan Council's       exhibition on the history of Barry Summer School (2012).
Outside of Wales,       WsWfP was invited in 2012 by Tate's Collection Care Department to       advise on oral history-based methodologies for the preservation of the       work of Tino Seghal.
And a major European 50th anniversary       exhibition of the influential international art movement of Fluxus       features Roms's research on Fluxus in Wales (2012, and still touring).
[Source         5.9]     Out of these activities have arisen three ongoing partnerships with major       stakeholders that allow WsWfP to inform more directly how       performance art in Wales today is funded, administered, exhibited and       conserved.
The National Museum Wales Amgueddfa Cymru (NMW-AC) first worked       with WsWfP on the inaugural displays for its new National Museum       of Art in 2011, which, as NMW-AC's Curator for Contemporary Art confirms,       was informed directly by Roms's research.
[Source 5.5] It       exhibited documentation of two performance pieces which WsWfP had       made available.
Roms was invited to co-curate a public event on Joseph       Beuys's work in Wales to accompany a NMW-AC's exhibition (2011); and       NMW-AC and WsWfP currently collaborate on a major retro-spective       of Ivor Davies's performance in the context of Destruction in Art,       supported by an AHRC-funded Collaborative Doctoral Award (CDA, 2013-16).
NMW-AC's Head of Contemporary Art has called the partnership `a model for       the way academic research can reach wider audiences'.
[Source 5.5]       In response to the research the Museum has also begun to consider how it       will collect and conserve Wales's performance legacy.
WsWfP       collaborates on a further AHRC-CDA (2012-2015) with Chapter Arts Centre,       which is informing the art centre's directions in audience development and       innovative programming through a re-evaluation of its early history in the       1970s.
[Source 5.6] And the Arts Council of Wales (ACW), who       funded some of the project's early public events with a Lottery grant,       hosted an exhibition which drew on WsWfP's research at the       National Eisteddfod 2011, thus enhancing the project's profile among       Welsh-speakers.
The ACW has furthermore taken an active interest in the       project through the presence of its Arts Director on WsWfP's       steering group.
[Source 5.4] In 2012 Roms was appointed a National       Advisor to ACW to advise on its funding policy and its support for a       variety of performance companies and projects.
