     DIS's holistic research into managing digital assets is informing and       influencing information management practice and policy globally while       contributing to professional development.
This is evidenced through:       practical implementation of the toolkits and models developed; policy and       advice documents and CPD which take different aspects of the research as       their basis; and demand for researcher expertise by professional bodies.
The Cloud Computing Toolkit provides guidance on the management and       operational issues surrounding the lifecycle storage of information in the       cloud.
It was widely disseminated through: the ARA website and meetings;       international professional conferences and workshops; and online       bibliographies.
Information professionals have been trained in using the       toolkit to: assess the risks and benefits of outsourcing information       storage and processing to the cloud; assess cloud computing services; and       develop strategies for their organisation.
It underpins key guidance texts       on managing digital archival material by major international projects and       institutions, including the US National Archives and Records       Administration (NARA) (5.1) and the internationally adopted       InterPares Project (5.2), which aim to influence data management       policy and practice and data managers' professional methods and ideas in       the areas of information privacy, organisational risk and performance and       the human impact of change and informs and influences.
Research into the lifecycle management of digital materials is       influencing professional methods and the development of expert systems       through the comprehensive articulation of the work-flow and activities       required to manage digital assets.
It is contributing to practical       implementation projects and cross-sectorial CPD for information       professionals charged with managing digital assets.
Support is given to the Archives and Records Council Wales Digital       Preservation Group (ARCWDP) in both preparing a business case and       implementing a shared digital preservation infrastructure for Wales (5.3).
Expertise has been used to chair the ARA Section for Archives and       Technology &#8212; a professional group which provides professional digital       asset management networking and training &#8212; `between June 2011 and June       2013 [and] contributed greatly to the Section on delivering projects such       as the Guide to Standards and nationwide training on Digital Preservation'       (5.4).
The book chapter, The Lifecycle of Data Management was requested by the       Digital Curation Centre's Associate Director for inclusion in the book       Managing Research Data.
This reached Amazon's number one best seller, in       their library management category, was ranked in the top 15 for a year       after publication, and sold out of its UK print run after a month (5.5).
Since publication, the chapter has been used by the Digital Curation       Centre (DCC) to support their internationally offered professional       training course, Digital Curation 101.
This training course is typically       attended by professional data managers and has been offered 35 times since       January 2012 http://www.dcc.ac.uk/training/dc-101)       (5.6).
The chapter forms the basis of CPD materials for librarians       developed by RDMRose (5.7).
The Digital Forensics Continuum Model was first developed and presented       at the influential Information Security, Compliance and Risk Management       Institute Conference, Seattle (2008), attended by information security       professionals, information technology officers and managers, attorneys,       researchers and risk management and financial professionals, it focused on       privacy, data protection, information assurance and technology management.
The model was further disseminated to professional practitioners and       expert systems developers at the Information and Records Management       Society's Annual Conference (2009) (5.8) and a professional       symposium attended by practitioners in Welsh local authorities and SME's       at the National Library of Wales (NLW) (2012), and has been incorporated       into training materials from the Australian based Recordkeeping Institute:       "The extension of the recordkeeping model into recordkeeping informatics       is via the other related models including the information continuum, the       publishing continuum, the data continuum, the digital forensics       continuum."
(5.9) and into a podcast available online.
As a result of dissemination of the underpinning research, researchers       further contribute their expertise to the information professionals' CPD       through editorship of online advisory material aimed at helping members of       professional organisations adapt to technological change.
These advise       professionals on technical implementation of data management solutions and       include the Digital Preservation Coalition's Technology Watch Series (5.10).
