     IMPACT ON CULTURAL LIFE IN NORTH AMERICA AND EUROPE     The Act of Killing was first shown publicly at the Telluride Film       Festival in August 2012, followed by screenings at the Toronto       International Film Festival, the Berlin Film Festival and more than twenty       other film festivals over the following year.
It was exhibited in cinemas       in Denmark (November 2012 - January 2013), France (April - May 2013),       Netherlands (May 2013), the UK (from June 2013) and the USA (from July       2013).
As of June 2013, The Act of Killing had won 24 awards.
These include the Berlinale Panorama Audience Award for Best Documentary       2013, the Danish Academy Award for Best Documentary 2013 (Robert Prize),       Amnesty International Award, Indie Lisboa 2013 and the Aung San Suu Kyi       Award, Human Rights Human Dignity Film Festival 2013.
The film festival and public showings have prompted numerous enthusiastic       press reviews, mostly awarding the film their highest star rating and       singling out for comment the film's innovative approach and emotional and       political impact.
For example Peter Bradshaw in the Guardian described how "The memory of       this mass murder is reawakened by film-maker Joshua Oppenheimer in a       remarkable and at times unwatchably explicit film.
It could be a       Marat/Sade for our time...
It is a gut churning film: and a radical dive       into history, grabbing the past in a way conventional documentary would       not" (Guardian, 27 June 2013).
Nigel Andrews in the Financial         Times commented "First, the film beggars belief.
Then it sends       belief running into the hills, screaming for help and understanding.
The       Act of Killing is like no movie seen before" (June 27 2013), while the       Danish daily Politiken stated that "`The Act of Killing' simply       sets a new benchmark for how a historical event can be re-told       dramaturgically, analytically and documentarily.
"(30 October 2012).
These reactions have extended from the elite to the popular press.
Chris       Tookey in the Daily Mail described The Act of Killing as "An       astonishing documentary that's essential viewing for anyone wishing to       understand the darker aspects of the human condition... Because of its       revelatory honesty this might be the most important documentary ever" (27       June 2013).
Farran Smith Nehme in the New York Post observed, "The       cumulative impact is devastating, and very far from a western country's       brutality.
In forcing viewers to hear the boasts of genocide's       perpetrators The Act of Killing puts a harsh spotlight on all celebrations       of bloodshed from Hollywood to the op-ed pages" (19 July 2013).
Alongside reviews the film has been the subject of feature articles in       major newspapers discussing its innovative methods, for example, "A       Movie's Killers are all too Real" by Larry Rohter in the New York         Times (12 July 2013) and "Indonesia: the Art of Atrocity" by Bryan       Appleyard, Sunday Times (12 July 2013).
The portfolio submitted to       REF2 includes a fuller listing of press coverage.
Further reviews and       comments can also be found online at http://theactofkilling.com/reactions-3/     IMPACT ON PUBLIC DISCOURSE AND CIVIL SOCIETY IN INDONESIA     In reaction to a late rough cut of the The Act of Killing (its       working title was still Freemen), human rights organisations in       Indonesia recognised its potential power and committed themselves to its       distribution.
In 2011 the Indonesia Rights Commission on Human Rights       wrote to the filmmakers expressing their excitement at helping to release       the film.
"If we are to transform Indonesia into the democracy it claims       to be, citizens must recognise the terror and repression on which our       contemporary history has been built.
No film, or any other work of art for       that matter, has done this more effectively than Freemen."
Owing to       the current political situation, which The Act of Killing       documents, the filmmakers adopted a careful strategy about releasing the       film in Indonesia, in order to avoid the film being officially banned.
In       the autumn of 2012 closed screenings were held for journalists,       filmmakers, celebrities, intellectuals, artists, survivors' groups and       human rights activists, in order to build up cultural, media and political       support for the film, before more general release.
One result of these early screenings was to prompt the editors of Tempo,       Indonesia's leading news magazine, to research and publish a special       edition of the magazine on the 1965-66 killings (1-7 October 2012).
As an       article in Tempo on the anniversary of that special edition       explained, "Arif [Arif Zulkifli, the editor of the Tempo Media Group]       stated that the idea for the special edition was taken from the       documentary film The Act of Killing, directed by Joshua       Oppenheimer.
`We developed the idea further by looking for the locations       of murders in other regions.'"
The resulting special issue of Tempo, entitled "Executioners'       Confessions", praised The Act of Killing as "the most important       work in any medium ever produced about our nation," and included dozens of       pages of perpetrators' testimony from around the country &#8212; something       unprecedented in the history of Indonesian journalism (Tempo 1-7       October 2012).
The issue sold out on the first day, went through two       re-printings, and has now been published as a book by Tempo Media Group.
Everyone who saw the film in the early screenings was facilitated to take       the film back to their networks and communities and hold invitation-only       screenings.
(Invitation-only screenings fall through a legal loophole: a       film need not be submitted to the censors unless screened publicly).
The release began on International Human Rights Day, 10 December 2012,       with 50 screenings in 30 cities.
Screenings averaged 200 people each, so       approximately 10,000 Indonesians saw the film on the first day.
By summer       2013 there had been 1,100 screenings in 118 cities, and almost all of       these screenings were now open to the public.
The reason why people felt       increasingly able to hold public screenings, and the reason why these       showings did not provoke a ban on the film, was probably due to the       reaction of the Indonesian and international media.
There have been more       than 500 articles published in the Indonesian media about the film.
By       summer 2013 approximately 200,000 Indonesians had seen the film.
(To       ensure an even wider release, Oppenheimer has since made the film       available for free download for everybody in Indonesia.)
These showings have often involved considerable efforts of organisation       and evoked powerful responses among viewers.
For eyewitness descriptions       of two such screenings see Caroline Cooper's, "The Act of Seeing The         Act of Killing" (Guernica 13 June 2013) and Sara       Schonhardt's, "`Act of Killing': In small screenings, by word of mouth,       Indonesians learn of a dark past" (Christian Science Monitor 13       December 2012).
The film's impact in Indonesia has also been the subject       of considerable coverage in international news media (for example, "Indonesia       film on mass killings stirs debate", Al Jazeera English, 8 October       2012; "101 East - Indonesia's Killing Fields" Al Jazeera English,       30-minute documentary, 19 December 2012; "'The Act of Killing' helps       Indonesia confront its dark past", CNN, 30 September 2013; "Film       gives Indonesia view of bloody, obscured past", Margie Mason, Associated         Press, 4 October 2013).
