     A programme of engagement between KU researchers and Kingston Museum       enabled the museum to launch a Dora Gordine exhibition that drew strongly       on the underpinning research described in Sections 2 and 3.
This was a       significant new development for Kingston Museum, providing the museum with       new approaches and new expertise in creating research-based exhibitions.
The museum went on to use this knowledge and experience to exploit the       potential of previously under-used collections and to establish new and       productive relationships with world- leading institutions.
In this way,       the underpinning research and the engagement between the museum and KU       researchers gave the museum a new outlook and enhanced status, changing it       from a locally-focussed institution to one with a national and       international outlook.
In June 2007 KU researchers Black and Lloyd, the curator of KU's Dorich       House Museum [DHM] and the Director of the Stanley Picker Gallery [SPG] at       KU, began detailed discussions with Kingston Museum's curator about       exploiting the research into Dora Gordine through a collaborative       exhibition and accompanying public engagement programme in Kingston.
The       underpinning research, based upon the DHM collection and archive,       foregrounded Gordine's artistic practice as part of a wider trans-national       cultural encounter and identified overlooked aspects of modernity that had       continuing resonance and importance for contemporary audiences and the       understanding of cultural heritage at a regional, national and       international level.
The research focus on the Gordine archive and       collection and an examination of the ways in which these artefacts enabled       new insights into the contemporaneous context of the creative process and       the artist's writing of history for the future informed the Kingston       Museum collaboration.
This underlying research, together with KU researchers curatorial       experience, enabled Kingston Museum to co-develop the Gordine exhibition       programme, their first ambitious large scale collaborative project.
The       Gordine Retrospective and accompanying public programme ran from February       to May 2009 [2].
Black and Lloyd's research impacted upon the conception       and content of the exhibition, which included a text and image timeline       devised by Black, a 10 minute biographical film scripted by Black, and       seven loan items from the Ben Uri Gallery, Tate, Fitzwilliam Museum and       Arts Council, alongside 40 Gordine works.
[9]     A Heritage Lottery Fund (HLF) grant awarded to KU in October 2008 funded       a programme of events at Kingston Museum, including a conference led by       Black and Lloyd (The Impact of Artist- &#201;migr&#233;s from Eastern Europe on         British Culture, Keynotes: Richard Cork, Stephen Mansbach, Kingston       Museum, 26/02/09; 55 attendees).
This conference contributed to the       development of Kingston Museum's national and international profile.
[5]     Through the Gordine retrospective Kingston Museum gained knowledge and       experience of different ways that a historical collection and archive       could be used to generate new material which would have relevance to       contemporary audiences.
This included commissioning new work; production       of a biographical film; and collaborating on an accompanying public       engagement programme underpinned by quality research based on a scholarly       understanding of the Kingston collection and archive.
[5], [8], [9].
As a direct result of the Gordine exhibition and Kingston Museum's need       to establish the wider significance of their own Muybridge Collection and       Archive, KU and Kingston Museum collaborated on the AHRC Knowledge       Catalyst programme to develop the world-wide Muybridge Portal [3].
The       project was co-led by Lloyd and Kingston Museum curator Cook, and       Alexandra Reynolds (now an AHRC-funded PhD student at KU) was appointed as       the knowledge exchange researcher.
Utilising the Gordine project research       methodologies, the portal brought together for the first time 120 major       public and private Muybridge collections from around the world and       established Kingston Museum's collection as one of the five most       significant world-wide [6].
Through the Gordine collaboration, Kingston Museum gained new skills and       expertise in HLF applications that benefited its subsequent Muybridge       Revolutions exhibition, which was awarded an HLF grant in 2009 with       Reynolds employed as assistant curator.
[4] The 2010 exhibition, co-       curated with KU, included a commissioned film on Muybridge based on the       Gordine model.
[7]     The research and increased understanding of the Muybridge collection also       helped the museum build formal partnerships with the British Film       Institute through the launch of the Muybridge Portal (May 2010) and the       Tate as part of the Muybridge Tate &amp; Kingston Museum exhibition       collaboration (2009-10) where Kingston Museum's Key Stages 2-5 material       developed by Reynolds was used by the Tate Schools programme.
[5], [10]     Through exploiting the research of the KU Visual &amp; Material Culture       Research Centre, working with KU's DHM and SPG, and in collaboration with       Kingston Museum, the museum's regional, national and international profile       has been enhanced through funded collaborative exhibitions, websites,       publications, research-led events and outreach workshops.
The raised       profile has resulted in a HLF invitation to submit a major application for       a Muybridge Research Centre, submitted in June 2013.
Unit researchers have       substantially transformed the way in which Kingston Museum understands and       utilises the role of research in interpreting cultural heritage for       audiences beyond academia (as evidenced above) and contributed to cultural       enrichment through public engagement.
These activities, underpinned by the generation of new knowledge and       visual and material culture research methods, have significantly changed       the culture of Kingston Museum and their approach to cultural heritage.
This change has taken Kingston Museum from a locally-focussed institution       to a museum with a national and international outlook making strong use of       its particular local resources.
