     Impact on Public Services and Education     Within the UK, the film has changed attitudes to Sickle Cell Disease       (SCD).
One in four West Africans carries the sickle cell gene: most of       them, including in the UK, do not know their gene status.
Where both       partners in a couple carry the gene, they have a 25% chance of giving       birth to a child with SCD.
Male cultural attitudes in these communities       often mean men refuse gene testing and disown their own babies with SCD.
Cultural prejudice, ignorance and taboos surround the disease in the UK       and Africa.
People suffering from SCD need support with education, work       and housing due to the impact of health crises on working life, but health       professionals and others who do not fully understand the disease may       discriminate against SCD sufferers.
The NHS believed earlier pamphlet and       documentary campaigns had largely failed to reach the relevant audiences.
The NHS reports that The Family Legacy film has met its objectives       in raising awareness of the disease.
According to the NHS, the Family       Legacy project (the film in the context of the Sickle Cell Society       outreach work) "was the most successful outreach activity that we       delivered" and "it had high visibility within the NHS and has been       influential in informing approaches to public health information".
Significant numbers of viewers agree that the film has encouraged them to       test their gene status and to care more sensitively for those suffering       with SCD.
Public presentations by the SCS on the film's dissemination, as       well as the independent evaluator's report, confirm this.
The Family Legacy film was originally intended for facilitated       small-group community screenings in the UK, including Q &amp; A sessions       by the Sickle Cell Society.
Since the project began in 2009, the film has       been viewed in facilitated screenings in London and Manchester by more       than 3,000 people of African and Caribbean descent, via 87 events at       community groups, barber shops, Black History Month events, churches,       mosques and schools.
Participants in the facilitated screenings completed       evaluation forms after community sessions.
At February 2012, of 1059       respondents: 78% said they had learnt something new from the screening;       84% agreed the film captured the key issues and gave useful information on       caring for someone with SCD; 50% didn't know if they were carriers; of       these 53% said that the film made them want to find out; 90% agreed that       the screening should be offered to both men and women before starting a       family (i.e.
pre-conception screening).
Several men stood up to admit that they had rejected their child with SCD       as "not mine", as is portrayed in the drama.
76% of respondents were Black       African, Black Caribbean or Black British.
The majority were aged 16-49 years; 31% male, 62% female.
(`SCS       Presentation' PDF, page 3).
In addition, the film has been used to educate medical practitioners       through presentations at:     (1) Second National Conference of Blood Disorders in Public Health, 12 -       14 March 2012, Atlanta USA; (2) Conference of the Global Sickle Cell       Disease, 14 - 15 March 2012, Atlanta, USA; (3) Second Meeting of the       Worldwide Initiative in Social Studies on Haemoglobinopathies, 16 March       2012, London UK.
The Family Legacy DVD also includes additional interviews with       people who formed part of the original case studies on whose experiences       the drama is based.
These have been uploaded to YouTube by the NHS and       have substantial viewings in their own right, in addition to the 5000+       views on YouTube for the film itself.
http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JAv1Ja2AYhw       Junior Kebbay, 2109 views, http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HHpZcJRu5s8       Oliver &amp; Hannah, 1135 views, http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=V2q2_ygbTqM       Reconstructed Counselling Session, 1,758 views, http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZfbAomuplsA       Iyamide Thomas, Sickle Cell Society, 1,324 views http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=D4NI7-FhGI     Impact on Civil Society and Cultural Life     Audiences: Although the film was originally conceived in order to       reach West Africans living in the London Borough of Southwark, its success       has far outstripped initial expectations, both in the quality of response       to the film and in the scale of the film's penetration with       `hard-to-reach' audiences.
Extensive media coverage (see below) has led to       the film being seen far beyond its original target audience, both in the       UK and abroad, on all media, including numerous websites and even pirated       copies on Nigerian media.
Iyamide Thomas, Regional Care Advisor of the       Sickle Cell Society, estimates that more than 12 million people have       potentially been reached via:     - more than 28 TV screenings in the UK including multiple screenings on       the Community Channel in October 2010 and several Nigerian channels       transmitting in the UK (e.g.
Nollywood Movies TV, Hi-Nolly, BEN TV, HiTV,       OHTV); TV broadcasts in Nigeria and Sierra Leone (both official and       pirated); 11 radio interviews, community and on-line (e.g.
Vox Africa       with Henry Bonsu, Colourful Radio); 18 press articles (e.g.
The         Voice, African Voice newspapers); 4,820 views (to 30 July 2013) via       the dedicated NHS website www.familylegacy.org.uk;       film trailer showing in GP surgeries; 6,326 views to September 2013 of the       'Special Extras' featured on the DVD (see links above); 5,000 reached via       joint events with NHS Blood &amp; Transplant and the Seventh-Day Adventist       Church (which also included thalassaemia awareness); 33,000 reached via Seventh         Day Adventist Messenger Newsletter and Adventist News Network;       clip of the film (in context of scene of a barber's shop screening) on       BBC2, 5 July 2011, http://www.bbc.co.uk/programmes/b012g0cc     Film Festivals: As a short drama, the film has been shown in film       festivals, including the bfm international film festival at the ICA (20       Nov 2009) and the British Urban Film Festival, London ( 3 October 2009);       at the Africa Centre, London, with Q&amp;A (4 July 2011) and at the Africa       Centre hosted by `100 Black Men of London' organisation (7 February 2012).
It was screened on Sierra Leone Broadcasting Corporation (national TV) as       part of a human rights film festival, followed by panel discussion on       human rights issues raised, and texted questions from viewers (2010).
Websites: The film has also been adopted by a number of popular       websites concerned with family issues and gene abnormalities, including       Human Genetics Disorders website, as well as those of `100 Black Men of       London'; `Vibe and Vegas'; and `Cool Great Stuff' and others.
(Although         these sites are no longer active screen grabs are available: hard copies         of these available on request).
Future Spin-Offs: The film has generated considerable interest       including an invitation to Thorburn to make a mini-series based around The       Family Legacy's fictional family for HiTV (at the time Nigeria's most       popular cable channel), and requests for similar dramatic films dealing       with other genetic blood abnormalities and health issues involving       different ethnic minority groups by bodies such as the Thalassaemia       Society.
Due to time constraints Thorburn has so far refused all these.
The film has also inspired celebrated top Nigerian film director Tunde       Kelani to make Nollywood's first feature film on sickle cell disease.
He       has hired Ade Solanke, the script-writer that Thorburn hired to write The         Family Legacy based on her own original idea and research, to write       it for him.
