     Impact on cultural life     Audiences: The four productions detailed in the preceding section       have been seen by significant audiences both in the UK and       internationally.
Hamlet was viewed by a television audience of       900,000 on its first UK broadcast, with a further 100,000 viewing on       demand &#8212; it was also later repeated on BBC Four; Macbeth was       viewed by 400,000 on its first UK broadcast, and was later repeated on BBC       Four; and Julius Caesar was viewed by 150,000 with a further       100,000 viewing on BBC iPlayer streams in the week following its first       broadcast.
The productions have continued to enjoy a strong life after       their television broadcasts.
Hamlet has sold more than 40,000       copies on DVD and Blu-ray internationally, and in the UK Macbeth       has sold more than 7,000 copies.
In the first six months of its release Julius         Caesar has sold more than 3,000 copies on DVD in the UK.
Critical and Audience Acclaim: The productions that resulted from       the research have been extensively discussed in both non-specialist and       academic contexts and have been central to the consideration of       screen-based versions of performance across the past five years.
They have       been widely commented on in public blogs and via Twitter.
Links to the       extensive coverage and discussion of Hamlet, Macbeth and Julius         Caesar are found in Section 5 below.
For example:     Hamlet received widespread media coverage in the Guardian.
Mark Lawson wrote `[the production] '...should settle for some time the       debate over whether it's possible to transfer theatre to TV: Gregory       Doran's RSC production has been reimagined as an intimate, intense film.'
Prime Minister Gordon Brown wrote of the production in The Observer,       `Like many people, I had my love of Shakespeare reawakened by David       Tennant's TV portrayal of Hamlet over Christmas.'
The Daily Telegraph called Macbeth `a dazzlingly       inventive film.'
The film was honoured with a George Foster Peabody Award       in 2010.
Peter Kirwan, Lecturer in Shakespeare and Early Modern Drama at       University of Nottingham, described Julius Caesar as `a       fantastic experiment and one I hope the RSC repeats in future years; to       create something specifically geared to film that complements a theatrical       production is a bold endeavour that respects the advantages and       possibilities of the different media, and provided a fascinating platform       for a worthwhile production.'
Commissioning executives: The BBC confirms that the success of       Wyver's Hamlet alerted the BBC to new creative possibilities of       stage-to-screen transfers and to audience interest in these, which in turn       contributed to the BBC's decisions to commission subsequent Shakespeare       productions.
Wyver's research and distinctive approach to production was a       significant factor in these decisions.
An Executive Producer of WNET 13,       USA, confirms the value of Wyver's productions to American public       television broadcast and its online audiences, and the importance of       Wyver's approach and research in the decision by WNET 13 to co-commission       Hamlet and Macbeth with the BBC.
Consultancy: The research has led directly to John Wyver being       engaged by the RSC as Media Associate in December 2012 to develop and       produce live-to-cinema broadcasts of the company's productions.
Production       of Richard II began in March 2013 (for transmission in autumn       2013).
He has also started work on a strategic plan for the RSC for its       broadcast and other screen plans across the next five years.
Impact on economic prosperity of UK cultural sector       Collectively, The Eternity Man, Hamlet, Macbeth and Julius         Caesar attracted a total of &#163;3.5 million of funding from public       broadcasters in Britain, the United States, Japan and Australia.
Of this       funding, &#163;3 million for the productions was spent with independent       producers and within the UK creative industries, supporting actors,       musicians, directors, designers and editors, as well as support services       such as equipment hire companies and others.
Hamlet has generated total broadcast, DVD and other format sales       in excess of &#163;300,000 for the distributor BBC Worldwide, and the DVD and       Blu-ray releases of Hamlet, Macbeth and Julius Caesar       continue to generate sales for UK distributors and retailers.
Impact on education       The BBC and the RSC collaborated with Wyver on a major Hamlet       educational website alongside the production, and this has been used in       schools and colleges since 2009.
The website includes extensive       behind-the-scenes video and interviews with cast members and the creative       team and is designed as a resource for understanding the adaptation of a       Shakespeare play for the screen as well as for historical context and       educational exercises.
http://www.bbc.co.uk/hamlet/archive.shtml     Both Hamlet and Macbeth have been made freely available       to online users in North America with extensive accompanying educational       materials.
Julius Caesar is to be used as a key component of a       forthcoming Open University course about early modern literature.
Six       short films about Julius Caesar were also produced for The Open       University about the production and its adaptation for the screen.
http://www.open.edu/openlearn/whats-on/tv/ou-on-the-bbc-julius-caesar.
The use of the research outputs within education to date led, in spring       2013, to the RSC developing a project with Ravensbourne College of Art to       stream without charge the cinema broadcast of Richard II, produced       by John Wyver, to more than 1,000 schools in the UK.
Impact on public engagement            Questions of adaptation and translation to the screen focussed on         these research outputs have been the subject of public presentations by         Wyver at BFI Southbank, USC and Caltech, Los Angeles, the University of         Oxford, the Whitstable Biennale and the University of Reading.
The productions and their strategies for screen translations have been         discussed in numerous public blog posts at both the Screen Plays site: 		http://screenplaystv.wordpress.com/         as well as on the Illuminations blog: http://www.illuminationsmedia.co.uk/news/         Topics discussed in both contexts have included the complementary screen         translation strategies of Met Opera: Live in HD.
NT Live and Digital         Theatre as well as a wide range of other Shakespeare productions for         television.
