     The Congo Basin, straddling six countries in Central Africa, is home to       remarkable biodiversity, and the second largest rain forest in the world.
It is also home to nearly 150 distinct ethnic groups, including many whose       lifestyle and identity is closely tied to this forest.
In recent decades,       however, local forest people have lost control over their traditional       areas as governments are encouraged to capitalise on the region's wealth       of natural resources by renting out the rights to international companies       and organisations.
These logging, mining and plantation companies, and       conservation organisations, obtain rights over local resources through       central government, without any requirement to consult local people.
Lewis's research has developed the protocols and tools to ensure that       previously ignored indigenous and local forest people now have a say in       the management of their local forest areas, their rights to their land and       resources are formally recognised, they are able to protect their key       resources from damage during industrial activities, and they can report       illegal activity or damage to their resources to local and national       authorities, based on operationalising the international legal concept of       FPIC.
As a result of research at UCL, two professional organisations for         forestry companies in the Congo Basin have adopted FPIC principles for         their members.
Additionally, the Forest Stewardship Council (FSC),       which offers the premier certification for sustainable forests worldwide,       requires certified companies to adopt FPIC criteria in the region.
Since       April 2012, all companies harvesting FSC-certified wood sold worldwide,       deriving from the 4 million square kilometres of the Congo Basin, are       required to follow the FPIC process.
Lewis and Freeman's work on FPIC resulted in a book [a] translated into       French, three summary pamphlets in English, Portuguese and French, formal       presentations at the United Nations, Swiss Ministry for Economic Affairs,       ministerial meetings in France, FSC meetings in the Congo Basin, project       reviews and presentations at Chatham House, and training sessions for       forestry workers from at least 12 African and non-African countries       through the Centre for Social Excellence [1].
Reading the book persuaded professional organisations representing the       tropical forestry industry in the Congo Basin (Association interafricaine       des industries foresti&#232;res IFIA, representing over 300 companies, and       L'Association Technique Internationale des Bois Tropicaux ATIBT, 260       members) to adopt FPIC as the basis for establishing partnerships between       the companies they represent and the people living in their concessions       [2].
They signalled this by organising training sessions run by Lewis for       40 staff working in the social aspects of forestry from 12 of their member       companies through the Centre for Social Excellence, as described below       [5], as well as sponsoring talks by Lewis for their members in September       2008 and February 2009 [3].
Despite pressure to reject FPIC from some quarters, regional guidelines       for the application of FSC Principles and Criteria in the Congo Basin       adopted FPIC as a central concept mediating relationships on 26 April 2012       (FSC-STD-CB-01-2012-EN Congo Basin Regional Standard), as a result of       Lewis' research [2].
This document lays out the FSC standard for all       forests in the six countries of the region [4].
FSC Criterion 2.2, for       example, states: 'Local communities with legal or customary tenure or use       rights shall maintain control, to the extent necessary to protect their       rights or resources, over forest operations unless they delegate control       with free and informed consent to other agencies' (p. 23) and similar       language is included in 3.1 (control of forest management by indigenous       people, p. 26), and 3.4 (compensation for traditional knowledge, p. 32).
By 15 July 2013, 10 FSC certificates covering over 4.4 million ha of       forest had been issued [4].
Recognising that there was a lack of local capacity to implement forestry       based on FPIC with local communities, The Forest Trust sought funds       amounting to &#8364;1.2 million to set up a specialist regional training         centre for young graduates on how to implement the highest standards in         social forestry.
Based on his research which had shown the lacunae       in forestry skills, Lewis planned and helped establish the Centre for       Social Excellence (CSE) in 2008 &#8212; designing the curriculum based on the       principles of research, purchasing the library and organising student       selection processes &#8212; and has taught there bi-annually since 2008.
The CSE       provides a one-year theoretical and practical training for graduates from       the Congo Basin to learn the social aspects of forestry, including FPIC,       involving forest people in mapping and decision-making processes, conflict       resolution, advanced communication skills, rural micro project management,       etc.
[5].
The CSE recruits students from Gabon, Congo-Brazzaville, Democratic       Republic of Congo, the Central African Republic and Cameroon.
It also runs       short courses for employees of forestry companies.
By mid-2013 the CSE had       40 current students or alumni [5], of whom all but two were employed in       forestry orientated research, industrial and commercial forest sectors or       in civil society organisations in the Congo Basin.
Two-week short term       training for full-time professionals was provided to almost 52 individuals       from over 12 forestry companies and 4 NGOs [5].
FPIC requires that forest communities are well informed about the issues       facing their forest.
With a low population density (&lt;1 person/km2),       little infrastructure and small communities effective communication       represents a real challenge.
To develop an effective strategy to raise         community awareness of these issues, Lewis supported TFT with a       &#8364;700,000 Chirac Foundation grant in 2005 to set up Radio Biso na Biso, a       community radio station for forest people.
The radio station has been       operational since June 2009 broadcasting exclusively in the 12 local       languages spoken in the forest for 4-6 hours a day, with 20,000 known       listeners, and an estimated 30,000 more outside the concession [6].
At       least eighteen local people were trained in journalism and       programme-making in 2008-2013 [9].
As of 2012, it is now fully financed by       the forestry company on whose concession it is based, and is a sustainable       and independently supported enterprise.
This has had many benefits: Previously ignored local forest people now       have a say in the management of their local forest areas, their rights to       their land and resources are formally recognised, they are able to protect       their key resources from damage during industrial activities, and they can       report illegal activity or damage to their resources to local and national       authorities.
One advantage of the system appreciated by local people is       that their maps do the talking for them, they can avoid going in person to       negotiate in intimidating surroundings and in languages they often do not       understand.
In 2010, Lewis was awarded the Cuthbert Peek award by the       Royal Geographical Society in recognition of the benefits to local       communities of this unique approach [7].
Additionally the geo-tags enable       local concerns to be easily and efficiently integrated into forest       management planning which is organised in Geographic Information Systems       (GIS).
This simplicity led to the rapid adoption of this methodology (with       many modifications) by every logging company seeking an FSC certificate in       the Congo Basin.
So far FSC has certified companies working in over 4       million hectares of high conservation value forest of the Congo Basin [4].
This exposure led some hunter-gatherers to request new software builds to       document illegal poaching [e].
This has been developed and they are       currently in the early stages of deploying the system in 2,800,000       hectares of forest in northern Congo [e].
The project attracted substantial media coverage which brought to global       attention the research and how it helps to fulfil the need for forest       peoples to be proactively involved in protecting their environment, for       example [8]:     - BBC News at Ten: GPS helps Pygmies defend forest.
30 January       2008 ( averaging 4.9 million viewers);     - New Scientist: `Interactive maps help Pygmies fight back', by       Kat Austen.
February 2012 (Global readership 764,371 per week).
