     Anglo American Platinum and Rio Tinto supported financially the Froth and       Foam Research Group       to increase the understanding of the fundamentals of flotation and the       importance of froth in       mineral separation.
This research had two key deliverables; first, to       measure flowing froth       properties using image analysis; in particular bubble size and velocity,       and second to develop a       CFD model of flowing froths.
As part of the research collaboration,       regular meetings were held in       the UK and South Africa to discuss the results and their practical       implications.
During the CFD froth model development, air recovery (the       fraction of air entering the cell that       overflows as froth, rather than bursting) was identified as an essential       boundary condition of the       flow models and that it will affect flotation performance.
The value for       air recovery had not       previously been quantified or characterised at all in industrial       flotation, and was first measured by       the Froth and Foam Research Group.
The Group's research proved to Anglo       Platinum and Rio       Tinto that air recovery was important and could be measured using       image analysis.
Air recovery was then, between 2007 and 2009, repeatedly measured by the       Froth and Foam       Research Group on Anglo Platinum and Rio Tinto copper industrial flotation       plants to quantify the       relationship between air recovery and the air rate, the most important       control variable.
It was       discovered and confirmed through these trials that a maximum air recovery       exists as a function of       air rate &#8212; the so-called Peak Air Recovery or PAR.
The link       between the air recovery, specifically       PAR, and the separation performance achieved at that air rate was,       however, not yet clear.
The strong correlation between the air rate, PAR and the separation       performance was finally       identified in 2009 by Hadler and Cilliers from industrial data they       collected [1].
It showed that the air       rate to the flotation cell that gives the highest air recovery (PAR), is       also the air rate that gives the       optimal flotation performance under the operating conditions.
This       relationship allows the flotation       performance to be optimised by making a well-defined measurement solely of       the froth flow       properties, by simply measuring the air recovery at a range of air rates       and finding the air rate that       yields the maximum.
Throughout this research period and development of the PAR methodology,       Anglo American       Platinum and Rio Tinto were research partners.
They became convinced of       the validity and       potential of the PAR research in two ways: first, the data that were used       to prove the concepts was       collected on their sites and with their cooperation and technical       personnel involvement.
Second,       the results from the novel CFD simulation software developed in parallel       by the Froth and Foam       research team were proven to predict accurately industrial flotation       performance.
Since the air       recovery concept was a direct outcome of the models, and the data showed       that their process       responded as predicted, they became convinced of the potential of the PAR       methodology for       determining plant settings.
It was proposed by the Froth and Foam Research Group that the PAR       methodology could be used       either as a manual technique by plant operators and engineers to optimise       their flotation circuits       and to inform the parameters used in their control strategies, or as part       of an automatic control       system.
The two companies each took a different approach; Anglo American       Platinum the former,       Rio Tinto the latter.
The measurement and manipulation of air recovery to       optimise flotation       separation performance procedure was patented by Imperial College in 2009       [2].
Anglo American Platinum independently made significant progress towards       developing an       automated control system that controls the air rate based on the froth       velocity and mass flowrate of       solids and liquid overflowing with the froth (the "mass-pull").
They       decided not to replace their       "mass-pull" control strategy with the PAR methodology, but to use instead       the PAR methodology       as a tool that can be easily utilized on remote mineral beneficiation       sites, thus enabling the       optimization of operations to maximize mineral recovery.
This technique       was licenced from       Imperial College to Anglo American Platinum.
The control limits determined       from PAR allows       tighter control of the process and avoids sub-optimal control parameter       combinations.
Due to the       proprietary nature of this methodology we are unable to go into details as       to how exactly the new       methodology has resulted in impacts, but the PAR methodology has had       significant impacts on key       strategic drivers such as costs, water and energy efficiency per unit       metal at Anglo American       Platinum.
[C]     Rio Tinto has implemented the PAR methodology as the basis of the       flotation control system at       their Kennecott Copper operation.
Statistical trials were performed in       2009 showing an increase in       copper recovery of 1%, approximately equivalent to an additional 3 000       tons of copper and 5 000       oz gold produced annually.
In 2009 this had a nominal annual value of       approximately $30m.
[B]     The Rio Tinto Annual Report (2010) states: "The [Rio Tinto] Innovation       group achieved several       milestones during 2010 including the following: Successful trial of an       innovative flotation control       system at Kennecott Utah Copper demonstrating improved recovery.
"[A] The       Rio Tinto industrial       control system has been fully operational since 2013.
