     A recent report issued by Visiongain [7] in October 2012 predicts that       the global underground coal gasification market will reach a value of       $570m in 2012; however, the successful exploitation of this resource in       areas of unfavourable roof conditions will require the application of new       and innovative panel designs.
In particular Inner Mongolia has 770 billion       tonnes of mostly low grade coal resource suitable for UCG.
These       coalfields are targeted by a number of international energy companies       active in the field of underground coal gasification.
However, the       majority of the coal in these fields lies below several hundred metres of       very weak (~1-2 MPa Unconfined Compressive Strength) sediments of Late       Mesozoic sand, silt and conglomerate, rendering roof control extremely       difficult, if not impossible, with the currently applied conventional UCG       panel designs.
The "linear UCG gasifier" provides a viable solution to this engineering       problem.
Due to its commercially confidential nature, the details of the       new "linear gasifier design" are not in the public domain.
However,       confidential reports from projects [8] and those written for Seamwell       International and the China Energy Conservation and Environmental       Protection Group [9] confirm the new linear UCG gasifier as a viable       solution.
As a result of this new technology, an agreement between Seamwell       International Ltd and its Joint Venture partner, the state-owned China       Energy Conservation and Environmental Protection Group (CECEP) was signed       in 2011, observed by Prime Minister Cameron and Premier Wen Jiabao of       China during his visit to the UK [9].
This multinational Joint Venture       would not have gone ahead without the industrial capability offered by the       new "linear UCG gasifier" panel design.
The resulting US$1.5 billion clean       coal project at the YiHe Coal Field in the Inner Mongolia Autonomous       Region of China is the first use of UCG technology on a commercial basis       and it has reduced environmental impact compared to a traditional       coal-fired power plant.
The 1,000 MWe power generating facility planned       will operate for around 25 years and produce 5 billion KWh, consuming       approximately 12 million tonnes of coal each year [10].
Although initially       developed for the YiHe coalfield, when rolled out in other coalfields, the       application of this design has the potential to provide clean energy from       several hundred billion tonnes of coal that would otherwise have remained       inaccessible.
Highlighting the significance of the new panel design, the Seamwell       International Director writes:     "The new linear UCG gasifier panel design developed for use under         extremely weak roof conditions at the YiHe coalfield is a significant         breakthrough in UCG technology, enabling underground gasification of         over 720 million tonnes of coal resource in this coalfield alone, which         otherwise is not possible with the use of current conventional UCG         designs.
The geology and the weak roof rock conditions experienced at         the YiHe coalfield is a common characteristic of all coalfields in Inner         Mongolia, which holds 770 billion tonnes of coal resource.
This new         technology is aimed at providing clean energy from several hundred         billion tonnes of Inner Mongolian coal, which would otherwise remain         stranded.
"[B]     The first two wells at the YiHe coalfield were drilled in       August-September 2011 and subsequently evaluated for further engineering       designs of the "linear UCG gasifier".
Seamwell International has, to date,       invested approximately US$4 million in the YiHe project and it is planned       that the first syngas production using the new panel design will take       place during the summer of 2015 [B].
Prof Durucan and Dr Korre act as the       main subsurface technology advisors to the Seamwell International (UK) &#8212;       China Energy Conservation and Environmental Protection Group (CECEP) Joint       Venture project [11].
As well as providing the new UCG panel design, they       advise Seamwell International on the geological and coal resource       evaluation and life cycle environmental impacts of the industrial value       chain and CO2 capture and storage systems in order to minimise       the environmental footprint of the power generation scheme.
