     The research at Imperial College produced membranes at a small pilot       scale, and has resulted in patents and patent applications covering the       membranes and their means of fabrication.
Key among these is UK Patent       GB2437519 [8] and the resulting international patent family, which       protects the cross linking of polyimide membranes to make them stable in a       wide range of organic solvents.
Intellectual property on membrane       fabrication and applications of the membranes was assigned from Imperial       College to Imperial Innovations plc, the technology transfer company set       up by Imperial College.
Innovations then licensed the findings of the OSN       research to an Imperial College spin-out company, Membrane Extraction       Technology (MET) Limited.
MET's business goal was to develop and       commercialise the OSN technology.
To do this MET developed a manufacturing       process for fabricating the first generation of OSN membranes based on       cross linked polyimide, including the stages of membrane formation and       post formation processing to crosslink the membrane and impregnate it with       conditioning agents.
Techniques for wrapping spiral wound membrane modules       were developed by MET, together with highly solvent stable adhesives for       these modules.
This resulted in the creation of the first spiral wound       membrane products in 2009, which have been commercialised under the       registered trademark DuramemTM [9].
This development activity       was supported by five PhD students from the Livingston laboratory being       employed by MET.
In parallel with these product development activities, MET undertook a       dissemination campaign in which the Imperial OSN technology was promoted       at membrane and chemical conferences and trade shows (eg ACHEMA (DE),       ChemShow (USA), Informex (US), CPHi (Europe), as well as through       individual visits to customers.
MET developed a lab bench test cell (the       METcell) in which the OSN membranes could be evaluated and tested by       interested end users.
This was followed by an extension to a cross flow       cell system, and a bench top testing unit capable of handling small spiral       modules.
This activity generated an enormous interest in the technology       from process development and separations professionals in the chemical and       pharmaceutical industries and more than 100 MET cell units have been sold       as at June 2013.
The customers for these cells include many major       pharmaceuticals and chemical companies, and companies with commercial       interests in solvent processing, for example in the electronics industry.
A key milestone in the impact of OSN technology was the installation of       DuramemTM spiral wound membrane modules in a plant at GSK       Ulverston in 2009, where they were installed in a facility regulated under       GMP (Good Manufacturing Practice) [10].
In this application, the membrane       modules were applied to the concentration and recovery of a valuable       active pharmaceutical ingredient.
In several cases customers who initially       began with test cell products have constructed pilot and production scale       processing units for OSN, including Johnson and Johnson [11] and Merck AG       [12].
The OSN membranes have also proven highly effective in the       purification of solvents for re-use, for example in the electronics       industry.
The growing success of the OSN technology attracted a business unit of       Evonik who manufacture polymers, Evonik Fibres, to acquire MET for several       million euros.
The acquisition completed in March 2010 to form Evonik MET       [13].
This was a positive outcome with the shares being acquired at a       substantial multiple of the price MET investors had paid for them.
Evonik       have so far invested in a new premises and a new membrane manufacturing       facility in Greenford, West London, operational in June 2011, and have       tripled the number of employees globally from 10 to 30 since the       acquisition.
The OSN membranes invented at Imperial College are now       produced commercially in this new facility as large process scale 8" x 40"       spiral wound elements.
The compounded annual growth rate of Evonik MET in       2013 is in excess of 40%, with nearly all going to export.
To support       these exports, Evonik MET has appointed Business Development Managers in       the USA, India, China, and Brazil, and has applications development labs       in the USA and India.
Evonik Vice President for Fibres and Membranes,       writes [14]:     "As one of the world leading specialty chemical companies, and also         the owner of Evonik MET, we have unique insight into the value and         impact of OSN technology in chemistry-based businesses.
This is because         we see both internal applications within Evonik's own businesses, and at         the same time are involved in providing the technology to customers in         other chemicals businesses.
The value proposition for the industry and         its applications is high.
As an example,&#163;1M of sales is creating either         process optimization potential or new product sales of at least &#163;10M and         beyond, which makes the OSN technology a significant enabling technology         and game changer in the chemical and adjacent industries.
This is a         truly motivating figure and is why, with the marketing and technical         power of Evonik behind it, this technology is making a major impact         across the spectrum of organic chemical processes".
Relating this to MET/Evonik MET OSN turnover of &#163;4M from 1 Jan 2008-31       Dec 2012 [15] indicates that the technology is already providing in excess       of &#163;40M-&#163;80M of value to chemical and related industries.
The       beneficiaries of the Imperial OSN research therefore include the global       chemical sciences based companies that purchase the products derived from       the research, and the UK economy which gains from a newly established UK       based manufacturing industry, in which the UK is a clear world leader.
