     Military aircraft encounter a significant problem caused by damage from       debris or stones lofted by       the aircraft wheels onto the aircraft structure (see Figure 1 below).
The       conventional approach to       designing against this threat is to essentially make an assumption about       the worst impact energy       (typically 50J) likely to occur during the lifetime of the aircraft.
The       structure would then be       designed to tolerate any damage produced from such an impact when exposed       to the most severe       mechanical loading anticipated during its lifetime (i.e.
design ultimate       load).
However, such an       approach is not rigorous, and makes several assumptions regarding the type       of impact conditions       and the resulting damage.
With weight being critical for aerospace design,       overdesign of a       structure imparts a considerable penalty; but if the       perceived level of threat is underestimated, this could       lead to parts of the aircraft being susceptible to       damage during service, with potentially catastrophic or       very costly implications.
The latter is the case for the       Lockheed C130K Hercules transport aircraft which the       RAF have been using in the Gulf and Afghanistan and       for which repair of runway debris damage is up to &#163;1M       per aircraft (source: verbal discussions with MoD and       DSTL staff [A]).
Fig 1 Runway debris damage to the leading edge of an undercarridge door of a transport aircraft 	       During initial work investigating the physics of the       interactions between the hard stone, the ground and the compliant rubber       tyre, the Head of       Landing Gear Structures in Airbus Military (Spain) approached Dr       Greenhalgh.
He was interested       in further developing the understanding of lofted debris and provided       support for this work as       outlined in section 2.
This research then had an immediate pathway for significant impact and       has been relied upon by       Airbus during the 2011 in designing the Airbus A400M Aircraft.
The       research allowed Airbus to       quantify the severity of the threat to aircraft from runway debris and so       enabled engineers to       reliably design efficient aircraft structures to tolerate this threat [A].
The debris lofting model was       able to predict the potential damage to the lower fuselage of the A400M       aircraft from lofted runway       debris.
This was used in the design of a deflector plate for the nose       landing gear (NLG) which       would protect the lower fuselage from lofted stone damage.
In particular,       the models developed at       Imperial were used to optimise the shape and exact position of the       deflector plate [A].
In May 2012, The Head of Landing Gear Structures at Airbus commented that       the research       undertaken by Imperial College was "absolutely needed, because landing on       unprepared runways       was a new concept inside the Airbus Aircraft Family" and went on to state       "The model identified the       most critical parts on the fuselage, predicting in a reliable way the       probable trajectories for a stone       lofted by the NLG tyres and making it possible to start developing       protections and devices that help       to minimize the effect of such impacts during the operation on unprepared       fields" The results of the       Imperial model "confirmed the need of a stone deflector to help protect       the belly of the A400M" and       allowed Airbus "to improve the efficiency of such a stone deflector in the       series design".
The results       of the model developed have subsequently been shared inside the Airbus       Community, and have       raised interest from other areas as such as Power Plant and Dynamic       Analysis [B].
As has been demonstrated above, the research has had a direct impact on       the design of the new       Airbus A400M.
This has enabled one of the features of the plane to be       reduced operational costs       compared to its predecessor the Hercules C130K.
The A400M has had       successful test flights and       is now being manufactured with over 174 orders in place as at 30th June       2013 [C].
The results of       tests undertaken in the summer of 2013 on an unsurfaced runway covered       with gravel of different       sizes confirmed predictions made by the model and the efficacy of the       deflector plate [B].
