     Stability analysis of vortex dominated flows around complex geometries       Being able to accurately identify and manage the generation of vortices is       key to competitive racing       car design.
Using the insights from the Nektar code Prof Sherwin carried       out work, directly       sponsored by the Formula One team McLaren Racing Ltd. to numerically       simulate the unsteady       flow around the complex geometry of a Formula One car.
This involves       multiple vortices, some of       which are subject to fast, dynamically driven external effects such as       merging or obstacle       interactions and some to large scale effects such as strong pressure       gradients.
These external       effects can lead to vortex breakdown.
The industry supported work looked       at the systematic       characterisation and identification of the vortices present in a typical       Formula 1 racing car       configuration.
Due to the new Nektar code it was carried out with an       improved level of accuracy       and the systematic identification of the vortices intrinsic parameters was       achieved [A].
This has       allowed for the effective management in the design of Formula One cars and       has been used since       2011 in the computational fluid dynamics data analysis of McLaren's F1       Cars.
Formula One is an       extremely competitive arena where any resultant modification in the design       of a racing car is       considered to be highly confidential information.
For this reason we are       unable to go into the       specific detail of the impact of the above on design and performance, but       the significant impact is       confirmed by McLaren's Engineers:            "I implemented computational tools... which is now regularly used in         the CFD data analysis         of McLaren's F1 Cars" (CFD Engineer, McLaren Racing Ltd, May 2012) [B] ;       "Managing these vortical structures efficiently around the car can         lead to significant         performance gains at the race track.
At McLaren, I also implemented         techniques to identify         vortical structures, which helped us a lot" (Senior Concept         Aerodynamicist, currently at         Ferrari Racing, June 2012) [C].
The improved experimental understanding of the vortex system [4] has       according to the Front       Team Leader in Aerodynamic of McLaren Racing Ltd, been used "several times       for correlation       work with CFD (for both RANS and unsteady simulation)" April 2012 [D].
The significant impact of this research is also clearly acknowledged by       the Head of CFD at       McLaren Racing Ltd where in May 2012 he states: "First the application of       high order spectral/hp       element methods to complement and enhance the flow analysis capabilities       at McLaren,       particularly in capturing unsteady vortices in the flow around the complex       geometries of Formula 1       cars.
Second your work on understanding the stability of single and       multiple vortices relevant to       Formula 1 flow regimes has also provided valuable insight for our design       process".
[E]     Passive Methods to control flow       Subsequent and more specific studies building on the general findings on       passive methods and       focusing on Formula One cars was supported by McLaren from 2011-2013.
Here       passive methods       employing small geometric changes were developed specifically for a       Formula one car.
These       looked at small geometric modifications (roughness) to the rear wing       geometry that transformed       straight flow separation lines into wavy ones to reduce the strength of       shed vortices [F].
Small yet       significant changes to the external geometry, within the regulations       allowed for that year, gave       improved performance to their car.
Again the specific of the effect of       this on performance cannot be       reported however a Computational Fluid Dynamics (CFD) engineer at McLaren       states that: the       concept was "...implemented and tested and shown very encouraging results"       [G].
McLaren Racing       Limited are one of the most successful teams in Formula One, having won       182 races, 12 drivers'       championships and 8 constructors' championships.
The knowledge has primarily been disseminated through the movement of       people into the       engineering teams and McLaren have heavily recruited from the research       teams involved in the       research outlined in section 2.
Owing to the tight regulations laid down       by the FIA (the international       governing body for motor sport) to control racing car design, the       recruitment of talented and highly       expert aerodynamicist has become ever-more important, so that they can       maximise performance       gains.
The research activities at Imperial have created the insights that       are needed for effective       race car design, allowing it to be a key source of experts that understand       and can successfully       improve car design.
Twenty-two researchers active within the Department of       Aeronautics since       1993 are currently employed by F1 teams and work on various aspects of       aerodynamics.
These       include the current Chief Designers of Ferrari and Mercedes and the Heads       of Aerodynamics of       Red Bull, Lotus and Mercedes.
Recruitment of so many expert engineers has       helped the UK racing       car industry to remain at the forefront of international motorsport.
The       Chief Designer of Mercedes       GP, who carried out the research with Prof Bearman states that       "researching the fundamentals of       flow control has been invaluable in the innovation I have been able to       achieve within F1 over the       past few years" [E].
Positions held (as at July 2012) in Formula 1 by those that carried out       research at Imperial College       Department of Aeronautics since 1 Jan 1993:     Mercedes GP       Chief Designer, Head of Aerodynamics and one Aerodynamicist.
Ferrari       Chief Designer, Senior Concept Aerodynamicist, 3 Aerodynamicists.
Hispania (HRT)       Head of Aerodynamics     Red Bull       Head of Aerodynamics     Virgin       Aerodynamicists     Lotus Renault       Head of Aerodynamics and Team Leader Computational Fluid Dynamics     Toro Rosso       Senior Computational Fluid Dynamics Aerodynamicists     McLaren Racing Ltd       Head of Future Concepts, three Aerodynamicists and a Vehicle Dynamists.
Williams       Principal Aerodynamicist
