     Improving the survivability of vital infrastructure is vitally important       to the development of military technology, and, due to the increased       threat of terrorist activity, to civilian installations.
Research at       Imperial between 1993-2013 led to a major advance in the ability to       virtually design a range of protective components, which are often very       expensive or impractical to test, and provided improved performance and       significant cost savings to the UK between 2008 and 2013.
New blast,       impact and ballistic modelling techniques developed at Imperial were       applied in the military sector to investigate improved materials and       designs for protective components.
As a result Dstl has been able to       develop lighter, more effective armour for both military vehicles and the       dismounted soldier, providing personnel with better protection and       superior operational performance.
These improvements were achieved with       significant cost savings and, more importantly, have ultimately       contributed to the saving of many lives during expeditionary operations.
Within the UK MOD the development and procurement of military vehicles       represents a significant portion of the annual defence budget.
A typical       development cost for a single vehicle is &#163;500M.
A critical part of this       process is to ensure that the occupants of the vehicles are properly       protected against potential explosive and penetrative threats present in       the current theatres of operation.
While initial financial outlay for the       protection of a vehicle would typically amount to &#163;10M, the total cost for       protection development over the lifetime of each vehicle will be       significantly higher due to the need for system retrofitting as new       threats or operational requirements emerge.
[a]     The research findings have also been used to address the emerging and       increasingly severe threat of terrorist activity, which has highlighted       the vulnerability of vital infrastructure.
Testing undertaken at Imperial       to characterise the structural components of civilian aircraft has enabled       Government scientists to better simulate the failure mechanisms associated       with internal explosive detonations, and therefore identify and mitigate       potentially critical terrorist scenarios.
This capability has been used to       assess the explosive performance of a wide range civil aircraft structures       manufactured by Airbus and Boeing.
Quick-running algorithms developed by       Imperial to predict blast effects for operational analysis have been       integrated within the Government-developed HIP (Human Injury Prediction)       code.
This is now being used by security analysts both within the UK and       in friendly nations abroad to implement appropriate security measures       within transport infrastructure and high-profile public events (such as       the London Olympics[a]).
Dstl has summarised the benefits of this research activity as follows:     `The Department of Aeronautical Engineering at Imperial College London         have provided key expertise to Dstl in the field of physical protection         for many years.
Although it is difficult to place a financial value on         these state of the art, technical advancements, their contributions have         unquestionably improved the security and effectiveness of the UK armed         forces operating in hostile environments abroad as well as the safety of         citizens using metropolitan infrastructure within the UK.'
The resulting improvement in model fidelity has led to a vast reduction       in the number of expensive tests required to confirm the veracity of a       particular amour variant.
A typical purely experimental trial to assess an       armour design against one of the many potential threats costs over &#163;100K.
Conservative estimates indicate that the cost of undertaking the same       design exercise but replacing all but the key experiments with numerical       simulation are one third of this amount.
