     We now provide details of the 3 aforementioned impacts and how they are       underpinned by       research in section 2:     I1) Desktop Quadrupole Mass Spectrometer by Microsaic plc       &#8212; The novel 3D micro-engineering       methods pioneered by the group [R1], and applications arising from these       [R2], provided the basis for the establishment by Syms, Holmes and Yeatman       of       Microsaic Systems Ltd in 2001.
The company obtained a pipeline agreement       to acquire       intellectual property arising from the micro-engineering research of the       founders, and the       unique technologies arising from the group's research provided the basis       for a series of       contracts and awards which funded the growth and development of the       company.
In       2006 mass spectrometers were selected as the main business focus, and       Microsaic did       a private equity fundraising of &#163;4M to begin a programme of product       development in this       field.
Subsequently, Microsaic developed a set of micro-engineering       innovations [e.g.
E1] that enabled the launch of the world's first commercial compact mass       spectrometer       for liquid analysis, the MiD, in 2011.
Microsaic has over 40 granted       patents, of which the       substantial majority are based wholly or in part on research carried out       in the EEE       department by the founders.
Mass spectrometry (MS) is the "gold standard" method for identifying the       constituents in       a sample, and is used in an enormous range of applications including drug       development       and production, forensics, food and drink analysis, security, water       quality and many       others.
However, although MS is a $7B market, the size, cost and       complexity of MS       instruments greatly restrict their deployment, so MS is generally provided       in analytical       laboratories, to which users must bring their samples.
The Microsaic       system is the size       of a desktop PC, has no external pumps or other peripherals, and thus can       be deployed       much more widely.
For example, thousands of chemists work routinely with       chromatographic separation methods such as HPLC (high performance liquid       chromatography) in the development, synthesis, purification and production       of drugs and       other chemicals.
Typically they have their own HPLC equipment, but to       definitively       assess their samples they use a central MS facility.
Microsaic has made it       practical for       each HPLC station to include mass spectrometry.
The MiD also benefits from       much       lower power, gas and solvent consumption than conventional MS instruments.
Quadrupole mass spectrometers work by ionising the molecules in the       sample, and then       "flying" the ions in a vacuum chamber through a mass filter, which uses       electric fields to       separate them by mass-to-charge ratio, directing the selected mass onto a       detector.
To       make miniaturisation possible, Microsaic developed three micro-engineered       components: the miniature quadrupole filter itself, an electrospray       ionisation source, and       a vacuum interface chip for bringing ions into the vacuum system.
All are       based on       Imperial's research [R2, R3].
Microsaic's 3500 MiD was launched at a major US trade fair, Lab       Automation, where it       won a prestigious New Product Award.
In 2012 the 3500 MiD won an R&amp;D       100 award as       one of the major technological innovations of the year.
Initial systems       were purchased by       a number of major pharmaceutical companies and university labs in the       first year of the       product's release, and these quickly led to new methods being adopted in       those labs.
For example, Merck &amp; Co Inc, in collaboration with Microsaic and       Imperial College,       published the first demonstration of the use of a miniature MS with HPLC       [E2].
Subsequently, Cambridge University researchers applied Microsaic's compact       MS to       continuous reaction monitoring, and showed that the use of an on-line mass       spectrometer "enabled the flow conditions to be quickly tuned for safe         operation and         optimal generation of the desired product", and "paves the way to         discovering untapped         synthesis methods" [E3].
In May 2012 Microsaic announced a contract with Biotage AB, a major       supplier of flash       chromatography equipment, to supply a minimum of 50 MS instruments per       year,       rebadged as the Isolera Dalton Mass Detector, as part of a combined       MS-flash system.
This system was launched by Biotage in April 2013.
The system identifies       compounds by       mass in real time during flash separation, "leading to greater         confidence in purification         and a significant saving in time and money.
This combination of         identification and         purification removes complex off-line analytical steps..., vastly         increasing throughput and         putting the entire purification and analysis in the hands of the chemist"       [E4].
Microsaic       was listed on the London Stock Exchange (AIM) in April 2011.
It employs       over 35       people, has a market capitalisation of &#163;23.4M (on 21/10/13) and has raised       a further       &#163;11M in equity funding.
I2) Nanostructured silicon anode materials for lithium batteries       &#8212; The research group's       other innovation in microstructured silicon that led to a new company was       high capacity       anodes for lithium batteries based on "natural" lithography [R4].
Initial       proof of concept       research by Prof. M Green gave a clear indication that this technology       could provide       substantial enhancement to battery capacity, while being scaleable to       production       volumes at reasonable cost [R5].
As a result the company Nexeon Ltd was       established       in 2006 [E5].
Between 2009 and 2011 Nexeon attracted over &#163;50M in       investment funds,       which it has employed to develop and scale up the technology.
It is one of       the "top three       portfolio companies" [E6] of Imperial Innovations plc, which itself has a       market cap.
of       &#163;256M (6/10/13).
Nexeon has won a number of awards in the Clean Tech       sector,       including the Rushlight Award for Energy Efficiency in 2013 [E7], a       Climate Week Award       in the Best Technological Breakthrough category (2012), and has been named       twice in       the Global Cleantech 100 list (2011 and 2012).
It has "signed a         development agreement         with a major consumer electronics and battery OEM" (2012) [E6] and "completed         a         strategic deal with WACKER Chemie AG to provide access to engineering         expertise for         the design and construction of a 250 tonne per annum plant" (2013)       [E6].
I3) NASA's Pheonix Mars Mission &#8212; The external impact of the       group's microengineering       research has not only been through commercialisation of its technology.
One example is the       work of Prof. Tom Pike and colleagues on microstructured substrates for       soil analysis [R6],       which led to these substrates being included as part of the atomic force       microscopy       instrument on the 2008 NASA Phoenix mission to Mars [E8,E9].
The mission,       and the       microscopic analysis of the Martian soil, were successful, and added       important evidence in       the ongoing quest to investigate the possibility of life on Mars, by       assessing the exposure of       soil samples to liquid water [E8].
These results generated considerable       public interest and       media coverage [E9] and provided the context for the NASA's subsequent       2012 Mars       Science Laboratory mission [Science articles citing E9].
A       micro-seismometer based on the       group's 3D silicon micromachining technology has also been chosen for       inclusion in the       forthcoming 2016 Insight Mission to Mars, where the Imperial group is the       only team from       the UK included in this multinational project led by NASA [E10].
