     We now provide details of the five aforementioned impacts and their link       to underpinning research:     I1) Xilinx Corp. is a US$2.2 billion company (2012) with nearly a 50%       share of the FPGA devices market.
The impact of our research in FPGA       technology is evidenced in their testimony (Dr. G. Brebner, Distinguished       Engineer from Xilinx [E1]):     "The research group led by you (Prof. Luk) in Department of Computing         and Professor Peter Cheung in Department of EEE ... is second-to-none         internationally, both in terms of quality and quantity.
Your team has         pioneered many key technologies which have resulted ... in significant         industrial impact."
For example, Dr. Brebner refers specifically to our work on partial       run-time reconfiguration [1], which "... has had a major impact on         multiple generations of Xilinx devices that support run-time         reconfiguration", and "..... underpins the design flow for the         latest Xilinx device supporting partial run-time reconfiguration".
The specific devices introduced since 2008 were Virtex-5 (65nm), Virtex-6       (40nm) and Virtex-7 (28nm) devices as well as their latest Zynq device       family, which embeds ARM processor cores within the FPGA fabric.
Xilinx's       document UG702, entitled "Partial Reconfiguration User Guide" and       published in October 2012, demonstrates that our work [R1], first       published in 1997, has stood the test of time: its impact is still found       in design flow for Xilinx Zynq devices introduced in 2011 [E1].
I2) Our underpinning research into acceleration of compute-intensive       algorithms using FPGA technology has led to its successful commercial       exploitation in the start-up company, Maxeler.
The company, with Head       Office in Hammersmith, employs 70 members of staff in the UK and US.
Many       of the key technologies it employs can be traced directly to the research       conducted by the team at Imperial College [3,4].
In particular, the       MaxCompiler and MaxGen tools are rooted in Imperial tools.
These tools       enable MaxCloud, the industry's first FPGA-based cloud computing service,       to provide high performance dataflow computation capability through the       cloud [E2].
Underpinning research by Cheung and Luk also led to several US       patents (US6369610, US7543283, US12/747650) assigned to Maxeler on 2 Nov       2012.
Moreover, Maxeler US patent US20130139122 A1 cited their work on       word-length optimisation (R5).
I3) The FPGA-based technology from Maxeler is used by JP Morgan [E3] and       by other finance companies such as Scottish Widows [E4] for accelerating a       variety of financial modelling calculations including risk analysis.
This       is therefore direct impact of our research in [2-5].
In one example, the       compute time was reduced from 8 hours to less than 4 minutes [E5].
The       effectiveness of this technology resulted in JP Morgan purchasing a 20%       stake in Maxeler [E6].
According to JP Morgan's Managing Director and       Global Head of their Applied Analytics Group, the total investment made by       JP Morgan in deploying our reconfigurable technology amounts to US$30m       with an annual estimated saving in running cost of US$6m, in addition to       compute time reduction.
Furthermore, the reconfigurable computing systems       "support our business units that manage the risk on positions in the         trillions of dollars" [E7].
I4) In addition to financial applications, our reconfigurable computing       technology [2-5] has had a strong impact on oil and gas exploration.
The       oil and gas industry is a major user of high- performance computing.
In       geoscience, computational cycles are dominated by relatively few and well       defined kernels.
Using Maxeler's FPGA-based hardware platform and       optimising the algorithm implemented with the Maxeler tool flow, speedups       of almost 250 times compared to the use of a single CPU core have been       reported by Chevron [E8].
Faster seismic analysis and imaging allows more       application runs or modelling with higher fidelity, or both.
Quicker and       more accurate results enable oil and gas companies to make more informed       bids on parcels and subsequent drilling.
Shorter turnaround time on these       seismic applications is critical to the company's profit, especially when       they are in a bidding process for drilling rights.
I5) BlueBee Technologies is a start-up company that provides tools for       heterogeneous multi- core platforms.
The success of its tools was       recognised by a prestigious Valorisation award from the Dutch Technology       Foundation, STW, in December 2012.
According to BlueBee's CEO [E9],       several key components in the BlueBee tool chain &#8212; such as task       transformation and mapping selection &#8212; are directly based on our research       on high-level compilation tool chains for heterogeneous systems [6];       success of BlueBee can be attributed to our pioneering research which laid       the foundations for many important developments in word- length       optimisation [3] and high-level design transformation [6].
Recently       BlueBee has teamed up with HL Steam, a company responsible for the Ancoa       financial market integrity platform, to support FPGA-based acceleration       for such platforms.
The impact of our research is therefore also ongoing:       the enabling of real-world workloads of millions of financial transactions       per second to be efficiently processed at lower dollar and energy cost       [E10].
