     The ICG undertakes a broad range of outreach activities, which regularly       reaches thousands of people per year (4858 in 2012-13; 6424 in 2011-12).
In addition, the ICG has invested resources in a dedicated programme of       "high impact" sustainable events that optimize our public engagement that       draws upon our leading cosmological research above, thus ensuring our       impact is topical, well-informed and inspiring.
The first of these regular (at least annual) events is the ICG ``Cosmology         Masterclass" which began in 2010 through a collaboration with       Portsmouth Grammar School (PGS) [1].
These one-day events are designed to       supplement the A-level national curriculum (specifically the Cosmology       module of OCR Physics G485 and the IB Physics Astrophysics option),       providing students with an expert view of basic concepts such as the       expansion of the Universe (through the Hubble Diagram of supernovae based       on ICG-related research [see 5 above]) and different types of galaxies       [see 2 above].
Since 2010, we have expanded the reach of the event to       include 120 PGS students a year and, since 2012, many local state-run       schools: Portsmouth College, South Downs College (2012, 2013), Ryde       Academy, Farnborough, Bay House School, Brentside High School, Isle of       Wight College, St. John's College, Christ the King Sixth.
The feedback       from teachers and students has been positive, e.g., 60% of non-PGS       students indicated our Masterclass may have increased their interest in a       wider range of university courses [1,2].
Furthermore, thirteen students       have subsequently joined us for summer Nuffield bursary placements or for       work experience, of which four cite their ICG research experience as       helping them decide on pursuing a STEM subject at university and aided in       their UCAS application [1,3].
The next Masterclass is December 2013.
In addition to the PGS, we continue to work with the University Education       Liaison and Outreach Team as outlined in our Impact Template (REF3a) to       engage school pupils of all ages during campus visits and have provided       many one-off school visits upon request, e.g.
in 2012-13, ICG researchers       engaged with more than 50 different schools across the UK (28 in 2011-12).
Since 2011, when we begun collecting detailed demographical information,       ICG researchers have reached over 6000 school pupils [4].
Since 2006, the ICG has worked with Intech; our local science centre near       Winchester, which attracted 140,000 visitors in 2012.
Over the last 3       years, we have contributed to the Intech "World Space Week" [5],       including developing hands-on demos about dark matter, components of the       Universe (using Lego) and talks about telescopes (all linked to our       research).
These annual festivals have significant reach engaging       thousands of people, typically doubling the normal visitor rate at Intech.
A vast majority of our feedback is positive especially for the "After       Dark" events run by ICG researchers (Dominic Galliano, Tim Clemson) aimed       at adult audiences [5,6].
At our last "World Space Week" (Oct       2013), we reached 716 people, including 634 children.
Our final high impact event exploits the national media coverage       generated by BBC Stargazing LIVE.
Starting in 2011, we ran a small       event at Gunwharf Quays (local shopping centre) to allow passing shoppers       the opportunity to look through a telescope (in many cases for the first       time).
In 2012, we expanded the reach of the event to include 25 members       of the ICG (coordinated by Karen Masters) to help promote a significant StargazingLIVE       event at the Portsmouth Spinnaker Tower.
This event was initiated by the       BBC and became their flagship event for BBC South.
In collaboration with       PGS teachers and students and Hampshire Astronomical Society, we provided       many activities and demonstrations on all floors of the Spinnaker Tower       including astronomicallythemed crafts, "Science on Tap", "Genius Bar"; all       of which drew on our cosmological knowledge.
Overall, 450 ticketed guests       attend the whole event, with over a hundred passers-by engaging with ICG       researchers at the base of the tower.
In 2013, we repeated the event, but       this time using the HMS Warrior 1860 and the Mary Rose Museum as our venue       (also in collaboration with University of Portsmouth Physics Society, HMS       Warrior 1860 and Mary Rose Trust education teams and the British Science       Association).
Again, we had over 450 ticketed guests (limited only by       venue size) who experienced a wide range of activities, many of which were       directly related to ICG research (e.g.
hands-on demonstration of       gravitational lensing).
The impact was significant and unanimously       positive [7] and we are already planning a major StargazingLIVE       event for Jan 2014.
All our events were covered in the local media thus increasing the reach       of the ICG engagement and all venues wish to continue their relationship       with the ICG.
