     4.1 General     ICFEP's impact on Geotechnical Engineering practice is delivered through       direct consulting activities of the staff in the Geotechnics Section and       through its strategic partnership with the Geotechnical Consulting Group       (GCG) from London, who have adopted ICFEP as their key numerical tool and       employ specialists dedicated solely to performing numerical analysis using       ICFEP.
Indeed, the latter has maximised the reach and practical relevance       of the geotechnical numerical research carried out at IC, amounting to       approximately 80 projects in the UK and abroad undertaken during the       assessment period 2008-2013.
This has impacted on a broad range of       beneficiaries such as London Underground, Thames Water, BP America,       Crossrail, Health and Safety Executive, British Airport Authority, Shell,       Rome Metro and Darwin Port, by providing solutions that led to design cost       savings, reduced environmental impact of construction, and/or enhanced       safety of construction [A].
In most of these projects ICFEP was employed       due to the inadequacy of commercial software and/or the IC's ability to       develop specific numerical algorithms that were necessary for some of the       projects.
Four of the most significant projects from the past 5 years are       described below as examples of impact.
4.2 Mardi Gras     In the Gulf of Mexico, BP America is carrying out hydrocarbon exploration       in geologically young and active regions, where kilometres of escarpments,       approximately 700m high, have been created by locally uplifting and       translating salt diapirs and simultaneous large scale sediment deposition       in water depths over 1km.
Large underwater slope failures of these       escarpments present a significant geotechnical hazard to exploration       equipment, with a potentially catastrophic environmental impact.
Between       2008 and 2011 an IC/GCG team carried out studies using ICFEP for BP       America's Mardi Gras project &#8212; a billion dollar highest capacity deepwater       pipeline system ever built &#8212; confirming that periods of slope instability       were likely to have occurred in the past and should be expected in the       future, but that these processes developed over hundreds, rather than       thousands of years as previously thought.
The analysis of such a complex       geological setting, which followed the progressive failure modelling       approach developed in [2], required the use of ICFEP's large displacement       and coupled consolidation facilities, as well as the specific development       of novel methods for simulating the underwater deposition of geomaterials       [3].
The outcome of the performed analyses had a direct impact on risk       assessments, by identifying reasonable estimates for the current annual       probability of slope failure, which enabled BP America "to more       effectively determine how to properly locate pipelines and facilities and       mitigate risk along this escarpment" [B].
4.3 Abberton Reservoir     Following the forecast of a substantial growth in future demand for       public water supply in the east of England, Northumbrian Water opted to       raise the water level in Abberton Reservoir, the largest freshwater body       in Essex, by 3.2m (resulting in an increase in reservoir capacity of 58%).
Given the complex history of the reservoir, which involved the failure of       the original dam in 1937 and its reconstruction in 1938, as well as its       status of an environmental haven, designated as a Special Protection Area       (SPA), IC/GCG were commissioned in 2009 by the main designer MWH       (Montgomery-Watson-Harza) to carry out a numerical study of the planned       raising of Abberton's main dam.
ICFEP's unique combination of advanced       constitutive relationships [4], coupled consolidation capabilities and       progressive failure facilities [2], enabled the successful simulation of       the complete dam history, including the prediction of the failure of the       original dam and the post-reconstruction behaviour of the existing dam.
This gave credibility to the results obtained from the subsequent       modelling of the dam rising, which demonstrated satisfactory embankment       stability during all phases of work.
The analyses were pivotal in       developing the design solution for the steeper downstream slope, impacting       directly on the design cost by reducing the use of land and the amount of       fill material for dam raising, thus also having a significantly positive       environmental impact, with different aspects of savings amounting to an       estimated several tens of millions of pounds.
The convincing analyses       results contributed to the efficient approval of the planning permission       by presenting the solution which persuaded the stakeholders that the SPA       will not be degraded.
The raising of the dam has now been successfully       completed and MWH note the fact that "this is the first time that an SPA       has been altered in Europe and to do so without recourse to Public Inquiry       is a notable success" [C].
4.4 Crossrail     Crossrail is the biggest tunnelling project in London in recent history,       both in monetary value and the length of tunnel construction.
The main       challenge of the project is to ensure the stability, applying accurate       assessment of ground movements, of existing undergrounding lines,       utilities, services and building foundations in Central London, due to the       construction of new 21 km long twin bore tunnels.
An additional challenge       is that new tunnels run at about 40 m depth, requiring access via deep       station boxes, a type of structure for which there is little prior       experience in London.
Following the outcome of key research carried out at       IC, [5], the Crossail project team commissioned IC/GCG between 2008 and       2011 to perform a 3D FE study to establish assessment procedures for       ground movements induced by box excavations.
In addition to ICFEP's       capabilities in reproducing the nonlinearity of soil behaviour at small       strains, advanced constitutive models for shell elements were used to       model the retaining walls of the box excavations.
By providing more       accurate estimates of ground movements, this study reduced the       geotechnical risk associated with estimation of building damage caused by       the deployment of the Crossrail project, compared to standard assessment       methods.
It is estimated that the developed assessment procedure led to       about 350 critical buildings along the Crossrail route (a quarter of the       total number) being eliminated from further detailed assessment and costly       structural survey [D].
4.5 Panama Canal     The Panama Canal is a key water route for global trade and security       between the Pacific and Atlantic oceans and a primary source of income to       Panama, contributing to 30% of its GDP.
Its width governs the maximum size       of container ships and warships passing through and studies at the       beginning of this century showed that the Canal was operating close to its       maximum capacity, thus generating the need for its expansion.
In 2009       IC/GCG was commissioned to assess Royal Haskoning's solution for widening       and deepening of the Panama Canal including the construction of a third       set of locks.
Due to the high seismicity in the area, the main concern of       the design was the potential for a rocking mode of deformation of the high       lock walls and the risk of up-lift and pounding of the central lock       foundations in the event of a strong earthquake.
ICFEP's advanced       capabilities in terms of coupled consolidation analyses under dynamic       solicitations, [6], and cyclic nonlinear constitutive modelling, as       opposed to industry practice of simple pseudo-static or equivalent linear       modelling, demonstrated that such a mode of deformation would not occur       under the design earthquakes.
These results impacted directly the design,       with significant savings made on construction material and construction       time.
[E]     4.6 Examples of other lasting impact     Stabilisation of the Leaning Tower of Pisa: ICFEP was key software       in the development of stabilisation solutions for the tower and prevention       of its collapse (1992 - 2000); the remarkable agreement between measured       and predicted (by ICFEP) tower's response to implementation of temporary       stabilisation (counterweight) in 1993/94 and subsequent permanent       stabilisation (soil extraction) in 1999/2000, enabled the understanding of       the basic mechanism of the ground-tower interaction, which was otherwise       impossible to assess [F]; it provided confidence to the long-term       stability of the adopted permanent solution, leading to the eventual       re-opening of the tower to public access in Dec. 2001; continuous       monitoring of the tower to date shows no signs of further lean, hence       enabling its open access and providing lasting confidence in ICFEP's       predictions.
A number of outreach lectures, TV and radio broadcasts have       presented the Pisa research (e.g., article in The Daily Telegraph       Newspaper on the 28 Jul 2010 http://bit.ly/dy9Y8Z       [J] and a BBC One `One Show' feature on 6 May 2011 [K]).
Two text books on finite element analysis in geotechnical       engineering, [G, H]; presenting both the finite element theory and its       practical application on real geotechnical problems, as developed and       applied in ICFEP, these books have been not only an essential academic       text, but also a source of guidance for appropriate use of numerical       methods by industry; they continue to be re-printed to date and have just       been issued as eBooks by the publisher Thomas Telford; due to a specific       demand, the books were translated into Chinese and published by the China       Science Press in 2010.
ICE Manual of Geotechnical Engineering [I]; Chapter 6 of this       manual is dedicated to computational geotechnical analysis, providing       guidance on the correct use of numerical analysis, based on experiences       gained through application of ICFEP in solving real geotechnical problems.
