     Our floods research has had substantial impacts on floods policy and       design practice, and on attitudes and unde rstanding of flood risks       olutions by audiences ranging from land owners to national governments.
These impacts extend across all components &#8212; rainfall modelling,       experimental evidence, and catchment and urban modelling.
4.1 Rainfall modelling     Research into rainfall modelling has led to the development of tools for       hydrological and drainage system design using continuous simulation rather       than single design events, a development encouraged by the Environment       Agency.
The software tool HYETOS for hourly rainfall generation,       originally de veloped as part of a 30% /70% ICL/NTUA Athens collaboration,       is downloaded on average 140 times per year in particular by consultants       in the water industry.
GLIMCLIM is a spatial daily rainfall generator       originally developed as part of a 50%/50% Imperial/UCL collaboration,       which Halcrow has used in projects with total benefit of about &#163;15K, and       are investing &#163;5K in developing a user interface for.
For urban drainage applications, the software tool TSRSim, based entirely     upon work by Onof, has been developed at a cost of over &#163;20,000 by HR     Wallingford Software in 2005 in collaboration with Onof [A].
It has been     purchased by a number of consultancies and water companies (e.g.
MWH,     B&amp;V, Yorkshire Water, United Utilities and Southern Water) at a unit     cost of &#163;900 [A].
TSRSim was used as an alternative to traditional design     storms across the Southern Water area to estimate floods with a return     period of 1 in 30 years.
The flexibility of this tool is estimated by MWH to     have enabled savings of the order of &#163;2 Million on a programme valued at &#163;80     Million [B].
4.2 Land use management     Our experimental evidence on the physical links between rural land use       and floods (Wheater et al.)
has fundamentally changed national attitudes       and policy.
For example, we refer to the Pontbren hydrology work,       described in Section 2 (underpinning research) which was jointly run by       Imperial College and CEH Bangor (50%/50%).
From the Woodland Trust Wales       report, the "Pontbren work has fundamentally changed our understanding of       the role of broadleaved trees in the farmed landscape and is now changing       policy and practice" [C].
Hence the research on trees and flooding has had       a direct influence on the Welsh Government's new land management scheme       for Wales [D] (`Glastir') and local implementations The Coed Cadw will       confirm that the next Rural Development Plan for Wales (2013-2020) is       drawing heavily on the experience and the evidence derived from Pontbren       and that it will influence the shape and focus of future agri-environment       payments to farmers [E].
The underpinning research on soil hydrology and land use has been used       directly by the Environment Agency Wales to map priority areas for       improved land management.
One of the GIS water quantity layers was based       around the evidence from Pontbren and key areas in Wales have been       identified where similar activities to those within Pontbren could lead to       a reduction in flood risk in the upper Severn [D], with consequent       benefits for western England.
Another example of the impact of the new       evidence and numerical model results was their use in the Foresight Future       Flooding update, which contributed to the Cabinet Office's 2008 policy       report (the "Pitt Review") recommendation that "rural land management       approaches should be considered as part of the portfolio of measures to       deal with flood risk and, where appropriate, as part of the programme to       deliver more working with natural processes" [F].
They have also been used       to guide the Office of Public Works (Ireland) in informing the Directorate       General's review of climate proofing.
Our research into flood flow       modelling approaches has also had a major impact on training and education       of students and practitioners, demonstrated by sales of our books [G] and       downloads of our teaching software.
4.3 Urban pluvial flood modelling     The urban floods research has delivered models that have impacted practice     in flood studies in the UK and internationally.
In 1998 we took part in the     CIRIA (Construction Industry Research and Information Association) Committee     for development of CIRIA555 Sustainable Urban Drainage Design and Best     Practice Manual, in which the term "SUDS" was coined, resulting in the     industry training module which has been used ever since.
Our AOFD method and     software tool (see underpinning research section) has been independently     evaluated and recommended for practical use by the UK Water Industry     Research organisation (UKWIR).
Before this model there was no appropriate     software product on the market that would enable automatic processing of     urban drainage features needed for reliable modelling of urban runoff, and     it now forms the basis of commercial software (e.g.
Infoworks and TuFlow)     which are dominating UK and many international markets [H].
This tool has been used extensively by consultants for mapping surface       water flood risk in the UK (Colindale, Borough of Barnet [H]) and in       several cities in Serbia (e.g.
Novi Beograd, Novi Sad, Sabac).
Its       inclusion into an integrated modelling system, 3DNet-SewNet, has led to       the software being used by a significant percentage (cc 50%) of younger       and mid-career professionals in Serbia and neighbouring countries.
Similarly, the AOFD method and its principles have been incorporated into       the latest version of the main commercial software package in Germany       (Graphical Interactive Planning system &#8212; GIPS) by ITWH (Hannover) [I].
The       GIPS "has over 500 users predominantly in German speaking countries.
This       is now a customer system with about &#8364;2.5M market value"[I].
Our       methodology for storm drainage master planning has had clear societal and       economic impacts: it has been adopt ed by the Brazilian consortium (       Enger, Promon, CKC) and used by the chief consultant company Hidrostudio       in development of the Master Drainage Plan for the River Tiete in Sao       Paulo, Brazil, which was then used over the last 12 years for detailed       planning of improvements to Sao Paulo's drainage.
Additionally, in the       most recent project for urban flood mitigation project of the Sao Paulo's       central commercial area (Anhangabau), the AOFD model has been used for       assessment of flood risk.
