     The research of CBIS has improved the design, testing and operation of       military vehicles, and informed the purchasing of combat boots.
It has       also altered military clinical practice and surgical training of troops.
Finally, it has provided data and physical and computational models used       in the commercial development of military crash test dummies.
NOTE:         the MoD has severely restricted the details that we can reveal.
We       give names of five people (the maximum permitted) who are able to confirm       verbally the most important parts of the impact; names of people prepared       to confirm other aspects are available on request.
Impact on vehicles and equipment     Systematic primary prevention &#8212; in the form of posture and placement of       personnel, and vehicle and clothing design &#8212; is key to reducing injury.
Posture and Placement.
Substantial impact has arisen from the CBIS       findings concerning effects of posture and position within a vehicle on       the pattern and severity of injury.
For obvious security reasons, details       of this information cannot be released even under confidentiality       agreements.
We are permitted to state that the results have been the       subject of two formal MoD briefings and a confidential Dstl report       (DSTL/TR48994, "The effect of seating position on lower limb injuries in       under-vehicle explosions," August 2010) that relates posture to injury       severity and vehicle design.
Dr Alan Hepper of Dstl is prepared to confirm       the impact [A].
Vehicle design and testing.
Impact has also arisen from CBIS       research into engineering design and material selection for vehicles,       their equipment, and surrogates for testing.
The injury mitigation       efficacy of various floor mat designs was the subject of Dstl       consultancies by CBIS staff from Feb 2013, managed through ICON (Imperial       Consultants).
We are not permitted to disclose the full results but impact       can be confirmed by Mr Ian Elgy at Porton Down [B].
CBIS research on       vehicles and injury data has informed the policy of the NATO Human Factors       and Medicine task group 198 concerning STANAG 4569, the NATO       standardisation agreement that defines the system qualification and       acceptance procedures used in determining the protection level for       logistic and light armoured vehicles from kinetic energy and artillery       threats [C].
CBIS research on the appropriate use of posture and type of       surrogates resulted in a change in the interpretation of live blast tests       when determining the protection afforded by vehicles against IED strikes.
Footwear design.
The CBIS studies concerning efficacy of two       commonly used combat boots in mitigating calcaneal fractures resulted in       reports with recommendations being sent to MoD procurement, who provided       materials and advice for the research.
We cannot reveal the use of this       information by the MoD; however, some of the data were published in the       open literature [D].
Impact on surgical and clinical practice     Clinical data analysis and modelling from CBIS have had direct impact on       surgical practice.
One specific instance of impact derives from the research on the severity       of calcaneal fractures described above.
A direct result of the finding       that these fractures are associated with a poor outcome is that, since       2012, limbs have been amputated earlier than hitherto.
This means that the       casualty is not subjected to unnecessary repeat operations and severe       pain, and then still has to have the amputation.
A second consequence of       the research has been to change the surgical management of these fractures       to more minimally invasive techniques in order to reduce osteomyelitis       (bone infection) and it long-term effects.
We are not permitted to give       the number of procedures but the Consultant Trauma Surgeon, Royal Centre       for Defence Medicine [E], is able to confirm the impact of CBIS research       verbally.
Also, the Armed Forces Compensation Scheme Medical Board has,       with direct input from our work, recently upgraded the compensation for       calcaneal fractures in line with below knee amputations.
A second specific instance derives from the CBIS study of unstable pelvic       fractures, also described above.
Such injuries are a frequent consequence       of explosion, and are potentially life-threatening: mortality is around       10% and internal bleeding is the major contributor to this.
The research       showing that placement of pelvic binders at the level of the greater       trochanters reduces pubic bone separation has changed clinical practice in       Afghanistan and at major trauma centres in UK since 2012.
Again, we are       not permitted to give the number of procedures but the Defence Professor       of Surgery [F] is able to confirm the impact of CBIS research verbally.
The pelvic binder technique identified by CBIS is now included as part of       Military Operational Surgical Training (MOST), a compulsory course for       troops being deployed; CBIS staff participate in the teaching.
Commercial Impact     CBIS research data, communicated through an ICON consultancy, are being       used in the design of crash test dummies by Humanetics Innovative       Solutions Inc, who have been contracted under a US$80M Department of       Defence programme to deliver a new anthropomorphic test device       specifically for testing underbody blast by 2018.
Humanetics (like Dstl)       use the physical and computational models developed by CBIS.
