     Impacts include: health and welfare, public policy and services,       production, international       development       Main beneficiaries include: Government, consumers and manufacturers, risk       assessment bodies,       including the US Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), UK Scientific       Advisory Committees, the       National Health and Medical Research Council of Australia, the European       Food Safety Authority       (EFSA), the Commission of the European Communities, and the WHO     The human relevance-mode of action framework, developed by Professor       Boobis and colleagues,       provides a systematic and transparent approach to assessing the relevance       to humans of findings       in experimental animals on the toxicity of chemicals in food and the       environment, which has been       widely adopted by risk assessment bodies.
It supports the quantitative       extrapolation of such       findings to humans, using specific data, as opposed to defaults, where       appropriate.
Previously,       such extrapolations lacked transparency and international consensus.
Policy and risk assessment: The Joint WHO/Food and Agriculture       Organisations (FAO) Expert       Committees on Food Additives (JECFA) and Pesticide Residues (JMPR)       undertake risk       assessments of a number of types of chemicals that may be found in food.
These include food       additives, residues of veterinary drugs, residues of pesticides, and       chemical contaminants of       natural or synthetic origin.
The outcome of these risk assessments are the       basis for harmonised,       safety-based, worldwide trading standards at the Codex         Alimentarius.
This allows the international       trade of food commodities, whilst ensuring consumer safety.
The value of       the framework is       illustrated by the risk assessment of the pesticide sulfoxaflor by JMPR in       2011 and of the artificial       sweetener aspartame by European Food Safety Authority (EFSA) in 2011 [1].
The application of       the framework enabled the conclusion that several of the toxicological       effects observed in       experimental animals were not relevant to humans and thus it was possible       to identify exposure       levels in food consistent with the safe use of the compounds [1].
The principles and methods for the risk assessment of chemicals in food,       used by the WHO/FAO       expert committees, member states and others undertaking such work,       including producers and       manufacturers, are published in Environmental Health Criteria (EHC).
These       criteria were revised       in 2009 to acknowledge the importance of considering mode of action using       the underpinning       Imperial framework [2].
Others who have used the framework in risk       assessment policy include the       US EPA, the UK Scientific Advisory Committees, the National Health and       Medical Research       Council of Australia, the European Food Safety Authority and the       Commission of the European       Communities [3].
Animal welfare: Use of the framework is contributing to the       reduction, refinement and replacement       of animals in toxicity testing.
Prior to human exposure, chemicals are       assessed for their potential       toxicity.
The extent of testing depends on the intended use of the       chemical and the relevant       legislation.
In order to avoid unnecessary testing, the Organisation for       Economic Co-Operation       and Development (OECD) has produced a series of test guidelines, which are       internationally       accepted.
In general, results of a study conducted according to such a       guideline can be used to       support authorisation or approval in any member country.
In the 2009       revision of the test guideline       for studying the potential long term toxicity and carcinogenicity of       chemicals, the OECD       emphasised the importance of obtaining information in such studies that       would help determine       mode of action the relevance of experimental findings and cite the       underpinning work of Professor       Boobis and colleagues as an important source of information in such design       considerations [4].
In assessing the risk of combined exposure to chemicals, it is important       to consider mode of action,       as chemicals sharing a mode of action will exhibit dose addition, and       hence it is important to       consider such compounds in a common group.
Several recent activities have       highlighted the value       of the mode of action framework for establishing such common assessment       groups.
Examples       include EFSA's Scientific Panel on Plant Protection products and their       Residues in 2008 [5], the       WHO International Programme on Chemical Safety (IPCS) in 2009 [6], and the       non-food       committees of the General Health and Consumers Directorates (DG SANCO)       [7].
Manufacturers: The risk assessment of a number of substances has       been improved by the       generation of data on mode of action and key events by companies, using       the above framework as       a guide to determine data needs.
For example, the company producing the       pesticide fluopicolide       used the framework to generate specific information on mode of action,       which was essential in its       evaluation by the FAO/WHO JMPR in 2009 [8].
The antibodies and the approach to their generation using short specific       peptides, in which       specificity can be confirmed by sequence scanning of relevant genomes,       have seen widespread       application in many areas, including several relevant to the use of human       relevance-mode of action       analysis.
In addition to work undertaken in our own laboratory and in       collaboration with others, the       antibodies are commercially available through companies such as Daiichi       (overall sales of       &gt;&#163;150,000) and our strategy has been used by companies such as BD       Gentest to raise similar       antibodies.
An example of the use of the output of our studies using such       antibodies can be found       in the US EPA report "Exploration of Perinatal Pharmacokinetic Issues"       [9].
The antibodies have       been of particular value for localisation and quantification of P450       enzymes.
More widely, the       approach has allowed the generation of specific antibodies to peptides or       proteins, where other       approaches did not permit the necessary specificity.
Training: The framework has been presented at a number of       workshops, to increase awareness       and expertise amongst the risk assessment community.
This has been       invaluable in disseminating       the value and application of the framework in a wide variety of situations       [10].
