     Impacts include: health and welfare, practitioners and services, public       policy and services Main beneficiaries include: patients, practitioners,       British HIV Association, US Department of Health, South African HIV       Clinicians Society     Until 2004, the literature on TB-IRIS comprised of case reports and case       series as well as cohort studies that reported the incidence and risk       factors for the condition.
There were anecdotal reports of treatments used       and response.
Standard case definitions were not used across studies       making comparison difficult.
In 2011 there were an estimated 1.1 million       new cases of HIV-positive new TB cases, 79% of whom were living in Africa.
All such persons require combined ART and TB treatment, which means that       up to 500,000 persons per annum are at risk of TB-IRIS.
The Imperial group led the development of the first consensus case       definitions for TB-IRIS under the auspices of the International Network       for the Study of HIV-associated IRIS (INSHI) in 2006.
The main rationale       for these case definitions was to promote standardization and       comparability of studies investigating TB-IRIS.
Since publication, they       have been widely implemented in clinical and immunological studies of       TB-IRIS, not just in resource poor environments, but as a pragmatic       standard around the world.
The guidelines have now been validated by four       independent studies, all published between 2009 and 2010 [1-4].
The Imperial randomised controlled trial of Prednisone was the first (and       remains the only) clinical trial to assess a treatment strategy in any       form of IRIS.
It demonstrated the benefit of steroids for treatment of       TB-IRIS in terms of the combined primary endpoint (which was cumulative       number of days of hospitalization and outpatient therapeutic procedures       counted as an additional hospital day) as well as more rapid symptom       response, improvement in quality of life score, chest radiology score and       C-reactive protein in patients who received prednisone compared with those       who received placebo.
Importantly there was no excess of steroid metabolic       side effects or severe infections among those who received steroids.
In 2010, the NIH-CDC-HIVMA/IDSA Guidelines for the Prevention and       Treatment of Opportunistic Infections in Adults and Adolescents were       updated to include recommendations on the management of patients with       TB-IRIS.
These recommendations cite the Imperial clinical trial findings       [5].
These guidelines are accessed by a very wide audience of       practitioners treating HIV-infected patients in the US and globally.
The       British HIV Association guidelines also acknowledge the Imperial work as       the only trials-based evidence available [6] and the Imperial research       forms part of South African national guidelines [7].
We have addressed many doctors' forums and medical student lectures in       South Africa to discuss TB-IRIS and the results of our research.
We have       also interacted with the patients' advocacy and treatment literacy       organisation TAC (the Treatment Action Campaign), including giving talks       on HIV-associated TB to their members of the campaign.
These interactions       have allowed the Imperial research findings to be translated into clinical       practice rapidly as acknowledged by revised South African national,       British HIV association and US Department of Health and homeland security       guidelines [8-9].
