     Impacts include: economic, commercial       Main beneficiaries include: industry     Our researchers have developed and sold a spin-out company, Thiakis Ltd,       which investigated analogues for obesity therapy.
It is the commercial       company development and financial benefit of the sale that has had       significant economic impact.
In December 2008, Thiakis Ltd was sold to Wyeth Pharmaceuticals to       develop Thiakis' lead product TKS 1225, a synthetic analogue of       oxyntomodulin.
Wyeth acquired Thiakis for approximately $30 million with       additional payments of $120 million conditional on the achievement of set       milestones.
Wyeth Pharmaceuticals was subsequently acquired by Pfizer in       2009 [1].
In 2010 the intellectual capital and analogue modification knowledge       developed by Professor Bloom at Imperial has resulted in further peptide       hormones (Pancreatic Polypeptide) being developed at Imperial as an       anti-obesity treatment.
An award from the Wellcome Trust Seeding Drug       discovery was made to Professor Bloom to develop further gut hormones as       anti-obesity therapy.
This award utilises the knowledge base of analogue       development that has been created as part of the Imperial research       programme [2].
This has lead to the employment of 5 people at Imperial who       perform this analogue research programme.
The success of Thiakis was used as a model by Imperial Innovations Ltd       during its flotation on the stock market.
Thiakis demonstrated to       investors that Imperial Innovations Ltd could take inventions from the       initial academic discovery through the patenting and venture capital phase       and into the commercial arena.
Thiakis was utilised by Imperial       Innovations Ltd as a successful case study that allowed investment to be       raised.
This investment round in Imperial Innovations Ltd has provided       investment capital for further spin out and commercialisation of academic       research [3].
The work described has stimulated a new area of pharmaceutical research       and development.
International drug companies such as Merck, Novo Nordisk       and Lilly have developed Oxyntomodulin research programmes following the       success of Thiakis and the Imperial research programme described [4].
These programmes demonstrate the commercial adoption of the new technology       of obesity analogue originally preformed at Imperial.
