     Impacts include: public policy and services, practitioners and services,       health and welfare Main Beneficiaries include: Patients, practitioners,       NICE, PHE, NHS, UK and nternational Government, ECDC, WHO, NIH     The World Health Organisation (WHO) currently estimates that half a       million children (0-14 years) falling ill and 64,000 deaths are       attributable to TB per year worldwide (WHO         figures).
Research at Imperial College has developed the evidence       base for the diagnosis and management of childhood TB nationally and       internationally.
In May 2012 the NICE guidelines were changed to a pathway approach.
The       guidelines now contain separate guidelines for the management of children       in separate age groups.
The work performed at Imperial informed the age       stratification [1].
The contribution of IGRA to the diagnostic process has       been downgraded significantly and the approach advocated by Professor       Kampmann and colleagues at Imperial for synergistically using IGRA and a       tuberculin skin test to increase sensitivity has been adopted and the need       for childhood-specific management internationally acknowledged.
At a European level the European Centre for Disease Prevention and       Control (ECDC) has utilised Imperial research in the ECDC guidance for the       use of interferon-gamma release assays for TB diagnosis [9].
The       algorithms resulting from the Imperial research have been used to develop       several European consensus statements from the Tuberculosis         Network in Europe [2, 3].
The ECDC conducted a campaign for advocacy       in childhood TB, which included an extensive review of the burden of       childhood TB in Europe and a feature broadcasted on Euronews in March 2011       in 22 languages.
(World Tuberculosis Day 2011: Three key messages on       childhood tuberculosis [9].
The notion of TB as a family disease has been adopted by many centres now       holding joint adult and paediatric TB clinics, including the establishment       of family clinics for TB in Prof Kampmann's international TB work linked       to The Gambia.
The Stop TB partnership now specifically mentions the       concept [4].
The ability to link exposed, infected and diseased individuals on the UK       TB register has been facilitated by Imperial research and development of       the contact tracing module by Professor Kampmann.
The TB register has       important ongoing implications for TB control in the UK.
This UK TB       Register and the contact tracing module are now utilised by other       international organisations and settings [5].
Imperial research has also influenced and directed policy and guidance       documentation produced by the WHO and National Institutes of Health (NIH).
The research has impacted the TB diagnosis methodologies undertaken and       the policies employed internationally in the following ways:            Use of interferon-03b3 release assays (IGRAs) in tuberculosis control         in low and middle income settings [6].
Recommendations for investigating contacts of persons with infectious         tuberculosis in low- and middle-income Countries [7]       Development of a novel case definition for childhood TB by the NIH [8]          Many of the policies and practices now embedded in the NHS have been       adopted in other overseas healthcare systems.
For example, the Stop TB       partnership recently published a press release which provides evidence for       the impact of the Imperial led research on long-term efforts to tackle       childhood TB in The Gambia, where Professor Kampmann has implemented a       childhood TB research program.
As a result of the Imperial research       children identified through the contact tracing programme are now given       prophylactic drugs [4].
The Imperial research has been formulated into expert review documents       and educational reference chapters.
These document impact the way       clinicians and health practitioners are educated and results in the wide       adoption of best practice.
Professor Kampmann is the author of the chapter       "How to use IGRA in children" [10].
The education and practice papers in       Archives of Diseases of Childhood serve as a guide for general       paediatricians.
This journal has the full readership of the Royal College       of Paediatrics and Child Health as it is published by the Royal College.
It is the leading source of information for general paediatricians on this       issue.
The European Respiratory Society (ERS) is the leading professional       organisation in its field in Europe.
It is broad-based, with some 10,000       members and counting in over 100 countries.
Its scope covers both basic       science and clinical medicine.
ERS seeks to alleviate suffering from       respiratory disease and promote lung health through research, sharing of       knowledge and through medical and public education.
The Imperial College       research has contributed to this mission through publications in the ERS         handbooks and also on line teaching sessions.
