     Impacts include: practitioners and services, health and welfare, public       policy and services Main beneficiaries include: practitioners, patients,       NHS, NICE, World Federation of Ultrasound in Medicine and Biology (WFUMB),       European Federation of Ultrasound in Medicine and Biology (EFSUMB) (both       professional Associations).
During clinical trials of early versions of microbubbles prior to their       licensing and commercialisation, observations by Professors Blomley and       Cosgrove in the Imperial team led to the discovery of what has become       known as the "late phase" in which microbubbles are retained in normal       liver beyond their survival in the blood stream.
Liver lesions that wash       out in the late phase are potentially malignant; those that retain the       microbubbles are almost always benign.
This discovery enables a fast, safe       and inexpensive test that has revolutionised the investigation and       management of the large group of patients undergoing liver imaging to       detect primary or secondary liver involvement with cancer.
Other imaging       tests such as computed tomography (CT) and magnetic resonance imaging       (MRI) can also achieve this, likewise depending on the use of contrast       agents, but they are more expensive, less immediate and less widely       available.
The Imperial microbubble group demonstrated that microbubbles can be used       as tracers following their intravenous injection as a bolus, providing       haemodynamic information that is analogous to that obtained using       radionuclide tracers and the equivalents for CT and MRI.
However, the use       of microbubbles as tracers have significant advantages which underlie the       2012 NICE recommendations for use:            They are confined to the vascular space whilst other agents diffuse         into the interstitial space complicating their behaviour.
The required mathematical modelling is simpler.
They have been found to be a marker for liver metastases and for         cirrhosis.
While conventional size measurements (the RECIST and WHO criteria)         fail to demonstrate early tumour response or resistance, the changes in         microbubbles flow characteristics give early indications of a patient's         particular tumour.
MBs provide individualised information such that follow up expensive         treatment regimens can be individually tailored.
These observations formed the basis for the recommendation by NICE that       licensed microbubble is preferred when examining abnormal-looking areas in       the liver [1].
To quote from the NICE Recommendations (page 19) [1]       "Compared with contrast-enhanced ultrasound, contrast-enhanced CT was as       effective but more costly,... Contrast-enhanced MRI with gadolinium cost       &#163;1063 more per person than contrast-enhanced ultrasound..." The European       and World Federations of Ultrasound in Medicine Guidelines (2008 and 2013,       translated into Spanish, Italian French and Chinese), all rely heavily on       research from the Imperial team [2, 3].
Similarly, use of microbubbles has been undertaken in the spleen by       Professor Adrian Lim and this is featured in the EFSUMB Guidelines 2012       [4].
An important practical development of the Imperial group's observations       on the behaviour of microbubbles is their ability to define very precisely       the microvascular perfusion of tissue.
This has led to significant cost       savings.
Professor Leen has translated this into an invaluable diagnostic       application in monitoring the increasingly used interstitial ablation of       tumours using any of a number of local thermal therapeutic approaches,       most commonly radiofrequency ablation.
These treatments seal off the blood       supply, demonstration of which confirms the adequacy of the ablation.
In       the traditional approach, under real-time ultrasound guidance, a planned       amount of tissue destruction is attempted, for example a tumour together       with a 2cm "safety margin" of surrounding liver or kidney.
Then the       patient is sent for a contrast CT scan; if the ablation has not been       adequate, they must return to the interventional room for further       treatment, usually in a new treatment session after a second general       anaesthetic.
Following successful ablation, the flow of MBs is eliminated,       and this can be monitored with contrast enhanced ultrasound immediately       after the treatment, which can be extended if necessary.
This results in       savings in time, cost and effectiveness, as evidenced in an Italian study       in which they say "Cost-effectiveness and reduction of patients'       discomfort related to the need of re-treatment are the two most       outstanding advantages of CEUS in this field."
The clinical application of this method was featured in a recent BBC-4       programme (POP!
The         Science of Bubbles) which included a clinical section showing       Professor Lim scanning a patient at Charing Cross Imperial College Trust       [5].
This underpins the wide impact that these discoveries have had,       extending beyond the medical community to the general public.
