     Impacts include: health and welfare, public policy and services,       practitioners and services, society Main beneficiaries include: patients       and the public, NHS, Department of Health, international health service       providers     There are one million new diagnoses of CRC annually worldwide.
It is the       third most commonly diagnosed cancer and the second most frequent cause of       cancer death in the UK and it is estimated that it costs the NHS in excess       of &#163;1 billion annually.
Only five months after publication of the results       of the UKFSST in October 2010, Prime Minister David Cameron announced a       &#163;60m investment over four years to incorporate FS screening at around age       55 into the current nationwide Bowel Cancer Screening Programme [1].
The       rapid decision to provide funding for incorporation of the FS screening       strategy in Bowel Cancer Screening Programme, was based on recognition       that the UK lags behind other EU countries in terms of CRC mortality       rates, and that the once-only FS screening strategy was seen as a way to       catch up with better performing countries.
A model of delivery had already       been developed and tested in a demonstration pilot in a deprived and       ethnically mixed population in London, and the processes needed to invite,       screen and follow-up the entire population had been established (the Bowel       Cancer Screening System was subsequently modified by Connecting for Health       to incorporate Professor Atkin's model for delivery of FS screening for       use in a nationwide screening programme).
From published research, it was       evident that FS screening was a feasible, acceptable and cost-effective       method of reducing CRC incidence and mortality rates, and independent       research had shown that once only FS was cost saving.
The 2011 NICE Colorectal Cancer guidelines recommend that FS be offered       to patients with major comorbidity [2; see page 8].
The EU guidelines for       colorectal screening and diagnosis state that `flexible sigmoidoscopy (FS)       screening reduces CRC incidence and mortality if performed in an organised       screening programme with careful monitoring...' [3].
US guidelines       recommend that FS is used as one of the screening approaches for men and       women over the age of 50 [4].
In its first annual report for improving       outcomes in cancer, the Department of Health stated that improving       sigmoidoscopy activity was a key priority for next year, stating       `introduction of flexible sigmoidoscopy bowel screening and the move to       more investigations of symptomatic patients mean that a key priority for       next year is to increase endoscopy activity' [5; see point 3.46 on page       43].
FS screening was approved by the UK National Screening Committee in 2011       [6], and the English NHS Bowel Cancer Screening Programme initiated       Pathfinder FS projects between January and May 2011.
The organisation and       bidding process, including development of the English database, was       initiated in 2012 [7].
Roll-out of a pilot programme began in March 2013,       and roll-out of the first wave of the full programme (wave 1 of 3) was       subsequently initiated in October 2013, with the aim of achieving 30%       coverage by 2014, 60% by 2015 and full population coverage within England       by 2016.
The immediate beneficiaries of these impacts are the UK population: from       the UKFSST findings it has been calculated that FS screening at age 55       would prevent 5,000 CRC diagnoses and 3,000 deaths in the UK each year,       and rectal cancer could be rendered a rare disease as FS is so effective       in this region.
Potential beneficiaries in the longer term include high       incidence countries in the EU and North America where the guidelines for       early detection of CRC have been recently revised, to include reference to       our work.
.
The delivery of screening strategy outcomes in England should       facilitate adoption by other countries and this may eventually prevent the       majority of deaths from distal CRC: evidence from the US that CRC       incidence rates in the distal colon are already falling dramatically as a       result of colonoscopy based screening further supports these efforts.
