     Impacts include: health and welfare, practitioners and services       Main beneficiaries include: NHS, medical students, clinical staff,       Department of Health, London Deanery, Royal College of Surgeons,       Government, WHO     As a world leader in clinical educational research, the Division of       Surgery at Imperial has influenced healthcare education and training so as       to build a safer workforce able to deliver the highest quality of care to       every patient.
At the policy level, Professor Lord Darzi's role in NHS reform and global       health has provided unique opportunities for our research to respond to       and to shape contemporary thinking.
The underpinning research and       academics in the RCSER contributed to recommendations in the Next Stage       Review (2009), "A High Quality Work Force", highlighting that all clinical       staff must have the opportunity to learn and update their skills with       modern educational techniques encompassing simulation [1; page 42].
Based       upon our research outputs, the Department of Health also produced a       strategy for innovative approaches to healthcare education emphasising the       role of simulation and other training technologies developed through our       work [2, 3].
The importance of innovative approaches to clinical skills       training developed by RCSER was also highlighted in the London Deanery       Strategic Business Plan 2008-2011 [2].
In addition to the substantial       evidence from Imperial, a recent Cochrane review has supported simulation       as a supplement to surgical training.
A key achievement is the inclusion       of simulation in the Intercollegiate Surgical Curriculum Programme (ISCP)       with the attainment of the MRCS and FRCS now requiring completion of       simulated scenarios [3; page 31].
At a local and national level, curricula have been restructured to be       systems-based and vertically integrated at both under and postgraduate       level.
New technologies encompassing virtual environments and e-learning       have been integrated into these curricula.
A close collaboration with the       Royal College of Surgeons, confirmed by a Memorandum of Understanding, has       enabled our research to make a direct impact on the changing nature of       surgical training.
The development of a UK-wide team-training programme       founded upon national consensus guidelines developed at RCSER (2013) is an       exemplar of our research translating into better training for better care       [4].
This importance of human factors training, pioneered by RCSER, was       highlighted in the CMO's report on Safer Medical Practice [5].
Our       research has directly addressed this by producing national consensus       guidelines for such training [4] and using them to train over 400       multidisciplinary healthcare professionals across London (in addition to       the 1800 doctors identified above in our patient safety training       programme).
This work has been highlighted by the Economic and Social       Research Council as an exemplar case-study for high quality research and       contributed to their strategic plan for the next 5 years [6].
Furthermore,       the London Handbook of Debriefing has been rolled out across all       simulation centres in London and the National Simulation programme in       Australia, building global capacity for simulation-based training and       leading to adoption of best practices [7].
Internationally, our researchers have been invited to form part of the       Education and Training group of the World Health Organisation (WHO)       Patient Safety where they have used their research on curricula design and       knowledge of patient safety training to develop `WHO Patient Safety       Research: A guide for developing training programmes'.
This is being used       by international audiences to build capacity and capability in patient       safety research [8].
Educational activity     Our research has led to the development and implementation of influential       training programmes:     a) Regional: The London Deanery Training Programme (LDTP), led by       Professor Hanna, has established simulation-based training for all       surgical trainees within the London region (accounting for over 50% of all       the surgical trainees in England).
The LDTP brings together many strands       of our educational research (including objective skills assessment, Hybrid       and Distributed Simulation, e-learning and simulator-based skills       training).
b) National: Laparoscopic Colorectal programme (LapCo) was       established following the 2006 NICE Guidance (http://www.nice.org.uk/TA105).
LapCo has trained over 200 Colorectal Consultants in England in       laparoscopic colorectal surgery, providing education within a framework of       objective assessment and analysis.
It has also informed the introduction       of revalidation by the GMC and led to an increase in laparoscopic       colorectal resections from &lt;5% in 2006 to 40% in 2012 [9]     c) As an Accredited Educational Institute, we have worked closely with       the American College of Surgeons.
Our research has regularly featured in       their bulletins, press releases and won an international award at their 95th       clinical congress for Excellence in Research in the field of Surgical       Education and conferences highlighting the influence of our research     d) Human Factors/Non-technical skills.
We have led the research,       integration and adoption of novel educational concepts from music and       sports into the healthcare sector, including mental practice and       deliberate practice.
For example, the robotic-assisted endovascular       surgery team at St Mary's Hospital regularly undertake full       patient-specific rehearsal to improve operative performance and ultimately       patient outcomes.
We have also run human factors training programmes       (2010-2013) using our research to train over 400 multi-disciplinary       healthcare professionals in teamworking to achieve the adoption of best       practices in patient care [4]     e) Technical Skills: RCSER has pioneered the use of motion       analysis for the assessment of manual dexterity in surgery through the       validated Imperial College Surgical Assessment Device &#8212; ICSAD.
ICSAD has       been licensed for use at several centres throughout the world (University       of Toronto, University of Western Ontario, Western Pennsylvania Hospital,       Delft University, University of Leuven, Glostrup University Hospital, and       University of Hong Kong) and has contributed to the establishment and       routine use of objective measures of technical dexterity.
