     Impacts include: commercial, health and welfare, society     Main beneficiaries: industry, patients and the public     Knee replacement is now the largest surgical industry in the developed       world, with over 80,000 replacements performed last year in England and       Wales, and more than a million performed worldwide with continued growth       predicted for many years.
However, it remains more expensive and less       successful than hip replacement.
Surgical-error remains a significant       cause of poor outcomes across the field of conventional joint replacement.
The long `learning curve' associated with a less invasive technique such       as partial replacement is a powerful force delaying the adoption of newer,       cheaper yet more effective techniques, hence the drive for technological       assistance.
From the first 27 cases published in 2006 by Imperial surgeons, over       23,000 robot assisted CT-based partial knee replacements have now been       undertaken worldwide [1].
Despite the procedure having a lower       reimbursement than Total Knee Replacement, surgeons are now noticing that       patients want a more conservative approach, and armed with the technology       that enables reliable delivery of a high standard of care, they feel safe       to offer it.
The prospects are good for this leading to a substantial       reduction in the cost of delivering appropriate care to patients with       osteoarthritis of the knee.
It is estimated that about 50% of all patients       with osteoarthritis of the knee are suitable for this approach [2].
Our technology innovations have had considerable commercial impact.
The       Imperial spin-out `Acrobot' was acquired by Stanmore Implants Worldwide in       2010 [3].
The method to improve by an order of magnitude the       intra-operative localisation of the femur, when performed through a single       small incision in the knee (patent: WO2006048651) is incorporated into the       Stanmore Sculptor Robotic Guidance Arm (RGA)[4].
The Stanmore Sculptor RGA       device obtained FDA clearance to be sold into the USA in January 2013 [5].
Following USA 510K acceptance [5], Acrobot technology and patents were       recently purchased by Mako Surgical [6].
Since their first clinical case       in 2006, shortly after our clinical trial was published, almost 25% of       partial joint replacements performed in the USA are now performed with       this approach.
The value of the business is in the public domain as       indicated by the purchase of Mako by Stryker for $1.65 billion [7; 2013].
Methods developed by Imperial researchers have also generated a       knowledge-based economy.
More than one company has used a method reported       by our group as reliable ways of orienting the tibia [8].
Informally, they       call it the `Cobb' method.
Commercial competitors have used this method       for defining the accuracy of their own systems: in 2012 (and prior to the       acquisition of Stanmore Implants Worldwide), Mako surgeons reported their       accuracy, using our method, and then compared their clinical and       radiological outcome to the `gold standard' of robotic accuracy &#8212; the       method described by us in 2006 [9].
On the back of this proven clinical       demand for accuracy, planned accurate surgery is now performed in other       ways too: CT-based are now enabling more complex procedures such as the       world's first robot assisted combined replacement and ligament       reconstruction [10]     The programme to use robotic technologies to reconstruct injured soldiers       has now gained the support of the Military, and the DMRC, Headley Court       are discussing with the MSK lab the number of soldiers to be referred       [10].
This marriage of high tech planning, prosthesis manufacture and       robotic reconstruction (BBC1 2013) was another world first [10].
