     Impacts include: health and welfare, practitioners and services, public       policy and services Main beneficiaries include: patients, health       practitioners, DoH     Chronic dizziness affects millions of people worldwide.
Professor       Bronstein and colleagues defined Visual Vertigo and developed       desensitization treatments which are recommended by DoH and used by       balance professionals worldwide.
In the DoH "Provision of adult balance       services: a good practice guide", the impact of the rehabilitation RCT is       acknowledged, as a recommendation [1]: "It has been shown that certain       balance symptoms (e.g.
visual vertigo) do not respond to physical       exercises alone; but in combination with dynamic visual stimulation,       significant improvements are noted (41) Evidence suggests that mechanical       and novel physiotherapy interventions such as virtual reality (42) and       visual flow stimulation can promote improved vestibular compensation and       rehabilitation, particularly when the patient experiences visual vertigo.
Supra-specialist balance centres should have access to such equipment."
(Note Reference 41 in the DoH document is reference (4) above).
A more recent Cochrane review (2011) on Vestibular Rehabilitation [2],       also acknowledges the positive effect of our "simulator-based visual and       self-motion stimulation" programme from our RCT (reference (4), as above).
The results of our RCT led to lectures and practical workshops for       practitioners at medical and physiotherapy meetings in the UK and       worldwide (two recent ones were in February 2012 at the American Physical       Therapy Association, and UK National Vestibular Therapy Meeting May 2012)       [3].
It must be emphasised that the latter events are `hands on' `how to       do it' sessions for rehabilitation professionals with a massive projection       to the ultimate beneficiaries, the patients.
In the UK, the majority of balance physiotherapists now actively treat       visual vertigo symptoms.
A survey amongst the 101 therapists attending the       National Vestibular Therapy Meeting (London, May 2012) showed that in       response to the question "When present, do you treat visual vertigo       symptoms: 86% = yes; 14% = no [3].
It should be noticed that before our       research there was no concept of how dizziness (an `ear' problem) could       possibly be aggravated by visual stimuli (an `eye' situation).
More       importantly, there was no structured treatment for such difficult dizzy       patients.
There is further evidence that physiotherapists are using and       teaching our treatment approach, e.g.
see J Beyts (UCLH vestibular       therapist) lecture to Royal Surrey NHS Trust, with her slides showing our       findings and treatment techniques [4].
The geographical reach of our impact extended to the USA.
At a meeting of       the ICF Consensus Conference for Vertigo (Kloster Seeon, Munich, May 2012)       Professor S Whitney, chairperson of the Vestibular Special Interest Group       of the American Physical Therapy Association (APTA) reported that of the       approximately 3000 vestibular therapists in the USA, 70% use visual motion       treatments as developed by Imperial for patients with chronic dizziness       and visually-induced symptoms.
In fact, the American Physical Therapy       Association "Patient Education Fact Sheet" describes the syndrome of       `visual vertigo', using the term we coined, our interpretation and       treatment principles [5].
They also have a dedicated podcast (aimed at       physiotherapists but open to the public) on "Visual Vertigo" and "High       Tech Vestibular and Balance Gadgets" in which the team at Imperial College       is specifically mentioned [6].
The treatment DVD that we devised and       copyrighted is also discussed.
Imperial College is copyrighting and       publishing this DVD in November so it can be easily available for patients       and therapists.
A deed of Assignment has been signed and this DVD will be       commercialised through Imperial Innovations Ltd.
