     Impacts include: health and welfare, public policy and services       Main beneficiaries include: patients, NICE, practitioners, ESMO, NCCN     Breast cancer is the most common cancer diagnosed in women worldwide.
The       research       conducted on `switching' to exemestane after 2 years of tamoxifen       treatment at Imperial College       has shown improved overall survival for patients at least 5 years       post-switching; improved quality       of life and patients have shown few long-term deleterious effects.
This       research has led to the       publication of international guidelines that impact upon the treatment of       patients with breast cancer.
The American Society for Clinical Oncology guidelines published in 2010       were developed following       the publication of the Imperial-led trial.
The guideline committee was       specifically looking at what       adjuvant therapy should be offered to postmenopausal women with hormone       receptor-positive       breast cancer.
The published recommendation, based upon data from       randomised controlled trials       (including those described above), was that postmenopausal patients should       receive an AI after 2       or 3 years of tamoxifen treatment for a total of 5 years of adjuvant       endocrine therapy [1; see page       3789].
The European Society for Medical Oncology (ESMO) clinical practice       guidelines also       recommend this course of treatment [2; page vi18].
The NICE 2009 guidelines for early and locally advanced breast cancer       also recommend the use       of exemestane as adjuvant therapy for early estrogen receptor       (ER)-positive invasive breast       cancer in postmenopausal women [3; see page 17].
The assessment report       used to inform the       recommendations in these guidelines use the research findings of Professor       Coombes and       colleagues.
The Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) granted a       Marketing       Authorisation (licence) for exemestane 25 mg (Product Licence number: PL       24668/0260) on 11       January 2011.
Their recommendation was that for `patients with early       breast cancer, treatment with       exemestane should continue until completion of five years of combined       sequential adjuvant       hormonal therapy (tamoxifen followed by exemestane), or earlier if tumour       relapse occurs' [4].
In       terms of the durability of these recommendations, the National       Comprehensive Cancer Network       (NCCN) Guidelines of the USA, dated February 2013, still recommend the       switching strategy for       adjuvant therapy of breast cancer, as well as single therapy for five       years [5].
