     Impacts include: health and welfare, public policy and services,       production, commerce, environment     Main beneficiaries include: industry, workforce, NHS, UK Health and       Safety Executive     The burden of occupational allergy and asthma is considerable.
An       estimated 3000 new cases are reported in the UK each year; the lifetime       cost of each is about &#163;125,000, half of which is met by the employee and       most of the remainder by the state, including the NHS.
In healthcare       terms, workers who develop occupational asthma generally require long-term       treatment with asthma and nasal medications and have rates of emergency       and routine hospital care higher than those among the general population       of patients with asthma.
For the employee occupational allergy, asthma and       occasionally anaphylaxis are at best disruptive since those affected are       advised to reduce or eliminate any future exposure to causal allergen; in       the worst cases the diagnosis is career-ending.
On average one third to       one half of patients are out of work 3 to 5 years from diagnosis.
The findings of our research programme have led to a true       `paradigm-shift' in understanding the determinants of occupational asthma       and methods to prevent it; it is now universally accepted that       exposure-control in the workplace is key to prevention.
The beneficiaries       are all workers exposed in the UK and other economically developed       countries who are exposed to respiratory sensitising agents at work and       for whom exposure control promises a real reduction in disease risk; and       their employers whose total costs fall.
Among its impacts have been a new focus on exposure control by the UK       Health and Safety Executive, evidenced by, among others, their guidance       notices for disease control in the baking and laboratory research sectors       [1]; each of these highlights exposure control as the primary means of       reducing the risk of occupational asthma.
Similarly, evidence-based (and award-winning) guidance, updated in 2010,       on the prevention and management of occupational asthma for employers and       occupational health professionals commissioned by the British Occupational       Health Foundation places primary importance on workplace exposure       reductions [2].
That rates of incident occupational asthma have fallen in the period       following our research findings is indicated by declining reports, by an       average of about 2% per annum, to the UK national surveillance scheme       (SWORD) [3]; by evidence that the decline coincided with the introduction       of national standards of exposure control [4] by the now very small       numbers of newly sensitised researchers in universities who have adopted       strict exposure controls; by low rates of asthma among bakers in plant       bakeries; and by one particular detergent factory in which we conducted a       series of detailed research studies as a result of which there was a       near-abolition of disease incidence through exposure control alone.
Similar reductions in incidence, nationally, have been reported in Europe       (e.g.
France [5], Belgium [6]).
Using data from SWORD over a 15 year period and a modelled estimate of       the lifetime costs of a single case of occupational asthma it is estimated       that primary exposure control has led to savings of approximately &#163;2bn       during this 15 year period [7].
