     Impacts include: health and welfare, public policy and services,       practitioners and services       Main beneficiaries include: patients, NHS, health service practitioners,       international guideline       bodies     DMD is the most common muscular dystrophy worldwide, and the most lethal,       affecting 1:3600       male births and 0.02% of the population.
It leads to gradual loss of       muscle function, ambulatory       ability, chronic ventilatory failure and eventual death.
With no known       cure, median survival is 20       years of age if left untreated.
Research at Imperial College paved the way for NIV to be the treatment of       choice in managing       ventilator failure, rather than invasive tracheostomy ventilation or a       combined non-invasive/invasive       approach.
The Duchenne Standards of Care guidelines (the major       international evidence based       consensus document), produced in 2010, indicate that NIV should be       standard treatment,       specifying that tracheostomy is indicated only if a patient cannot       successfully use non-invasive       ventilation [1].
These Standards were formally approved under the NHS       Evidence Accreditation       Scheme, provided by NICE, in 2011 [2].
An Australia consensus statement in       2008 supports the       use of NIV in children with Duchenne's, using the findings of Professor       Simonds and colleagues as       the supporting evidence [3].
The British Thoracic Society guidelines (2012) for the respiratory       management of children with       neuromuscular weakness state that NIV should be the first line treatment       for children in acute       respiratory failure [4; see page 6].
In addition, rather than waiting for       daytime ventilator failure to       develop, NIV is now initiated at the onset of symptomatic nocturnal       hypoventilation [4; see page       19].
This has impacted on all patients with DMD and related neuromuscular       disorders as NIV is       now offered to all patients, resulting in prolonged survival and improved       aspects of quality of life       (well-being, energy/vitality and social functioning).
The research has       therefore translated into a real       life therapy.
The 2011 Canadian Thoracic society guidelines on the use of home       mechanical ventilation, using       the research evidence described above to inform the recommendations,       stipulate that nocturnal       NIV should be offered to patients with diurnal hypercapnia or where there       is documented evidence       of nocturnal hypercapnia and the symptoms of hypoventilation are present       [5].
Professor       Simmonds and colleagues' 2005 randomised controlled trial is the only       recent randomised       controlled trial included in the underlying evidence used to inform these       guidelines (the other is       from 1994).
Practitioners and services:     The NHS Commissioning Board has recently consulted on their Complex Home       Ventilation       service, which outlines the use of NIV for various neuromuscular       disorders.
This service       specification consultation document (2013) illustrates how specialist       centres will assess the       respiratory and medical needs of patients with progressive neuromuscular       disease associated with       respiratory failure such as Duchenne muscular dystrophy, that have complex       care requirements       that may necessitate multi-disciplinary input [6].
The provision of such       services will increase the       positive effects on survival observed in patients receiving NIV therapy.
Information for patients has also been produced by Professor Simonds at       the request of the       Muscular Dystrophy campaign to inform patients about the causes of       breathing difficulties and the       available treatment options, informed by research evidence [7].
Action       Duchenne is a patient       created charity that functions to inform patients and carers of ongoing       research findings and to       raise funds for research.
Examples of the dissemination of research       findings by patients can be       seen via the Duchennepedia [8].
