     Impacts include: health and welfare, practitioners and services, public       policy and services Main beneficiaries include: patients, practitioners,       European Leukaemia Network, NICE, WHO, CML Charities (Leukaemia and       Lymphoma Research, Leuka, International CML Forum)     Qualitative PCR assays were first used to detect residual and/or       relapsing disease after allo-SCT for CML.
The presence of residual disease       detectable only by molecular testing is often, but not always, the prelude       to frank relapse with abnormal blood counts and inevitable progression to       the terminal and fatal phase of the disease.
Early relapse, i.e.
before       the blood counts become abnormal, can be effectively treated with further       infusions of donor T-lymphocytes (DLI), but this treatment carries the       risk of potentially fatal GvHD.
Because qualitative detection of residual       disease did not inevitably lead to increasing tumour load, it became very       important to develop a test that when measured serially, could identify       increasing tumour cell numbers and direct therapy only to patients.
When       Professor Cross, at Imperial, developed a quantitative PCR test, DLI,       given in escalating numbers every few months, it became the treatment of       choice for patients with evidence by RT-qPCR of increasing tumour burden.
Groups interested in CML sent their researchers to the laboratories of       Professors Cross, Goldman and Melo at Imperial, to learn the techniques       and return to their own centres to improve their local management.
Many of       these individuals are now amongst the most respected CML researchers in       the world and include Timothy Hughes (Adelaide) Andreas Hochhaus, (Jena)       Andreas Reiter (Mannheim), Paolo de Fabritis (Rome), Francois Mahon       (Bordeaux), and Michael Deininger (Salt Lake City).
The impact of both qualitative and quantitative PCR assays for the       detection of residual disease in CML has had far ranging effects on other       haematological malignancies.
Now any acute myeloid leukaemia characterised       by the presence of a fusion oncogene is diagnosed and monitored by RT-       qPCR assays.
The best known example is acute promyelocytic leukaemia in       which the continuing presence or not of the PML-RAR oncogene after the       first course of chemotherapy, determines the intensity of subsequent       therapy [1].
Similarly the nature and intensity of therapy of acute       lymphoblastic leukaemia, the commonest leukaemia of children, is dependent       on the detection or not by RT-PCR of immunoglobulin and/or T-cell receptor       gene rearrangements after initial treatment [2].
More recently (2010)       RT-qPCR monitoring of the JAK2 mutation has been used to detect residual       disease and monitor outcome of both SCT and chemotherpy with JAK2       inhibitors [3].
When the TKI were first introduced into general clinical practice in       2001, patients were initially monitored by blood counts and cytogenetic       examinations for the Ph' chromosome.
It soon became clear that in the       majority of patients the Ph chromosome could not be detected in the bone       marrow within 12 months of start of treatment.
Discontinuing the drug lead       to rapid relapse so there was an obvious need for a more sensitive test to       determine the level of residual disease and the potential for long-term       disease control.
Professor Cross's original engineered competitive RT-PCR       test could detect one malignant cell in 100,000 normal cells, a three log       improvement over cytogenetic analysis.
The advent of commercial equipment       for real-time quantitative measurement of residual BCR-ABL1 RNA       transcripts meant that this could be measured in diagnostic laboratories       without a special interest in CML.
As a result the use of RT-qPCR       monitoring has become the standard of care for CML patients treated with       TKI [4].
A group of recognised experts (including Professors Apperley and Goldman       representing Imperial) in the field of CML came together in 2006 through       the EuropeanLeukemiaNet (ELN), an EU-funded Network of Excellence, to       develop guidelines for the management of CML.
These guidelines were       updated in 2009 and recommend the use of RT-qPCR for all patients, defined       the optimal responder as a patient who had achieved a three log reduction       in tumour load, as measured by RT-qPCR at 18 months [4].
The ELN       recommendations and definitions of treatment failure were accepted by NICE       in 2012 and are used to justify the use of the second and third generation       TKI [5].
The latest version (2013) now defines the optimal responder as a       patient whose BCR-ABL1: ABL1 ratio as measured by RT-qPCR, has fallen       below 10% three months after start of therapy and recommends a change in       treatment to a more potent TKI if this milestone has not been reached [6].
This recommendation is based on the Imperial outcome data described above.
Those patients whose results demonstrate a tumour burden stably reduced       below 4.5 logs should be considered for cessation of therapy.
RT-qPCR       monitoring, first introduced into clinical practice by the Imperial team,       is now the accepted method of monitoring worldwide.
The RT-qPCR test is extremely sensitive and is subject to inherent       variation depending on the precise methodology employed.
In order to       harmonise the test across the world, so that patient outcome can be       compared in different countries and in different centres, and to       facilitate multi- national multi-centre clinical trials.
Professor Goldman       has headed an international project to harmonise the assay.
Together with       Professors Cross (now at Salisbury) and Hughes (Adelaide) and the UK       National Institute for Biological Standards, they have introduced the       concept of quality assurance and international standardised results by       using local correction factors, and are close to producing internationally       available standard materials.
Recently this effort was recognised by the       World Health Organisation (WHO) as the first genetic reference panel in       2010 [7].
It is notable that the molecular pathology laboratory at       Imperial remains the pre-eminent monitoring laboratory in Europe,       providing the testing for pivotal phase III commercial TKI studies of       imatinib, dasatinib and nilotinib and the UK NCRI CML SPIRIT1, 2 and 3       studies.
The Imperial CML team have always sought to involve patients in their       management and to `own' their results, as manifested by the creation of an       annual UK CML day for patients and carers and support for one of their       patients to establish the UK CML Support Group.
In the past few months the       UK CML support group have collaborated with other national groups on a       campaign to heighten awareness of the RT-PCR results, known as `What's my       PCR' [8].
