     Impacts include: health and welfare, public policy and services,       practitioners and services Main beneficiaries include: patients, BHIVA,       international guideline bodies, NHS     Following the presentation of the results of the SPARTAC trial in July       2011, the UK British HIV Association (BHIVA) guidelines writing committee       altered their recommendation for the optimum management of individuals       with asymptomatic or less severe symptoms associated with primary HIV       infection [1].
The use of ART at primary HIV infection has now become an auditable       outcome for the UK standards recommendation, encouraging clinicians       nationally to discuss the use of immediate ART for all individuals       presenting with PHI.
BHIVA guidelines suggest that the following should be discussed with       those presenting with a very short test interval (&lt;=12 weeks) or       evidence of acute HIV infection (such as rash, fever, weight loss,       diarrhoea etc).
The guidelines state: 	      A 48 week course of ART showed a benefit in delaying CD4 decline       (there was no such benefit from 12 week ART) in those individuals       presenting within 12 weeks of infection.
No study has examined whether ART started soon after seroconversion       should be continued long-term, but most clinicians would recommend that       ART should be continued once it has been started.
Initiation of a PI-based       regimen is recommended if therapy is started prior to the availability of       a genotype result based on the prevalence of transmitted rates of drug       resistance in the UK.
In addition, this is also likely to lead to a more       rapid reduction in infectivity because free virions are not infectious,       which may be particularly relevant in PHI.
There is no specific evidence to support the role of ART in PHI to       prevent onward transmission of virus but there is little reason to       consider that ART is any less effective in reducing infectivity at this       time, so long as viral suppression has been achieved [1; see pages 24-25].
The HIV treatment guidelines in the USA also reference the SPARTAC trial       as evidence for the benefit of ART in primary or recent HIV infection; the       Australian guidelines specifically reference the SPARTAC trial in their       most recent publication [2-3].
The trial has received wide news coverage       from the press and patient information groups [4-5].
The influence of the SPARTAC and the subsequent uptake of the revised       treatment guidelines result can be seen from an analysis of the proportion       of individuals starting ART at primary HIV infection in the UK, drawn from       the MRC-funded UK National Register of HIV Seroconverters.
Data covering       ART prescribing across the UK from this observational cohort have shown a       progressive increase in ART as shown below, where for the years 2008-2013,       the percentage of individuals presenting with PHI offered immediate ATR       has increased; in particular, there was a step change of 42% increase in       ART prescribing at PHI following the SPARTAC trial report in July, 2011.
As the revised guidelines cite only the SPARTAC results as the key       information underpinning the evidence for ART at PHI, we are confident       that this treatment effect is a direct consequence of our trial.
2008-2009           2009-2010           2010-2011           2011-2013                             8.3%           16.9%           14.4%           34.7%                          At Imperial College NHS Trust a new PHI pathway clinical service has been       established and on the back of this the proportions of recently infected       individuals choosing immediate ART has similarly increased since the main       trial reported in 2011.
This clinic is regularly audited.
SPARTAC has had other and wider impacts on HIV infection globally.
It has       placed primary or acute HIV infection back on the public health agenda as       a potential for long-lasting intervention (for example, see ref 6).
Owing       to the clear advantage of early therapy, SPARTAC has underpinned the move       to early diagnosis and initiation of ART in order to reduce HIV       transmission, now the subject of an international Imperial/LSH&amp;TM-led       clinical trial       (www1.imperial.ac.uk/.../hiv_trials/hiv_prevention_technologies/popart).
