     Impacts include: public policy and services, health and welfare,       practitioners and services Main beneficiaries include: NHS, practitioners,       patients     The EUROACTION preventive cardiology model is now recommended by the       current Joint European Societies Guidelines on CVD Prevention in Clinical       Practice (2012).
In Section 5.1.1 "Nurse co-ordinated prevention programmes effective         in various healthcare systems" the authors state "A nurse         coordinated multidisciplinary prevention programme in both hospitals and         primary care practices was evaluated in the EUROACTION trial studying         patients with CHD and those at high risk of CVD in eight countries....A         particular strength of the programme was the demonstration of the         feasibility of this type of programme in hospitals and general practice,         outside of specialist centres, and in eight different healthcare systems         across Europe."
So this nurse led, multidisciplinary, family centred       programme is now a recommended model of care for health systems across       Europe [1].
The Department of Health Cardiovascular Disease Outcomes       Strategy also state that CVD should be treated as family disease with       common antecedents and `that the NHS will work to develop and manage       service models to manage CVD as a family disease, in the community and in       hospital' [2; see pages 5 and 6].
For the UK the principles of the EUROACTION preventive cardiology model       were adapted by Professor Wood and his team for the NHS and a new model       (MYACTION) was developed, piloted and implemented in London in 2008.
MYACTION is an integrated vascular prevention programme (integrating       secondary and primary CVD prevention) set in public leisure facilities in       the community.
MYACTION provides a service for all general practitioners       to refer patients identified as `high risk' through the NHS Health Checks       programme.
Imperial College now licenses the MYACTION preventive       cardiology programme to the NHS, under the auspices of teaching and       research, and MYACTION programmes have been set up as a pilot in NHS       Bromley [3], NHS Westminster [4], and also in Galway, the Republic of       Ireland [5], and most recently in Stornoway in the Western Isles,       Scotland.
A large majority of patients achieve through MYACTION the       lifestyle and risk factor targets defined in the guidelines.
The       development of MYACTION based on the principles and learning from the       EUROACTION research projects has impacted directly on the NHS in England       by raising the quality of preventive care through Primary Care Trusts, and       the same for single centre programmes in Ireland and more recently in       Scotland.
MYACTION created a need for training in preventive cardiology for       physicians, nurses and allied health professionals.
Professor Wood and       colleagues set up an MSc programme in Preventive Cardiology:       Cardiovascular Health and Disease Prevention in 2008 [6].
We have trained       doctors, nurses, dieticians, physiotherapists, physical activity       specialists, pharmacists, and others in the principles and practice of       preventive cardiology.
The course is now entering its 6th year       and 42 health care professionals have graduated from our programme.
The EUROACTION trials have impacted on the development of European       guidelines on CVD prevention and the recommended delivery of preventive       care in everyday clinical practice.
They have led to the development of       the MYACTION model for the NHS and the MSc in Preventive Cardiology.
