     Impacts include: health and welfare, practitioners and services,       commercial, public policy and services       Main beneficiaries include: patients, practitioners, industry     Brain tumours account for 2% of all cancers diagnosed in the UK.
Around       4,500 people are diagnosed with a brain tumour each year in the UK, and       around 3,500 die from the disease.
Just over half, 52%, of brain tumours       diagnosed in the UK are glioma.
Prior to the clinical use of temozolomide,       median survival of glioma patients was generally less than one year       following diagnosis, where treatment included surgery and radiation       therapy.
The significant improvement in survival of glioma patients in clinical       trials, including those led by Imperial, supported the introduction of       temozolomide as the standard of care for glioma.
According to European       Society of Medical Oncology (ESMO) guidelines in 2010, the use of       temozolomide both during and post radiotherapy, as suggested by data from       Imperial researchers, is now standard of care for newly diagnosed glioma       (these concur with the current NICE recommendations) [1].
Following the licensing of temozolomide from Cancer Research Technologies       to Schering-Plough annual sales of temozolomide (Temodal) reached $1       billion in 2009 (the use of the drug increasing by 50%) [2, 3], $935       million in 2011 and $917 million in 2012 [4].
A multi-centre Phase III trial, conducted by the pharmaceutical company       independently from Imperial, confirmed that the addition of temozolomide       to radiotherapy significantly improves survival among patients with newly       diagnosed glioma.
Analysis at 5 years, showed an overall survival of 9.8%       with temozolomide and radiotherapy versus 1.9% with radiotherapy alone.
The combined treatment benefit was seen in all clinical prognostic       subgroups, including patients aged 60-70 years [5].
Prior to the       introduction of temozolomide, it was very rare for a patient to survive 5       years from a diagnosis of glioma.
A retrospective study in the United States compared survival of adult       glioma patients diagnosed during 2000-2003 prior to the use of       temozolomide (n=6,673) to patients diagnosed from 2005-2008 after       introduction of temozolomide (n=7,259), in order to evaluate       pre-temozolomide and post-temozolomide periods.
Statistical analysis of       patient survival data showed that the survival of patients with newly       diagnosed glioblastoma improved from 2000-2003 to 2005-2008 and the       authors concluded that the improved patient survival is highly likely to       be due to the introduction of temozolomide use [6].
Temozolomide has revolutionised the treatment of patients with recurrent       high-grade glioma and newly diagnosed glioma.
The team at Imperial, in       conjunction with Cancer Research Campaign, played a pivotal role in the       clinical development of this drug, its anti-tumour effect, scheduling and       use which is now providing clinical and survival benefit to patients with       high grade glioma.
