     Impacts include: health and welfare, public policy and services, society,       economy Main beneficiaries include: NHS, patients, Care Quality       Commission, Department of Health     Our methodological research forms the basis of a near Real-Time       Monitoring System (RTM as it is known) produced by Dr Foster Intelligence       and is currently used by 70% of English NHS acute trusts to assist them in       monitoring a variety of casemix adjusted outcomes at the level of       diagnosis group and procedure group [1].
Dr Foster Intelligence is an       independent healthcare information company and joint venture with the UK       Department of Health.
It provides a research grant to the unit to develop       indicators and methodologies to assist in the analysis of healthcare       performance.
We work with the Care Quality Commission, contributing to its       surveillance remit using the same methods and data to generate mortality       alerts from within our unit since 2007, based on more extreme thresholds       [2].
This mortality alerting system, which looks at all acute       non-specialist NHS trusts in England, was pivotal in alerting the then       Healthcare Commission to problems (between July and November 2007) at the       Mid Staffordshire NHS Foundation Trust (investigation in 2009) [3].
The       resulting Public Inquiry recognised the role that our work on HSMRs and       our surveillance system of mortality alerts had to play in identifying Mid       Staffs as an outlier [4].
Key recommendations made in 2013 reflecting our       unit's work, are that all healthcare provider organisations should develop       and maintain systems which give effective real-time information on the       performance of each of their services, specialist teams and consultants in       relation to mortality, patient safety and minimum quality standards [5].
A       further recommendation is that summary hospital-level mortality indicators       should be recognised as official statistics [6].
As a result of our leading role in the development of hospital mortality       measures, in 2010 we were invited to contribute to a Department of Health       Commissioned expert panel (Steering Group for the National Review of the       Hospital Standardised Mortality Ratio) to develop a national indicator of       hospital mortality [7].
The resultant Summary-level Hospital Mortality       Indicator (SHMI; based in part on HSMR methods) is now a public indicator       used by all acute trusts and guidance from Professor Sir Bruce Keogh       suggests that a relatively "poor" SHMI should trigger further analysis or       investigation by the hospital Board [8].
The recent review (published in       July 2013) into the quality of care and treatment provided by 14 hospital       trusts with consistently high mortality in either measure (with Professor       Jarman on the Advisory Group), led to 11 out of the 14 trusts identified       being immediately placed on special measures.
The other three hospital       trusts were also mandated to make improvements.
Actions required included:       immediate closure of operating theatres; rapid improvements to out of       hours stroke services; instigating changes to staffing levels and       deployment; and dealing with backlogs of complaints from patients.
The       review also informs the way in which hospital reviews and inspections are       to be carried out with the recommendation that mortality should be used as       part of a broad set of triggers for conducting future inspections [9].
An international system for comparing benchmarks for individual diagnoses       and procedures based on our methods and developed with the unit is also       used by Academic Health Science Centres in the USA, Australia, Holland,       Italy and Belgium to stimulate international comparisons of treatment       pathways and more detailed methods to compare systems.
As an example,       University Hospitals Coventry &amp; Warwickshire NHS Trust (UHCW)       collaborated with Yale-New Haven Hospital (YNHH) to reduce delays in       treatment of acute myocardial infarction, leading to improved outcomes       [10].
