     Impacts include: health and welfare, practitioners and services, public       policy and services Main beneficiaries include: patients, practitioners,       British HIV Association and international guideline bodies     Multicentric Castleman's disease (MCD) is an infrequent       lymphoproliferative disorder first described in 1954.
The original reports       were of a relatively indolent illness, however a more aggressive and       disseminated form of the illness, plasmablastic MCD, was found in people       living with HIV and is associated with the presence of KSHV in the       pathological plasmablasts.
These patients present with rapidly progressing       life threatening systemic symptoms attributable to cytokine release and       many require intensive care treatment.
No standard treatment was       established and combination antiretroviral therapy had no influence on the       incidence or course of the illness with only half the patients surviving a       year.
Over the last decade due to the research described, the combination       of pathophysiology based diagnostics and rational targeted therapy has       dramatically improved survival.
Since the introduction of rituximab based therapy and the use of plasma       KSHV viral quantification in diagnosis and monitoring of disease activity       the overall survival of patients treated at the National Centre for HIV       Malignancy at Chelsea and Westminster Hospital (the largest cohort of MCD       patients in the UK) has improved by almost 60%.
For 49 patients treated       with the Rituximab based approach since 2003, the overall survival at 5       years was 90% compared to 33% in the 12 patients treated before Rituximab       was introduced [1].
These survival rates were supported by groups in       France (5 year survival of 90% following rituximab treatment, compared       with 47% in patients treated without rituximab) and Germany (confirmed the       improvement in survival when rituximab was included in the treatment       strategy [2, 3].
An additional benefit of the use of rituximab is a significant decrease       in the risk of developing lymphoma in patients with HHV8-associated MCD       treated with rituximab that was first observed at Imperial and was       confirmed in France [2].
This remarkable breakthrough in the management of       MCD has been widely accepted and Professor Bower was invited by the       American Society of Haematology to write a position statement (their "How       I treat" series published in Blood on the management of HIV associated       MCD) [4].
The treatment strategy has been adopted into national treatment       guidelines.
The only evidence- based treatment guidelines for HIV       associated MCD are published by BHIVA (British HIV association) in 2008       and advocate the use of Rituximab in MCD [5].
The approach is also       recommended in the UptoDate guidelines [6].
Review publications from US       and Europe similarly recommend adopting this strategy in the management of       MCD [7-9].
This bench to bedside translational research development has had an       enormous impact on the survival of a relatively small number of patients       globally; very few oncological advances in the last decade have had such a       dramatic effect, doubling 5 year overall survival.
