     Impacts include: health and welfare, public policy and services,       practitioners and services Main beneficiaries include: patients,       practitioners, NICE, European Society, Society of Interventional Radiology     For many years, there was no evidence at what diameter it would benefit       the patient to undergo elective surgery for AAA to reduce the rupture risk       and hence death rate.
Many patients were receiving intervention at an       early stage (with small aneurysms) without evidence to support this       practice.
The UKSAT provided those data to set intervention at 5.5cm, by       proving a surveillance strategy was safe for patients below this size.
UKSAT, alongside a second UK aneurysm screening study (MASS), UKSAT       informed the treatment strategy for population screening for AAA after the       research showed that the number of death from burst aneurysms could be       reduced by up to 50%, and as a consequence a National UK screening       initiative has recently been instituted [1].
The Swedish Council on       Technology Assessment in Health Care (2008) also identified screening for       AAA in men [2].
At the time of UKSAT, the only well recognised treatment option was open       repair of AAAs.
AAA prevalence in 65 year old men in 2012 was 1.8% of the       population.
Now &gt;75% in the US and &gt;50% patients in Western Europe       receive EVAR.
Data collected by Biba MedTech Insights for the European       Vascular and Endovascular Monitor (originally set up by Professor       Greenhalgh) shows the growth in the use of EVAR as compared with open       repair (which has decreased) [3].
This growth correlates with the       publication of mortality results from the Imperial group after 30 days, 5       and 10 years follow up.
The mortality data provided the evidence       clinicians needed to be convinced of the safety of using EVAR.
2010 Guidelines from the European Society [4] and the Society of       Interventional Radiology [5] support the expansion in use of EVAR,       including the intervention threshold described above (5.5cm), drawing       evidence from the trials and studies of this Imperial research program.
Guidelines for the use of EVAR have been drawn up for the treatment of AAA       in two separate populations: Those fit for open repair (EVAR-1) and those       unfit (EVAR-2).
As well as influencing guidelines across the world, this research shaped       the NICE guidelines "Endovascular stent-grafts for the treatment of       abdominal aortic aneurysms" (February 2009) [6].
Professor Greenhalgh was       also invited to inform the Guideline Development Group's discussions as a       clinical specialist.
The NICE guidelines state that:            Endovascular stent-grafts are recommended as a treatment option for         patients with unruptured infra-renal AAAs, for whom surgical         intervention (open surgical repair or endovascular aneurysm repair) is         considered appropriate (see page 1, point 1.1)       The decision on whether EVAR is preferred over open surgical repair         should be made jointly by the patient and their clinician after         assessment of a number of factors (see page 1, point 1.2)          The Model of Care document for AAA in Australia also recommends       Endovascular stent grafts as one of two treatment options in the repair of       aneurysms [7; see page 21].
This document justifies intervention by either       open or endovascular repair for aneurysms &gt; 5.5cm referencing UKSAT.
The EVAR trials 30 day mortality results (2004), 5 years results (2005)       and 10 year results (2010) impacted on the use of EVAR preferentially to       open repair.
