     Impacts include: health and welfare; public policy and services;       practitioners and services;       economic       Main beneficiaries include: patients; NICE; NHS; international policy       makers     In the United Kingdom, one in three adults have hypertension and there       are approximately 16       million hypertensive individuals who are at excess risk of cardiovascular       events including coronary       heart disease (CHD) events and strokes.
High blood pressure has been       identified by the World       Health Organisation (WHO) as the number one risk factor contributing to       global death and       disability.
In its 2002 report, WHO concluded that hypertension       contributed to about 50% of CHD       events and 75% of strokes.
Despite the availability of various treatments,       the residual risk amongst       hypertensive patients remains high.
Outcomes from ASCOT has added new       knowledge to the       definition of optimal treatment strategies to confer better outcomes for       patients with hypertension       including: i) primary prevention with statin therapy and ii) optimal blood       pressure lowering       strategies using combinations of hypertensive drugs.
The results from the ASCOT trial have had a major impact on national and       international guidelines       for blood pressure and lipid-lowering [1-5].
The 2011 NICE guidelines now       advocate the use of       calcium channel blockers for first line use in the majority of       hypertensive patients [1].
Further, statin       therapy is now recommended by NICE as part of the management strategy for       the primary       prevention of cardiovascular disease for those who are at high risk [2].
Statin therapy is also       recommended internationally, as illustrated in the 2011 Canadian       Hypertension Education       guidelines.
The Canadian guidelines recommend the use of statin therapy in       hypertensive patients       with three or more cardiovascular risk factors, as specified in the ASCOT       trial [3; see page 426].
The European (European Society of Hypertension and European Society of       Cardiology ) guidelines       recommend statin therapy for hypertensive patients at moderate to high       cardiovascular risk, stating       `the benefit of adding a statin to antihypertensive treatment was       well-established by the ASCOT-       LLA study' [4; see page 2207].
The increasing use of combinations of antihypertensive drugs including       calcium-channel-blockers       and angiotensin-converting-enzymes, and the increasing use of statins [1,       2, 4, 5] in the context of       the primary prevention of cardiovascular disease is evident from       successive iterations of the Heath       Survey for England (HSE) 2004, 2006, 2008 and 2011 [6].
The 2011 data from       HSE confirms this       positive trend which has been associated, amongst other interventions,       with the remarkable       decline in mortality rates from cardiovascular disease in the United       Kingdom (40% reduction in       males and 38% reduction in females) [6].
Furthermore, based on ASCOT data, health economic analyses have confirmed       both the cost       effectiveness of amlodipine-based treatment (about &#163;8,000 per QALY gained)       and that of       atorvastatin, when used in hypertensive patients (about &#163;10,000 per QALY       gained) [7].
These       costs are now substantially less due to the availability of generic       formulations of the drugs.
