     Impacts include: health and welfare; public policy and services;       practitioners and services Main beneficiaries include: patients; NICE;       health professionals; industry; international guideline bodies     The relatively healthy elderly aged 80 and over are one of the fastest       growing sectors of the population, both in the UK and globally (in both       developed and developing countries).
Systolic blood pressure tends to rise       with age as does the risk of cardiovascular and cerebrovascular events and       dementia.
The rise in blood pressure with ageing means that a substantial       proportion of those aged 80 and over suffer from hypertension, estimated       at ~70% in the UK (Health Survey for England 2009).
The results of the       HYVET research not only show the reduction in risk of cardiovascular       events but the identification of a safe goal blood pressure in this group       and are applicable to a large and growing group.
This Imperial-led study       was the first in this age group and has directly influenced hypertension       guidelines internationally.
The results from HYVET have shaped hypertension guidelines in the UK,       Europe, Canada, Japan, the USA, China, Russia, Latin America, and South       Africa.
In the UK the NICE guidelines (2011) indicate that people aged &#8805;80       should be treated [1] and the consultation on new indicators for the UK       2013/14 Quality and Outcomes Framework (QOF) proposes inclusion of new       indicators specifically for the over 80s, using the HYVET goal systolic       blood pressure [2].
The European guidelines (2009) now recommend that antihypertensive       treatment can be extended to help patients aged 80 years and above,       stating that `gap in the evidence has been filled with...the results of       HYVET' [3].
The Canadian Hypertension Education Program (2009) `specifically       recommends that age not be used as a factor in prescribing' based on HYVET       results [4].
The Japanese guidelines (2009) now specify that hypertension       should be treated in patients of all ages [5; chapter 3] and the adequate       antihypertensive treatment is recommended in elderly patients (chapter 8).
Guidelines on hypertension in China, Latin America, Russia [6-8] also       recommend treatment of high blood pressure in the elderly and cite HYVET.
Beyond the ten sources of evidence provided, we can also evidence changes       to guidelines in Taiwan and South Africa.
A consensus document in the US on hypertension in the elderly (American       College of Cardiology Foundation/American Heart Foundation, 2011)       concludes that HYVET provides clear evidence that blood pressure lowering       drugs are associated with definite cardiovascular benefits in patients 80       years and over and US guidelines from the National Heart Lung and Blood       Institute (JNC8) are expected to include HYVET at their next update [9].
More generally, medical professionals globally have benefitted in terms       of receiving clearer guidance, elderly individuals benefit in health terms       and health service providers in economic terms.
A Swiss group have       calculated that applying the results of HYVET means a lower total cost per       patient receiving antihypertensive treatment as compared to an untreated       group and that the additional medication cost is covered by the reduction       of costs related to the treatment of strokes, myocardial infarction and       heart failure.
The potential decrease in incident dementia and fracture       suggests that this may be an underestimate [10].
The pharmaceutical company (Servier) that provided part of the funding       and the medication for HYVET report that in the company financial year       during which the HYVET results were published their own sales of       indapamide (the first line medication used in HYVET) rose by 4% across 11       countries.
Data provided by Servier also show generic indapamide sales       increasing year on year from 2009 to 2012 with the largest increase in the       Sustained Release formulation as used in the trial.
