     Impacts include: health and welfare, public policy and services,       international development Main beneficiaries include: UNAIDS,       International Government bodies, international donors     The methods developed at Imperial are used by UNAIDS, the UN agency with       responsibility to lead the international response to AIDS (www.unaids.org),       to generate AIDS statistics for almost every country in the world (http://www.unaids.org/en/dataanalysis/).
These statistics are used by countries and international donors (e.g.
the       Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria) to track the epidemic       and determine funding and policy decisions for HIV prevention and       treatment interventions.
These estimates have been crucial in describing       the scale and the nature of the HIV epidemic.
Without this basic       information, effective and sustained action against the epidemic would not       have been possible.
Furthermore, it would not be possible to detect       reductions in HIV prevalence that may be ascribed to programmes, which are       expected to be vital in strengthening the response to epidemics.
Without       these estimates, neither the numbers in need of treatment nor the       potential impact of interventions would have been known, both of which       have been crucial in allowing major international and bilateral donors to       donate billions of dollars to tackling HIV.
The routine use and impact of these statistics are typified by citations       by President George W Bush as he announced the President's Plan for AIDS       Relief (PEPFAR, which continued between 2008 and 2013) and more recently       by President Barack Obama and Senator Hilary Clinton in public addresses       in 2009, 2011 and 2012.
In his keynote speech in 2009, President Obama is       quoted as saying: "Globally, there are over 33 million people living with       HIV.
While millions have died from this disease, the death rate is slowly       declining due, in part, to our Nation's global effort through the       President's Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief (PEPFAR) program."
[1].
In a       keynote speech (2012), Hilary Clinton cited the UNAIDS estimates of HIV       impact: "Just last week, UNAIDS announced that, over the past decade, the       rate of new HIV infections has dropped by more than half in 25       low-and-middle-income countries, most of them in Sub-Saharan Africa.
Just       listen to these numbers: In Zimbabwe, a 50% reduction; in Namibia, a 68%       reduction; and in Malawi, a 73% in the rate of new infections.
So as we       continue to drive down the number of new infections and drive up the       number of people on treatment, eventually we will be able to treat more       people than become infected every year.
That will be the tipping point.
We       will then get ahead of the pandemic, and an AIDS-free generation will be       in our sight.
Now, we don't know how long it will take to do this       everywhere..." [2].
The only source for the statistics is the UNAIDS       reports that are developed using the Imperial methods.
For each country, UNAIDS also recommends application of the `Modes of       Transmission' model (research reference 4) as part of a UNAIDS-GAMET       (Global AIDS Monitoring and Evaluation Team) supported synthesis process,       a component of the UNAIDS `know your epidemic, know your response'       strategy, and the World Bank's Epidemic, Response and Policy Syntheses       [3].
Over 30 countries have completed, or are currently conducting,       analyses with the model [4, 5].
The results from these applications have       been used for the design of prevention programmes, for resource allocation       and prioritisation and to inform the development of national strategic       planning for HIV.
In many cases, the findings have led to realignment of       funding, sometimes increasing the focus of intervention in key populations       that had been previously neglected.
For example, in Morocco strategic       information has been used to optimize the allocation of resources [6].
The       distribution of the people newly infected with HIV according to the       Imperial-developed model was compared with recent spending patterns to       focus future prevention planning.
As a result, the 2012-2016 National       Strategic Plan for Morocco proposed to allocate 63% of AIDS resources       towards prevention among key populations at higher risk, up from about 25%       according to the 2008 spending assessment, which the model indicated would       generate a far greater health impact in that setting.
Estimates of Mother-To-Child Transmission events and numbers in need of       Antiretroviral Therapy in every country in the world are used by WHO to       track progress toward their goals of eliminating mother-to-child       transmission and universal access to antiretroviral therapy [7].
The UN       methods of estimating child mortality were updated to correct for the bias       effects that our research demonstrated, and these estimates are now used       to measure progress against a key Millennium Development Goal [8].
Without       a demonstration of that effect, it is possible that child mortality could       have been substantially under-estimated which could have resulted in an       inappropriate reduction in focus on child mortality in post-2015 targets.
