     Impacts include: health and welfare, public policy and services,       international development       Main Beneficiaries include: Governments, WHO     Prior to the references 1 and 2 above, there was virtually no       quantitative evidence base for       planning for influenza pandemic containment or mitigation.
The research of       Professor Ferguson       and colleagues at Imperial supported UK and international pandemic       preparedness policy, notably       in (a) influencing the size of antiviral stockpile purchased and policies       on treatment and       prophylaxis, (b) policies on the use of travel restrictions and school       closure for pandemic       mitigation.
It also supported WHO planning for pandemic containment.
Work       during the pandemic       provided estimates of pandemic severity and transmissibility and informed       government policies       about the appropriate level of interventions to introduce in the UK, US       and globally.
Impact on policy formulation for influenza pandemic planning:       The research showed that for containment of an emergent severe pandemic to       be feasible, the       outbreak would need to be detected when cases numbers were still limited       (&lt;~100).
This research       finding directly influenced the 2009 WHO guidelines for pandemic       surveillance [1, page 3], building       on the earlier WHO protocol for pandemic containment [2, pages 2, 4, and       23].
Professor Ferguson       actively advised WHO directly during the formulation of these and other       guidelines.
Research on pandemic mitigation and the impact of travel restrictions       informed UK policy decisions       on pandemic planning &#8212; most notably, providing evidence to support       stockpiling antiviral drugs and       for their use for treatment and prophylaxis, in recommendations that       travel restrictions would have       a limited role in mitigation, and in recommendations around the potential       use of school closure as a       public health measure.
Much of this evidence was synthesised via the Dept.
of Health (DH) UK       Scientific Pandemic Influenza Advisory Committee (SPI) Modelling subgroup       evidence summaries,       [3A cites research references 1 and 2, plus unpublished work for DH on       antiviral prophylaxis, while       source 3B cites most of the research listed above].
In turn, these       modelling evidence summaries       informed national planning assumptions and policy on travel restrictions,       antiviral stockpiling and       use and school closure.
The recent (2011) UK Pandemic Preparedness       strategy [4] cites Imperial       College work on travel restrictions (page 38), work on the use of       antivirals for prophylaxis (page       41), and analysis of the 2009 pandemic (page 11).
Additional corroboration       on the influence of the       MRC Centre's work is available from DH.
The research also informed pandemic planning in Europe (e.g.
European       Centre for Disease       Prevention and Control [ECDC] 2009 antiviral recommendations [5; ref 19,       cited on pages 5, 11, 17       and 19]) and the United States (US Homeland Security Council Key Elements       of Departmental       Pandemic Influenza Operational Plans 2008 [6; references 31 and 32].
Interestingly, while plans in       Europe and the US were both heavily informed by Professor Ferguson's       research (and role on       multiple advisory panels), the resulting policies differed in emphasis: in       the EU, more focus was       placed on the stockpiling and use of antivirals, while in the US, emphasis       was placed on the       potential for intensive use of non-pharmaceutical interventions (e.g.
school closure) to achieve       pandemic mitigation.
Additional corroboration on the impact of this work       on US policy is available       from DHHS in the US.
The work of the MRC Centre for Outbreak Analysis and modelling continues       to have a lasting       impact on policy for pandemic planning.
The 2013 WHO guidance for Pandemic       Influenza Risk       Management cites 5 papers from Centre staff [7, reference 31, 32, 39, 40,       53 in References       section on page 34 and citations throughout text].
Impact on public policy-making in response to the 2009 H1N1 pandemic:       During the 2009 H1N1 pandemic, the MRC Centre at Imperial provided       real-time analyses for       WHO and multiple governments (notably the UK and US, but also including       Mexico and China).
Professor Ferguson acted as advisor to the WHO Emergency Committee       throughout the 2009       H1N1 pandemic, and was also a member of the WHO Ad Hoc Policy Strategic       Advisory Group of       Experts Working Group on influenza A (H1N1) vaccines.
He was a member of       the UK Scientific       Advisory Group for Emergencies (SAGE; and the modelling subgroup) and the       US CDC's `Team B'       advisory group.
Much of the real-time research undertaken was published after the       pandemic, but influenced policy       formulation at the time.
The single most influential piece of work was the       initial assessment of the       pandemic (research reference 6), which played a substantial role in (a)       informing the WHO       decision to move from pandemic phase 4 to 5; (b) reassuring policymakers       that the H1N1       pandemic was no `severe', and therefore default UK, US and WHO policy       which had been       formulated to mitigate a severe pandemic (e.g.
arising from H5N1) could be       appropriately modified       (e.g.
cessation of the UK `containment' phase and of using school closure       in the US, policies on       use of vaccines).
Much of the UK modelling advice was summarised in updates published       throughout the pandemic       by the `SPI-M-O' advisory group [8]: these summaries are referred to in       multiple UK SAGE and DH       policy documents, and in the `Lessons learned' inquiry reports following       the pandemic (e.g.
the       Hine review).
However, the nature of both research and policy-making in an       emergency means the       impact of the MRC Centre's research is most easily corroborated by the       individuals listed under       `Sources' below.
