     Impacts include: health and welfare; public policy and services;       international development Main beneficiaries include: patients; WHO; GPEI     The Global Polio Eradication Initiative (GPEI) is the largest coordinated       public health effort in history, with an `endgame' budget during 2013-2018       of $5.5 billion.
The four spearheading partners of the GPEI are the WHO,       US Centers for Disease Control (CDC), Rotary International and UNICEF.
The       vaccine epidemiology research group at Imperial College London has       provided critical information that has driven strategy at the GPEI and       helped to support polio eradication.
In 2013 we were formally recognised       as the WHO collaborating institute on polio data analysis and modelling.
Perhaps most significantly, our research has provided evidence that       contributed to changing polio immunisation strategies in India, which       resulted in the elimination of infection from that country in 2011.
The       GPEI Strategic Plan 2010-12 [1] notes that `Compounding the problem of       achieving sufficiently high population immunity to stop transmission in       western Uttar Pradesh, and possibly in central Bihar, is the compromised       efficacy of OPV compared with the rest of India15' (see page       18); citing our work demonstrating OPV failure in northern India (research       reference 2).
Our subsequent demonstration of the greater efficacy of       monovalent and bivalent vaccines licensed in 2005 and 2009 respectively,       together with the geographic and targeted approaches described in the       Strategic Plan for 2010-2012, led to the eradication of polio from India,       with the last case reported in January 2011 (www.polioeradication.org).
Only three countries remain endemic for polio, and the group at Imperial       works closely with government and WHO staff in these countries and in WHO       headquarters to analyse surveillance data and optimise vaccination       strategy and campaign quality.
For example, Dr O'Reilly was in northern       Afghanistan and Pakistan in July 2012 to monitor programme performance,       drawing from her findings on vaccination coverage and efficacy.
In the GPEI Strategic Plan 2010-2012, the Executive Summary identifies at       the outset four `major lessons learned', which each led to major changes       in the eradication programme.
Two of these lessons drew directly from our       research findings on immunity induced by newly licensed poliovirus       vaccines and the epidemiology of poliovirus in endemic and re-infected       countries.
The first lesson learnt was that immunity thresholds to stop polio       differ, being higher in Asia than Africa, leading to a `"Geographic"       strategy, with OPV campaign and monitoring strategy tailored to local       circumstances.
This was based on our findings that "The differential       progress by country towards polio eradication globally has long suggested       that the population immunity thresholds at which WPV transmission stops       can differ substantially between geographic areas, with implications for       programme strategy, planning, and prioritization" [1; see page 12, where       research references 1 and 4 are the cited evidence].
The resulting       `process indicators' in the Strategic Plan include targets based on our       estimates of vaccine-induced immunity [1; see page 15].
Our work is       therefore central to this new strategy and we provide updated analysis       when requested by the GPEI.
As a result of these targeted approaches to       polio eradication and efforts to improve vaccination campaign coverage,       the global incidence of poliomyelitis is at an all time low (just 223       cases in 2012).
The second lesson drawing from our work was that `Routes of poliovirus       spread &amp; outbreaks are now largely predictable', leading to, among       others, `Pre-planned, synchronized campaigns.'
We had shown that polio       outbreaks in sub-Saharan Africa could be predicted with reasonable       accuracy 6 months ahead of time using a simple statistical (mathematical)       model (described in research reference 6 above).
The Strategic Plan notes       that `In view of the substantial resource demands of implementing this       [pre-emptive vaccination campaign] strategy, a mathematical model has been       developed to help prioritize countries and areas based on the risk of both       an importation and a subsequent outbreak (Figure 4).
Regular assessments       of polio immunity among the "WPV importation belt" countries using NP AFP       data, this model and other relevant information, will continue to inform       this prioritization.
'; Figure 4 was provided by us, based on work       described in research reference 6 [1; see page 35].
We therefore continue       to provide assessments and forecasts of the risk of outbreaks in       sub-Saharan Africa to support immunization planning.
These risk       assessments allow the programme to prioritize vaccination campaigns in a       time of serious resource constraints, maximising the cost-effectiveness of       the programme.
The World Health Assembly (May 2012) and WHO Strategic Advisory Group of       Experts (SAGE) recently recommended a switch from trivalent to bivalent       OPV during routine immunisation and global cessation of vaccination with       any serotype-2-containing OPV.
The motivation for this switch came from       the recognition of the significant burden of vaccine-associated paralytic       poliomyelitis (VAPP) and vaccine-derived poliovirus outbreaks associated       with continued use of a serotype 2 OPV, when this serotype of       wild-poliovirus was eradicated over 10 years previously.
Our work       demonstrating equivalent pathogenicity and transmissibility of serotype 2       vaccine-derived and wild-type poliovirus was an important piece of       evidence underlying this decision [2].
Our work demonstrating rapid waning of intestinal mucosal immunity       following vaccination with OPV and the detection of vaccine and wild-type       poliovirus in stool samples collected from OPV vaccinated children       provided motivation for two clinical trials on the use of inactivated       poliovirus vaccine (IPV) to boost intestinal immunity (Grassly et al.
J       Infect Dis 2009, 2010, 2012).
The first of these trials was led by WHO and       enrolled 990 children in northern India [3].
Results from this trial, for       which Professor Grassly is a co-investigator, were presented to WHO SAGE       in November 2012 for their consideration.
They provided evidence for one       of the benefits of IPV that led to the WHO SAGE recommendation made in       January 2013 for universal vaccination with IPV at the time of the switch       from trivalent to bivalent OPV in routine programmes [4].
