     Impacts include: health and welfare; society; public policy and services;       environment; production Main beneficiaries include: UK and Welsh Assembly       Governments, Defra, cattle industry     Bovine TB in cattle remains a high priority for the Defra and one of the       key challenges facing cattle farmers, particularly in the west and south       west of England and in Wales.
Although the Krebs Committee (of which       Professor Donnelly was a member) identified in 1997 "compelling" evidence       that badgers were involved in transmitting infection to cattle, it was the       Randomised Badger Culling Trial (RBCT, 1998-2006) which demonstrated       conclusively that badger transmission contributed significantly to the       incidence of bovine TB in cattle and that badger culling could       significantly decrease that incidence.
Badger culling is a politically       sensitive issue, and the results of this trial have been critically       examined by various stakeholders.
They have undoubtedly stimulated public       debate [1] and have informed Government policy.
In light of the trial results, Defra had considered Government-led (and       Government-funded) culling but their impact assessment showed that the       costs were "too high to justify the benefits achieved in the RBCT" (para       3.26 [2]).
Instead the Government proposed that farmers apply for licences       to undertake farmer-led badger culling to control TB in cattle.
The       Government [3, 4, 5] used scientific evidence published by Professor       Donnelly and colleagues as the basis for several of their proposed       criteria for culling licenses, including:            that the culling areas were large (at least 150sq-km, based on         extrapolation of RBCT results);       that there is land access for culling for &gt;70% of the area (as in         the RBCT);       that culling in a licensed area would be carried out annually for at         least 4 years (as undertaken in the RBCT proactive areas).
The Government stated that "the RBCT provides the best scientific       evidence available from which to predict the effects of a future culling       policy" [5; see page 1].
The research impacted upon the Welsh government, who similarly proposed       to undertake badger culling in a large area, again based on the RBCT       finding that the overall benefits were increased as the culling area       increased in absolute size ("based on previous experience and studies of       badger culling strategies, including the latest published results of the       Randomised Badger Culling Trial (RBCT), reducing the reservoir of       infection in this way is expected to reduce the number of confirmed cattle       herd breakdowns in the area.
There is evidence from the RBCT that 40-50%       of confirmed herd breakdowns in high incidence areas can be attributed to       a local badger source.
Although the RBCT differs considerably from the       approach we are proposing for the Intensive Action Area, the analysis of       its results suggests that a sustained reduction in confirmed herd       breakdowns within the area following culling can be achieved.")
[6; see       page 5].
Furthermore, the Welsh government proposal followed the RBCT protocol of       culling using cage-trapping and shooting and used RBCT results to predict       the expected minimum impact: "The data from the RBCT shows that there was       a benefit in the cull area but there was a short term increase in bovine       TB in cattle in the surrounding area.
Accounting for this, at the end of a       cull and post cull period of 10 years, we expect to have reduced bovine TB       by approximately 22%, overall preventing an estimated 83 confirmed herd       breakdowns that would otherwise have occurred in the absence of culling       badgers in the area."
[6; see page 5]     On 20 March 2012 the Welsh Government [7] announced it would launch a       badger vaccination project, rather than a badger culling programme, as       part of its work to eradicate cattle TB from Wales.
This decision was       based on the judgement that the effects of culling, informed by RBCT       results, would be not sufficient "to eliminate or substantially reduce the       incidence of bovine TB in cattle" [7].
