     Impacts include: health and welfare, commerce, public policy and       services, practitioners and       services       Main beneficiaries include: patients, NHS, NICE, industry, international       guideline bodies     Severe perinatal asphyxia is a serious complication occurring in about       1-3 infants in every 1000 births (approximately 1500-2000 infants in the       UK) with a 60% risk of death or disability in survivors.
Following the       studies carried out by Professors Azzopardi and Edwards, therapeutic       hypothermia is now recognised as a significant advance in clinical       medicine by the National Institute of Health and Clinical Excellence       (NICE) and the British Association of Perinatal Medicine (BAPM) in 2010       for general introduction into the NHS [1-2].
Professor Azzopardi set up a National Registry, known as the TOBY       register, of treatment with hypothermia which provides guidance for       clinicians and has led to co-ordinated implementation of this therapy       nationally [3].
The Register, coordinated by the National Perinatal       Epidemiology Unit, Oxford, also undertakes surveillance and audit and       provides feedback to participants and publishes regular newsletters and       reports.
Professor Azzopardi developed guidelines and protocols on       therapeutic hypothermia that are used widely in neonatal networks       throughout the UK.
Both NICE and the BAPM recommend that the details of       neonates who receive the cooling treatment be entered into the TOBY       register [1-2].
The latest analysis of Register data published by       Professor Azzopardi in PLOS in 2012 showed that this therapy is now       standard care in the UK [3].
For example, the TOBY register clinician's       handbook provides practical guidelines to the selection of infants and       their clinical management and is widely used [3].
Data from the clinical       trials of hypothermia and the National Register indicate that as a result       of therapeutic hypothermia 100 fewer infants annually develop cerebral       palsy due to birth asphyxia.
Since inception of the Register it is       estimated that there has been a cost saving to the health economy of about       &#163;150M.
Nationwide surveys modelled on the UK Register have been carried       out in Switzerland and Japan [4].
This work has also impacted international guidelines and clinical       protocols [5].
For example; the American Heart Association (AHA) &amp;       American Academy of Paediatrics (2010) recommends "Therapeutic hypothermia       (whole body or selective head cooling) recommended for infants &#8805; 36 weeks       with moderate to severe hypoxic ischemic encephalopathy as per the       protocol used in major cooling trials with provision for monitoring for       side effects and long term follow up".
In 2010 this guidance was updated       and changed to reflect the findings of the Imperial lead TOBY study       published in 2009 [5].
Professor Azzopardi's classification of the amplitude integrated EEG for       assessing the severity of neonatal encephalopathy and its use for infant       selection into neuroprotective trials using a British designed monitor       first developed in the 1960s, led to the further development of modern       digital portable cot-side brain function monitors that now are used       routinely in neonatal intensive care units (eg The CFM Olympic Brain       Monitor, Natus       Ltd USA).
To carry out the MRC-funded international TOBY trial of cooling therapy       for neonatal encephalopathy Professor Azzopardi successfully used a       simple, modified cooling mattress originally designed for topical cooling       in adults and this subsequently was developed into a CE marked servo       controlled neonatal cooling system that is used widely (Tecotherm Neo, Inspiration Healthcare         Ltd Leicester UK).
The positive results of the clinical trials led       by Professor Azzopardi drove the development of other specific cooling       equipment (eg Criticool, MTRE Ltd, Israel).
This work has led to the       international sale and distribution of neonatal cooling equipment [6].
Patients and patient advocacy groups have played an important role in       Imperial's clinical research.
A representative from SCOPE participated in       the Trial Management Group for the TOBY cooling trial and helped develop       the patient information literature.
BLISS,       the UK charity supporting newborn care, hosted an internet forum for       parents of infants participating in the TOBY trial.
A parent of a child       who participated in the TOBY trial is a member of the Children's Study       Trial Steering Committee, led by Professor Azzopardi, and now lay members       participate in the Management Group for neonatal neuroimaging research at       Imperial College.
A Neonatal Taskforce (Department of Health) has developed a toolkit to       facilitate the delivery of equitable, transparent and auditable neonatal       care.
The aim of the toolkit is to ensure that premature and sick newborn       babies receive the care necessary to produce the best long-term outcomes.
The toolkit provides a set of principles for quality neonatal services.
These standards of care provision reflect the findings of the Imperial       lead TOBY study [7].
