     Impacts include: practitioners and services, health and welfare,       commerce, public policy Main beneficiaries include: practitioners; pharma,       patients, NICE, NHS     The BARS is the most frequently used akathisia scale in research and       clinical practice world-wide and is translated into Japanese, Spanish and       many other languages.
Its introduction facilitated the identification and       standard assessment of this common and distressing antipsychotic side       effect, which was commonly misdiagnosed and untreated, adversely affecting       medication adherence and confounded clinical assessment.
The BARS is       widely used in the clinical management of akathisia; improving diagnosis       and treatment, and remains the standard akathisia scale used in major       clinical trials of antipsychotic medication [1], and in the vast majority       of industry trials of SGAs for licensing, attempting to show their       superiority over FGAs or other SGAs in respect of motor side effects [2].
The ANNSERS scale for the comprehensive assessment of non-neurological       side effects has been established as a clinically applicable research       tool, with good inter-rater reliability.
It was used successfully in the       CUTLASS studies and has been adopted to aid the processes of research, and       has been made available on request to clinicians for clinical assessment.
Our early ECG study reporting an association between high-dose       antipsychotic medication and prolonged QT interval raised concerns that       led to QTc (QT interval corrected for heart rate) prolongation becoming an       important safety criterion in the licensing of new antipsychotics; the       risk of QTc prolongation with some older antipsychotics led to their       withdrawal [3].
In clinical practice, liability for QTc prolongation can       be an issue in choice of antipsychotic for a particular patient, and       national clinical practice recommendations now identify indications for       ECG monitoring of antipsychotic treatment, such as prescription of high       dosage (e.g.
Royal College of Psychiatrists' Consensus statement on       high-dose antipsychotic medication.
CR138, May 2006).
The findings of CUTLASS 2 confirmed the superior clinical effectiveness       of clozapine for TRS in a pragmatic study, and the findings of CUTLASS 1,       along with similar findings from the US CATIE study, challenged the claims       for superiority for SGAs and influenced subsequent treatment       recommendations and prescribing practice dramatically.
The distinction       between FGAs and SGAs was rendered indistinct, and clinical practice       opened up to a single class of `antipsychotics' with varying side-effect       profiles, allowing for individualised risk/benefit appraisal to guide       treatment, as reflected in the updated NICE schizophrenia guideline       (2009).
The findings of our CBT study also informed the US Patient       Outcomes Research Team (PORT) psychosocial treatment guidelines [4].
The vast majority of UK mental health Trusts (and private/charitable       healthcare organisations) are subscribing members of POMH-UK [5].
POMH-UK       has increased the involvement of clinical teams in audit and quality       improvement processes, and mental health Trusts routinely include       participation in POMH-UK QIPs in their annual Quality Accounts.
The       benchmarked data provide Trusts with evidence of their quality of clinical       care in respect of drug treatment, and support their submissions showing       compliance with relevant evidence-based guideline recommendations as part       of clinical governance.
Detailed POMH-UK information on the quality and       variation in national prescribing practice is available on topics such as       the use of depot/long-acting injection antipsychotics and services (e.g.
learning disability and child and adolescent psychiatry) which lack       prescribing guidelines and a robust evidence base for pharmacotherapy.
Such data has been provided to NICE development groups generating       guidelines and treatment recommendations (e.g.
for bipolar disorder and       psychosis and schizophrenia in children and young people).
POMH-UK has demonstrated a workable and effective methodology for QIPs in       the NHS, with participation recommended by the Care Quality Commission       (CQC), Healthcare Quality Improvement Partnership (HQIP) and Royal College       of Psychiatrists [6].
Positive changes in clinical prescribing practice in       participating services nationally have been seen, for example, reduction       in the use of high-dose and combined antipsychotic medication between 2008       to 2012 in both acute inpatient and forensic services [7]; a doubling of       the prevalence of screening for metabolic side effects in community       patients with schizophrenia from 2006 to 2012; and improved monitoring of       patients on lithium from 2008 to 2012 [7].
POMH-UK change interventions       provided to clinical teams have ranged from educational tools such as a       `ready reckoner' for calculating total antipsychotic dose (now commonly       employed by clinicians and CQC second-opinion appointed doctors) to more       complex interventions such as a side-effect information folder, and a       patient-held lithium booklet (developed in collaboration with the National       Patient Safety Agency, and widely adopted in mental health Trusts: over       170,000 were ordered from 2010 to 2012) [8].
Such improvements in relation       to prescribing for people with schizophrenia were reflected in the 2012       National Audit of Schizophrenia which found high rates of clozapine       prescribing and a relatively low proportion of community patients on       high-dose antipsychotics.
An early follow-up study by Professor Barnes had found that frequent       illness relapse in schizophrenia was associated with a greater       deterioration in social functioning.
Our first-episode study found an       association between longer DUP and more severe positive and negative       symptoms after one year of treatment, poorer response to treatment and       poorer outcome which informed an international notion that periods of       untreated psychosis were damaging, and that this was potentially critical       at the onset of illness [9].
This view led to the development of early       intervention services for psychosis in the UK.
In our first-episode work,       one interpretation of our finding that cannabis use brings forward the       onset of psychosis in people who otherwise have good prognostic features       was that early age at onset may be due to a toxic action of cannabis       rather than an intrinsically more severe illness.
The systematic reviews       in which we collaborated concluded that cannabis increased the risk of       psychotic outcomes independently of confounding intoxication effects, and       that cannabis use in people with psychotic illness was consistently       associated with increased relapse and non-adherence.
The notion of       cannabis as a risk factor for schizophrenia has prompted advice on       cannabis psychosis to service users, psychiatrists and other health       workers [10].
