     Impacts include: commercial       Main beneficiaries include: industry     Research undertaken at Imperial's Hammersmith Hospital site in PET       radiochemistry and imaging analysis that enabled radiolabelling,       quantitative analysis and interpretation of the behaviour of small       molecules in man was a major contributor to making applications of PET       imaging to drug development possible.
Quantitative in vivo       assessment in man of whether a putative central nervous system (CNS) drug       penetrates the blood brain barrier and interacts with its intended target       at the right concentration has been uniquely important for neuroscience       drug development because it removes a major risk of failure for molecules       progressed.
Pharmaceutical companies have extended applications to       preclinical studies for early candidate molecule selection, limiting the       need to take molecules without likely efficacy into human experiments.
The       high impact of the approach arises because a single study can provide       fundamental "Go/No Go" criteria for an entire development effort.
For       example, if CNS penetration is needed for target access and a PET study       fails to demonstrate significant entry of the radiotagged drug candidate       and/or significant engagement of the CNS target, development can be       discontinued without further investment, saving costs and time from what       would otherwise be a failure in Phase II and limiting exposure of subjects       to a molecule that cannot be expected to have any of the desired       pharmacological benefit [1].
If target engagement can be assessed, it       enables rationale selection of potentially effective doses by defining its       relationship to plasma concentration of the drug directly.
This, in turn,       reduces the range of doses that need to be explored in Phase II studies,       limiting exposure of patients to doses without efficacy and trial costs       and duration.
For example, a single, small Phase I imaging study with the       histamine H3 antagonist GSK239512 (using a novel H3 receptor tracer       developed by GSK and Imperial scientists in the CIC) confirmed that the       compound entered the brain and bound to its target histamine H3 receptor.
Unexpectedly, it also demonstrated that the compound had an order of         magnitude higher affinity (and therefore target occupancy) in man       then predicted from preclinical data (ClinicalTrials.gov         Identifier: NCT00474513), enabling lower dosing in subsequent Phase       II trials that avoided adverse events while achieving the desired       pharmacological effect (ClinicalTrials.gov Identifier:NCT01009255       &amp; NCT01772199).
Over 14 CNS assets under commercial development were characterised in       humans with biodistribution and target-occupancy studies during the period       2007-2013 at the GSK Clinical Imaging Centre/Imanova in conjunction with       Imperial [2].
This work has influenced the global drug development of       international pharmaceutical companies such as GSK [2].
The Senior       Director and Head, Global Imaging Unit GSK, confirmed that "The       quantitative molecular imaging data derived for these assets early in       Phase I/II studies has had significant impact on identifying the right       molecules and designing later phase studies at the right clinical doses       with the inevitable reduction in development timelines and costs...only a       few sites in the world have the capabilities to do these.
The GSK Imaging       Centre and now Imanova with the backup of key Imperial staff ... provide a       "partner of choice" for GSK..." [2].
Reach has extended beyond GSK and the Imperial site.
Other major       pharmaceutical companies in the UK and abroad have adopted the       methodologies for "in house" or outsourced programmes.
They also have been       used for quantitative pharmacodynamics outcomes in several Phase II       studies, e.g., for bapineuzimab (see reseach reference 5), a beta-amyloid       sequestering antibody, and other Alzheimer's disease agents in early       evaluation [3], as a pharmacological proof of principle test for a mu       opioid antagonist in the treatment of addictive disorders (see research       reference 2], in evaluation of a novel D3 antagonist and for other       neuropsychiatric drug candidates [4].
Direct commercial impact and new job creation came first with a       GSK-Imperial partnership to develop the &#163;50M GSK Clinical Imaging Centre       on the Hammersmith Hospital site.
By 2011 this centre employed over 70       scientists and support staff in development work with Imperial College,       leading to an annual direct GSK R&amp;D spend of over &#163;11M in the UK [5].
Work led by Professor Matthews from his joint appointment between Imperial       and GSK led the GSK Clinical Imaging Centre in decision-making studies (as       noted above, for over 14 molecules in early development) [2].
Additional       experimental medicine studies (e.g., pharmacokinetic characterisation of a       novel GSK SIRT1 activator [6]) were additionally underpinned by the       clinical pharmacology expertise, broader imaging capabilities of the CIC       and resources of the Sir John McMichael Centre, which has been supported       recently by a &#163;73 million investment from the College, NIHR and the       Wellcome Trust.
The GSK Clinical Imaging Centre was "spun out" as Imanova       in 2011.
Imanova continues to employ 70 scientists and staff working on       Molecular Imaging studies not just for GSK, but an even broader range of       international Pharma companies involved in CNS drug development.
Since its       formation, it has secured over &#163;1.5M in commercial revenue from other       companies in addition to GSK's continued investments [7].
Imanova Ltd has       been identified by the new National Institute for Health Research Dementia       Translational Research Collaboration as a UK centre of excellence [8].
