     Impacts include: health and welfare, practitioners and services       Main beneficiaries include: patients, WHO, Mental Health       Professionals/Trust, DoH, NICE     Over the last 20 years, considerably influenced by our research,       personality disorder has achieved       a level of awareness and understanding that has become integrated into       mainstream mental health       services.
In 1996, we introduced a simple classification system, based on       severity, which enabled       the condition to be more reliably rated and assessed and also treated much       more economically.
This approach has been adopted by the two international systems for       classifying mental disorders;       Section III of the American Psychiatric Association's Diagnostic and       Statistical Manual of mental       disorders (5th ed., 2013) [1] and the WHO International Classification of       Diseases (version 11,       2011) [2].
Our research, improving the reliability of the assessment of personality       disorder, led to greater       acceptance and awareness of the importance of this condition and       contributed to the expansion of       specialist services for people with personality disorder.
Eleven years ago       a national survey of       mental health Trusts in England reported that four out of five did not       provide specialist services to       people with personality disorder and one third stated that they provided       `no service' at all for people       with these problems.
Our national evaluation of specialist services for       people with personality       disorder concluded that they were providing a valuable service provision       that was highly valued by       service users and providers and recommended that they should be expanded.
Since then the DoH       has set up a dedicated website on personality disorder for users and       providers of mental health       services.
This includes a directory of specialist services for people with       personality disorder.
Over       100 such services are now provided throughout the UK [3].
Our recommendations on the treatment of people with personality disorder       (research reference 5),       which were based on a Delphi study of service users, providers and experts       in this field were       incorporated into NICE guidelines on the treatment of people with       borderline personality disorder in       2009 [4].
These include specific recommendations about the process of       referral to specialist       services and the content and structure of psychological treatments which       were based on our       conclusions.
Qualitative data collected from people with personality       disorder as part of this       evaluation formed the basis of the service user experience chapter of       these guidelines.
Our research demonstrating that people with antisocial personality       disorder were rarely offered       support and treatment from mental health services was highlighted in NICE       guidelines on the       treatment of people with this condition that were published in 2009 [5]       and influenced their       recommendation that mental health services should offer treatment for       comorbid mental health       problems referral for psychological treatment.
Between 2003 and 2010 we tested the clinical and cost effectiveness of a       modified form of       cognitive behaviour therapy for people with borderline and antisocial       personality disorder.
This       research was also referenced in NICE guidelines and contributed to the       decision, in 2011, to       expand the `Increasing Access to Psychological Therapies' programme to       include treatment for       people with personality disorder [6].
In contrast, our highly critical evaluation of the Dangerous and Severe       Personality Disorder       programme was instrumental in the decision in 2009 to close this programme       and replace it with a       less intensive programme of care for a much larger number of offenders       with personality disorder.
This programme is estimated to have cost over &#163;200,000,000 [7], but our       work demonstrating the       small numbers of people who were treated, the length and burden of the       assessments used, and       the lack of clear evidence of patient benefit, led to a decision to       abandon this programme and       invest these resources into providing more focussed       psychologically-informed treatment for a far       larger number of personality disordered offenders [8].
