     Impacts include: health and welfare, commerce, practitioners and services       Main beneficiaries include: patients, health services providers, industry     Development of the FLAIR sequence and its subsequent refinement have       improved the sensitivity of MRI as a diagnostic technique by minimising       confounds from normal brain water to selectively enable sensitive       detection of pathological fluid accumulations in tissue or blood in CSF       (1).
This has allowed FLAIR to have a substantial clinical impact by       improving diagnosis and patient management in neuroradiological practices       worldwide.
FLAIR is used as a key diagnostic sequence in almost all       clinical brain MRI protocols for diagnosis and monitoring of a broad range       of neurological disorders.
Impact has been particularly significant for       imaging in Multiple Sclerosis (MS) and related inflammatory disorders,       stroke and epilepsy.
FLAIR is recommended in imaging guidelines and is       part of diagnostic criteria use internationally for MRI assisted diagnosis       and therapeutic response evaluations [1, 2].
FLAIR is also increasingly       utilised for neuro-oncology imaging in both clinical management and drug       trials [3].
Commercial impact also has been significant.
FLAIR (or a variant based on       FLAIR in the case of Siemens scanners) is included as a standard brain       imaging sequence by all manufacturers of clinical MRI scanners.
The global       market for MRI systems was estimated to be &#163;4.3 billion in 2010, and is       expected to grow to around &#163;6.2 billion by 2015, equivalent to an annual       growth of 7.7% a year [4].
MRI systems made a direct value-added       contribution to UK GDP of around &#163;54 million (in 2010 prices) [5], FLAIR       is incorporated into all of the new MRI machines sold globally [6].
Currently the greatest demand for MRI procedures in the US is for brain       MRI, with spinal MRI scans running a close second.
FLAIR is used routinely       in almost all neurological scanning and particularly for brain scanning,       which constitutes a substantial proportion: 25-30% of all MRI examinations       include brain imaging [7].
It has been estimated that there are over 20       million FLAIR examinations per annum worldwide [7].
Further indirect commercial impact has resulted through incorporating       FLAIR measures as endpoints in commercial clinical trials (for example in       evaluation of treatment responses for MS, stroke and cancers [8]).
By       enhancing sensitivity to disease changes, FLAIR imaging has increased the       effect size in early phase trials, hence reducing numbers in trials,       timescale and cost [8].
With increasing clinical demand for MRI as a pivotal tool in clinical       decision making, FLAIR has contributed to more time-efficient (and hence       cost-efficient) clinical diagnostic protocols, while also improving       potential diagnostic sensitivity [9].
FLAIR is the T2-weighted imaging       sequence of choice.
It has notably contributed to improving risk       stratification for patients presenting after a first demyelinating episode       (clinically isolated syndrome), allowing early treatment and thus delaying       the onset of clinically definite MS [10].
