     The impact of the Q-TOF development has been growing steadily since the       late 1990s, and continues to accelerate today.
Our early 1995/6 research on the proto-type factory instrument, where       having originally proposed the project we had privileged research access       for publication purposes, demonstrated a complete step change in       performance characteristics compared with other advanced instruments.
Our       research sample data demonstrated stunning low femtomole and even attomole       (10-18 M) sensitivity with good resolving power (5,000) and       therefore good mass accuracy.
This led, as predicted, to the crucial       ability to make unambiguous interpretations of fragmentation data,       something which had not been possible previously on other geometries at       that level of sensitivity.
Together with the later research achievements       enabled by the Q-TOF, exemplified in the fields of structure elucidation       and glycoproteomics [3-6], this body of research has been the key       game-changing evidence which has led researchers to switch to Q-TOF mass       spectrometry and given rise to the huge impact of this new geometry       instrument.
Since the peptide sequencing problem was the most challenging of its       time, it follows that the Q-TOF now makes light work of analytical       applications in other fields, including Metabolomics and Forensics.
Despite this power, it has taken many years for the instrument to gain       wide acclaim.
In its first five years of manufacture by Micromass/Waters,       instrument numbers were measured in the low hundreds due to the natural       conservatism of analytical scientists, together with the long "lead time"       before research publications were widely disseminated, and purchase monies       approved.
Following the original conception of the idea, we have continued       to play our part from 1996-2012 in disseminating research outputs in       publications and congress presentations showing exciting results from the       Q-TOF geometry instruments in our laboratory and elsewhere.
The UK       manufacturer which in 1995 accepted HRM's strong advice to build the       Q-TOF, VG Analytical/Fisons (which became Micromass, and was subsequently       acquired by Waters Corporation in 1997), has made an outstanding product,       which continues to evolve with faster duty cycles, better resolving power,       and other innovations.
The new geometry is proving to be remarkably       resilient in the face of new technologies including the Thermo Orbitrap.
Sales have accelerated during the Impact Period (2008-2012) to the point       where, on evidence provided by the VP of Mass Spectrometry Business       Operations for Waters, there are now many thousands of Q-TOF geometry       instruments worldwide [B].
New manufacturers (Agilent [e.g.
C] and Bruker       [e.g.
D]) have more recently entered the market to copy the success of the       Q-TOF geometry demonstrated on the Micromass/Waters instruments.
Instrument prices, depending on model (Premier [E]/Xevo G2S [F]/Synapt G2S       [G]), accessories and manufacturer, average around &#163;250-300,000 and,       although sales are commercially confidential information, Q-TOF has       grossed some &#163;1 billion in sales since its inception, most of which have       been UK exports.
Indeed, Waters won its second Queen's award for       Technological Achievement in 2000 for the Q-TOF development.
The beneficiaries of this technology are numerous, as is evident from the       statement from the Vice-President of the Waters Corporation [B]:     "The Q-Tof family of instruments have become a core platform         technology for Waters Corporation and has been an outstanding commercial         success all around the globe servicing cutting edge analytical research         in many applications areas.
It now is also importantly used in many         routine analytical workflows within the laboratory.
Research, development and manufacturing of the Q-Tof are based in         Manchester, UK."
The instrument has helped stabilise and expand skilled jobs in the       British mass spectrometry industry (it is manufactured in Manchester [B]),       and stimulated the applications of MS to many new areas of scientific       research.
It is having impacts on health and welfare through its wide use       in proteomics and metabolomics, for example in the discovery of disease       marker diagnostics.
Its impacts on commerce are immense, including the       recruitment of new specialists (mass spectroscopists, and biochemists) in       thousands of organisations worldwide to carry out research on the       instruments, and the consequent industrial investment in new R&amp;D       enabled by this technology.
In its own small way, the expansion of the       contract research company M-SCAN (founded by HRM), which now uses six       Q-TOF geometry instruments in its work for the biotechnology industry,       attests to the way research is accelerated and made more efficient by       better analytical technology.
Confirming the use of Q-TOF instruments,       M-SCAN states "the SGS M-Scan laboratories are noted for their early         adoption of promising new instruments, for example, the Q-TOF mass         spectrometer" [H].
The Q-TOF's impacts on practitioners and services       have been considerable due to the increased quality of data production and       unambiguous interpretation, thus helping raise professional standards in       testing and discovery research.
