     The research described above has been extensively developed for the       commercial environment by M-SCAN (formed in 1979) [A], both by designing       advanced Protocols (standard operating procedures, SOPs) for good       laboratory practice/good manufacturing practice (GLP/GMP) analysis of       Pharmaceuticals and by developing instrumentation methods applicable to       the specific problems encountered.
The work was guided by the academic       Consultancy of Imperial Professors Howard Morris (M-SCAN founder) and Anne       Dell.
The commercial SOPs and methods are confidential to the clients       whose products they were designed for.
Between 1990 and 2010, regulatory bodies such as the FDA started to       receive new drug applications supported by mass spectrometric structural       characterisation data, and today some of the methods pioneered by the       Imperial Group and M-SCAN, including Peptide/Glycopeptide Fingerprinting       and Disulphide Bridge Analysis, appear in the ICH guideline       recommendations [B] for the provision of analytical data to support a       well-characterised new Biopharmaceutical product.
Prior to the Imperial Mass Spectrometry group research (e.g.
[1-6]), and       to the formation of M- SCAN, the only methods available within Biotech or       Pharmaceutical manufacturing companies for the characterisation of       genetically engineered protein products were the classical procedures of       Gel Electrophoresis, IEF, HPLC and Edman sequencing.
With the exception of       Edman, the methods were relatively crude and non-definitive (Molecular       Weight estimates +/-10%), with no chemical identification of charge state       differences in IEF, peptide fingerprinting by HPLC retention- time only,       with laborious methods involving collection and Edman for peptide       identification.
As late as 1993, there was still no efficient classical       method for estimation of oxidation or de-amidation, and glycosylation or       disulphide bridge analysis involved long and technically difficult       procedures.
The Regulatory Bodies controlling drug licencing of the new       Biopharmaceuticals in the 1990s were cognisant of the Thalidomide       experience, but the Joint Committees of the main US, UK, Japanese       regulators could only advise on the use of somewhat inadequate classical       technologies for Product characterisation.
HRM recognised that the methodologies developed for academic projects at       Imperial should also be used by the manufacturing industry to characterise       better their new Biopharmaceuticals.
M- SCAN was set up as a professional       GLP/GMP accredited contract research organisation to drive these       industrial applications.
All M-SCAN laboratories operate to GLP/GMP and       are regularly inspected [C].
Research on the refinement of methods       continues to the present day, and M-SCAN assists Biotech and Pharma       clients in producing quality characterisation packages for Regulatory       inspection.
Getting exciting new drug products such as monoclonal antibodies to       market is a process of discovery, pilot production, safety testing,       manufacturing scale-up, clinical trials, marketing approval and continuing       batch release screening, which overall can cost a billion dollars.
Anything which can both improve the effectiveness of proper product       characterisation and shorten the time- to-market will reduce these costs       and have impact on the viability of present and future healthcare       innovations.
Many of the new mass spectrometric biopolymer testing methods       pioneered for academic purposes at Imperial and translated into industry       by M-SCAN have greatly facilitated the rapid characterisation of numerous       new drug products for Biotech companies worldwide, and in this way the       academic research has had a profound impact on society in general.
These       MS methods now feature in the International Committee on Harmonisation       (ICH) guidelines for Test Procedures and Acceptance Criteria for       Biotechnology Products [A].
The time-lag for industrial acceptance of new technologies and strategies       is always surprising, and it is only in this century that MS methods of       analysis were recognised as the proper way to do certain       characterisations.
The first mention of Mass Spectrometry in an FDA       document "Points to Consider" was in 1997, in reference to monoclonal       antibody analysis [D].
Accordingly, the impact of the M-SCAN research and       development programme did not reach fruition until the 2000-2010 decade,       generating a turnover of some $13 million p.a.
Assistance with this impact       has been achieved with M-SCAN educational courses for the Biotech and       Pharma industry, in which Professors Morris and Dell have played prominent       roles alongside M-SCAN experts [E].
By establishing mass spectrometry laboratories in the UK, USA,       Switzerland and Germany, M- SCAN has served and assisted hundreds of       beneficiaries (pharmaceutical, biotechnology and chemical clients) per       annum across the world from small innovative biotech companies to the       industry giants [A].
M-SCAN was the first company in the world to carry       out structural characterisation of recombinant proteins by Mass       Spectrometry and also the first to offer a commercial service for analysis       of genetically engineered proteins and glycoproteins.
Thousands of samples       have been analysed for hundreds of clients annually during the past       decade, in confidential work which has helped in drug filings, batch       release testing and discovery research [F].
The consequent impact on       health and welfare in the past decade is enormous.
The number of clients       with different drug molecules means that its breadth of impact,       potentially affecting public health and disease prevention, is greater       even than an individual large Pharma, with its restricted product       offerings.
Impacts on the economy and on commerce are considerable since       M-SCAN is assisting companies in producing and gaining approval for new       drugs in a much more timely, cost- effective and efficient manner.
From       1993 to 2013, M-SCAN itself created new jobs for advanced scientists,       moving from 12 full-time staff in 1990 operating in two countries to over       65 specialist staff in 2010 (approximately half of them PhDs) operating in       four countries worldwide.
In 2009, M- SCAN generated revenue in excess of       &#163;6.9M [G].
By 2010, M-SCAN was recognised as the top brand for       Biopharmaceutical Characterisation amongst worldwide Contract Research       Organisations (CROs) as attested to by approaches for merger or       acquisition from several of the world's major CROs during the period       2007-2010.
In 2010, M-SCAN was approached with an offer of merger by the world's       biggest scientific testing organisation (SGS) and the Directors decided       that M-SCAN could expand even faster within that organisation.
The deal       price for the merger between M-SCAN and SGS was confidential.
Commenting on the merger, the CEO of SGS stated: "This acquisition         clearly complements our vision to become one of the top players within         the Biologics testing arena (large molecules)...M- Scan's global         recognition, and expertise together with its geographic footprint         combined with the existing advanced analytical services in SGS Life         Science provides an excellent platform for further growth and         development."
[G].
The resulting SGS M-SCAN companies are continuing to expand rapidly,       employing even more skilled staff.
Impacts on practitioners and services       are readily apparent in M-SCAN, which has pioneered the business model       where none existed before, and where many of its protocols have influenced       accepted practice worldwide, including at the international regulatory       level.
The potential future impact of SGS M-SCAN is also great, given the       rapidly expanding Biotech/Pharmaceutical industrial sector, which is       matched only by IT/Electronics in growth statistics.
The CEO of SGS is able to confirm the acquisition of the M-SCAN, "the         global brand leader in biopharmaceutical analysis" [F], in 2010 and       corroborate the impact from the company:     "M-Scan, when it joined the SGS Group, was already present in four         countries with a staff complement of 65 globally recognised specialists.
Their client base was well diversified in both biopharma and biotech         which provided significant leverage for the provision of additional SGS         services.
M-Scan brought, through its management and staff, a step-change in the         level of analytical specialization we were able to offer.
It provided         SGS with an entry into biopharmaceutical testing which would have taken         many years to build organically and it provided the world leading         analytical specialization needed to be market leader in a new and         growing industry.
M-Scan has been an excellent acquisition for us.
It has put our Life         Science business at the forefront of biopharma testing technology with a         strongly commercial focus.
It has provided both world leaders in         technology and excellent leadership which we will develop throughout our         Group of 76000 staff.
We have already expanded the business         geographically in India and China and fully expect this to continue as         our vision to be the clear leader in biopharmaceutical testing is         realised.
Without a doubt the M-Scan acquisition has had a significant impact on         our Life Science business and we fully expect that to continue as we         expand the geographical footprint and further enhance the technology         offering."
