     As described in Section 2, we demonstrated the principle of a novel       pathway to make ethanol and       we continued to work with Agrol and TMO.
Surprisingly, Agrol did not take       the initial observation       forward.
With Kostas Gialamas, we provided biochemical/physiological       confirmation of what had       been suggested in the 1993 paper [1], but TMO saw the opportunity to       capitalise on the presumed       mechanism by making the deliberately engineered change to their organism       [A].
In June 2008, TMO commissioned an industrial scale Process Demonstration       Unit (PDU) in Surrey       to demonstrate the commercial capability of the TMO Process.
Covering an       area of 12,000 square       feet and costing in excess of &#163;7.8 million, the PDU is used to conduct       feasibility studies on a wide       range of feedstocks to determine the optimal process for each material for       clients at a       commercially relevant scale.
The PDU, which was the U.K.'s first       cellulosic demonstration facility,       also houses a smaller "Scale-Through" system that mirrors the details of       the larger demonstration       facility [B, C].
The use of an upregulated Pdh pathway is fundamental to the TMO process.
It provides a       mechanism to convert any fermentable substrate which the organism is       capable of using (and       future engineered strains) to ethanol.
In Autumn 2010, TMO announced that       it had been awarded       an exclusive $500M contract with leading clean technology company Fiberight         LLC in the USA.
The contract is to convert the fermentable components of municipal solid       waste to ethanol.
The       agreement involves building 15 commercial-scale cellulosic ethanol       production facilities, linked to       Fiberight's sorting facilities, across the USA over the next 5 years [D].
The contract was awarded       against competition from US companies, such as the renewable fuel company       Mascoma.
In 2011,       work started on the first commercial plant in the US state of Iowa.
The       facilities will allow the       conversion of municipal solid waste to ethanol at a more efficient,       cost-effective pace.
According to       Stuart-Paul, CEO of Fiberight, "Integrating TMO's process with our own         will give Fiberight the edge         compared with other ethanol producing technologies, allowing us to be         more efficient with waste         than our competitors....Together, the companies are on track to become         one of the largest         producers of cellulosic ethanol in the U.S. during 2011, helping to         divert millions of tons of waste         away from landfills every year" [D].
More recently, TMO has been developing collaborations in China and       Brazil.
In China, where it has       favoured company status with the Chinese Government, it is developing its       lignocellulosic ethanol       process to work with cassava stalks.
In 2011, TMO entered into two       separate partnership       agreements with China National Offshore Oil Corporation (CNOOC) New         Energy Investment       and the China National Cereals, Oils and Foodstuffs Corporation         (COFCO) &#8212; large state       owned companies [E, F].
Both agreements entail TMO embarking on testing       programs jointly with       each partner to develop the country's first fully commercial       second-generation ethanol plants using       cassava residue and cassava stalk.
The agreement with COFCO was for a       joint testing program to       manufacture ethanol from cassava residue and stalk and to finalize a       design package for the first       fully commercial 2g ethanol plant in China.
The agreement with CNOOC was       also for a joint testing       program.
Again focusing on the manufacture of ethanol from cassava residue       and cassava stalk,       the aim of the agreement with CNOOC is to develop an integrated 1g and 2g       180,000 ton plant       that CNOOC has applied to build in Nanning, Guangxi province.
TMO, COFCO       and CNOOC       continue to work closely together to build a commercial process (relying       on the Pdh technology) on       its preferred cassava feedstock [E, F].
In August 2012, TMO signed a Memorandum of Understanding to secure a       20-year large volume       biomass feedstock supply for future biofuel production facilities from the       Heilongjang State Farm       (HSF), the largest state owned farming corporation in China [G, H].
TMO       will assess the potential       of the HSF-sourced feedstock at its PDU in Surrey.
The MOU is a first step       towards building the       first of a future series of second-generation biofuel production       facilities in China.
Most recently, during a business delegation to Brazil led by David       Cameron in September 2012,       TMO signed a letter of intent (LOI) with Usina Santa Maria Cerquilho.
Usina Santa Maria       Cerquilho is an associate of Copasucar, the largest Brazilian sugar and       ethanol commercialization       operation with integrated production.
The agreement is to secure a 25-year       feedstock supply,       initially to support a 10 million litre per annum second generation       ethanol refinery to be built       alongside a sugar mill owned by Usina Santa Maria Cerquilho.
The LOI       provides for 400,000       tonnes per year of bagasse (leftover sugarcane biomass) [I].
Prime       minister David Cameron       endorsed TMO's achievements by commenting:     "this visit (...) has given TMO a foothold in the Brazilian market.
It         reflects TMO's expertise         in this pioneering technology and highlights the opportunities for         British companies in this         fast growing market.
TMO's success in China and now in Brazil         demonstrates exactly what         the government is working to achieve &#8212; getting more British companies         linked up with new         markets to boost growth and create jobs back at home."
[I]     Following on from the delegation to Brazil, in April 2013 it was       announced that TMO and Usina         Santa Maria Ltda has signed an MOU to build Brazil's first Second       Generation bioethanol       production facility in S&#227;o Paulo state &#8212; the first commercial production       plant in Brazil to convert       bagasse to cellulosic bioethanol.
The facility will be followed by the       construction of full-scale       industrial plant, scheduled to go into construction in 2014, with the       bioethanol primarily being used       to power Flex-Fuel vehicles in Brazilian market.
The agreement will create       jobs in Brazil and over       150 new jobs in the UK [J].
The success of TMO Renewables and the collaboration with Imperial College       has been highlighted       on the BBSRC web pages [K] and the company has recently been visited by       David Willetts.
In       addition to the USA, China and Brazil, TMO is working closely with a       number of other partners       around the world.
The latest Annual Accounts submitted to Companies House       for TMO       Renewables Ltd, for the year to 31/12/2011, reported 'cash at bank' of       &#163;6,620,000, 'liabilities' worth       &#163;2,735,000, 'net worth' of &#163;10,890,000 and 'assets' worth &#163;8,447,000 [L].
