 The beneficiaries of our research project at Castell Henllys include 1) the Pembrokeshire Coast National Park, 2) the schools and teachers that visit the site and visitor centre, in particular those that use materials in their learning and teaching and 3) the general public.
Castell Henllys is the only hillfort in the UK where the public interpretation is so intensive and includes on-site interpreters and on-site reconstructions informed by substantive on-site research.
The public can experience the physical character of the site and structures, and the landscape, which they can then take with them to make sense of other hillforts, many of which have public access but have no on-site interpretation.
In relation to 1) the National Park, the excavation and post excavation analysis of the evidence from the site allowed the development of an accurate and informative Iron Age fort reconstruction.Prior to Mytum's research, the site was a scheduled ancient monument in private ownership with no public access or interpretation.
Mytum played a key role in the translation of the archaeological findings into the reconstruction and public interpretation, commenced under private ownership and subsequently through the Pembrokeshire Coast National Park.
Mytum has ensured that the associated knowledge set has been communicated to Park guides and integrated into educational resources, and continues to provide regular refresher CPD to site staff on the archaeological research and its interpretive potential.
The reconstructions are specifically designed to inform visitors of a number of distinctive aspects of the experience of Iron Age life, of the challenges for those living in this period and their sophisticated architectural achievements, but also their distinctive ideological and social worlds.
Mytum's team also provided detailed materials aimed at both school groups and the general public for the Castell Henllys visitor centre, aimed to inform those visitors more broadly about the Iron Age past and the nature of the Iron Age landscape based directly on results from the excavations.
In addition, Mytum had a significant input into the Park management plan based on the outcomes of the project, including location and size of structures, location and form of the complex entrance, the chevaux-de-frise, and the earthwork defences, visitor routes and information on interpretive panels.
This input has been regular and on-going since the opening to the public in 1982, and continues until today.
A major restructuring of the visitor centre is being planned at present as one of 9 Cadw and EU-funded Heritage Tourism Projects with Castell Henllys acting as a regional hub.
Artefacts and results from Mytum's excavations will be central to this new design, with Mytum's expert input.
2) Based on the excavations and the subsequent post-excavation work (2008-2013), the materials designed especially with Key Stage 2 module on the Celts in mind, are integrated into the schools visit experience in the form of activities and narratives led by in-role costumed interpreters, as well as pre- and post-visit educational resources available from the site's Education Officer.
There have been 732 school visits exploiting the specifically designed education programme during the census period, many visiting several times 2008-13, mostly from Wales but also many from west England and as far as Canterbury and Lincoln.
Numbers of school children range from 6,366 in 2008 to 4,948 in 2012.
The quality of the education experience created with the input of the project is high as evidenced by the fact the visitor centre and site were three times winner of the Sandford Award for Heritage Education (1999, 2004, 2009).
It is also attested by the education evaluation questionnaire, filled out by 13 schools in the 12/13 school year.
On a scale of 1-10 with 10 indicating maximum agreement, all 13 schools gave scores of 9 or 10 on the benefit to the curriculum delivery, meeting teaching objectives, indications that the children benefitted, and understanding of the Iron Age Fort at Castell Henllys.
The areas of the curriculum benefitted included History, Geography, Welsh, Science, English and Art.
The transformational effects are clearly indicated by teachers' comments on the education evaluation questionnaire.
Teachers at St Mary's Primary School (16/11/12) commented: "The children absolutely loved the experience and really gained and furthered their learning of Iron Age Celts".
Teachers at Morriston Primary School (5/10/12) "A great day.
The children thoroughly enjoyed the experience as they have never encountered anything like it before.
It gave them a deeper understanding of the Celts."
A typical online review from 27 November 2008 "Castell Henllys is the ideal place to visit if you're a teacher teaching about the Celts.
....All the staff are very knowledgeable, and can answer any tricky questions thrown at them by the children.
The roundhouses are amazing, they look (and smell!)
totally authentic.
...It's reasonably priced, therefore an ideal family educational, but not boring, day out!".
A number of school websites testify to the significant positive impact on the children.
The impact of the resources influenced by the project is indicated by the way in which a specific focus on Pembrokeshire is included in the history component of the new curriculum for Wales.
The BBC Wales Iron Age Celts web site for key stage 2 features Castell Henllys as a case study, and it is one of only 3 sites explicitly mentioned on the RCAHMW Iron Age Celts web page (where 5 of the 12 images are all of Castell Henllys).
Castell Henllys is also used as a case study in the A level text book The Archaeology Coursebook (2008).
3) The visitor centre and reconstruction attracts between 20,000 and 30,000 non-school visitors a year (e.g.
23,575 in 2009, 20,689 in 2012).
A recent sample indicated that the majority of these non-school visitors were from the UK outside Wales and a significant minority were from overseas (between May 12 and May 13, c. 7% recorded were from other continents including Americas, Australia and Africa, out of 112 individuals who filled in the Visitor Book in this period).
The impact of this is reflected in the 57 non-academic websites since 2008 dealing with Castell Henllys, commentary referring to the informative nature of the visitor centre and site material, the degree to which awareness of the local heritage has been increased and the positive educational impact of the experience on visiting families, youth groups and individuals.
14 of these non-academic websites since 2008 are media sites including those of The Guardian, Telegraph, BBC news and Countryfile.
Countryfile lists the site amongst the country's top Heritage attractions and the Guardian extols the teaching opportunities.
Castell Henllys is one of 8 case studies in Cadw's Valuing the Welsh Historic Environment (2010).Mytum was an archaeological advisor for the BBC series Surviving the Iron Age, set at Castell Henllys, and he featured at the site on the Timeteam special Hillforts TV programme.
Artefacts recovered in Mytum's excavations and interpretive panels based on the results are displayed in the Castell Henllys Education Centre; an iron meat hook is displayed at the National Museum Cardiff, following conservation there.
6 websites carry reviews of the Centre.
On those sites relating to the census period there are at the time of writing 37 positive reviews and 20 that specifically mention the informative nature of the Centre.
A recent sample of 263 questionnaires distributed by the Visitor Centre recorded the most common reason for the visit was to learn about history and all except 3 responses indicated that these expectations had been met or exceeded.
In the Visitor Book for 2012 and 2013 63% of visitors commented that they found the visit informative.
