     In 1987, the Falkland Islands Government (FIG) assumed control of fishing       in national waters through the introduction of a licensing system for all       commercial vessels fishing in the new Falkland Inner Conservation Zone       (FICZ).
At that time, the Falkland Islands Fisheries Department (FIFD) was       in an early stage of development and had neither the resources nor the       expertise necessary to conduct the scientific research or develop the       fisheries policy necessary for management of a rapidly expanding       commercial fishery.
The Fish Group (then known as RRAG) at Imperial       College was already carrying out world-class research on marine resources       and was appointed by the UK Foreign and Commonwealth Office to provide the       scientific support essential for the development and management of the       commercial fishery in the Islands.
The Fish Group provided scientific       advice to FIG continuously for the next 25 years, until 2011.
By 2011,       FIFD had expanded to become a multi-national team of trained fisheries       professionals and, with assistance, training and mentoring by the Fish       Group, responsibility for the determination of fisheries licencing and       vessel fees was eventually transferred to the FIFD, which continues to use       the bio-economic and stock assessment models developed by the Fish Group       at Imperial.
The Fish Group developed assessment models for all major commercial fish       and squid stocks in Falkland waters.
These assessments afforded the first       information of the stock status of many of these species in the       south-western Atlantic and provided under-pinning evidence for determining       appropriate levels of sustainable exploitation.
Research by the Fish Group       highlighted the need for further protection of fishing areas and, in 1990,       FIG acted on this advice by declaring the Falklands Outer Conservation       Zone (FOCZ), extending jurisdiction to the 200 nautical mile Economic       Exclusion Zone.
Until 2011, the Fish Group was responsible for determining the seasonal       licence fees and vessel effort for all commercial fishing vessels in       Falkland waters.
The Fish Group regularly produced bi-annual reports for       FIFD which were submitted by the Director of Natural Resources to the       Executive Council for approval before passing into legislation [e.g.
A,       B].
The fisheries licensing regime provides the bedrock of the Falklands       economy and, during the period 1987-2011, which included 4 years in the       2008-2013 REF period, the annual revenue of the Falkland Islands was       directly impacted by the scientific advice afforded to FIG by the Fish       Group.
The main economic driver in the Falklands is the commercial fishery       and the average annual revenue to FIG of &#163;20 Million generated from       fishing licences funds 50-75% of all capital and operational expenditure       [C, D].
During this time the Fish Group was responsible for supplying seasonal       real-time management information to FIFD for the Illex and Loligo       fisheries.
This involved conducting stock assessments, often on a daily       basis, in order to prevent over-fishing and protect the spawning stock.
When squid numbers approached predetermined cut-off thresholds, the Fish       Group was able to alert FIFD of the need for early closure of the fishery.
In 1996, FIG was swift to act on the advice of the Fish Group to protect       the skate and ray fishery; first introducing separate licences for the       skate and ray fishery and then closing the southern area to all fishing in       the face of continuing declines in catches.
These protective measures were       so effective that the impact is still being felt: catches of skates and       rays have doubled, increasing from 3,475 tonnes in 1996 to 6,954 tonnes in       2011 [E].
In 2006, the Falkland Islands changed from a seasonal licensing system to       a rights-based management system of Individual Transferrable Quotas       (ITQs).
The Fish Group recommended the company quotas for the Loligo       fishery that were accepted by the Executive Council and passed into       legislation.
The move to a system based on ITQs received widespread       support and allowed fishing companies to secure their long-term interests       in the industry, resulting in a marked increase in local investment [F].
The company ITQs recommended by the Fish Group will remain in place for 25       years (until 30th June 2031) [G].
They generated revenue of       &#163;9.5 million for the FIG in 2010 [E, table B.16, all licenses except A       &amp; G].
In 2009, the fisheries management in the Falkland Islands was rated as       having the highest level of effectiveness in the world [H].
This       achievement is testament to the role played by the Fish Group in       establishing a foundation for sound fisheries management through provision       of robust long-term scientific advice and policy recommendations to FIG.
In summary, the impacts of research by the Fish Group at Imperial has       therefore contributed to:     a) The conservation of commercial fish stocks in Falkland waters and the       long-term sustainability of the fishery.
Fishing effort has been       deliberately controlled in order to prevent over-fishing, for example,       catches of the extremely vulnerable Patagonian toothfish have been capped       at less than 1,600 tonnes since 2006 [A].
b) Improving the knowledge of the population dynamics and stock status of       commercially exploited species of fish and squid in the south-western       Atlantic, as evidenced by the development of new assessments models       documented in peer-reviewed journals.
c) The economic security of the Falkland Islands through the provision of       sound scientific advice that has maximised licence fee revenue and       provided the majority of funds used by FIG for research, development and       infrastructure.
With the introduction of a management regime, in 1987, the       sale of licence fees generated &#163;19.7 million of revenue to FIG and the       total revenue generated from licence fees during the 4 year period       2008-2011 was &#163;57,596,298 [A].
d) The development and expansion of FIFD into an organisation with a       world-wide reputation for excellence in fisheries management.
The following statement by Mr. John Barton, Director of Natural Resources       for FIG describes the impact of the Fish Group (aka RRAG) &#8212;     "The Renewable Resources Assessment Group (RRAG), Imperial College         provided fisheries management advice to the Falkland Islands Government         (FIG) from 1987 to 2010.
RRAG undertook stock assessment of the main         offshore fish and squid resources and provided advice to FIG.
The         successful and innovative management of short lived squid species and         the flexibility of effort controlled fisheries were major achievements         of the period.
RRAG also played a significant role in the bilateral         South Atlantic Fisheries Commission (UK &amp; Argentina) during 1991 -         2005.
The fishery has been the mainstay of the Falkland Island's economy         since the introduction of the fisheries zone in 1986.
FIG's main fishery         objective has been the sustainable management of marine resources and         the scientific and advisory role undertaken by RRAG, working with FIG's         Fisheries Department, made a major contribution to achieving that."
