     Dissemination of the impact       From the research highlighted in section 2, Prof. Iwata's team was able to       present a collection of new crystallization screening kits; MemStart,       MemSys, MemGold and MemPlus.
These kits were exclusively commercialized by       UK company Molecular Dimensions between 2002 and 2008, via Imperial       Innovations, under license from Imperial College [A].
They were some of       the first screens available to the research community and are now         "widely acknowledged as the gold standard as the starting point for         membrane protein crystal growth" [A].
The nature of the impact       The current screens sold by Molecular Dimensions, underpinned by Imperial       research, are MemStart, MemSys, MemGold, and MemPlus, which range from       between &#163;75 to &#163;300 per unit [B, C].
[text removed for publication].
Managing Director of Molecular Dimensions, Tony Savill, stated that "the         impact [of the solution kits] is not only manifested in sales but also         in our ability to attract other collaborators with methods that can be         commercialised and thus serve to continually build on the range of         products we can offer for membrane protein research" [B].
These products have been sold to many industrial organisations and       academic institutions across the world (see the beneficiaries section for       the names).
This research has benefited the whole scientific community in       the field of membrane protein structural biology at worldwide scale, and       Molecular Dimensions benefitted financially with the exclusive       commercialization of the screens.
Savill adds that "the research         carried out by So Iwata's group and the successes they have achieved is         followed in the literature all over the world and other membrane protein         research scientists are eager to use their successful methods.
It has         led to Molecular Dimensions being recognised as the leading company in         providing new products for this challenging sector" [B].
Beneficiaries       Molecular Dimensions is the main disseminator of the product, and       consequently the first beneficiary.
With the exclusive commercialization       of the screens, Molecular Dimensions is being recognised as the leading       company in providing new products for this challenging sector.
The       products are sold all over the world with 52% sold in North America, 26%       in Europe and 21% in Asia to both world-leading academic institutions and       the pharmaceutical industry.
[text removed for publication], who are       working on membrane protein drug targets [B].
The significance       Membrane proteins perform a variety of functions in our body and more than       50% of commercially available drugs target these membrane proteins.
Therefore, structural information of membrane proteins plays a vital role       in medicine and in pharmaceutical drug discovery programs.
The field of       structure-based drug design is a rapidly growing area in which many       successes have occurred in recent years.
The explosion of genomic,       proteomic, and structural information of membrane proteins has provided       hundreds of new targets and opportunities for future drug discovery.
The       method is now routinely used in the pharmaceutical industry.
It is       difficult to evaluate the economic impact of the particular screens       because they are used in a complicated drug discovery cycle.
It is,       however, certain that our products strengthen the UK pharmaceutical       industry (see the list of the companies using the kits above), which       contributed &#163;8.4 billion to the UK's GDP and invested a total of &#163;3.9       billion in research and development in 2007.
Date of the impact       The impacts occurred from 2008 onwards, when the screens were exclusively       commercialized by Molecular Dimensions, under license from Imperial       College.
Today, with the increasing number of membrane protein structures, updated       information has been used to design new solution kits that should prove       useful for both initial crystallization scouting and subsequent crystal       optimization.
These new screens are also commercialized by Molecular       Dimensions under the license of Oxford University [D, E].
