     The research described above has developed an understanding of &#199;alt&#305;lar's       role in the broader history of Lycia which has led to its incorporation       into a major heritage education programme for the whole Lycia region       (known in antiquity as the `Land of Light').
The research results allowed Greaves to develop a network of local and       international stakeholders who thus became primary beneficiaries of the       project.
In particular, this research formed the basis of a bid by Fethiye       Museum and the Municipality of Fethiye to the European Union's The Civil       Society Facility, EU - Turkey Intercultural Dialogue: Museums (ICD-MUSE)       grant scheme.
The successful project, entitled Illuminating the Land         of Light, was awarded &#8364;175,000 with contributions from the       Municipality of Fethiye bringing its total value up to &#8364;250,000 for       incorporation of the results of the research in a heritage education and       preservation programme.
This project is a partnership between the Fethiye       Museum and the University of Liverpool, with the participation of two       local partners: The Fethiye Foundation for the Promotion of Tourism,       Education, Culture and Environment (FETAV) and National Museums Liverpool       (NML).
Konica-Minolta provided commercial sponsorship for the conservation       element of the project, by waiving fees for the loan of a Range 7 3D laser       scanner, which was used to record a series of at-risk rock reliefs at       &#199;alt&#305;lar leading to the production of copies of these reliefs for the       VG&amp;M exhibition and Fethiye museum.
This project also benefitted the       four district councils in Mu&#287;la province who host newly-created heritage       education centres.
These four heritage education centres were selected from sites that       represented each of the main periods of the region, in order to develop a       diachronic understanding of its history for local communities and       tourists.
The four sites chosen cover prehistory (Seki district:       &#199;altilar), thus using Greaves' research directly, Lycian culture       (Kumluova: Tlos), the Roman period (&#220;z&#252;ml&#252;: Kadianda) and the Ottoman       period (Fethiye: Kayak&#246;y).
The purpose of these centres is to provide a       network of education resources that can be freely accessed by local       schools to provide children with heritage education at a local level,       without the need to bus them into the central town of Fethiye in order to       visit the city museum.
This is especially important in a mountainous       region like eastern Mu&#287;la province and the aim is that the centres will       become economically and ecologically sustainable in the long term.
H&#246;y&#252;k (settlement mound) sites are a common feature of the Turkish       landscape and an essential characteristic of its archaeology.
The work of       Greaves and his colleagues in identifying the h&#246;y&#252;k at &#199;alt&#305;lar as       being a prehistoric site of regional significance not only initiated the       concept of Illuminating the Land of Light as a multi-period       heritage education project, it has also informed the education materials       used with school groups.
In addition to being included in the general       educational materials for the project (web site, learning activities,       etc.)
there are education resources and display panels about the       archaeological work conducted at &#199;alt&#305;lar in the new heritage education       centre.
This heritage education centre has been established in a derelict       school building that has been renovated as part of the &#199;alt&#305;lar       Archaeological Project and part-funded by the EU-Turkey project.
The       display here includes examining the settlement history of the site and its       exploration and the nature and stratigraphy of h&#246;y&#252;ks.
Visitor       groups are shown this display and then taken on a tour of the site and       shown how the h&#246;y&#252;k has accumulated over time.
Annual village       briefing meetings are held in &#199;alt&#305;lar by the archaeological team to       demonstrate to the community their latest discoveries.
These included       games for children to do a mock survey of the type used on the site itself       and reconstructing broken pottery.
DePauw students comment         in their News Blog about the impact of these activities in 2012:       "What was really cool was that both projects had significant components of       community outreach," Foss says.
"People were really interested in their       past.
In this small village of about 400 people where we lived, nearly 100       of them ended up coming by our dig house over the course of three or four       days to look at displays we had made, or the pottery we found, or to ask       questions about their past."
Feedback from the children who visit the site       in Turkey demonstrates that they develop understanding of the presence of       their ancient heritage that was essentially lacking before these visits,       and before the Centre was established.
The educational facilities of Fethiye Museum were also enhanced by the       project, with new IT and projection facilities and a new talks to schools       programme.
An exhibition at the VG&amp;M at the University of Liverpool in       February - October 2013 was designed to showcase the research and the       heritage preservation and recording issues in remote regions of Turkey and       featured a 3D relief caste made from laser scanning by the project, which       was later shipped to Fethiye Museum for a related exhibition there.
The       opening of the VG&amp;M exhibition coincided with a seminar involving both       Fethiye Museum staff and members of FETAV from Turkey with relevant       professionals in the UK sharing good practice in heritage preservation       with these Turkish local government bodies, museum staff and experts.
The       VG&amp;M has Facebook and Twitter accounts with 3,212 followers, to whom       these activities were reported thus also contributing to wider public       engagement.
In addition to these museums' exhibitions, there have been poster       exhibitions about the research and the Illuminating the Land of Light       project in the Fethiye Cultural Centre (2011 and twice in 2012), Liverpool       (2013) and London (2013).
Greaves has made lecture presentations about the       research and the project in Fethiye, Mu&#287;la and Istanbul (speaking in       Turkish).
The heritage education programme has reached c.100 teachers, almost       17,000 school children and 50,000 tourists annually in Turkey since 2012       and 23,279 museum visitors in the UK in 2012-13.
1.3 million tourists a       year visit the region, the project web site and the freely downloadable       education resources and children's activities are becoming a useful       resource for families.
An important factor in the long-term success of       this project in the traditional rural communities of Turkey, this project       has had buy-in from all levels of government and society, including local       community leaders and teachers who are crucial opinion-formers and       initiators of change in their areas.
Being hosted in communities and       engaged with by local schools, this project has also engendered a sense of       community ownership of the region's heritage which is reducing tolerance       of looting in these remote areas (as indicated by the children's comments       reported in the local press).
Importantly, in a region famed for its       classical archaeology, the research conducted at &#199;alt&#305;lar and disseminated       via the Illuminating the Land of Light project has raised       awareness of the region's prehistoric past and the importance of h&#246;y&#252;k       sites in particular for the history of the area.
Some of the reach and effects of the impact can be documented in its web       presence.
There are 38 non-academic websites, which encompass media       sources, personal blogs which reference the activity and significance of       the project and its impact.
A Turkish         media video about the &#199;alt&#305;lar project in August 2012 has been       viewed 185,837 times and shared on Facebook 255 times.
In press reports       the Fethiye museum Director is quoted as indicating that the programme has       now reached almost 17,000 school children who have been provided education       and training on heritage protection and conservation techniques and that       the progress and the one-to-one education provided to the students       involved proved to be very successful (see web links section 5).
The media       also document the transformative extent of the impact, statements of       school children indicating that they are finding the education useful and       are becoming more aware of the importance of protecting antiquities and       preventing antiquities smuggling (see web link section 5).
