     Aurox Ltd [A] was formed in 2004, is based in Oxfordshire, and now       employs 5 full time staff in both development and manufacturing.
The       company's goal is "to make 3-D microscopy accessible and affordable to         the masses &#8212; to individual researchers, not just imaging facilities in         large institutions" [B].
Aurox products use lower cost light sources       than competitors and do not require a scanning system which sets them       apart from other microscopes.
The company testifies that Imperial research       carried out by Prof Mark Neil's group has "directly influenced         developments and improvements to Aurox products" and, in particular,       the research in paper [3] has led to "a better understanding of optical         sectioning in the Aurox SD62 series of microscopes".
This has       enabled the company to optimise the microscopes performance "to better         accommodate end user requirements" [B].
Since 2008 Aurox has sold more than 150 units with market value in excess       of &#163;3M [B].
The "majority of these sales have been since 2010 when the         optimisation step described in paper [3] was incorporated into [their]         products" [B].
The sales have been made through distributers Carl       Zeiss MicroImaging GmbH, who market the products as VivatomeTM [C,       D], and Andor Technology PLC, who market it as Revolution DSDTM [E].
In the case of both customers it was initial feedback from beta-site       testing with end users that pointed to the need for a fuller understanding       of the impact of disk pattern design on the competing requirements of       optical section strength and signal level.
That understanding was provided       by the research undertaken at Imperial described above and which informed       the design of new disk patterns that was a crucial step in the development       of the eventual systems that went to market [B].
As distributers both Carl Zeiss and Andor (headquartered in Germany and       Northern Ireland respectively) have in turn benefitted from the addition       of Aurox units to their fluorescence microscopy product lines, providing a       low cost optical sectioning microscopy solution that is capable of       operation at relatively high speed.
In Carl Zeiss this has filled a niche       at the low cost end of their already extensive product line, effectively       phasing out their previous ApoTomeTM product.
Within Andor this       has formed part of a concerted effort to expand from a small, but       successful, scientific camera manufacturer to a worldwide supplier of       complete optical microscopy systems.
In marketing the Revolution DSDTM         Andor Technology PLC has "made significant use of the research         in paper [3] to help explain the operation of the Revolution DSD through         both webinars and other promotional material" [B].
As end users,       biomedical scientists find that with a low cost and relatively compact       device such as this they are no longer held up in their work by waiting       for access to centralised facilities where more expensive and bulky laser       scanning microscope systems are often sited, and that they can now access       some of the same functionality as provided by such traditional microscope       systems in their own laboratories.
Through the development of first-generation systems with Carl Zeiss,       Aurox was awarded R&amp;D 100 award in 2010 [F].
Most recently, in May       2012, Aurox received a Queen's award for innovation [G] and an Institute       of Physics Innovation Prize [H] in October 2012.
All of these awards were       based on the success of the first-generation systems that benefited from       the Imperial research highlighted here [B].
As a result of the success of the first generation systems produced by       Aurox, it is currently actively involved in the development of a second       generation of systems that will both improve on overall performance for       existing customers Carl Zeiss and Andor, and expand their respective       customer bases in new directions.
The design of the second generation of       microscopes produced by Aurox continues to be, in part, underpinned by the       analysis developed in paper [3] [B].
Aurox continues to work with Prof Neil's research group at Imperial to       develop the next generation of microscopes.
An example of the continued       collaboration is Aurox's role as the industrial/commercial sponsor an       EPSRC DTA/CASE award which has been held at Imperial since October 2010       [B, I].
The student Lionel Fafchamps is working under the supervision of       Prof Mark Neil at Imperial and industrial supervisor Dr Rimas Juskaitis at       Aurox on further developments to spinning disk pattern design to include       more complex patterns that can mitigate some of the residual artefacts of       simple line patterns, and the behaviour of systems using such masks in       bright field microscopy such as are used in material inspection       applications.
A particularly interesting recent development under this       program has been in mask designs that give significant improvements in       resolution for fluorescence systems.
It is expected that these       developments will feed into the second and future generation systems under       development at Aurox.
