     The first commercial impact of the research came when the Imperial-spin       out QuantaSol was formed in 2007 by Keith Barnham, Massimo Mazzer (a       visiting Professor at Imperial) and John Roberts (EPSRC National Centre       for III-V Technology).
QuantaSol's aim was to exploit QW technology in       multi-junction concentrator cells.
The company was funded by Imperial       Innovations and the Low Carbon Accelerator.
It was located in       Kingston-upon-Thames and employed between 12-16 people.
In May 2009 it was       announced that QuantaSol had received &#163;1.35m of investment from a       syndicate of investors including the Low Carbon Accelerator, Imperial       Innovations, Numis Securities Ltd and Netscientific Ltd [A].
The first       performance impact of the new company came in June 2009.
For six months       the company broke and held a 21-year-old world record for a single       junction concentrator cell with 28.3% efficiency at 534 times       concentration, verified by the Fraunhofer ISE [B, C].
This "new         generation of 'nano-structured' millimetre-sized solar cells...could         convert the sun's energy to electricity more than twice as efficiently         as current technology, [and] can be tuned to the prevailing light         conditions of a particular place, to get the most out of the cells         wherever they are" [C].
Commenting on the world record Kevin Arthur,       QuantaSol's CEO, said "Our technology is the industry's best kept         secret.
This is the first time that anyone has successfully combined         high efficiency with ease of manufacture, historically a bug-bear of the         solar cell industry" [C].
The potential commercial and environmental       impact of QuantaSol was recognised by the award of the Guardian CleanTech       Top 100 company status in both 2008 and 2009 [D, E].
In late 2010 QuantaSol first manufactured triple junction cells with       strain-balanced QWSCs in the middle sub-cell.
A median efficiency of 39.7%       was achieved for 171 cells on a production wafer [F], comparable with the       performance of cells from the market leader Spectrolab [G].
It was clear       that the strain-balanced QWSC was responsible for this enhanced       performance as a control wafer without the quantum wells had a median       efficiency of only 36.3% [F].
In 2011 the QuantaSol triple-junction cells passed technical       qualification with Amonix, the leading US concentrator manufacturer, who       qualified them for "commercial deployment" [H] in their high       concentration systems.
The only other concentrator cell manufacturer to       achieve this status by 2011 was Spectrolab.
As a result QuantaSol received       a substantial order from Amonix of 1MW of concentrator cells (approx.
50,000 cells) [H].
Amonix report that "the QuantaSol design was better         matched to Amonix specifications than any other cell design we have         evaluated to date" [H].
A further significant performance impact of the QuantaSol cells was       reported by Amonix in December 2011 [I].
They field tested cells from six       suppliers including QuantaSol.
The depth of the quantum wells in the       QuantaSol cells had been optimised for the Amonix target solar spectrum.
Fig.
12 in their paper [I] presents the ratio of currents in top and       middle cell for field tests in six locations in the south-west of the US.
These ratios were closer to unity in the QuantaSol case (vendor 3) than in       the case of the other five vendors.
The unity ratio corresponds to the       highest efficiency performance, confirming the advantage of the QWSC to       optimise for maximum energy harvest in different locations.
QuantaSol was sold to JDSU, a leading US semiconductor manufacturer, in       July 2011.
The 2012 Annual Report from JDSU reported "the acquisition         of critical product design, patented intellectual property and other         assets from QuantaSol, for a cash purchase price consideration of         approximately $3.7 million" [J].
Alan Lowe, President of JDSU's CCOP       unit, said of the purchase: "Incorporating key QuantaSol technology         will allow us to further differentiate our products and expand our         position in the CPV solar market as popularity for CPV continues to grow"       [K].
All IP generated by Imperial and QuantaSol research passed to the       ownership of JDSU.
The most important of these for the 40% triple junction       cell was licensed by Imperial Innovations exclusively to QuantaSol [P1].
Under the terms of the sale this patent will now be licensed to JDSU with       Imperial Innovations to accrue royalties from it.
The next performance milestone of the strain-balanced QWSC came at the 4th       International Concentrator Photovoltaic (CPV) Workshop in China in       September 2012.
Jan-Gustav Werthen of JDSU announced that the company       manufacture cells on larger than standard wafers with median efficiency       41.5% [L].
These cells have significantly higher efficiency performance       than Spectrolab cells, the market leader in CPV and a Boeing subsidiary.
The data sheet on the Spectrolab web-site claim that their CPV cells on       standard sized wafers have a "typical efficiency" of 40% [G].
A significant commercial impact of the strain-balanced QWSC is revealed       by the current JDSU data sheet [M].
This shows results from 1160 cells       nearly all of which had cell efficiency above 40%.
The spread in       efficiency is remarkably small considering that this was the first report       of quantum well cells grown on wafers with more than double the area of       the standard wafer.
The uniform performance is important as many cells are       connected in series in concentrator systems.
The larger wafer size will       also impact by reducing cell costs.
As reported in Section 3, research by the QPV group in collaboration with       Sheffield in the period 2007 - 2011 underpinned another advantage for       QuantaSol [Patent US 20110180129 A1].
Quantum wells in the quaternary       material GaInAsP lattice matched to the GaInP of the top cell were       developed.
This QW system turned out to have unexpectedly high radiative       efficiencies.
The performance impact of this further Imperial research was       demonstrated in a JDSU presentation in 2013 where they announced a further       1% absolute efficiency increase in production cells by incorporating       quaternary QWs in the top sub-cell [N].
The wafer average of 42.5% makes       JDSU the manufacturer of the world's highest efficiency production cells.
At the same meeting Solar Junction, who hold the record for research cell       efficiency, reported a median efficiency of 41.9% for their production       cells [O].
Additionally QWs in both the top and middle cell make it       possible to independently optimise both top and middle cell absorption       edges, which cannot be done with conventional cells.
Hence it will be       possible to maximise energy harvest as spectral conditions and cell       temperature vary during the day and over the year.
This will extend the       range of beneficiaries of CPV technology outside the southwest US,       potentially world-wide and also enable novel low carbon applications of       CPV such as in building integration and powering electric cars [F].
