 Laurence has sought to develop impact both from research on artefacts undertaken at Kent and, specifically, from his own research on Roman history and archaeology.
This work has been undertaken both to enhance the depth of public engagement in Canterbury, via its museums, and to extend the reach of the research to a much wider public via animated, free-to-view films on the internet.
The result is impact on museum policy and impact that has created a better public understanding of the experience of childhood in the city of Rome, as well as a greater engagement with Roman history.
The Significance of the Impact: The Roman Museum in Canterbury The route to achieving this impact needs to be set out to understand how the impact was developed and the nature of the impact over the course of more than three years.
It was initiated by Canterbury City Council (CCC) taking the decision on 18 February 2010 to propose the closure of the Canterbury Roman Museum on grounds of budget priorities from the start of the following financial year (April 2011 - see 5.1 below).
The Vice-Chancellor, Dame Julia Goodfellow, had written to the Leader of the Council, John Gilbey, to establish meetings to be held in April 2010.
At these meetings, the significance of the Roman past in Canterbury, and the relevance of research on artefacts undertaken at the University, was set out by Laurence and Swift.
That significance had not been previously understood, as reported in the Independent newspaper (08/02/10, 5.2 below).
This achieved a 12-month breathing space in which to explain the value and significance of the Roman Museum with reference to research, and to develop research based on the museum and its collection to demonstrate that value (3.3 above).
The first opportunity to present this research and to influence museum policy came in May 2010.
A Light Touch Peer Review was undertaken by the Museums, Libraries and Archives (MLA) Council, at which Laurence explained the importance of involvement of University research in understanding the significance of the museum.
These discussions and the report (5.3 below) led the council to ask Laurence to undertake a study of museum governance, and to chair the new stakeholder group: Canterbury Heritage Partnership (with representatives from the Cathedral, Canterbury Archaeological Trust, Canterbury Christ Church University, Kent County Council, CCC, and a number of Friends Groups of the 5 museums under CCC governance).
By Autumn 2010 Laurence had established The Heritage and Innovation Network at Kent (THINK) to connect University research with museums in Kent and to establish a mechanism to engage all stakeholders.
As of 31 July 2013, THINK had 122 members, 20% of whom are academics, 80% external to HE, with significant numbers of museum professionals (14%), local government officers (7%), researchers (11%), as well as entrepreneurs, consultants and creative artists.
The Heritage Partnership provided a new platform to discuss ideas for museum development and to influence the policy that all six museums in Canterbury and its district should remain open.
That decision came in Spring 2011.
Related to this, a new post of Director of Museums was created with Laurence included on the CCC appointment panel (May 2011).
This demonstrates his impact on the council and, in particular, the value given to his views by the Head of Culture and Enterprise at CCC.
After the appointment of the new Director, Laurence had regular six-weekly meetings to discuss the role of the Roman Museum, drawing on his research (including 3.3).
Through his research findings he created a better understanding of the value of the collection and initiated a discussion of ways to promote it that resulted in a significant increase in visitor numbers between 2009 and 2013 (see 5.7 below).
It was through this dialogue that Laurence contributed to the development of a clear vision for the Roman Museum and to the decision to begin its refurbishment in spring 2013 (5.7 below).
To ensure that his research in relation to the Roman Museum (3.3 above) has an impact on the public, Laurence has delivered lectures and a gallery talk with a podcast (5.4 below), and has written a newspaper article in the Canterbury Times (24/05/13; circulation 55,000 residents - 5.5).
The link with his research on graffiti and children in Pompeii (3.5 above) was highlighted to the Friends of Canterbury Museums (30 people) with hands-on discussion of inscriptions from the museum collection in the light of his research on epitaphs (3.4 and 3.6 above).
He has organised, in 2013, for key objects from the museum to be recorded with the Department's 3D laser scanner and to be presented on a digital screen in the Roman Museum to highlight the research being undertaken at the University.
These activities have placed his research on childhood in the public domain: it has been delivered by the local newspaper to every household (55,000); it has been made available on the internet; and it has been embedded in a local museum.
The shift in museum policy from one of museum closures, including the Roman Museum, to one of commitment can be demonstrated in CCC's corporate plan 2011-16, as well as with reference to the July 2013 discussion of budget cuts.
The Roman Museum is now (July 2013) seen as being of significant value and will not have its opening hours reduced, unlike 3 other museums managed by CCC.
Since 2010, when the Roman Museum was seen as having little significance, less than Christmas lights (as reported in the Independent 08/02/10 - see 5.2 below), and as a result of Laurence's activities, this view has been reversed (Canterbury Times 17/07/13).
Reasons given for this have been that the Roman Museum now has a clearer focus or `offer for visitors' and a strong education programme.
Laurence's research has made a significant contribution to establishing a better understanding of the cultural value of the collection on display to the public in the Roman Museum, and this has informed the policy decision in July 2013 to retain the Roman Museum (5.7 below).
Extending the Reach of the Impact: Digital Content for the Internet As a result of the discussion concerning the Roman Museum, Laurence was invited to join Canterbury for Culture (a stakeholder group that established Canterbury's Culture Awards).
Through its Chair (Tim Le Lean) knowledge of his research spread to Cognitive Media, a Small-Medium Enterprise (SME), including the production of animations with educational content for the US free-to-view network TED-Ed (5.8 below).
In 2012, a meeting was held between Andrew Park (founder of Cognitive Media) and Ray Laurence to establish a short, content-led, animated film for TED-Ed (5.8 below).
Laurence created the script based on his research for a 6-minute animated film `A Glimpse of Teenage Life in Ancient Rome' and advised on the visual content developed by Cognitive Media (based particularly on research in 3.2, 3.4, 3.6 above).
The film was released on 29 October 2012.
The impact of the film can be measured via YouTube statistics to 31 July 2013 (5.9 below).
It has reached 222,415 people, and there has been a very positive engagement with the film (2,092 likes and 68 dislikes) and more than 360 comments discussing the content.
It has been shared with others 248 times (5.9 below).
The comments on YouTube highlight how the content was found to be `really informative and relatable', and to create a demand for a second film or, as the comments stated, `part 2' (5.9 and 5.10 below).
Importantly, the film has been incorporated into 239 webpages to create customised lessons for schools, through a process known as flipping from the TED-Ed site (5.8 and 5.9 below).
The film was shortlisted for the 2013 Canterbury Culture Award for Commercial Collaboration.
The success of the first film led TED-Ed to commission Laurence to write scripts for a Rome series, as they say `we're thrilled with these exceptional lessons, and we think they add something unique and useful to the library of lessons we offer teachers around the world' (5.8 below).
As a result, and again working with Cognitive Media, a second film, `Four Sisters in Ancient Rome', was released on 14 May 2013 (based on research in 3.2, 3.4, 3.5, 3.6).
Within 24 hours of its release 10,000 people viewed it and by the end of the first week 26,000 people had seen the film (886 likes and 44 dislikes).
In 11 weeks from release (to 31 July 2013), 39,204 people had watched `Four Sisters in Ancient Rome', and the film had been shared with others 130 times.
To quote some of the 98 comments to highlight the impact: `This was really informative and relatable.
I want to see part 2'; `this is the best way of learning'; `so entertaining and informative'; `I love that they go into detail of the girls' lives.
Textbooks rarely do that'; and `I love these animations.
It makes history even more interesting!'
(5.10 below).
Comments also raised queries that were answered with reference to the films; for example: `I think you will find your answer at 5:28' (i.e.
5 minutes and 28 seconds into the film).
Further films will be produced for release in 2014 and 2015 in this series and result from the uptake by 220,000 users of the internet, sharing by internet users (376 times), use by school teachers via flipping (276 times) and numerous comments asking for additional programmes &#8212; for example: `this was incredible, please make more like this' (5.10 below).
As TED-Ed comment, these are `compelling lessons of an incredible caliber', and, as Andrew Park of Cognitive Media comments (5.8 below), this activity `fulfils TED-Ed's philosophy of a set of ideas that have changed viewers' attitudes to how they see Rome'.
Reach and Significance Laurence has ensured that his research on Roman history has reached over 260,000 viewings in the course of the 9 months from October 2012 to 31 July 2013.
Since his arrival at Kent, he has ensured that the value of research relevant to the Canterbury Roman Museum has been explained within a process of advocacy that has contributed to a policy that has retained this museum, and contributed to the decision to begin its refurbishment and renewal.
