     The Charity Law and Policy Unit's Steering Committee, chaired by Sir John       Mummery, ex-Lord Justice of Appeal in Ordinary (retired September 2013)       and populated by senior charity practitioners, guides the work of the       Unit.
Through regular meetings, the Committee considers the potential       impact and quality of research proposals.
It only selects those that are       likely to have the most impact on the sector and are aligned with the       clear goal of increasing the effectiveness of the charity sector through       the research findings.
The impact has manifested itself in two direct ways:     First, the work has directly led to an improved legislative framework         for the charity sector through the introduction of new legislation       governing charity mergers and the establishment of a new legal structure       for charities.
The findings and recommendations of our report on charity       mergers are embedded in the Charities Act 2011, Part 16.
It creates for       the first time a register of charity mergers to enhance and manage assets       on merger and provides a statutory definition of `relevant mergers' to       help manage the process.
Our recommendations to conduct due diligence       before engaging with the new statutory framework have been adopted in       sector guidance publications, which are referred to frequently.
Mergers of       organisations have increased as part of a wider drive to provide an       effective charity sector, facilitated by the reformed process.
Consequently,         over 1,200 registered mergers of charities have now been completed.
Our work on legal structures has directly fed into the development of a       new structure that meets the needs of charities.
This is implemented in       the new Charitable Incorporated Organisation (by virtue of the Charities       Act 2011, Part 11).
Creating the first legal structure designed       specifically for charities has been a complex and lengthy process.
It was       only in January 2013 that the structure was made available on a limited       basis to charities in England and Wales.
It has already attracted       substantial interest.
By September 5th 2013, over         1,000 charities had adopted this structure nationwide.
Secondly, the work has significantly enhanced the policy and practice         underpinning the effective operation of the charity sector.
Principal Judge McKenna commended our work on the operation of the nascent       Charity Tribunal in a lecture and she chose to post the relevant work on       the Charity         Tribunal's website following publication.
This publication was also       a key resource considered by the National Council for Voluntary       Organisations Charity Law Review Advisory Group, Sub-committee on Means of       Redress.
They agreed in their final report with our recommendations that       current deficiencies must be remedied, otherwise the value of the Tribunal       system as a cost effective and informal alternative means of settling       disputes will be lost.
These recommendations fed directly into the Hodgson       Report.
The government response to the Hodgson Report suggests that       further research is needed into these live issues of reform and the Law       Commission is now taking this forward.
The Law Commission in England and       Wales has approached Barr and Morris to work towards shaping their current       programme of charity law reform (which also includes further work on       charity mergers).
The disputes work, that highlighted the importance and need for increased       uptake of Alternative Dispute Resolution, has been specifically adopted by       the sector regulator, the Charity Commission, in its guidance documents.
Our report has also directly informed another recommendation in the       Hodgson report that charities should adopt and publish procedures for       handling complaints and that umbrella bodies should play a key role in       supporting their implementation.
The government has now accepted the       recommendation and the Charity Commission is now working more closely with       umbrella bodies within the charitable sector.
Alongside the key impacts identified, research outputs have impacted in       other ways to benefit the charitable sector.
For example, the Charity       Commission adopted the recommendations from our mergers research as a       vital element in its mergers toolkit.
Similarly, the analysis of       employment disputes in the charity disputes project is shaping other       research agendas.
For example, the legal status of volunteers within the       charity sector (recognised by us as a source of dispute) is a live issue,       having recently been adjudicated upon in the Supreme Court in the case of       X v Mid Sussex Citizens Advice Bureau [2012] UKSC 59.
The high profile of the Unit's work has attracted the attention of policy       makers, regulators and lawyers undertaking reform outside the UK.
In       addition to the reform work with the Law Commission in England and Wales,       Morris was invited to advise on proposed reform to public benefit rules in       Australia (2009), and on the reform of Iocal charity legislation in Israel       (2011).
