     Governments increasingly emphasise the role of entrepreneurship as a tool       of economic policy in       unlocking the growth potential of countries.
While metrics to track       innovation are well established       due to the long-standing focus of economic policy on innovation, measures       to track       entrepreneurship in countries lag behind.
Indices of entrepreneurship in       countries are too       underdeveloped to provide effective guidance for national entrepreneurship       policy analysis, design       and implementation.
The Global Entrepreneurship and Development Index       (GEDI) has been       designed to address this shortcoming and has had the following impact.
Scottish Enterprise commissioned a GEDI analysis of Scotland in       2012 to provide the basis for a       wide-ranging review of entrepreneurship policy in Scotland.
During January       &#8212; May 2013, several       stakeholder engagement workshops were conducted by Scottish Enterprise       around the GEDI       platform, debating its findings and digging deeper into the bottleneck       areas identified, unearthing a       wide range of system bottlenecks that had not been previously recognised       and developing an       action plan to deal with these.
By May 2013, stakeholder workshops had       distilled five priority       themes for the Scottish entrepreneurship ecosystem: "Financing for       Growth"; "Effective       Connections"; "Skills for Growth"; "Role of Universities", and "Role       Models and Positive Messages".
High-level Task Groups were created, charged with developing solutions to       each of the five       themes.
As an example, the GEDI index identified finance as a bottleneck       impeding Scottish       entrepreneurship.
Stakeholder workshops confirmed this bottleneck and       pinpointed insufficient exit       opportunities as the real system constraint.
As a result, policy is being       amended to facilitate exit       opportunities for angel investors &#8212; thereby encouraging them into the       sector &#8212; and to improve       access to institutional investors in Scotland.
Scottish Enterprise's       Manager of Collaborative       Funding has attested:     "The GEDI analysis you conducted with Professor Jonathan Levie of the       University of       Strathclyde has provided key entrepreneurship stakeholders in Scotland       with a robust       methodology for benchmarking Scotland's entrepreneurial performance       against leading       innovation based nations.
This contribution has provided:            An evidence base for Government strategy development and        An effective tool for stakeholder engagement which has facilitated         wider community-         based strategy development.
Without the GEDI platform, I believe progress in addressing bottlenecks       in the Scottish       entrepreneurship ecosystem would have been considerably less effective."
[A]     UNCTAD (United Nations Conference on Trade and Development)       Entrepreneurship Policy       Framework guides entrepreneurship policy design and implementation in       developing countries [B].
Autio's notion of systemic bottlenecks was adopted as a key element of the       framework, now       affecting many emerging market economies.
The Officer-in-charge of       UNCTAD's Division on       Investment and Enterprise provides confirmation of this:     "Your contributions, such as underscoring the notion of bottlenecks, have       enhanced our       Entrepreneurship Policy Framework and Implementation Guidance.
...Published in 2012,       the Entrepreneurship Policy and Implementation Guidance have already       contributed to the       discussions, design and implementation of entrepreneurship policies in       Brazil, Ghana, The       Gambia, Nigeria, Panama and Zimbabwe."
[C]     The EU In 2012, the EU DG Regional &amp; Urban Policy commissioned       a GEDI analysis of EU NUTS       II regions (all 125 of them).
Since the focus was on regions and not       countries, a new version of       GEDI (the Regional Entrepreneurship and Development Index &#8212; REDI) was       developed.
Following       an EU decision in 2013, Index data (now complete) will be included in the       2014 EU Cohesion       Report, and will inform policy design across the EU.
The Cohesion Report,       read by thousands of       policy-makers, politicians and regional policy stakeholders in European       regions, will provide a       benchmark reference of the entrepreneurial competitiveness of different       European regions and       inform the allocation of EU Structural Funds (&#8364;278bn, 2007-13) and EU       Cohesion Funds (&#8364;70bn,       2007-13).
The Deputy Head of the Economic Analysis Unit for the       Directorate-General has       described the usefulness of the GEDI and REDI analysis in:     "...highlight[ing] trends in regional entrepreneurship ecosystems,       thereby supporting the       design of policies to enhance economic and social cohesion...Importantly,       the GEDI/REDI       data goes beyond simple new firm counts and provides a systemic       perspective towards       entrepreneurship policies in EU regions.
This systemic aspect greatly       enhances the utility of       the GEDI/REDI data in policy analysis and design."
[D]     A particularly salient impact materialises through GEDI's influence on       Smart Specialisation       Strategies, which are required by the EU Horizon 2020 strategy as a       precondition for the allocation       of EU Structural and Cohesion Funds.
This is a material impact because       more effective promotion       of entrepreneurship is key to sustainable growth, both in advanced       economies and in emerging       market economies.
The regional version of GEDI directly informs Smart       Specialisation.
Overall, the       GEDI index has reach because it has already affected and continues to       affect policies of the EU       and among developing countries through UNCTAD, and thus a host of       individual countries in       Europe and beyond.
As examples, the government of Estonia is currently       conducting a GEDI       exercise, and Spain's 17 NUTS II regions are planning to conduct a GEDI       exercise in 2014.
Further, a non-profit organisation, the Global Entrepreneurship and       Development Institute has       been established in Washington, D.C., to advance policy impact.
As one       example, the GEDI       institute (of which Autio is Research Director) launched a version of GEDI       that focuses on Women       Entrepreneurship under the sponsorship of Dell [E].
GEDI has also been       prominently featured in       The Economist [F].
