     The Barlow Group's work bridged the gap between academic research,       pragmatic policy, and industry guidance.
Its emphasis on translating       impact shaped the climate for adoption of remote care.
The reach was       considerable, embracing policy makers and health service supply chains       within the UK and internationally.
Its significance is attested by the       importance of the problem (ageing and healthcare innovation are first       order issues for public policy and industry), by the scale of engagement       (from substantial funding to deep, long-term interactions with DH, NHS,       and private providers), and by repeated invitations to contribute to       solving the next set of policy challenges (the Group helped support the       launch of the next major UK government initiative on remote care:       the 3 Million Lives programme, see below).
Impact on policy       Through the initial EPSRC projects (2003-2006) [8], Audit Commission       report and modelling activity described in section 2, which assessed       organisational and economic challenges for mainstreaming remote care, and       subsequent work on the evidence base for remote care, a close relationship       with DH and other bodies (e.g.
the Care Services Improvement Partnership,       CSIP) developed.
This had an early impact on policy via invitations to       Barlow to chair a DH review on the quality of the evidence base for remote       care [A], extensive citation by the Wanless Commission on long term care       [B], and citation by Liam Byrne, then Parliamentary Under Secretary of       State for Care Services in launching a new national initiative for       telecare [C].
The Group's reputation and its work highlighting the need for a major       effort to improve the evidence base subsequently led to working with DH to       design and conduct the WSD research programme (2008-12).
Globally, this       remains the largest trial of remote care technologies, and it has shaped       development of national remote care policy.
WSD addressed limitations of       the remote care evidence base and will stimulate adoption across the UK by       showing what works and with what benefit.
This has already delivered:       initial research findings were announced on 5 December 2011 by the Prime       Minister and Secretary of State for Health at the launch of the next major       government initiative on remote care, the `3 Million Lives' programme [D].
At this lauch event, the Prime Minister said:     "Just look at our approach to telehealth - telemedicine - getting new       technology into patients' homes so they can be monitored remotely.
We've       done a trial [WSD], it's been a huge success and now we're on a drive to       roll this out nationwide with an aim to improve three million lives over       the next five years with this technology.
Now this will make an       extraordinary difference to people ... And it's not just a good healthcare       story; it's going to put us miles ahead of other countries commercially       too as part of our plan to make our NHS a driver of innovation in UK life       sciences."
[E]     This has an estimated net benefit to the NHS of &#163;450m over the next five       years (The Times, 6 December 2011: this represents the difference       between the &#163;750m cost of installing the trial systems and the NHS's       estimate of a &#163;1.2bn saving over the five-year period) [F].
The       beneficiaries therefore are both the patients receiving care that could       not otherwise have been afforded by the NHS, and taxpayers who would       otherwise have had to find an extra &#163;450m.
Either way, this attests       considerable reach and materiality.
Recommendations on the need to reform the NHS tariff to support remote       care from the WSD evaluation and from our previous work were taken up in       the key government report, Innovation, Health and Wealth [G] in       the current framework for Commissioning for Quality and Innovation [H].
Again, the beneficiaries are both patients and taxpayers depending on the       funding assumption made.
Impact on industry       The DTI / TSB roadmapping exercise supported the launch of 38 industry-led       projects worth &#163;47.1m.
The review also recommended more research on social       and business aspects of remote care which subsequently led to a &#163;10m TSB /       DH / ESRC research call [I], with several projects now underway.
By       integrating the industry into research and subsequent delivery, the       beneficiaries will be both patients and care providers.
Partnerships with industry (Tunstall, Philips, BT, Docobo, Legrand,       Orange) have altered industry thinking.
For example, after collaboration       on our EPSRC project [8] Tunstall &#8212; the market leader in the UK and in       other countries &#8212; revised its installation and supply procedures, and       incorporated lessons learned into its Telecare Training Tool and some of       its sensors.
The company affirms that its subsequent involvement in the       WSD helped validate its business approach to remote care [J].
