     The group's research concluded that innovation capabilities within firms       such as IBM would be better served by (a) making more use of open       innovation derived from ideas originating outside the firm (b) that this       required outward facing staff to harness such ideas, and (c) that a vital       source of such ideas were prospective users themselves, who should be       engaged from the outset in conception and design.
This required the       creation of Client Technical Advisers (CTAs) to broker these       relationships.
Backroom technical expertise was no longer enough.
IBM recognised the importance of this Imperial research, then       commissioned Gann's group to develop the strategic business case to       facilitate its adoption within IBM.
This was achieved successfully: IBM       decided to create 600 CTAs.
By 2013, 300 of these posts had been created       via this multi-year transformation programme.
IBM decided to commission Gann's group to help train these new CTAs       through a bespoke programme &#8212; `Leading Radical Innovation' &#8212; for       prospective CTAs, helping them identify opportunities using analytical       tools and frameworks, advocate solutions by using particular processes to       encourage client creativity, and implement adoption through the       development of interpersonal skills and approaches to engagement.
To confirm the reach and significance of this impact, and IBM's       commitment to the change in organisational structure, this programme is       being delivered three times a year to 20-25 former Senior Technologists at       IBM bases in the UK, US and Asia.
In developing the CTAs, Imperial can       document the clear sequence:            Excellent original research on individual search behaviour and the         effective structures to manage open innovation;       Recognition of this by IBM;       Commissioning Imperial to develop a business model for its         implementation;       Commissioning Imperial to facilitate significant organisational change         within IBM on a global scale.
The impact of this for IBM was described by the Vice-President, IBM       Academy of Technology &amp; University Relations [B]:     "I am pleased to confirm the benefits we have enjoyed from Imperial's       original research with my colleagues in IBM between 2008 and 2009.
This       research clarified ideas on ways in which engineers and technologists       create value by brokering knowledge across traditional boundaries.
The       study and your subsequent consulting advice provided thought-leadership       that shaped the creation of IBM's Client Technical Advisor (CTA) role.
Since implementation in 2009, more than 300 senior IBM technical leaders       have moved into new CTA roles.
We are pleased that Imperial College       provides on-going support in developing their capabilities through a       custom-made executive education programme `Leading Radical Innovation'.
IBM benefits enormously from the CTA role and we estimate that in the past       three years, the CTA program has contributed directly to IBM's revenue       growth in our strategy growth areas."
The Vice-President Emeritus of the IBM Academy of Technology has also       attested to the value of the Innovation and Entrepreneurship Group's       research in service innovation and the company's long-term relationship       with the Group, explicitly noting that IBM's development of the CTA       position "was inspired by research on the activities of technologies as       boundary-spanners starting in a project between the Innovation &amp;       Entrepreneurship Group and IBM's teams at Hursley UK."
[C].
The President of the IBM Academy of Technology, provides confirmation of       the School's role in helping IBM to adopt this new role, attesting that "a       bespoke Executive Education programme...gives our technical leaders the       ability to interact more effectively with customers, understand the       changing business context in which they operate and develop creative       solutions with strategic value to IBM."
[D].
We estimate IBM's eventual investment in the CTA role will be $90M: 600       people on an average salary of $140k per annum, plus fees and time       allocated to our executive programme.
If IBM anticipate a return of at       least 15% pa to establish such a programme, this implies that the eventual       benefit to IBM will exceed $13M per annum.
Subsequent developments     The impact of this project goes beyond the transition to CTAs.
Its       success allowed Imperial to build a deeper relationship with IBM leading       to new research with new impact.
The Digital City Exchange (DCE) is a       five-year programme to investigate these issues and IBM is working with us       to harness the latest in digital systems thinking across firms and       industries to transform the planning and use of cities, creating       integrated infrastructure and services, such as transport and utilities.
We are also working in this programme with Arup, Sainsbury's, Transport       for London, Imperial College Healthcare Trust and the National Grid.
Further evidence of the depth of the ongoing Imperial-IBM partnership, in       both directions, is that the former Chairman of IBM Europe [E] now chairs       Imperial's Digital Economy Lab; the President IBM Academy of Technology       [D] serves on the Advisory Board of the UK Innovation Research Centre       (joint Cambridge-Imperial), and the Vice-President Emeritus, IBM       Corporation [C] is a visiting researcher.
All three are Adjunct Professors       in Imperial College Business School.
