     Impact at Laing O'Rourke (LOR)     We developed a `systems-integration model' for firms managing       mega-projects to enhance organisational capabilities, innovation and       learning [1, 2, 4].
After we interviewed 50 senior managers, at LOR &#8212; the       UK construction industry's largest solutions-provider &#8212; and analysed their       technological resources, practices and earlier project performance, the       company adopted our proposal and reorganised how projects were managed and       organisational capability developed.
We also showed that the episodic nature of their work means that       project-based firms are inefficient at capturing learning and risk losing       opportunities to build organisational knowledge [3, 5, 6].
Using our       notion of systems integration and meta-routines, we developed an annual       Executive Education course for groups of 20 LOR senior managers to       transfer and develop skills necessary for innovation and for superseding       project management with business development capabilities [6].
The course       has run annually since 2009, so almost 100 senior LOR managers have now       absorbed our approach and translated it into operational practice:     "Applied research undertaken by Imperial's Innovation and       Entrepreneurship Group has allowed us to take the construction industry to       a level comparable with the world's best manufacturing companies"     Head of People Development, Laing O'Rourke, 2012 [C]     During the period of Imperial's collaboration with LOR &#8212; during which LOR       turnover rose from &#163;0.6bn to &#163;5bn p.a.
&#8212; Professor Gann was partially       seconded to the company as its Group Innovation Executive, for the purpose       of embedding our research in LOR operational practice:     "In this capacity, he translated ideas developed at Imperial into       strategies for innovation, implemented within our business.
This       stimulated the transformation of LOR from one based on discrete       project-by-project activities to a systematic approach, capturing and       transferring lessons from one project to the next.
The Imperial team       produced valuable case-based evidence of benefits to using manufactured       construction components, digital engineering tools, and systematic       innovation processes.
These guided our strategy to introduce a systematic set of processes for       Design for Manufacture and Assembly and our &#163;100m+ investment in the       Explore Industrial Park at Streetley with a state-of-art automated       factory."
Chairman, Laing O'Rourke, 29 October 2013 [D]     Impact beyond LOR       Our model has now been used in several major British infrastructure       projects including the St Pancras Eurostar Terminal in London (2007)       Heathrow Terminal 5 (2008) and the construction of venues and stadia at       the London 2012 Olympic Park, completed ahead of time and on budget       (2011).
Corroboration of the contribution of the Group's research to the       success of construction of the Olympic Park is available on request from       senior executives at the Olympic Delivery Authority [E, F].
The model was       also used by LOR in the construction of the $20bn Al Raha City in Abu       Dhabi and has been implemented at Crossrail.
The success of our research projects has led to ongoing collaborative       efforts with LOR, including Olympic venue construction.
By analysing       senior management decisions and project innovations including key       processes such as our systems integration model, we established clear       evidence of knowledge codified and reinvested across LOR, and among its       project partners, the Olympic Delivery Authority (ODA) and CLM (a       consortium of CH2M Hill International, Laing O'Rourke and Mace).
This       ensured the delivery of an effective and successful Olympic Games in 2012,       as well as the diverse utilisation of sustainably developed structures in       post-Games East London.
A report from this work was published as part of       the ODA's Learning Legacy initiative [B].
Mace (the UK's largest project management firm (&#163;1bn+ pa) has now engaged       Imperial College Business School in an Executive Education leadership       programme to instil these lessons more widely in the project management       community.
Crossrail       We are now applying our mega-project experience to Crossrail, examining       how innovative knowledge can be integrated and shared across the project.
The Crossrail Innovation Strategy, published in December 2012, credits our       `core input' into the strategy and contains a foreword by Professor Gann       [A].
Crossrail chose us as a research partner based on our tested research       in construction management and reputation in major infrastructure projects       (outlined above).
"As CEO of Crossrail, we have partnered with Imperial College in       developing an innovation strategy to support the implementation of this       complex &#163;14.8bn rail industrial project.
For the first time in this sector       we see the developments of an open innovation model that will bring       together the intellectual property of supply chains that span the       construction, rail and manufacturing sectors.
It is difficult to put a       value on the opportunities this will open up for us and, I believe, the       wider industries.
As a conservative estimate, it will be in the region of       tens of millions of pounds."
CEO Crossrail, 24 October 2013 [G]
