     The development of this model (renamed NIBAX, or the National Institute       Benefit and Tax Model) influenced spending decisions by government       departments and non-governmental bodies.
Recognizing the model's       usefulness, government departments (HMT, HMRC, DWP) have funded further       development of the model (amounting to c. &#163;430K since 2009 to bodies       including the National Institute for Social and Economic Research), and       taken it in house for routine deployment in analysing responses to       possible policy changes.
Confirmation of this is available from the former       Chief Economist at DWP [A], a member of the Knowledge, Analysis and       Intelligence unit at the HMRC [B] and the Head of Model Development,       Labour Markets and Distributional Analysis at HM Treasury [C].
The impact of this work is being demonstrated through current policy       changes.
A slow rise in the state retirement age from 65 to 68 became       policy in the Pension Act of 2007, was accelerated in the 2010 Spending       review and will accelerate further in 2014 if the current Pension Bill       receives royal assent.
The Chief Analyst at the DWP has stated:     "[Sefton's work] demonstrated that ...an increase in the state retirement       age would affect the retirement decisions of people on low income       significantly more than those on middle incomes.
... As such, it       contributed to the decisions made in the final White Paper `Security in       Retirement'."
[D]     Another significant policy change has been the introduction of a lifetime       allowance for pension savings with a simultaneous increase in the maximal       annual contribution allowance.
In the Finance Bill of 2013, this lifetime       allowance was reduced to &#163;1.25m per individual.
The specific simulation of       introducing a lifetime allowance was first analysed in the publication in       2000 [1].
Essentially, enhancing saving requires a powerful annual fiscal       incentive; the lifetime cap then maintains overall fiscal affordability.
The former Director of Analysis and Research in the Inland Revenue,       attests:     "Given the complexity of saving behaviour, it was difficult to fully       anticipate and quantify the likely impact of households' response, without       such a modelling framework &#8212; especially when these effects are designed to       accumulate over the entire lifetime of an individual".
Moreover, he confirms the ongoing and enhanced impact of Sefton's       research since it was taken in house and embedded in Treasury policy       analysis:     "I am in regular contact with both HMRC and HM Treasury and understand       that this model has gone from strength to strength and continues to have       an impact as an integral part of the policy process at HM Treasury &#8212; which       is the department that now has responsibility for strategic tax policy."
[E]     Providing further confirmation of the application of Sefton's research, a       member of the Knowledge, Analysis and Intelligence unit at the HMRC, has       stated:     "This NIBAX model has been used by HMRC to assess the impacts of changes       in the tax Regime; in particular, changes to the taxation of pensions and       saving.
More recently, we have been collaborating with HM Treasury to       develop the model.
This has resulted in us commissioning NIESR [the       National Institute for Economic and Social Research] to adapt the model so       it can project from a population cross-section.
This new model will       provide us with a better understanding about the long-term prospects of       those affected by potential policy changes.
This work is seen as       pioneering, as it is developing new capabilities within the department."
[B]     This is echoed in the statement from the former Chief Economist at       Department for Work and Pensions:     "It is clear the model fills a major gap in the policy process.
It       remains the only large-scale microsimulation model that explicitly models       behavioural responses to policy changes such as the introduction of       Universal Credit, possibly the most important reform to the benefit system       in the last 25 years...So, in short, this approach to modelling household       saving and work decisions has gone from being of academic interest to       being widely used by government departments and others in the evaluation       of potential policy decisions" [A]     To sum up, Sefton's work underpins modern tax policy analysis by UK       government advisers and departments.
A workable tool, it displays induced       behaviour changes that are not always immediately apparent.
Its impact has       been greatest in relation to pensions, saving, and the choice of       retirement age.
Its impact has therefore been to promote policies that       more effectively foster work and labour supply, more responsible saving       behaviour, and hence promote a more sustainable pension system despite       adverse demographics.
Sefton's pathbreaking research is the fulcrum on       which much of this policy analysis now turns.
That denotes both       materiality and reach; the social and budgetary implications are profound.
