     The research has resulted in significant changes in professional       education and training of clinical psychologists.
The results of the       research have been incorporated by the University of Social Sciences         and Humanities, Warsaw into the training programme for       specialisation in clinical psychology for clinicians in the Lower Silesia       region of Poland (equivalent of the English programmes training for the       Doctorate in Clinical Psychology).
Modules focusing on exploring       experiences of mental illness, insight, interview techniques and       note-taking were introduced.
The assumptions behind the research have also       informed the latest recruitment strategy for new candidates for the       programme.
Considerably more weight was given to assessment of candidates       focusing upon the narrated experiences of their patients.
The reach of       these changes is very significant - approximately 20% of all specialists       in clinical psychology in Poland are now trained within the Programme.
The research has also been disseminated to professionals (psychologists       and psychiatrists) as lectures and workshops in a number of venues in       Poland, and most particularly:            Psychiatric Clinical Hospital of the Wroclaw Medical University         (October, 2009)       Polish Psychiatric Association (October, 2009)       General Psychiatric Hospital, Lubliniec (April, 2009).
The research has also been used by the NHSBT Consent Workshop (chaired by       Emma Winstanley, National Referral Centre Manager, NHSBT, Speke), tasked       with reviewing the consent process in terms of language, deceased donor       family requirements and legislation.
This resulted in improving the       process of obtaining consent for organ and tissue donation in the United       Kingdom.
In particular, the impact consists in the panel's adoption of       wide-ranging recommendations as to the language of consent documentation       and leaflets.
The recommendations were aimed at explicating and changing       the discursive `structure of faith' behind the documentation to be used by       the NHSBT.
Most recommendations were adopted by the panel, directly       impacting upon the form of the consent forms and leaflets for the bereaved       families.
Apart from this immediate impact, this activity is expected to       have a long-term impact upon the level and quality of information received       by the families being asked to give consent for retrieval of their       relatives' organs and tissues, and in the process of the care for those       involved in giving consent for organ and tissue retrieval.
The influence of these changes is far-reaching.
7,500 people are waiting       for a transplant in the United Kingdom (1,000 die as a result of not       receiving a transplant every year).
Approximately 3,500 people die in       circumstances where they can donate.
The research described in this case       study will have impact upon every request for consent for organ and tissue       retrieval in the United Kingdom.
