 Hermes Traducciones y Servicios Ling&#252;&#237;sticos, SL, established in 1991, is a leading translation company with 100% Spanish capital, specialising in software and hardware localisation and also undertaking a broad range of other translation projects.
At present, it is an assembly member of GALA (Globalisation and Localisation Association), ATA (American Translators Association) and ACT (Spanish Translation Companies Association).
Furthermore, Hermes maintains a close relationship with Spanish universities by giving lectures in Translation and Interpreting, postgraduate courses, trainee programmes, localisation and applied technology seminars and sponsoring conferences and translation-related events, etc.
Hermes makes use of language technologies to speed up translation and achieves publishable quality via human post-editing.
In the last two years Hermes has post-edited nearly 1 million words, a post-editing activity worth &#8364;90,000.
These figures should increase by 15-25% in the next two years.
It is therefore clear that reducing the cost of the post-editing practice is a priority for them.
NLP Technologies Inc (NLPT) is a Canadian company specialised in NLP that offers accurate and reliable certified translation services and technologies by employing Computer Aided Translation (CAT).
It offers translation services in the legal, governmental, medical and financial domains and it has clients such as Alberta Education, Tribunal Administratif du Qu&#233;bec, Barreau du Qu&#233;bec, Commission des droits de la personne et des droits de la jeunesse and Fisheries and Oceans Canada.
Both companies benefit from general purpose translation technologies and domain adaptation strategies to fit their general purpose translation workflows to specific domains.
In the past, Hermes and NLPT would optimise their translation workflows, including their domain adaptation strategies, towards semi-automatic metrics of translation evaluation such as HTER (an edit distance between a cheaply obtainable draft translation and its human post-edited version).
However there is no guarantee that HTER and other state-of-the-art metrics correlate well with the real effort spent on post-editing as they are only an estimate of the real edits made.
In 2012 Hermes achieved a 31% reduction in post-editing, whilst 2013 saw a 34% reduction.
This was accomplished by combining two uses of PET as follows:  optimising domain adaptation strategies towards a combination of post-editing time and edit distances (accurately measured editing time is one of the original outcomes of PET); collecting data from the post-editing practice (PET's novel detailed effort indicators) that allowed them to learn an "aptitude profile" of their post-editors to the different types of texts (e.g.
legal documents, movie subtitles, etc.).
Such profiles were consulted before tasks were assigned so that the human subjects involved in a task were chosen depending on their aptitude for that task.
In a similar experiment that took place in the last quarter of 2011, NLPT used PET to assess their own domain adaptation in order to maximise their own efficiency.
They report a study in which four professional post-editors worked on documents translated using different domain adaptation strategies.
PET allowed them to objectively tune their strategies towards time savings in a controlled experiment.
They have found that an average of 66 seconds could be saved per sentence (for over 78% of the cases) if their models were optimised towards editing time as opposed to HTER.
These savings can be extrapolated to future tasks compatible with the domains analysed by matching their goal (time savings) with their evaluation methodology in a short and non-expensive analysis using PET.
The PET tool has also had an impact in education.
In 2012-2013 DTIC introduced post-editing as part of their Master's programme and they chose PET due to its unique effort indicators as well as its flexibility in dealing with both human translation and post-editing.
In their practical sessions, students participate collectively in experiments aiming at contrasting human translation and post- editing in terms of (i) quality, (ii) productivity, and (iii) typically encountered errors.
While students are introduced to state-of-the-art translation and post-editing practices, they are also assessed in terms of (a) how thoroughly they apply guidelines, (b) the quality they achieve, (c) their own productivity, and (d) the errors they identify.
PET's effort indicators, explicit assessments and history of edits are used for both purposes, namely, teaching (i-iii) and assessment (a-d).
Since 2012, thanks to PET, DTIC's Master's students have been learning about and experimenting with post-editing, a practice that is of increasing importance in the translation industry and which is becoming indispensable to any modern translation professional.
As a result of using PET, DTIC has designed novel and modern Translation Quality Assessment approaches which they put into practice in the postgraduate courses they offer.
