     Private sector impacts     The research outlined above has had impacts within the private sector       through the application of       the methodology to pre-employment         screening.
Security is essential to financial pre-employment       screening due to the sensitivity of the information stored and analysed.
Between 2009 and 2011       the research was applied to support this through an award-winning two year       Knowledge Transfer       Partnership (KTP) with Powerchex, a UK-based company specialising in the       financial services       sector of the City of London.
The project's success was recognised by its       "outstanding" grading [a]       and nomination as one of eight nationwide finalists in the Technology       Strategy Board's KTP Best of       the Best 2012 awards [b].
The KTP originated from Powerchex's identification of security issues as       a barrier to growth.
To       win major clients they had to be capable of handling more screening       applications.
Their own       attempts to automate a screening process, however, proved       labour-intensive, time consuming,       prone to errors, and unable to guarantee the security of information.
UEL's theoretical work on       security engineering was applied to this complex business problem to       improve the efficiency and       speed of Powerchex's application process without compromising its       security.
In particular, the       methodology enabled the elicitation of security requirements, in terms of       security constraints; the       analysis of such constraints and the identification of relevant threats       and vulnerabilities; and the       development of a system comprised of security mechanisms and an       architecture that supports the       satisfaction of the identified security constraints.
The new system has       passed rigorous security       checks performed by some of the biggest financial institutions.
More       specifically, our research was       used to develop a secure Powerchex online application form with an       electronic signature tool,       incorporating electronic submission of applications, automated screening       reports, customer       bespoke data automation and form customisation, as well as automated       criminal checks.
Moreover, the newly developed system was linked with the UK criminal       record check system,       which gave Powerchex the fastest turnaround in the industry for UK       criminal record checks,       reducing the process time from 11-12 to 7-9 days.
The KTP led to a significant increase in systems, networking and IT       security knowledge and       experience at Powerchex, especially with respect to data security and       privacy.
According to the       company's current Managing Director: "The project gave us [security]       expertise and resources that,       as a growing company, we would never otherwise have been able to access or       afford" [d].
By       enabling Powerchex to develop a software system with security in mind, our       work allowed them to       win large new contracts and attract high-profile new clients such as HSBC,       whose stringent       security requirements would previously have presented a barrier to them       working with Powerchex.
As the then-MD of Powerchex explained: "The security research expertise       brought by Dr.       Mouratidis helped us to develop a [software] system that passed rigorous       security checks of       potential clients and provided us with competitive advantage, in a sector       where security is very       important" [d].
Powerchex has publicly acknowledged the dramatic impact of the KTP on its       capacity to compete       successfully for large corporate business [d].
At the start of the KTP,       Powerchex was a small       business with 30 staff, providing pre-employment screening for small to       medium-sized clients in the       financial services sector.
Turnover totalled &#163;776k, yielding net profits       of &#163;120k.
Despite a       problematic recruitment market for the financial services industry, the       company have announced       that the KTP led to increases in turnover of &#163;1.7m and annual pre-tax       profits of &#163;440k, whilst staff       numbers grew to over 100.
Increased process efficiencies &#8212; including in       the time taken to complete       criminal record checks &#8212; reduced costs by &#163;40k [b, d].
The improvements accruing from the application of the research to       Powerchex's security systems       have also delivered significant benefits to the company's clients, who now       include some of the       largest financial organisations in the UK.
Powerchex's capacity to deliver       faster and more secure       pre-employment screening improves efficiency within these organisations by       reducing delays in       their ability to appoint potential employees.
In turn, those potential       employees also benefit from       employing organisation's capacity to notify them about their job       applications in less time, but with a       much-reduced risk of compromising the security of their personal details.
The new capabilities developed and embedded in Powerchex were a major       factor in its acquisition       in 2010 by HireRight, a leading global provider of on-demand employment       background checks,       drug testing, Form I-9 and employment education verifications.
That       acquisition has significantly       extended the reach of the original research impacts on Powerchex through       HireRight's adoption of       the security-centric approached taken to the development of Powerchex       software system.
The       company has integrated a number of the system functionalities within other       systems amongst its       EMEA branches.
Public Service Sector       The Greek National Gazette (GNG) is responsible for the issue and       circulation of the Greek       Government Gazette, publishing and communicating to the general public all       governmental       policies, laws and changes to the constitution; it is also used to meet       the printing needs of the       Greek Public Service.
The Gazette's work currently involves manual input       of thousands of local       government documents to its systems, a process that is laborious,       time-consuming, and prone to       human error.
The application of insights and methods developed through the UEL       research has enabled the       Gazette to achieve an in-depth understanding of the various security,       privacy and trust implications       of using the latest technologies to support the development of adaptable       software systems to fully       automate their processes.
The project supporting this, which began in       December 2011, was       particularly developed through visits made by Dr Mouratidis to the       National Gazette during       sabbatical leave taken between February and July 2012.
During those       visits, the Secure Tropos       methodology was applied to the Greek National Gazette to elicit security       requirements and identify       relevant security threats and vulnerabilities in the process of automating       GNG operations.
The       development of an automated adaptable infrastructure to support the       production and publication of       information is expected to reduce the production time and increase       production outputs of the       National Gazette by 25%.
However, it is important that such       infrastructure, which has implications       for all main Greek governmental departments, as well as local governments,       does not endanger       the security &#8212; and especially the integrity and authenticity &#8212; of the       published information.
The application of our theoretical work to the Gazette elucidated and       analysed security, trust and       privacy issues related to the automation of the National Gazette's       production systems, identified a       number of potential vulnerabilities, and suggested ways to overcome these       [c].
In particular, our       analysis focused on the GNG's two main external services: "Receipt of the       Documents" and       "Publication of the Volume".
Application of the secure Tropos methodology       to a security analysis of       these identified a number of security constraints related to integrity and       availability, and privacy       constraints related to unlikability and sender eligibility.
A number of       security mechanisms were       implemented to address these.
In the case of unlikability, for example,       the application of our       methodology facilitated onion routing, tor architecture and       pseudonimisation to fulfil the relevant       security and privacy requirements.
Our analysis also focused on the trust       and security issues of a       potential migration of the National Gazette's systems to the cloud [e],       enabling it to make an       informed decision about which of its services could be moved without       compromising their security.
By analyzing and comparing two potential cloud computing deployment       models, our work allowed       the Gazette to identify the model that met their security and privacy       requirements.
The National Gazette's public communication role makes public trust in       its work essential.
The       project provided the Gazette with an analysis, not just of the technical       security requirements       related to its service delivery, but also of security and trust concerns       arising from both providers       and receivers of the published information, including local authorities       and citizens [f], and thereby       helped it meet its public trust requirements.
