     Agilium software for Business Process Management     The development of CRISTAL was conducted in close consultation with user       communities &#8212; initially       physicists and engineers at CERN [see source S1] and latterly in commerce       for eBusiness       users.
This enabled its rapid adoption by industry and in 2003 a version       of CRISTAL was       developed and sold as support for applications of business process       management (BPM) by the       M1i company in France.
It can handle the complexity of data-intensive       systems and provide the       flexibility to adapt to the changing scenarios required by any process in       which workflow and data       traceability is crucial.
It has been sold by M1i under the product name Agilium       (2003 &#8212; 2013) into the retail, finance and manufacturing       sectors of European industry, for use in the area of BPM.
UWE advised on the adaptation of the CRISTAL kernel to       enable M1i to develop BPM support.
Agilium used the kernel for workflow       and process traceability,       and also for the integration and co-operation of multiple business       processes in business-to-business       (B2B) applications.
The M1i product enables commercial processes to be       harmonised       using a CRISTAL database, tracks their workflows and integrates multiple       potentially       heterogeneous processes, such as order processing, sales management and       business logistics.
Benefits of Agilium realised in a variety of businesses     CRISTAL-Agilium has found application in, for example, the systems used       by Nexcis for       photovoltaic cell production, by the Ville de Lyon (France) for managing       operational procedures,       and by the STTS specialist aerospace painting/sealing company for managing       its internal business       process controls.
In particular Agilium enables these customers to trace       their data across       applications and to adapt to system evolution with little or no disruption       to their live systems.
CRISTAL-Agilium also integrates the management of data coming from       different sources and       unites Business Process Management with Business Activity Management (BAM)       through the       capture and management of their designs in CRISTAL.
This has been applied       at the Bayer Group,       where CRISTAL-Agilium has enabled customers to conduct and handle B2B       transactions and to       facilitate the management of targeted domains (e.g.
logistics, retail and       government domains).
Other CRISTAL-Agilium clients of M1i include Dynastar, GDP Vendome, the       ski resort of Tignes,       Photowatt Technologies, SoTRADEL and Midor.
The software is used to manage       the processes of       and between these commercial companies enabling M1i to gain a unique       position in the BPM       market (recognised by the Gartner Group, 2009 [S2] and IT advisors CXP       [S3]).
Commercial       income generated by CRISTAL-Agilium licence sales by M1i in the period       2008-2013 top &#8364;1.0M.
To quote the CEO of M1i: "the quality of the (CRISTAL) research         transfer gives us key benefits to         differentiate our solutions on the market" and to "justify our         position as an innovative SME         company for our customers and partners" [S4].
M1i and Alpha-3i companies commercialise further applications of         CRISTAL     In 2011 UWE and M1i, together with the Alpha-3i company (France), were       awarded &#8364;1.5M under       the FP7 Marie Curie Industry-Academic Partnership Pathways (IAPP)       programme to develop       CRISTAL for the next generation of business applications.
This CRISTAL-ISE       partnership has       already enhanced CRISTAL with distribution and semantic features.
Since       its inception both       companies have benefitted from CRISTAL's design flexibility and ability to       evolve dynamically in       order to upgrade their commercial offerings for a growing customer base       more rapidly that was       previously possible.
Application and commercialisation beyond BPM &#8212; Technoledge start-up     CRISTAL has been recently further exploited by the       Technoledge start-up company.
Starting in early 2012,       Technoledge has been working closely with UWE to adapt       CRISTAL to domains outside of BPM [S5].
Amongst other       areas, application of CRISTAL at CEA (France) has       demonstrated, for the first time, full traceability from raw       materials to final product facilitated by the use of CRISTAL in       manufacturing execution systems.
This has led to the following outcomes:            Technoledge use CRISTAL to provide the support for the development of         production lines at         CEA to manufacture next-generation sustainable fuel cells for future         electric vehicles.
In collaboration with the COGEP consortium (one of the five largest         accountancy consortia         across France), Technoledge has exploited CRISTAL to integrate several         previously         outsourced software packages for a major French accountancy firm, taking         advantage of         CRISTAL's ability to manage several contrasting models in the same         workspace.
In the summer of 2013 the Advanced Accelerator Applications group         adopted CRISTAL as the         basis of its production management system for the production of         radiopharmaceuticals for         distribution to hospitals in the Rhone-Alpes region of France.
Since 2008, CCCS has also collaborated with the neuGRID and N4U (`neuGRID       for Users')       projects to provide a system for clinicians investigating biomarkers for       Alzheimer's disease [S6].
CRISTAL has been used to track the analysis of algorithms and large data       sets to help identify       patients who may be susceptible to mild cognitive impairment that could       lead to dementia.
Early       identification of such conditions is enabling doctors in medical centres       across Europe to diagnose       Alzheimer's Disease and thereby to prescribe suitable drug therapies to       slow its onset.
The provenance of data and processes is central to these business       operations.
CRISTAL has       enabled the systematic management of data and processes in a maintainable,       flexible and       evolvable, and thus profitable, manner.
