     Process from research to impact       The Company Solus Biologicals Ltd. was initiated in 2007 by Stimson and       Cowan, supported by a       SMART grant award from Scottish Enterprise to produce prototype       instrumentation for the assays       based on the prior research conducted by Stimson.
During its second year       of life Anglo Scientific, a       UK investment group, took a particular interest in funding the developing       technologies and in 2009       Solus Scientific Solutions Ltd. evolved to take these to market, with a       Physics graduate of the       University of Strathclyde as Chief Executive Officer.
Types of impact            The impact of this research has been initially economic, with         expansion of the original spin         out company, investment leading to employment and product development,         and profit to the         company from sales of testing kits.
The food testing kits offer significant advantages to the producers,         wholesalers and         supermarkets supplying food in the UK, over previous testing systems.
The final impact is on the health of the public due to improved         testing for mycotoxins, and         other products which will detect food spoilage.
Commercially successful spin out company       The food sector represents the largest market segment within the       industrial microbiology market       and represents almost 50% of the total market for food pathogens such as       Listeria, Salmonella and       E.coli.
Europe is a substantial market for food microbiology testing.
With       a population of more than       500 million (2009), the 27 countries of the European Union (EU) performed       an estimated 275       million food micro tests in 2011 [Sources A and B].
In mid-2011, Solus       Scientific Solutions       absorbed a significant sales and marketing diagnostic company, RayAl Ltd,       to initiate full       production and sales of its products on a wider basis.
RayAl sells       extensively in the UK, France       and Denmark.
[Source C] The products marketed by this company are assays       for Salmonella,       Listeria, E coli 0157.H7, meat speciation and a number of mycotoxins       tests, as well as the broths       essential for bacterial culture.
The Solus-developed test-kits and       antibodies were all developed       from the Strathclyde research and account for significant sales and       projections, based on current       levels suggest they will account for 65/70% of the turnover of this       company by 2014.
Investment into assay development       A Scottish Enterprise SMART grant for &#163;100,000 was awarded in May 2010 to       assist in the       development of the rapid (20 hour) Listeria monocytogenes test,       which is expected to be the first to       comply with present EU legislation.
An initial Eurostars grant of       &#8364;1.36million was awarded in July       2011, to fund the full development of the 5 hour abattoir assay and assist       its uptake throughout the       EU, by the introduction of the appropriate legislation.
The system       incorporates Salmonella and E.       coli 0157.H7 assays into a robot-based process that will automatically       test beef, pork and sheep       carcasses before release to the public.
Trials of the robotic system,       based on the principle of the       automated cow milking system, are reaching an end-point in abattoirs in       France and Denmark       (July 2013).
However, it will take time to assist the EU in accepting       individual carcass meat testing       legislation.
A final investment round to raise &#163;800k was closed successfully in       January, 2013.
This is being       used in part to develop 8 mycotoxin assays for food and crop monitoring       using immunoassays and       lateral flow devices.
&#8212; the latter are particularly useful for assessing       risks associated with lorry       deliveries of grain where tests should be completed in 15 minutes to allow       rapid unloading.
The       monoclonal antibodies for these have already been produced in Strathclyde       University and have       been licenced to Solus Scientific Solutions Ltd.
Sales       Solus Scientific Solutions Ltd converted its market for the major       Enzyme-Linked Immunosorbent       Assays (ELISA) for Salmonella and Listeria to the Strathclyde research       based products in July       2013.
This followed the successful completion of 2 full AFNOR       Accreditation Trials for both       products in June 2013.
[Source D].
Association Fran&#231;aise de Normalisation       (AFNOR) is the French       national organisation for standardisation.
AFNOR is the EU body that provides certification for the       food industry and conducts rigorous audit of any product before it can be       marketed [Source E].
The       E. coli assay is currently on trial (June 2013) to be completed by the end       of the year.
From 2011, with the acquisition of RayAl Ltd. food testing kits were sold       across UK, France and       Denmark.
The market share available to Solus products was 2.5m test kits       in 2011, and growth is       expected.
Solus is currently in discussions to provide tests to countries       such as India (with plans to       set up a sales office), where food safety is of particular importance.
Revenue received by Solus Ltd       was &#163;1.1 m for the first quarter of 2013, representing a 43% increase over       same time period       (January-March) 2012.
Sales of testing kits produced revenue of &#163;3.4       million by year end 2012.
Sales have increased since this date and the figure is predicted to be       &#163;5.1 million by end 2013.
Public Health and Consumer Benefits       By July 2013 the companies utilising the Solus assays based on Strathclyde       research included       Eurofins, Marks and Spencer, RHM, Cargill, Iceland, Premier Foods and       Alcontrol.
Eurofins, for       example, is the world leader in food and feed testing [Source F], offering       a comprehensive range of       state-of-the-art analytical techniques to global food suppliers, including       the rapid diagnostic testing       for salmonella [Source G].
The other companies listed are distribution and       marketing companies       with global reach.
Cargill is an international producer and marketer of       food, agricultural, financial       and industrial products and services.
This company employs 140,000 people       in 65 countries       [Source H].
Other companies have extensive reach throughout the UK (Marks       and Spencer,       Iceland).
These companies conduct rigorous testing of their own food       product ranges, or are       companies which conduct testing on behalf of other companies to meet       hygiene standards.
Their       testing, based on Strathclyde research, will have direct health benefits       to consumers throughout       the UK, Europe and globally.
Employment       24 jobs have been created from Solus start-up in 2007 to July 2013, and       will increase as sales       expand.
Reduced costs and increased efficiency       The assays developed from the Strathclyde research are constructed closely       on systems that have       formed the basis of modern immunoassays.
Hence, little additional user       training is needed and no       expensive additional assay materials are required other than those       available `off the shelf' &#8212; thus,       this can be reflected in a very competitive selling price resulting in a       percentage cost reduction of       around 50% from existing high sensitivity testing products.
Additionally,       the assays may be fully       automated using Dynex machines (these are leased to customers) and can       assay up to 200 food       samples per hour.
These improve quality control of testing as well as       reducing the staff numbers       required and the need for highly trained scientists.
In addition, the       standard test for Listeria takes 2-5       days, whereas the rapid test produced by Solus is completed in 22 hours.
