     Process from Research to Impact       Scottish Enterprise funding was obtained for the period 2006-2008 to       develop a device that could be clinically trialled for moisture sensing in       patients' dressings.
A collaborative programme of work for the trial was       developed with tissue nurses within NHS Greater Glasgow &amp; Clyde.
The       device details and trial protocol were cleared for trial pre-CE mark by       the Medicines and Health Regulatory Authority in the UK, a substantial       process.
The trial commenced in 2007 for 12 months.
Sixteen patients       attending a leg ulcer clinic in Clydebank Health Centre were recruited to       the trial.
It was shown that the sensor accurately reported moisture       levels and showed that moist wounds were healing best [Reference2].
New clinical protocols and findings were developed using the system in       conjunction with a new home monitoring texting app developed by NHS Stoke       and known as NHS Florence.
The work was done in conjunction with a       telehealth expert team from NHS South of Tyne and Wear (SOTW) and this       team has been given permission to offer the protocols to other NHS Boards       commercially working with Ohmedics Ltd.     Types of Impact       Creation of spin-out company:       The spin-out company, Ohmedics Ltd (Source A), was formed on the basis of       the University of Strathclyde research in June 2009.
[text removed for       publication] Ohmedics needed to establish itself as a medical device       company by obtaining ISO 13485 certification.
This was awarded by Intertek       in January 2010.
Intertek also awarded WoundSense&#8482; the CE Certificate       (Mark) for a Class IIa medical device in January 2010.
This allowed the       device to be placed on the market in the EU and other non-EU countries       that accept the CE mark (such as Saudi Arabia).
This is the first ever       device for diagnostics within a wound dressing that has been certified in       the EU, USA or elsewhere.
Ohmedics obtained the Nexxus award for       Innovation in 2009 and the University's Innovation Spin Out award in the       same year.
The company also started activities in the Middle East working       through UKTI and Scottish Enterprise.
To date Ohmedics has appointed       distributors in Qatar (Gentech) and the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia (Husnksa &#8212;       Source B).
Commercialisation of the technology:       Full production of the system comprising a meter and disposable sensors,       commenced in 2011 [text removed for publication] (Source D).
The company       have already established first sales in Saudi Arabia and Qatar.
Manufacture of product (meters and sensors) is done in the UK via       subcontracts.
A major US company is investigating the use of the system in their       dressings.
Ohmedics Ltd have signed a confidentiality agreement with a       major Chinese medical company with a view to forming a partnership       covering China, Malaysia and Thailand.
Although the initial markets       targeted are UK and Middle East based, global markets are opening up.
Benefits to patients:       A team at Wythenshawe Hospital have collaborated with the research team to       show that moisture is correlated with leg ulcer healing in compression       treatment, the first time this has been proved in patients [Reference 4].
The researchers have worked in King Abdullaziz Hospital Jeddah on vascular       surgery patients being treated with medicinal honey and with the British       Army at Queen Elizabeth Hospital, Birmingham for trauma and burns       patients.
The British Army work in collaboration with Lt Col Professor       Stephen Jeffery required military ethics approval (MODREC) which was       obtained at the end of 2011.The WoundSense monitor was used in Negative       Pressure Wound Therapy in 2012-13 at The Queen Elizabeth Hospital and Lt       Col Jeffrey has stated "NPWT involves the application of suction, via a         dressing, to the wound area using a pump.
This draws out exudate &#8212; wound         fluid &#8212; and stimulates the healing process.
However, before WoundSense         came to the market, it was not possible to monitor moisture in a         patient's dressing in real time."
(Source C).
Results of clinical trials show that the WoundSense system reduces       dressing changes and allows the clinician to monitor the crucial moisture       levels inside the wound dressing.
This allows clinical guidelines on       moisture levels to be actively applied, including the European Wound       Management Association's TIME Guidelines for wound bed preparation.
Patients suffering from diabetic ulcers, venous leg ulcers, diabetic foot,       pressure sores and post-surgical wounds, e.g.
Caesarean, are affected       positively by our wound monitoring technology.
Patients find dressing       changes less painful as those wounds which have dried will be changed       before the tissue can begin to bind to the dressing.
As there are fewer       dressing changes there is also less chance for infection.
Improved wound       exudate control, in general, also leads to faster, more effective healing       [Refs 2, 4].
Economic Benefits:       Use of WoundSense has resulted in significant savings in nursing staff       time as fewer dressing changes are required.
This increased efficiency has       an economic benefit as the nursing time involved in dressing changes has a       considerable cost.
Ohmedics Ltd. was invited in January 2013 to present a       confidential Costs Benefits Analysis for the system to NHS Scotland and to       the Department of Health.
The analysis showed projected savings for use of       the device of around &#163;28,000 per annum and a saving in community wound       care of &#163;9800 per annum in the nursing of chronic wounds (Source E).
Conservatively, for every chronic wound care patient being treated at home       over a 6 week period, WoundSense saves 12 community nurse hours and &#163;1100       per patient.
Following the presentation, Ohmedics was invited by       Department of Health officials to participate in the NHS Innovations Expo       2013 in London linked to achieving the Government's aims of rapidly       expanding telehealth through its 3 Million Lives programme.
The       researchers have now started 2 telehealth pilot projects in NHS England       (Source F).
Wider adoption: The link to telehealth through the partnership       with NHS South of Tyne and Wear led to an invitation to meet the Danish       Government's telehealth team who have a particular interest in wound care       and in the WoundSense NHS telehealth pilots.
An invited presentation to       the Danish telehealth groups took place on September 10th 2013       at the British Embassy in Copenhagen.
Medecin sans Frontieres in Cameroon       also requested training materials and a presentation from Ohmedics and       Prof Connolly with a view to assessing the WoundSense system in Buruli       Ulcer treatment.
This presentation took place in June 2013.
