     Process from research to impact       The Formulation Unit is funded directly by Cancer Research UK to conduct       pure and applied research [Source 1] across a range of chemical drug and       formulation types, which culminates in the manufacture of an       investigational medicinal product for patient administration in clinical       trial, compliant with EU regulatory requirements.
Compounds are selected       by the Cancer Research UK New Agents Committee, which does not operate       with a traditional drug development pipeline.
The Unit, therefore, has to       be capable of covering pharmaceutical research ranging across analytical       methods and techniques, utilization of these techniques to understand and       limit chemical degradation and assist stabilization, and the final       development of formulations [Source 2].
The Unit collaborates with       multiple clinical cancer centres in the UK, and nationally and       internationally with multiple cancer drug discovery groups.
As the only UK       academic centre capable of conducting this formulation research, the       Unit's research input has played a vital role in the formulation research,       clinical testing and eventual marketing of these two anti-cancer drugs.
Before drugs can be marketed by pharmaceutical companies they must be       tested on patients in clinical trials and approved by regulatory bodies.
In the USA, the relevant body is the Food and Drug Administration (FDA).
In the UK the Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency (MHRA)       approves the clinical trial, but this does not necessarily lead to use in       the National Health Service until the National Institute for Health and       Care Excellence (NICE) have assessed the cost benefit calculation and       approved the use of the drug.
Temozolomide was licensed by Cancer Research UK to Schering Plough in       1995, received accelerated FDA approval in 1999 and was approved by NICE       in June 2007 for the treatment of newly diagnosed glioblastoma multiforme       (GBM) and anaplastic astrocytoma [Source 3].
Abiraterone acetate was       licensed by the Institute of Cancer Research via BTG International to       Cougar Pharmaceuticals, and on to Johnson and Johnson.
It was FDA approved       for use in castration resistant prostate cancer after chemotherapy in       April 2011; European approval followed in July 2011, with NICE       ratification in England, Wales and Northern Ireland in June 2012 [Source       4].
On December 10, 2012, the FDA approved an expanded indication for       abiraterone acetate (Zytiga Tablets, Janssen Biotech, Inc.) in combination       with prednisone for the treatment of patients with metastatic       castration-resistant prostate cancer [Source 5].
Type of Impact       The research impacts directly on patients with brain and prostate cancers       world-wide, through the provision of better therapies, which improve the       quality of life and increase life expectancy.
Sales of these drugs also       produce economic benefits for the pharmaceutical industry at international       level and to the UK economy through royalties.
Benefits for brain cancer patients     Malignant brain cancer accounts for 2% of all new UK cancer cases.
There are     around 4,800 new malignant brain tumour cases per annum in the UK with 3,700     deaths and around 240,000 new cases per annum, world-wide [Source 6].
Temozolomide is currently available as a treatment in 39 countries     worldwide.
Before the availability of temozolomide, approximately 29% of     adult patients with malignant brain tumours survived one year after     diagnosis and 13% at five years.
Treatment was only offered to robust     patients using surgical excision followed by radiotherapy, providing a 4 to     5 month increase in median survival but with a high percentage (70%)     recurring locally, leading to a rapid deterioration in quality of life.
Further chemotherapy options were limited and would only provide a further     median increase in survival of around 2 months.
By making temozolomide     available orally, it is easier to administer than standard chemotherapy     regimes and, in relapsed cases, increased progression-free survival at 6     months from 8% on previous therapy to 21%, and survival from 44% to 60%.
Other studies have indicated that in malignant glioma about 10% of patients     on temozolomide therapy show a complete response, 25% a partial response and     30% exhibit periods of stable disease.
In addition, temozolomide     significantly improves quality of life prior to disease progression.
The     Strathclyde research made these benefits possible.
The CRUK website states that "the standard of care for glioblastoma     multiforme &#8212; also known as glioma - includes chemotherapy during and after     radiotherapy.
The use of temozolomide both during radiotherapy and for six     months post radiotherapy is now the gold standard treatment for most cases     of the disease."
[Source 4].
Benefits for patients with prostate cancer:       Prostate cancer accounts for 12% of all new UK cancer cases, and 25% of       new cancers in men.
In the UK around 37,000 men are diagnosed with       prostate cancer per annum with around 10,200 dying from the disease &#8212; a       figure that expands to 258,000 worldwide deaths annually with around       50,000 castrate resistant [Source 6].
Around 20 to 30% of men with primary       prostate cancer present with metastatic disease (for which surgery and/or       radiotherapy treatments are inappropriate).
Hormone treatment will       increase median survival by around two and a half years and provide       symptomatic relief.
However, metastatic prostate cancer will nearly always       become refractory to hormone therapy (castrate resistant) with the only       remaining treatment option being chemotherapy, with docetaxel and steroids       only recommended for robust patient groups.
In metastatic castrate       resistant patients who have progressed after chemotherapy, abiraterone       significantly increased median survival from 10 to 15 months and median       prostate specific antigen progression from 6 to 10 months.
Wider benefits of these anti-cancer drugs: The use of temozolomide       in other malignancies, for example melanoma, is currently under active       research.
The clinical use of abiraterone is also expanding with potential       extension into third or even second line metastatic prostate cancer       therapy.
In addition the method of action of abiraterone is applicable in       certain breast cancers, and clinical studies in this indication are       on-going [Source 7].
Economic benefits: Annual sales of temozolomide reached $1 billion       in 2008, providing profits to Schering Plough and economic impact in the       UK through royalty payments to Cancer Research UK.
The Chief Executive of       CRUK notes on their website "The royalties we receive from the sales of       temozolomide go straight back into the pot to fund further research to aid       the development of even more drugs to help in our fight against the       disease."
[Source 8].
Merck and Schering Plough merged in 2009, and in the       US temozolomide is sold as Temodar until the licence expires in August       2013.
Temodar's estimated global sales for 2012 amount to $882 million       [Source 9].
BTG plc received an undisclosed milestone payment following the licensing       of abiraterone acetate (Zytiga) in the EU, together with a royalty on       worldwide sales [Source 10].
Annual sales of abiraterone in the USA for       the years 2011, 2012 and 2013 were 221.1, 462.2 and 730.4 million US       dollars, respectively.
In Europe, sales for these years were 96.0, 465.5       and 721.4 million US dollars, respectively, giving an overall total of       $1.45 billion dollars worldwide for this drug [Source 11].
