     Process of impact generation from research:     Brightwake Ltd worked closely with the Strathclyde University team to       develop a commercially       viable and clinically suitable device, resulting in significant outcomes       beyond the basic research       stage.
The relationship with Brightwake Ltd is enduring with continued       interaction regarding the       development of HemoSep derivatives and other devices.
A Knowledge Transfer       Account fellow       was appointed to further exploit some of these opportunities (Dr Alasdair       Walker, Oct. 2011-       Sept.2012) and Brightwake continue to explore commercial opportunities       with the University.
Development of the technology towards a clinically deliverable device       started in 2010.
Strathclyde       University were fully engaged in this, providing laboratory test       facilities and expertise.
Novel       technology for "bag-in-bag" manufacture techniques emerged from this       research with a patent filed       by Brightwake Ltd in 2012.
In 2011-2012 independent verification of the       performance and safety of       the technology was carried out with the Department of Biomedical       Engineering, University of       Strathclyde providing advice on protocol development and analysis.
The       successful conclusion of       these studies led to Brightwake Ltd investing in excess of &#163;500k in       infrastructure to manufacture       devices for clinical trial as part of the CE marking process and       subsequent clinical sales.
Types of impact:     Results of clinical trials show reduction in need for donor blood       A key opinion leader (Source B) was identified in July 2011 through the       Strathclyde Institute for       Medical Devices to lead the clinical trials.
In 2011, a study protocol and       post study analysis       designed to meet CE mark requirements, was drafted by Strathclyde in       association with SGS Ltd.
Subsequently (2011-2012), studies were carried on high risk heart surgery       patients with a focus on       clinical outcomes relating to blood transfusion and fluid balance issues.
This work confirmed that       the device was effective in concentrating salvaged haemodiluted blood back       to normal values in       terms of all critical factors.
Importantly, the HemoSep technique was       shown to return all blood cell       species back to patients, rather than simply red blood cells, a factor       that considerably enhances       the benefits of auto-transfusion in these challenging patients.
The       clinical investigators engaged in       the early clinical trials expressed the view that HemoSep is "the simplest       to use Auto-transfusion       device available for open-heart surgery" and subsequently confirmed that       the use of HemoSep       "results in a reduction in donor blood usage of the order of 1 unit per       open-heart patient" (Sources       B and C).
Formation of new company       Having licensed the HemoSep device from the University, Brightwake Ltd       formed a new company,       Advancis Surgical to market this and other medical devices to the       cardiovascular and other       medical communities.
Subsequent to granting of the CE mark, manufacture       and marketing was       scaled up.
The commercialisation and clinical studies were funded directly       by the commercial       partner Brightwake Ltd. Brightwake Ltd have fully engaged in the       commercialisation of the       HemoSep technology and have worked closely with the University of       Strathclyde in its continued       development and delivery.
Commercial adoption of new and improved technology       The HemoSep technology has all the advantages of conventional centrifuge       based auto-transfusion systems in terms of process time, but occupies around 10% of       the space commonly       required for a conventional system and can be operated by relatively       non-specialist staff.
These       features have resulted in global interest in this device leading to rapid       growth in sales.
At the       present time Brightwake has, through a distributor business model,       established distributorships for       HemoSep in Canada, Germany, Thailand, Italy, Australia, New Zealand and       South Africa, and       have already submitted for FDA approval for access to US markets.
Orthopaedic and paediatric       derivatives of HemoSep were launched in July 2013 and are undergoing       clinical trials in UK and       Canadian hospital sites.
Investment and jobs       The company have invested over &#163;1.5 million in the manufacture and       marketing of the HemoSep       technology and have created 11 new jobs in the UK in the manufacturing and       marketing of the       device, together with other new jobs overseas in its international       distribution network (3 full time       sales staff in Canada, 2 in Thailand, 3 in Italy).
A total of 25 new jobs       associated with the       HemoSep device had been created internationally by March 2013.
(Source A)       In addition to new       jobs, the HemoSep technology has resulted in Brightwake investing in new       plant and       manufacturing technologies at its Nottingham headquarters.
These include a       dedicated clean room       for device assembly and unique manufacturing technologies for the       bag-in-bag device assembly       (Source A provides confirmation of the investment details and progress       with HemoSep to July       2013).
Sales       Brightwake made the first sale of HemoSep, and therefore established a new       income stream, in       September 2012.
As of May 2013, less than 1 year after CE marking,       Brightwake Ltd has sold       HemoSep hardware and disposables into Canada, Italy, Germany, UK,       Thailand, South Africa, and       Australia.
The Director of R&amp;D Brightwake/Advancis Surgical Ltd       (Source A) states that "since we       launched Advancis Surgical Ltd to develop and sell this and other medical       device technologies,       uptake of HemoSep has been very good....UK clinical trials are ongoing at       a number of NHS       centres and we anticipate considerable growth in the coming year."
Total sales of the disposable element of the HemoSep system are in the       many thousands of units       across these territories.
Contracts for distribution in other territories       are in negotiation at the       present time.
The critical market for HemoSep will be the USA, where there       is a real focus on the       cost and risks of conventional donor blood transfusions.
Brightwake has       recognised this as an       opportunity and have already filed for FDA approval for this product.
Sales in the USA are       anticipated to exceed sales in the totality of other territories (Source       A).
Benefits to patients       A number of patient benefits have been confirmed through clinical       deployment of the HemoSep       system to date.
The large-scale clinical trial of HemoSep carried out in       Turkey has demonstrated       that the system results in a reduction in the need for donor transfusion       by around 1 unit (450ml) per       patient.
This represents around a 50% reduction when compared to patients       undergoing surgery       without the HemoSep system.
In addition, these studies have demonstrated a       consistent reduction       in the inflammatory response and bleeding known to complicate the       post-operative recovery of       these patients, leading to reduction in time spent in the intensive care       setting after invasive surgery       (see published results reference 1, Source B, and the statement on       Advancis website, Source C)       The sparing of all blood cell species by the HemoSep system, rather than       just red blood cells as is       the case with conventional centrifugal systems, is the reason for these       major benefits.
This overall       reduction in risk of transfusion reaction, blood loss and use of donor       blood goes some way to       rendering open-heart surgery a safer procedure for patients undergoing       these complex       procedures.
Summary       There are a number of beneficiaries from the HemoSep development.
Healthcare providers will       benefit from reduced costs of delivery of open-heart surgery resulting       from the saving of donor       blood and reduced complications in recipient patients.
The shareholders       and employees of the       licensee company will benefit from the greater stability and the financial       return that comes from       launching a new and innovative product with genuine downstream development       potential into a       technologically receptive marketplace.
Patients will benefit from reduced       complications associated       with donor blood transfusions and improvements in clinical outcome related       to the preservation of       all cell types when the HemoSep technology is employed during their       surgery.
Strathclyde       University will benefit financially from the income generated through the       license agreement with       Brightwake Ltd and from the new and close relationship we have with the       company in developing       new medical devices.
