     Process from research to impact: The research described in Section       2 led the group to develop the Kerbcraft resource which is       designed to teach 5-7 year old children three skills: recognising safe       versus dangerous roadside locations; crossing safely between parked cars;       and crossing safely near junctions.
They later developed Crossroads,       a virtual reality resource aimed at developing more advanced skills in       8-12 year olds (visual search, visual timing skills, reading drivers'       intentions, and using designated crossings).
Kerbcraft was formally       launched by the government in 2001 as the National Child Pedestrian       Training Scheme across the UK with &#163;9 million of dedicated funding and ran       until 2008 when local authorities were expected to mainline the scheme.
The National Scheme was itself independently evaluated by the Department       for Transport who subsequently funded production of a revised manual,       additional support materials and training video which were launched in       2008.
Crossroads was adopted as a national resource aimed at older       children who had already completed Kerbcraft in 2005.
Description of impact: This case study is based on the impact of       the revised training scheme launched in 2008.
The Strathclyde group's work       has stimulated benefits in two ways: firstly through nationwide       implementation of the Kerbcraft training scheme across the UK; and       secondly by informing professional practice and government policy in a       number of countries across the world on the critical role of practical       roadside training and interactive learning methods in child pedestrian       education.
Adoption of Kerbcraft in UK road safety education: In 2008, there       were 138 Kerbcraft schemes running across 98 local education authorities       in England, Scotland and Wales.
In total, 1,418 schools ran Kerbcraft and       95,353 children were trained (Source A).
Since then the use of Kerbcraft       in its original or modified form has continued to be used across the UK.
For example, a report to the Welsh Government showed that, in 2009, 23       Kerbcraft schemes were running across 377 schools in Wales and 10,635       children were trained in that year alone by 1076 volunteers and the Welsh       Government's 2012 draft Road Safety Delivery Plan concludes "Now in its       fifth year, MVA Consultancy's review of Kerbcraft shows a continuing       expansion of the scheme throughout Wales.
The scheme now involves more       children and more schools than in any previous year" (Source       B).
In 2011, an independent evaluation of child pedestrian training       throughout the UK was carried out by the University of Southampton (Source       C).They surveyed 101 local education authorities and found that 80% were       offering the Kerbcraft programme either in its original or modified form.
Adoption of Kerbcraft in developing countries: Beyond the       developed world, Kerbcraft is currently being piloted in Bangladesh, which       suffers one of the world's highest rates of road traffic injuries.
The       Bangladesh Centre for Injury Prevention and Research has translated the       Kerbcraft resources into Bengali and produced a training video adapted to       local needs.
If the pilot scheme is successful, the aim is to introduce       the programme nationwide (Source D).
In 2010, the Kerbcraft scheme was       also introduced in Ethiopia with 992 children receiving training that year       (Source E).
Kerbcraft forms part of UK government's policy and child road safety         strategy: At the level of policy, the UK Department for Transport's       2011 Strategic Framework for Road Safety states that "the Kerbcraft scheme       remains the basis for children's practical road safety training.
It is a       roadside pedestrian training scheme which has been proven to deliver a       lasting improvement in road crossing skills.
We encourage Local       Authorities to adopt Kerbcraft or similar child pedestrian training       schemes, rather than anything that is watered down or less effective and       target it on high risk areas and groups" (Source F p.50).
The recent House       of Commons Transport Committee Report (Ending the Scandal of         Complacency: Road Safety beyond 2010) welcomed the use and support       of Kerbcraft (p. 25) and noted that "while both Kerbcraft and Bikeability       aim to improve children's road user skills, they may have benefits in       later life if they go on to learn to drive" (p.9).
In a report on health       strategy to the Department of Health, the Health Protection Agency also       recommends "UK-wide implementation of successful interventions to include       practical road safety programmes, such as Kerbcraft" (Source G p23).
Similarly, a report to the Northern Ireland Department of the Environment       (2011) on child road safety recommends that the NI government should       "Enhance practical child pedestrian safety training in line with the       `Kerbcraft' scheme as operated in England, Scotland and Wales and to       include parents in its delivery.....
The Department for Transport's       evaluation of this scheme found far reaching benefits within the       community" (Source H p.30).
The NI Road Safety Strategy to 2020 endorses       this, saying "we will continue to provide the....
Practical Child       Pedestrian Scheme and other current initiatives and support those schools       wishing to participate" (p60).
Finally, the Welsh Government's draft Road       Safety Delivery Plan (2012) reiterates its continuing support of Kerbcraft       as part of its road safety strategy and commits itself to funding       Kerbcraft as part of its strategy to 2020.
Influence on international road safety education: In the USA, the       Child Pedestrian Safety Curriculum issued by the National Highway Traffic       Safety Administration in 2011 (Source I) refers extensively to       the Strathclyde group's research.
The guidelines state that "Teachers       should seek to engage students in teacher discussion and modeling by       asking questions and prompting dialogue.
Thus, children will incorporate       these basic principles into their own behaviors".
"Teachers should also       allow children to use social interactions with their peers to further       promote positive behavior.
The option of using older students as models       for younger children is one such way to show significant increases in safe       behaviors.
Using older children as models and incorporating student-       peer-adult discussion on a consistent basis are encouraged throughout the       program" (p.2).
They quote numerous papers by the Strathclyde group in       support of these recommendations.
In Australia, the Department of       Education in Western Australia commissioned a study on the evidence base       for road safety practice and issued 16 Principles for School Road Safety       Education.
Six of the principles are based on the Strathclyde group's work       and these now form part of the Road Safety Education Plan for Western       Australian Schools and Communities 2011-13 (Source J).
Influence on thinking of international agencies: Thomson et al.
's       work has also been cited by key world and European agencies.
The World       Health Organisation/Unicef World Report on Child Injury Prevention (Source       K) states "Current research on road safety education suggests that an       approach that stresses behaviour, focusing on the development of practical       skills, is more likely to be effective for younger children.
Children       learn best through methods that develop problem-solving and       decision-making skills".
It then cites Kerbcraft as an effective       educational intervention that achieves these aims (p 48).
Kerbcraft also       features as a case study in the European Child Safety Alliance's Child       Safety Good Practice Guide (Source L).
This document states that the       roadside training undertaken in Kerbcraft "is an essential ingredient of       pedestrian skills training".
Since 2008, the majority of 5-7 year old children in the UK have received       formal pedestrian skills training using Kerbcraft either in its full or       adapted form and the evidence is that this will continue.
The work of the       Strathclyde team has impacted on society by changing government policy       within and beyond the UK, changing professional practice, and giving       hundreds of thousands of children training that demonstrably improves       their roadside decision making and behaviour.
