     The overarching impact arising from the research lies in the enhanced       capabilities of law enforcement agencies to deal with illicit drug       production, and the influencing of policy and analytical processes to       address the new legal high compounds that are emerging on the       international stage with associated major societal health and wellbeing       consequences.
The impact is most easily broken down into three main areas.
1.
New capability for law enforcement agencies by provision of new           tools to identify specific manufacturing routes of illicit drugs and           link this back to criminal intelligence data     Illicit drug production is a major issue affecting every country in the       world with clandestine manufacturing methods and locations constantly       changing and developing in their sophistication.
The production of       precursors for illicit drugs takes place mainly in South East Asia and       specifically Malaysia.
In 2011, over 1000 kg of methylamphetamine and       364,000 ecstasy tablets were seized by the Royal Malaysian Police with a       combined estimated street value in excess of $105M.
This indicates the       scale of the problem for one specific country.
The engagement process for this research was as follows: The research       published by WestCHEM on the chemical characterisation and classification       of ecstasy tablets prompted the Royal Malaysian Police to fund two PhD       research students to study at WestCHEM over a five-year period.
This       provided sustained training in core research methods within this area and       the development of a research legacy to advance this field through       transfer back to Malaysia.
During this time, profiling of       methylamphetamine prepared by 8 synthetic routes was developed using GCMS,       IRMS, and ICPMS with multivariate data interpretation.
The new analytical methodologies, databases, and data analysis approaches       developed at WestCHEM have now been implemented in Malaysia on a daily       operational basis by the Royal Malaysian Police.
The implementation of the       research findings has allowed identification of precursor chemicals and       the synthetic route used in the production of methylamphetamine.
This has       provided the Royal Malaysian Police with a new capability leading to       enhanced sophistication of investigations, the development of new police       intelligence, and the increased ability to secure convictions.
The majority of the impact from this research has taken place to date       within Malaysia, however, there is also collaborations with the United       States Drug Enforcement Agency (USDEA) in the area.
Further external engagement followed successful publications in the area       of illicit drug synthesis and the Thai Government funded a postdoctoral       researcher to be based at WestCHEM to investigate the development of a       rapid semi-quantitative presumptive test to allow the determination of the       concentration of an illicit drug present within street-seized samples.
The       test is based on simple colorimetric analysis subsequently recorded using       a smartphone with GPS to relay information relative to the point of       seizure of the materials.
[text removed for publication]     2.
Rapid identification of legal highs for use in criminal           prosecutions     The emergence of legal highs as an area of significant concern has led to       the increased awareness of the need for rapid and accurate identification       of such compounds.
One of the stumbling blocks to addressing rapidly       changing legislations in this area has been the lack of `gold standards'       for each the legal high compound, which are required to facilitate robust       and accurate verification and validation of analytical methodologies       suitable for use in criminal court cases.
The research process involved       collaboration between WestCHEM and the Scottish Police Authority Forensic       Sciences (SPAFS) to address this crucial issue by synthesising and       characterising legal high standards which were subsequently used in       verification of analytical methodologies for compound identification in an       operational context.
The impact of these analytical methodologies as a       general cathinone screen in forensic casework in Scotland has involved the       analysis of 900 samples associated with criminal and morbid toxicology       cases, resulting in the detection of legal high drugs in 21 of those       samples, covering 11 different `New Psychoactive Substances' (NPS).
In recognition of the impact of this research, this new approach was       nominated for a Scottish Police Authority award.
One judge commented:     `[This is ..]..a good example of a project based on analysis of         existing local data in a way which promotes a new look at a national         priority area.
As well as creating opportunities for closer partnership,         working with health and voluntary agencies it has identified means of a         more focused service provision in relation to drug misuse.'
A second judge added:     `This project will be a valuable support to the new single [police]         service.'
3.
New UN protocol for identification of seized materials     As a result of the WestCHEM research profile in the area of legal high       drug identification, Professor Nic Daeid was invited to develop a new       protocol for legal high characterisation for the United Nations Office of       Drugs and Crime (UNODC).
This activity further extended an on-going       relationship and consultancy between Professor Nic Daeid and the UNIODC.
The UNODC manuals are developed by `scientific experts recognised for         their exceptional contribution to knowledge and/or the promotion of best         practice in the area of interest' and are used by forensic science       laboratories across the globe as the accepted industry standard.
During       the REF assessment period, the WestCHEM research published has influenced       the preparation of the guidance manual, `UNODC Recommended Methods for the       Analysis of Synthetic Cathinones in Seized Materials', which is expected       to be published in early 2014.
These three different areas of impact arising from the research detailed       in Section 2 show the degree of reach and also the societal significance       of the impact that has been achieved.
