     From research to impact       EPSRC and industrially funded research at WestCHEM, including an EPSRC       CASE studentship       (2002-2005) with Carron Phoenix Ltd, resulted in the development of novel       polymer       nanocomposite formulations with mechanical, thermal, and barrier       properties superior to the base       polymers.
Of particular relevance to the company, acrylic formulations       with enhanced rheological       control had been developed that offered the potential of significant       benefits to Carron Phoenix Ltd       in terms of process flexibility, enhanced product performance, and reduced       wastage.
This led to       the creation of one major Knowledge Transfer Partnership (KTP)       collaboration and a follow-on       Short KTP (sKTP) collaboration between the company and the University,       over the period 2004 to       2010, established with the aim of introducing this nanocomposite       technology to the company's       product and processes (&#163;268k funding in total).
This allowed the company       to sustain its position in       the designer kitchen market worldwide.
The KTP associates were embedded in the company to undertake the process       and product       development work, supported by the WestCHEM academic partners.
The       associates also made       frequent use of specialised WestCHEM facilities.
The programme began with       a full evaluation of       the chemical processing practices, as well as material and energy audits.
The detailed       understanding of the mixing, reaction characterisation, heat and flow       properties was also       completed.
This led to a radically new approach being devised for all       aspects of the process       operation, including the reallocation of labour, reduced process times,       increased mould tool usage       and major capital investment in automation.
In view of the highly competitive and financially lucrative market for       high-end kitchen products and       the propensity to replicate the product by other manufacturers, Carron       Phoenix and WestCHEM       took the mutual decision not to protect IP through patenting, instead       choosing to retain key       knowledge in-house but publicising the relevant technological development       by way of a conference       presentation and refereed journal publication [6] to prevent other       manufacturers patenting the       process.
Nature of the Impact     Improved manufacturing process       The KTP projects consolidated the findings of the preliminary research by       providing a full       evaluation of the chemical processing practices as well as material and       energy audits.
From a       detailed understanding of the mixing, reaction characterisation, heat and       flow properties, a radically       new approach was devised for all aspects of the process operation,       including the reallocation of       labour, reduced process times, increased mould tool usage, and major       capital investment in       automation (Source 1).
Process acceleration and automation created new challenges in terms of       control of the flow       behaviour of the composite sink formulation during the final curing step.
In particular, more rapid       heating rates led to greater sedimentation of the fillers resulting in       product defects.
Detailed and       extensive chemical and processing studies were required in terms of       formulation, cure       characteristics, flow and thermal properties of the nanoclay materials.
This provided the necessary       platform for the development of a completely new process with the       successful commercial       production of high-end designer synthetic kitchen sinks sold worldwide.
The research enabled the       team to identify a suitable type and concentration of nanoclay filler and       rheology modifier to allow       control of (a) the mixing and distribution of materials, (b) the effective       transfer of the mix, and (c)       heating and curing rate, to produce synthetic sinks free from warpage and       surface blemishes and       thus reduce wastage from spoiled products.
Prior to this project, it had       been necessary to re-work       moulded kitchen sinks in such a way as to avoid warpage and product       spoilage.
The company is       forthright in its acknowledgement of the criticality of the new       formulation:     "The nanoclay influenced the processability significantly and enabled         us to introduce         the new process technology with its significant savings.
No nanoclay &#8212;         no new process         at that time, it is as "simple" as that" (Source 2, Head of R&amp;D,       Carron Phoenix Ltd)     Production efficiency and cost savings       The implementation of the changes to the process enabled by the new       nanocomposite formulation       resulted directly in considerable production efficiency gains through the       reduction of raw materials       wastage, the reduction in manufacturing time and the significant reduction       of landfill costs of failed       and out-of-spec products.
These savings alone amounted to in excess of &#163;1M       annually,       significantly in excess of the 25% target defined for the project.
The       Franke PL Colour's       Sustainability Report 2011 notes that:     "Our production processes mainly use electricity and natural gas.
We         have experienced that         the combination of process and technological improvements result in         major energy savings         [...] In Falkirk, United Kingdom, the energy required for the moulding         of granite composite         could be reduced by 20 % per annum with an innovative process called         "Rapid Energy         Distribution" (Source 3 p.19)     Competitive advantage to the company       By creating superior high-quality products and reducing production costs,       the research outcomes       from this project have enabled the company to maintain its international       business and market       share in the higher-end designer kitchen sinks.
The company has been able       to use these efficiency       savings to sustain its drive to maintain the economic viability of the       Falkirk site relative to other       competitive options.
In 2010, Franke PL Colour, the parent company,       subsequently established       Carron Phoenix in Falkirk as the Group Competence Centre for composite       sink technology, due in       part to the strong research and development brought about by the       incorporation of nano-composite       technology.
This has secured both major employment for 170 workers in the       composite sink       division at the Falkirk site and retained the associated supply chain       infrastructure supporting further       employment locally and nationally (Source 4).
Investment       The successful research outcomes from this project were further supported       by internal company       investments securing significant investment in new automated production       facilities with a capital       investment of approximately &#163;4M.
These were installed in 2008 and 2009 to       incorporate       the new nanocomposite technology with the production and sale of over one       million kitchen sinks       by Carron Phoenix.
This resulted in generating income in excess of &#163;50M       for the company as well       as generating support for the associated supply chain involved and       contributing to the UK economy       generally.
On-going collaboration       The Carron Phoenix company remains in regular contact with researchers at       WestCHEM using       facilities such as the Advanced Materials Research Laboratory.
Schaschke       and Liggat provide       training courses on polymer chemistry and process technology for company       staff.
Skilled       researchers from WestCHEM have transferred to posts in the industry; a PhD       graduate from the       Liggat research group, and an MEng graduate Chemical &amp; Process       Engineering have been       employed by Carron Phoenix since 2012.
