     Process/events from research to impact     IBH was incorporated in 1977 and its acquisition by Horiba in 2003 to       form Horiba Jobin Yvon IBH Ltd brought together IBH-Strathclyde's leading       technology in pulsed fluorescence lifetime systems, with Horiba's       steady-state (SS) fluorescence systems to produce a joint product line       (Source 1) that paved the way to market supremacy.
David Birch co-founded       IBH and the Photophysics Group in 1977/8, served as IBH Chairman 1977-2003       and is presently Horiba Jobin Yvon IBH Director of Science and Technology.
His role, bridging between research, new products and the market, has been       crucial to achieving commercial success.
The process to impact started by       demonstrating new instrument capabilities and applications through       publications, which developed the field, attracted the market to related       instrument products, and built the brand and reputation of IBH and Horiba.
Description of impact     Since 2008, Horiba and IBH together have won the largest market share of       fluorescence spectrometer sales.
From this flows a sustainable business,       investment for innovation, and an extensive global customer base pursuing       diverse applications.
Improved products: The fluorescence spectrometer market is       comprised primarily of three parts.
Fluorescence spectrometers,       incorporating steady-state (SS) sources, stand-alone fluorescence lifetime       spectrometers incorporating pulsed sources, and hybrid spectrometers that       combine both spectra and lifetime capabilities.
Following the IBH-Horiba       merger, market impact was realized by upgrading Horiba's global SS       spectrometer user base with IBH's lifetime capability and the sale of new       instruments.
[text removed for publication] Specifically, the present       IBH-Horiba lifetime-SS spectrometer range offers a more complete       measurement solution for non-specialist users than was hitherto available       from any supplier, as evidenced by the market leading position.
The       seminal breakthrough was the transition from ~ 30 kHz pulsed spark lamp       sources to the more reliable and higher repetition rate semiconductor       sources (References 1 and 2).
This launched a new range of spectrometers       based on the laser diodes and LEDs of the 1 MHz NanoLED and 100 MHz Delta       product ranges.
These offered higher time resolution, stability, data       acquisition rate and ease of use, all at a reduced price (down to &lt;       $30k).
This enabled expansion into key research markets in life-sciences,       medicine and bionanotechnology.
In his definitive book "Principles of       Fluorescence Spectroscopy" 3rd ed., Springer 2006, JR Lakowicz wrote about       papers 1 and 2 "Perhaps the most important development for TCSPC since         2000 is the introduction of pulsed-laser diodes and pulsed         light-emitting diodes......While this chapter was being written, the         first report appeared on excitation of intrinsic protein fluorescence         using a pulsed LED."
This research was crucial to the instrument       developments that had such a significant market impact from 2008.
Market leading sales: The combined global market for fluorescence       SS and lifetime spectrometers exceeds &#163;100M.
It has been reported, "Horiba         has a solid lead in the market due in part to its wide range of popular         lifetime fluorescence instruments, which is a segment of the market in         which it dominates" (Source 3).
Sales of the joint product line of       IBH's fluorescence lifetime technology and Horiba's SS systems grew by       [text removed for publication] from 2008-2012 to secure, since 2008, the       largest global market share of 15% [text removed for publication].
This is       significantly higher than that of other well-known brands e.g.
PerkinElmer       (11%), Thermo-Scientific (10%), Shimadzu (9%) and Hitachi (9%).
The data       is from market analysts Strategic Directions Inc. who highlight in Sources       2 and 3Horiba's dominance due to IBH's fluorescence lifetime technology.
Global adoption of technology across research laboratories:       Adoption of the Strathclyde research in the fluorescence spectrometer       products has benefited customers and their research outcomes across the       globe, serving diverse disciplines such as life sciences, healthcare,       chemistry, and materials.
Sequencing the human genome and immunoassay for       disease diagnostics are two important areas the products have supported.
Research into improved healthcare is over 50% of the market and grand       challenges addressed include diabetes, neurodegeneration and cancer.
An       expert in fluorescence at Brown University (Source 4) wrote "Without         your research and your successful commercial exploitation there is no         doubt fluorescence lifetime would not be the major technique it is         today" and expert in fluorescence at Texas Christian University       (TCU) wrote "The instrument systems you have helped design and         develop, and that have been manufactured by the company you started,         Horiba Jobin Yvon IBH Ltd in Glasgow, are used by leading laboratories         all over the world" (Source 5).
Skilled employment: The IBH market-leading position helps generate       and sustain employment.
[text removed for publication] Its business model       makes significant use of UK sub-contractors and a highly skilled staff.
The success of IBH contributed directly to the start-up, by former IBH       Director Dr Anthony Hallam, of Sim4t Ltd. in 2012, an educational software       and research training company, with its first products based on the       simulation of TCSPC fluorescence lifetime decay data.
Training: The impact of the research has been fostered by global       dissemination activities such as the FluoroFest workshop series (Source 6)       initiated by David Birch, sponsored by Horiba and launched in Prague in       2009, with subsequent events in California (2010,2011) Munich (2011),       Maryland (2012), Kyoto (2012) and Texas (May 2013).
An expert in       fluorescence at Brown University comments in his letter to David Birch "Finally,         let me mention the great job you have done in disseminating research in         fluorescence through your initiation of the globally acclaimed         FluoroFest hands-on international workshop series.
I have personally         attended ... these events and they are to the benefit of the whole         fluorescence community" (Source 4).
In collaboration with Sim4t, the       CPD course "Fluorescent nanoparticles and molecules for nanomedicine", was       trialled at the Czech Technical University in 2013 (Source 7).
