     Process of impact generation from research       The success of Strathclyde's cold atom research using the in-house       developed single frequency Ti:sapphire laser led to demand from other       researchers for access to the laser technology.
This was met by the       setting up of a spin-out company, Microlase Optical Systems Ltd, in 1992       by Professor Ferguson and two former graduate students.
A single frequency       Ti:sapphire laser system, together with an external cavity frequency       doubler, formed the core of the Microlase business.
Throughout the 1990s       Microlase was able to build on the technology being developed in the       Department of Physics and by the late 1990s the company had grown to about       20 people with annual sales of about &#163;3M principally through sales of the       single frequency Ti:sapphire and frequency doubler (MBR and MBD).
Work       during this period included building the laser source for the first       all-solid-state multiphoton system to be developed (Source 1).
Microlase was sold to Coherent Inc in late 1999 becoming Coherent       Scotland Ltd but still under the management of the original founders of       Microlase.
This opened many industrial markets and Coherent made       significant investment in plant and factory facilities.
The Coherent       facility in Glasgow is one of the most advanced in the Coherent group of       companies.
The original Microlase MBR and MBD products still contribute to       the Coherent Scotland Ltd product portfolio.
The laser system of choice for multiphoton imaging is now the mode-locked       Ti:sapphire laser.
Further Strathclyde research on these lasers in the       late 1990s and 2000s (eg Ref 4-6) contributed to the development of       mulitphoton imaging as a tool for biological imaging, including the       exploration of suitable laser sources and imaging configurations.
To       address this new market opportunity, Coherent Scotland Ltd, developed a       new product, the Chameleon mode-locked Ti-sapphire source, which was       launched in 2003.
This laser system is an integral part of multiphoton       imaging systems now very widely used as an imaging tool in the leading       life sciences laboratories across the world.
In 2006, the original founders of Microlase left Coherent Scotland and       established a new laser company, M Squared Lasers Ltd, to develop laser       systems based on research at Strathclyde and elsewhere.
M Squared Lasers       produces a compact and automated version of the single frequency       Ti-Sapphire laser.
This is supplemented by several other diode pumped       solid state laser and non-linear optical systems much of which was       originally researched at Strathclyde.
A further spin-out, Solus       Technologies Ltd, a subsidiary of M Squared Lasers Ltd, is developing       semiconductor disk laser products, an area also initially researched at       Strathclyde.
Description of impact       The key components of the impact in the REF assessment period underpinned       by the Strathclyde research are as follows:            The economic impact associated with Coherent Scotland and M Squared         Lasers, in terms of turnover, employment, profit etc.
The impact created by the sale of these companies' products into a         range of application market sectors; this includes economic impact for         companies in the manufacturing, healthcare and other sectors, as well as         related environmental and health impacts          But for the underpinning research described in Section 2, this impact       would not have been created.
Further there is related impact generated via       the extensive cluster of laser development and manufacturing in the West       of Scotland, which is due at least in part to the underpinning research       carried out at the University of Strathclyde since 1993.
The performance of Coherent Scotland during the REF assessment period is       summarised below (Source 2):                                Year                                                   2008                                                   2009                                                   2010                                                   2011                                                   2012                                                [text removed for publication]     In terms of product portfolio, the original Microlase Ti:sapphire laser       (MBR) continues to be a commercial success and remains part of the       Coherent Scotland Ltd product portfolio.
An updated and automated version       of the MBR laser has been developed by M Squared Lasers.
It is estimated       that between these companies well over 1000 of these systems have been       sold, largely for research applications, both in universities and other       research laboratory settings, including for high resolution spectroscopy       and cold atom physics.
Coherent Scotland Ltd continues to expand its Glasgow operation.
The       Glasgow facility is now Coherent Inc's centre for the development of its       highly successful ultra-short pulse laser systems based on the mode-locked       Ti:sapphire system and marketed as the Chameleon.
Launched in 2003, the       landmark of 1000 systems shipped was passed in 2010 (source 4), and total       sales are now approaching 2000 systems.
The use of multiphoton imaging as       a practical research tool by biological scientists and clinicians has been       transformed by the Chameleon laser.
The Chameleon is now a workhorse for       multiphoton imaging applications in biology, optogenetics and       neuroscience, enabling clinical research into diseases of societal       importance such as Alzheimers.
More recent products developed by Coherent Scotland have enabled       step-change applications in semiconductor wafer inspection and in       materials processing.
The Azure, a deep-UV (266nm) laser, is a compact,       low-noise, CW source specifically designed for easy integration into an       industrial environment.
This short wavelength is essential for the       inspection of sub-20nm nodes in next generation semiconductor wafer       manufacture.
Customers for this product are major capital equipment       manufacturers who in turn sell to major semiconductor chip manufacturers.
The Talisker is a family of industrial picosecond lasers for       micromachining applications.
Customers for this product include       manufacturers of high brightness LEDs, solar panels, touch panel displays       for phones and tablets, and medical devices.
These are largely mass market       products which offer improved operating efficiencies and performance (eg       more accurate touch screens) compared with predecessors as well as reduced       damage to the environment.
M-Squared Lasers is one of the fastest growing technology companies in       the UK serving a global marketplace (Source 5).
[text removed for       publication] The company has grown from 5 to 40 staff and two of its five       directors are Strathclyde Physics PhD graduates.
M-Squared Lasers'       products are sold into markets including research, biophotonics, defence       and security, remote sensing and metrology.
The performance of Microlase, Coherent Scotland and M-Squared Lasers has       been recognised by the following:            The Microlase/Coherent Scotland/M Squared Lasers/University of         Strathclyde story was one of four finalists in Praxis Unico's Impact         Awards 2013 in the category "Business Impact Achieved".
Coherent Scotland was awarded one of five Institute of Physics         Innovation Awards in 2013 "For the development and commercialisation of         a range of table-top tuneable lasers for use in research and industry".
In 2012, M-Squared Lasers was listed 8th in the Deloitte UK         Fast 50 (a ranking of the 50 fastest growing technology companies in the         UK according to revenue growth over the previous 5 years) and was in the         Top 100 (73rd) of the Deloitte EMEA Fast 500 (a ranking of         the fastest growing technology companies in Europe, Middle East and         Africa).
The impact of implementation of Strathclyde's laser research is wider       than that discussed above.
The aforementioned cluster of companies and the       consequent availability of specialist skills have made it attractive for       Thales Optronics to locate all its laser manufacturing in Glasgow,       amounting to a product annual turnover of &#163;25M, 50 laser manufacturing       staff and 20 laser development staff (Source 7).
The combination of       Coherent, M Squared Lasers and Thales, together with the research       capabilities of the University's Institute of Photonics, were critical in       the decision of the Fraunhofer Society to choose to set up its first UK       research centre in Glasgow in the area of applied photonics       (Fraunhofer-CAP) in 2012.
Of special note was Fraunhofer-CAP's involvement       with M Squared Lasers which resulted in a number of high value research       contracts in 2013, contributing to Fraunhofer-CAP's current &#163;1.6M contract       portfolio (Source 8).
These developments would not have occurred without       the primary Physics research at Strathclyde.
