     Process from research to impact:     In 2002, a leading Swedish cataract surgeon reported low rates of       endophthalmitis following the use of an injection of the antibiotic       cefuroxime into the anterior chamber of the eye at the time of cataract       surgery.
The European Society of Cataract and Refractive Surgeons (ESCRS)       required further evidence, and the President of ESCRS confirms that "in       2002, Profs Gettinby and Revie were approached by a consultant       ophthalmologist acting on behalf of the European Society of Cataract and       Refractive Surgeons with a view to designing and implementing a large       scale randomised endophthalmitis study, and they were approached on the       basis of this work in this field and their expertise in the analysis of       large datasets" [Source 1].
Gettinby and Revie recommended a controlled       clinical trial and were subsequently commissioned to implement what would       be referred to by leading European surgeons as "one of the largest       prospective European clinical studies of antibiotic prophylaxis and the       largest in ophthalmology" [Source 2].
The publication of results in 2006 and 2007 showed to the community of       ophthalmic surgeons that this use of cefuroxime as a prophylactic results       in an approximate 5-fold reduction in the risk of post-operative       endophthalmitis.
At this point use of the published findings was having a       greater impact and many surgeons were adopting the use of cefuroxime       injection.
The President of ESCRS confirms that "the results of the study had direct       influence on the ESCRS guidelines on `Prevention, Investigation and       Management of Post-Operative Endophthalmitis', which were revised in 2007       on the basis of Gettinby and Revie's published research" [Source 1].
Central to these new guidelines [Source 3] was the recommendation that       surgeons consider the use of cefuroxime intracameral injection.
Although       cefuroxime was unlicensed and the decision to use it was at the discretion       of the surgeon, this was the beginning of changing practices by cataract       surgeons in Europe.
Types of Impact: the publication of Gettinby and Revie's study has       led directly to impact on professional practice, patient welfare, and       wider benefits:     Changes to professional practice: The publication of the results       and changes to ESCRS guidelines has led to a change in the way that       cataract surgery is supported by antibiotic treatment since 2008 onwards.
The reach in Europe has been extensive.
The European Society of Cataract       and Refractive Surgery [Source 4] has been successfully promoting the       findings, with uptake of their guidelines first reaching significant       levels from 2008 to 2010, [Source 5].
For example, the Austrian Society of       Ophthalmology recommended adoption of the ESCRS guidelines with its focus       on the use of the study findings concerning cefuroxime, and there was       evidence (Ocular Surgery News Europe/ Asia &#8212; Pacific Edition December 1       2008) of cefuroxime being used in hospitals in Italy, Spain and Ireland.
The following are quotations which appeared in the ESCRS Eurotimes vol.
18, Issue 3, March 2013, pages 4-6 [Source 6]:     "The survey has not been repeated, but since that time I think that more       American surgeons are using intracameral antibiotics following publication       of the study, compared to before."
(Clinical Professor of Ophthalmology,       University of California &amp; Chinese University, Hong Kong)     "In my country almost nobody has any doubts with regard to the cefuroxime       efficiency in endophthalmitis prophylaxis."
(Citation from Boris Malyugin       MD, International Ophthalmologists Academy, Russia)     "The ESCRS Endophthalmitis Study has made a revolutionary change not only       in my practice, but also many practices in India.
The use of intracameral       moxifloxacin has become routine."
(Keiki Mehta MD Medical Director and       Chief of the Mehta Charity Eye Hospital, Karja, India).
The president of ESCRS [Source 1] has stated that "From 2008 the       guidelines significantly increased the use of antibiotic intracameral       injections following cataract surgery on an international scale.
This       change in clinical practice has undoubtedly reduced the incidence of       blindness resulting from post-operative infections of the eye."
Benefits to patients: A cefuroxime injection to the eye at time of       surgery will prevent endophthalmitis occurring post operatively; and this       procedure has now been widely adopted by eye surgeons internationally.
The       adoption of this simple process has saved the sight of thousands of       patients annually who may otherwise have developed infection of the eye.
Based on data from the Organisation of Economic Cooperation and       Development it is estimated that ophthalmologists undertake more than       three million cataract operations in Europe each year.
It is estimated       that there are now 2500 fewer cases of loss of sight per 1,000,000       cataract patients, leading to 7500 fewer cases of blindness per year in       Europe alone.
This estimate is conservative as uptake of the study       findings worldwide is expected to lead to thousands more patients avoiding       loss of sight.
Wider impact: The influence of the original research is still       gaining momentum.
In 2013 one commercial company was granted a marketing       authorisation for an injectable cefuroxime product for the prevention of       endophthalmitis.
The president of ECSRS has also confirmed that "the       guidelines have been re-written by me and others and submitted to the       publishers for re-launching at our annual congress in Amsterdam in October       2013.
They contain a further wealth of published evidence of the       world-wide benefits accruing from the original study" [Source 1].
