     Process from research to impact     In the early 1990's, the International Council for the Exploration of the       Sea (ICES) viewed cod stocks in the North Sea to be in a declining state       and consistently advised cuts in fishing, to the point of recommending       zero Total Allowable Catch (TAC).
Nevertheless, the EU Council of       Ministers consistently agreed on TAC's in excess of the scientific advice.
The problem was that cod were caught in a mixed-species fishery so vessels       fishing for other species could not avoid catching cod regardless of       whether they were legally allowed to land them.
Zero TAC for cod would       have effectively closed the North Sea for all demersal fisheries with       severe economic consequences.
However, in 2000 the Commission was asked to       seek additional conservation measures that might protect cod whilst       enabling a continuing fishery for other species.
The first of these, in       2001, was the emergency establishment of `closed areas' containing high       densities of cod, where fishing for all species was prohibited [Source A].
The Commission then sought scientific advice from member states as to       whether the 2001 closed areas were likely to be effective in promoting       stock recovery.
In the UK, Defra then commissioned the research at       Strathclyde into spatial simulation modelling methods for cod in the North       Sea, as a means of analysing the effectiveness of the closed area       strategy.
The resulting advice from Strathclyde was that simply closing       selected areas to fishing was unlikely to be effective due to displacement       of effort into neighbouring regions.
The most effective measure was       permanent removal of fishing capacity from the system [Source C].
These       results formed part of the UK evidence supplied to the Commission [Source       D] and, on the basis of this evidence, the Commission abandoned the closed       area policy in 2004 and instead implemented the `Cod Recovery Plan'       [Source B].
Impact on the state of cod stocks, 2008-2012:     Although the Recovery Plan was implemented in 2004 significant impact on       cod numbers was not expected to be seen for a number of years, and the aim       was to reverse the decline of stocks by 2009.
Annual stock assessments       showed that the decline was successfully halted by 2007 and by 2012 the       stock in the North Sea had recovered to just below the level at which its       viability is considered to be at risk [Source E].
Impact on fisheries policy, 2004-2012:     The Recovery Plan required EU member states to enforce drastic reductions       in catch quotas for cod and overall fishing capacity [Source F].
In the       case of the UK this was achieved by a scheme for decommissioning vessels       and restricting the permitted number of days a vessel was allowed to spend       at sea [Source G].
Economic impact:     The peak value of the North Sea cod fishery was more than &#163;450 million       per annum in the late 1970's (first sale value, standardised by the       Consumer Price Index to year 2000).
However, this was not sustainable and       resulted in the overfishing which caused the decline in stocks.
Current       estimates of the long-term sustainable value are around &#163;150 million per       year.
Between 1978 and 2007 the first sale value of cod landings declined       by an average &#163;14 million per year to a minimum of less than &#163;35 million.
Since 2008 the quay-side value has increased, and by 2011 the Recovery       Plan and its successors had restored the annual value of the North Sea cod       landings to &#163;52 million.
Hence, the Strathclyde research contributed to a       &#163;17 million per annum increase in the value of the cod fishery by 2011       compared to the low-point in 2007.
The UK share of this international       fishery is around 45%.
[Source H]     Public awareness of recovery of cod stocks:     The crisis in the fishing industry precipitated by the Closed Area Policy       and the Recovery Plan attracted media attention and raised public       awareness of the state of the stocks.
High profile conservation campaigns       encouraged consumers to avoid buying cod.
However there is evidence that       public opinion now recognises that cod stocks are recovering.
Recent media       interest, for example via the BBC [Source I], reports that Barrie Deas,       the Chief Executive of the National Federation of Fishermen's       Organisations, which represents fisherman in England, Wales and Northern       Ireland, told Radio 4's Today programme that the recovery of stocks was a       "dramatic turnaround ...I think a major part of it is there are fewer         vessels out there.
There have been big decommissioning schemes.
There's         also been a change in the mindset in the industry.
We work very closely         with the scientists now."
Another recent example of media interest       was an item in the Daily Telegraph (10th June 2013) quoting       Richard Benyon, the Fisheries Minister, as saying: "We should not be         complacent, there is still a long way to go, but this is really good         news.
People can eat cod without feeling guilty because there are large         quantities being caught further north, and our cod stocks in the North         Sea are recovering.
Much of the credit for this must rest with the         fishermen who have introduced a vast number of [sustainable fishing]         measures" [Source J].
This reflects both the impact of the Recovery       Plan, and the extent of public awareness of the issue.
Reach and significance: The impact extended through the UK       government fisheries agencies (Defra and Marine Scotland), to the EU       Commission [B,C,D].
Cod is the most important fish species targeted by       trawl fisheries in the North Sea [E], and the crisis in the fishing       industry associated with its decline and recovery raised public awareness       of the research that underpins fisheries policy [I,J].
The short-term       hardship (due to curtailed fishing opportunities [G]) and the accruing       economic benefits due to recovering cod stocks [H] are being felt by       fishing communities and industries throughout Europe and Norway which have       an economic interest in the North Sea demersal fisheries.
The general       public are now more aware that cod stocks are recovering.
