 The Danscross/ArtsCross project has had significant impact for academics, artists, audiences and for cultural policy and diplomacy, addressing issues that inhibit understanding of the `other' in the UK/Western relationship with East Asia.
The activities undertaken publicly demonstrate the commitment of important national institutions in East Asia (such as the BDA, CNAAR, TNUA and others) to developments such as: the freedom of the individual artist and researcher, the importance of critical international/intercultural dialogue in the arts, the thinking artist and the questioning student, debating national and cultural identities in and through the arts, the engagement of policy-makers with culture and cultural exchange, the nature of, and future for regional relationships between China/Taiwan/Japan.
The main themes of ArtsCross 2013 include cultural expectations of the other, intercultural dialogue and translation, and mutual expectations of what is dance, choreography and research.
These themes are explored through choreographic exchange that involves artists from the three international locations taking part in the process of dance making, rehearsals, academic observations, blogging, discussion and debate, workshops, a conference and a performance.
Two specific areas of impact are; Dance making and arts sector impact: The project develops the professional performance cultures of China, Taiwan and the UK.
For China and Taiwan, it develops platforms concerned with exploration and investigation.
The project has allowed inclusive practice, inviting dancers with disabilities to dance in the project.
It thereby extends the `licensed' arena of dance in China by producing experimental contemporary performance works dealing with SARS, Christianity, critiques of traditional culture, disability (including the first public / televised performance by a disabled dancer in China), etc.
In the UK, where East Asian arts and dance have been historically under-represented, the project has been part of an awakening interest in institutions such as the British Council, in presenting and developing East Asian performance in the UK.
This allows new platforms for East Asian artists, and widens the UK dance audience demographic.
As such, the project has been key in developing the performance practices of artists and performing arts students in each national context (UK see Annie Lok at http://www.stepoutarts.co.uk/).
These impacts are evident in the participants' observations.
A dancer from Beijing, who has been part of the project since 2009, says that the working methods of European choreographers have opened her eyes to the possibilities of dance, where `anything is possible'.
These methods have changed the way she works as a choreographer and teacher.
A choreographer from the UK says that the project is unique, in that he has to come up with diverse ways to communicate with dancers whose first language is not English.
A young 18-year-old dancer from China suggests that the challenge of working with older, more experienced dancers from international locations makes her `step up' her practice.
While a UK dancer finds it challenging and eye-opening to work with a Taiwanese choreographer who communicates ideas with lots of words and complicated back-stories.
The project has also facilitated links between UK arts organisations and East Asia, including for example people/organisations like Alistair Spalding, CEO and Artistic Director Sadlers' Wells Theatre, London; Eddie Nixon, Director The Place Theatre; Jih Wen Yeh Director, Step Out Arts, UK; and Dance writer Donald Hutera (e.g.
see article in professional journal, Dance Europe No.
169 January 2013 pp.
36-37) Educational policy and diplomacy impact: In many ways, the project's significance stems from the fact that it is participating in ongoing debates in public and Communist Party forums about the future direction of China and its relations with the region and the wider world.
Danscross/ArtsCross represents an intervention in these debates, promoting the cause of the modernisers in a society where symbolic gesture is potent.
The project has represented a fundamental shift in the relationship between the field of international research and professional dance practices, and between Chinese conservatoire institutions such as the Beijing Dance Academy (BDA) and the governmental research agency China National Academy for Arts Research (CNAAR) (as evidenced by BDA &amp; Beijing Education Department letters).
In addition, involvement (supported by British Council Arts Officers) with Penghao Theatre, the first theatre in China that is independent of the state, supports these developments and offers the validation of international arts and HE research collaborations, both important indicators of achievement in China.
It alters the place and purpose of dance in China, and acts as a vehicle for progressing artistic and policy exchanges between Taiwan and China, and East Asia and the UK.
To elaborate, while the Chinese contemporary visual art world has challenged social values for some years, dance has largely tended to act as a carrier of culture, preserving `traditional Chinese classical and folk forms' or as a vehicle for glorification of the spectacular and virtuosic technical achievement of dancers, and by implication, China.
In contrast Dancross/ArtsCross is participating in an initiative that, through its significant collaborations, opens Chinese society to art in a mainstream theatre context that is informed by a critical stance, not reflecting current values nor presenting governmental views, nor conserving a theatricalised version of traditional forms.
Such impacts are underlined, for example, by the invitation extended to Bannerman to attend and respond to issues and concerns prior to the 2009 performance which was viewed in advance, (in closed session), by the Communist Party Chairman of the BDA, and a committee of the Communist Party.
This invitation to a foreigner was the first ever extended in BDA's history.
Further, Dancross/ArtsCross presents a research-driven response to contemporary Chinese, Taiwanese and Western life and art, and did so in mainstream professional theatres (e.g.
2009 -1,500 seat theatre).
As an on-going face-to-face and online forum for debate regarding issues of Chinese/Taiwanese/UK national and cultural identities and their significance and interaction between China, Taiwan, Japan and the UK, the project establishes new channels for cultural diplomacy to strengthen dialogue which is a prerequisite for stable and positive relations in times of turbulence and change.
In the UK, the project demonstrates the efficacy of Arts and Humanities research as an agent of change and involving arts professionals to ensure wider real world relationships and the involvement of British Council Arts Department and DCMS.
In addition, Prof Bannerman advised the British Council on the development of their Olympic Big Dance project and advised BODA, Beijing Olympic Development Committee on their Beijing Wishes project which culminated in a film shown in Trafalgar Square, London as part of the Big Dance Olympiad project, http://www.bigdancelegacy.co.uk/ and http://www.Vimeo.com/58998067.
