     Process from research to impact:       C Robertson has a joint appointment with Health Protection Scotland and       this close working relationship between the researchers based in       Mathematics and Statistics at Strathclyde and those at Health Protection       Scotland enables the timely identification and investigation of important       health research areas.
Implementation of the research outputs comes       through the contribution of university staff to core HPS strategy and       planning groups, such as HPV Surveillance in Scotland, the MRSA Screening       Programme Board, Pandemic Influenza, and the Olympic and Commonwealth       Games Surveillance Group (Source1).
Wider dissemination takes place       through reports to Government and HPS study reports (Source 2).
Consequently, the results of Strathclyde's research are often transferred       to and implemented by HPS before publication in journals.
Preparatory research at the university led to the establishment of a       national surveillance system for the weekly "organism report" around the       time of the G8 summit in Gleneagles in July 2006.
At this time, HPS had no       facility for processing large amounts of varied, daily produced data       within a unified surveillance system and the university research led       directly to the establishment of such systems.
A review of the       surveillance strategy by HPS in the aftermath of the G8 conference       concluded that statistical methods for the automatic scanning of a large       amount of daily data were crucial to its operational effectiveness.
In the       period 2008-13, at least 5 separate data analysis systems have been       developed and tested, based on adoption of Strathclyde's research.
Types of Impact         Monitoring Influenza Pandemic:      During the H1N1v Influenza Pandemic, HPS systems based on Strathclyde's       research were instrumental in successfully monitoring the evolution of the       pandemic, estimation of the transmission dynamics of the virus, monitoring       the numbers of people dying in relation to those expected to succumb; and       development of a national system for surveillance of GP consultations,       including the use of NHS24.
HPS placed, and continues to place, a huge       reliance on these systems so that it can function effectively (Source 3).
Outputs derived from the university research, were regularly used by       government, health officials, and health protection agencies.
Reports were       prepared for the both the UK Government's Scientific Advisory Group for       Emergencies (SAGE) and the Scientific Pandemic Influenza Subgroup on       Modelling (SPI-M),which monitored the course of the pandemic(Source 4).
Without the university research, HPS would not have had advanced syndromic       surveillance systems, nor would it have had as sophisticated a response to       pandemic influenza surveillance (Source 5).
The benefits to HPS, and       consequently the general population, have been apparent throughout the       period 2008-13, with greatest impact in the period April 2009-June 2010.
The Clinical Director at HPS during this period (Source 1) states "This       research had a great impact at HPS in helping to mitigate the increased       workload and pressures on the organisation associated with managing a       national outbreak and reporting, each day, on a wide range of issues".
Vaccination programmes:       Vaccination is the main way of protecting the population against some       infectious diseases and HPS monitors the impact of the national       vaccination programmes.
The university's research on vaccine effectiveness       is carried out in conjunction with colleagues at HPS (Dr Jim McMenamin) ,       Edinburgh University (Dr Colin Simpson, Dr Nazir Lone, Prof Aziz Shiekh)       and Aberdeen University (Prof Lewis Ritchie).
A successful HTA grant       during the H1N1v pandemic yielded one of the first publications on the       effectiveness of the pandemic vaccine, demonstrating that the vaccination       programme had prevented infection, hospitalisations and death.
This group       has also worked on Seasonal Influenza Vaccine Effectiveness (HTA grant       2011-12) and preparatory work to develop data systems for pandemic       preparedness (EAVE, HTA 2013-2015).
As a result of this research HPS has       published mid-season and end-of-season estimates of the effect of the       influenza vaccines since 2009.
These results are communicated to (a)       Scottish Government through reports and meetings, (b) Public Health       England and, hence, the UK Government, and (c) the I-Move network through       meetings and reports, where the results have assisted in guiding public       vaccination policy at national and European level.
Improved effectiveness of Health Protection Scotland:       Strathclyde's research working in partnership with HPS, has permitted the       demonstration of a positive health impact of the influenza vaccination       programme on the health of the UK population, with the added benefits of       improving the effectiveness of HPS in carrying out its responsibilities.
The surveillance systems provide HPS with the ability to monitor disease       levels in relation to expected levels and to detect outbreaks of       infectious diseases in a timely fashion.
When combined with appropriate       interventions, a reduction in the magnitude of the outbreaks can be       achieved, with a reduction in the time in which they can be controlled.
Furthermore, there is a workforce impact as epidemiologists are freed from       routine surveillance, leading to a more efficient deployment of staff       within HPS.
A conservative estimate of the savings is one staff per year       since 2009 at &#163;50,000 per annum (Source 6).
Reach and Significance: The results of the research on influenza       vaccine effectiveness have been presented annually at a European network       on vaccine effect, I-Move, which reports to ECDC and WHO (Source 7).
This       regular reporting has influenced other national programmes demonstrating a       global reach.
Early estimates of the effect of the current seasonal flu       vaccine are crucial for the planning of the next year's flu vaccine.
As a       result of the university research, HPS, in conjunction with Public Health       England (PHE), are better able to provide timely estimates for the UK       (Source 8) placing HPS/Strathclyde University amongst the leaders in the       early estimation of influenza vaccine effect in Europe.
A consultant epidemiologist at HPS has confirmed "This research is       carried out at Strathclyde University but has a national, European and       international impact.
Since 2009 we have developed a system of linked       datasets which, with complex statistical modelling, can be used to provide       timely estimates of the effectiveness of the seasonal influenza vaccine.
The results of this research have an impact at national level, where they       are communicated to Scottish Government, through reports and meetings and       to Public Health England and thence the UK Department of Health.
Furthermore, the impact is wider through the contribution of HPS in a       European network of researchers and public health officials from European       Centre for Disease Control.
This data allows in-season estimation of the       severity of influenza as it impacts the public health and the success or       otherwise of public health measures to limit its impact.
The network       regularly contributes to the World Health Organisation influenza vaccine       strain selection meeting where the composition of the seasonal influenza       vaccine for the next season is decided" (Source 6).
