     Process from research to impact       In 2009, the European Commission issued a call for academic research       groups to conduct an independent evaluation to assess the usability of the       Europeana interface.
The Strathclyde researchers named in the previous       section submitted a bid along with international colleagues.
The       Strathclyde-led team was selected to conduct the evaluation based on their       experience in the construction of Digital Libraries, their work on       user-centred evaluations of information access systems and their research       on the interoperability of meta-data from different resources.
The       Strathclyde group had the main responsibility for designing the evaluation       study, its conduct, analysis and reporting.
The collaborating partners       were Jonathan Sykes of Glasgow Caledonian University (whose research group       provided the eye-tracking technology used in the evaluation), Pierluigi       Feliciati of University of Macerata (who contributed to the study design       and ran one of the evaluation phases) and Yurdag&#252;l &#220;nal of Hacettepe       University (a visiting researcher at Strathclyde who helped organise the       focus groups).
The evaluations conducted consisted of 4 task-based group evaluations       with school age children in the Netherlands and Bulgaria (the latter a       country with low use of Europeana material and hence an area of interest       for Europeana), 1 task-based group evaluation with University students on       a Cultural Heritage degree course in Italy, one focus group of specialists       and members of the general public in the UK, and 12 single person adult       evaluations using task-based evaluations and eye-tracking methods.
This       was one of the first Digital Library evaluations to use eye-tracking as an       evaluation technique.
This range of evaluation approaches was critical in       making precise recommendations to Europeana from different groups of       potential users.
The evaluation report was submitted to the Europeana Working Group who       led the design and operation of Europeana on behalf of the European       Commission in 2009.
The report detailed the methodology of the evaluations       and the main recommendations in terms of improvements that could be made       to the Europeana user interface, meta-data construction and data       collection.
It also identified problems with end-user understanding of the       Europeana collections and preferred methods of accessing heritage       information.
The report made 22 short, medium and long term       recommendations for the improvement of Europeana, including       recommendations on content, branding, usability, collection development       and multi-lingual support.
Each recommendation was associated with       suggestions on how the recommendation could be implemented.
Of particular       concern was the lack of precision in searching, the often poor quality       meta-data supplied by end-users and confusion over the aggregator model       used by Europeana.
Types of Impact     Improvements to the Europeana interface:       The immediate beneficiary of our evaluation work was the Europeana       development team who gained new insights into how their system was used in       practice, new design recommendations for overcoming usability issues, and       how unbalanced subject coverage could lead to user rejection of the       system.
The recommendations made in the report led to interface       improvements in the Europeana interface in version 2.0 of Europeana       (Source B and D).
These changes included changing the size and layout of       thumbnail representations to improve their visibility and thus make it       easier for users to make decisions about which objects to explore and       changing the layout of the initial Europeana pages.
The latter change       resulted from the eye-tracking data which demonstrated that parts of the       navigation provided by Europeana were not noticed by users and that       first-time and returning users tended to focus on different parts of the       home and search pages.
These observations would not have been possible       without the use of eye-tracking techniques.
These changes coincided with       other changes including the addition of new cultural heritage institutions       to the Europeana database (Source C).
Improved user experience:       The changes to Europeana made as the results of our recommendations have       led to improved user experience by all users of Europeana as the changes       have resulted in better presentation of search results and easier access       to relevant content within Europeana.
Due to the anonymous nature of       searching on Europeana &#8212; there is no registration required &#8212; we cannot       breakdown which target groups have benefitted most from these changes.
However, it is likely that the changes have most benefitted those groups,       such as children and less frequent computer users, who typically face most       challenges in operating search user interfaces.
Wider impacts: The cultural heritage institutions that contribute       data to Europeana also benefit from having increased accessibility of       their material through an improved user search interface and clearer       recommendations on how to provide meta-data for Europeana.
As the Europeana Foundation notes, `As Europeana represents a major         investment by the European Commission in making cultural heritage         available to the world, it is important that Europeana is usable by a         wide variety of end-users.
A particular target group are children as         Europeana's high-quality resources are intended to be a key cultural         resource for schools across the European Union' (Source A, 2013).
The study gathered opinions on the difficulties encountered which help to       understand better users' expectations within the content and functionality       domains of Digital Libraries which would be of possible interest to all       stakeholders in developing cultural heritage repositories.
Reach and Significance     Europeana is the official European Union Digital Library for cultural     heritage located in European heritage institutions.
It provides access to     over 26 million digitised cultural objects including books, paintings, films     and audio, through an aggregator model by which institutions provide brief     descriptions of objects within their collections and meta-data describing     these objects.
2,200 individual heritage institutions, such as the     Rijksmuseum, The British Library and the Natural History Museum, from 34     different countries, contribute to this resource.
End-users can search in     any of 31 languages and are then presented with descriptions of the matching     objects along with the meta-data and links to the institution that contains     the cultural heritage object.
Launched in 2009, the site now receives almost     4 million unique visits per year from over 240 different countries.
Through helping to provide a more usable interface, we have contributed       to "Europeana's mission of making cultural heritage more accessible and         increasing engagement with the cultural heritage of the European Union"       (Source A).
The changes made as a result of our recommendations impact the       core Europeana site &#8212; the search results and initial home pages.
As a       result, all users of Europeana are affected positively by these changes       and all data providers benefit from end-users being able to more easily       find relevant material.
