     Process/events from research to impact:       The programme of underpinning research initiated by McInnes was initially       used by the NASA Jet       Propulsion Laboratory (1995/96) as the basis for studies of the Geostorm       space weather mission,       now being developed as the NASA solar sail Sunjammer mission scheduled for       launch in 2014       (discussed later).
The work also influenced US National Oceanic and       Atmospheric Administration       (NOAA) planning for future polar Earth observation missions by       demonstrating the key advantages       of non-Keplerian orbits enabled by solar sail spacecraft (1996/97).
These       new orbits enable unique       vantage points for synoptic polar weather, ice coverage measurements and       satellite       communications.
NOAA executive Patricia Mulligan noted that "it appears         likely that [the orbits]         could inexpensively relay data much faster from both low Earth orbiting         weather satellites and Sun         orbiting monitors" (Source A).
Later, families of precessing solar sail orbits developed by McInnes and       Macdonald (2007-2008)       formed the basis for the GeoSail mission concept and its adoption by the       European Space Agency       as a potential solar sail technology demonstration mission.
This led       directly to a major European       industry study led by Kayser-Threde GmbH (2007-2008) with EADS Astrium Ltd       and SciSys Ltd as       sub-contractors.
Types of impact       Influence on European Space Agency Planning: The GeoSail mission       concept was identified by       the ESA Science Directorate as a major step in solar sail technology       development and formed a       key element in planning for the European Space Agency Cosmic Visions       roadmap for future       science missions (2003/04) (Source B).
Inclusion in such ESA planning is a       major indication of       research impact and the infusion of entirely new thinking on orbit and       mission design.
The work led       directly to a major European space industry Technology Reference Study led       by Kayser-       Threde GmbH (2007) with EADS Astrium Ltd and SciSys Ltd as       sub-contractors.
The study       represents one of the first industry-led assessments of solar sail       technology in Europe (Source C)       and the incorporation into these earlier plans laid the foundations for       operations from 2008.
For example the programme of research on non-Keplerian orbits has been       exploited by the       European Space Agency through contract work to develop new concepts to       ensure, for the first       time, continuous communications with crewed deep space missions       (2009-2010) (Source D).
Study lead Francois Bosquillon de Frescheville, European Space Operations       Centre, noted that       the "research will help pave the way for future robotic missions to         places we've never been, or for a         human mission to Mars" (Source E).
Most recently, families of non-Keplerian orbits are underpinning a       DLR/ESA concept for the       Gossamer-3 solar sail technology demonstration mission.
McInnes, Macdonald       and Vasile are key       participants in DLR/ESA solar sail working groups which are coordinating       the development of the       technology (2010-present), and indeed Macdonald and McInnes chair two of       three working groups.
The novel families of non-Keplerian orbits driving the design of the       Gossamer-3 mission and its       technology development by DLR again represents a major impact on agency       thinking, investments       and industrial development to bring the technology to flight readiness.
The mission will provide early warning of so-called space weather events       which can have       potentially catastrophic impacts on terrestrial communication services,       navigation systems and       energy grids.
The availability of such warning is key to security and       resilience in a highly networked       global society.
It is these compelling applications of the research which       has influenced agency       roadmaps and industry investments to ensure their realisation.
Commercial Adoption: Applications of families of non-Keplerian       orbits to deliver new commercial       communication services have been developed for space prime contractor EADS       Astrium Ltd       through commercial contract work (2010-2011).
Astrium is a global company       employing 18,000       staff and is an established leader in space transportation, satellite       systems and services (Source       F).
It was demonstrated that non-Keplerian orbits offer entirely new       vantage points for commercial       communications services and the programme of research has influenced       company thinking on the       development of orbits future commercial communication platforms (Source       G).202f     As a further example, design tools for families of non-Keplerian orbits       are now embedded in       commercial MATLAB software toolboxes by the leading US space engineering       software house       Princeton Satellite Systems Inc. (2012-13).
The tools allow users to       design custom non-Keplerian       orbits to meet their own mission requirements.
Their adoption in this       widely-used professional       software suite is an indication of the influence of the programme of basic       research conducted by       the Strathclyde team (Source H).
Investment into NASA solar sail demonstration: Families of       artificial equilibria devised by       McInnes and co-workers underpin a major NASA investment ($20M programme)       in a solar sail       technology demonstration, currently in manufacture and scheduled for       launch in 2014.
The mission       will exploit one of a family of artificial equilibrium points to provide       enhanced warning of space       weather events.
McInnes and his group are working with the industry team       at L'Garde Inc. to       provide inputs to the mission trajectory design under a US State       Department (ITAR) agreement.
Contributions include devising and implementing end-of-mission experiments       to validate additional       families of non-Keplerian orbits, again demonstrating significant       influence on the mission design.
The NASA mission will be a historic world-first operational solar sail       mission and the culmination of       a long-term programme of research to discover, characterise and promote       novel families of non-       Keplerian orbits for solar sail spacecraft.
Arthur L. Palisoc, Vice       President Engineering at L'Garde       Inc. notes that "work on non-Keplerian orbits for solar sails at the         University of Strathclyde has         greatly augmented our own active research in the field" (Source I).
202f     Reach and significance       The impact of the long-standing programme of basic research on families of       highly non-Keplerian       orbits has been three-fold; influencing high-level thinking by space       agencies on future mission       concepts, infusing these new ideas into agency technology roadmaps and       industry investments,       and the adoption of the new thinking into technology demonstration       missions.
The research       impacts have reached national and international space agencies (ESA, DLR,       NASA), overseas       government agencies (NOAA) and UK and overseas companies (EADS Astrium,       Princeton       Satellite Systems, L'Garde).
