     Process from research to impact       Research outputs have been disseminated by Clarke, Connor, Grant and       Johnstone through       extensive publishing of journal and conference papers.
New IP has been       generated and secured       via UK and international patent applications.
This new technology has been       the recipient of awards       from professional institutions and industry bodies.
To realise the       commercial benefits, a University       spin out company has been formed to bring the Contra Rotating Marine       Turbine (CoRMaT)       technology to market, creating the following types of impact:     New spin out created: Nautricity Limited was registered in 2009,       and secured &#163;5M industrial       investment from First Tech, the investment arm of First Oil, in 2010       (Source A).
To provide       continuity in the development and commercialisation of the CoRMaT       technology, Nautricity has       seconded Johnstone as its CEO to lead the development of both the company       and the CoRMaT       technology within UK, North American and South Korean markets.
In 2012/13       Nautricity built pre-commercial       full scale systems for deployment in UK and International waters and to       demonstrate       economic viability.
Adoption of new renewable energy technology       The CoRMaT technology is considered unique and pioneering in that it can       be deployed at mid       water column, in deeper water, and where the flow velocities are faster.
Due to the reduced       complexity and inherent passive control integrated into the CoRMaT       technology, this has delivered       `step changing' cost reductions in harnessing tidal energy.
These reduced       costs make it       economically viable to harness power from less `energetic' tidal sites and       sites located in deeper       waters, neither of which were previously considered feasible.
This       substantively increases the       exploitable tidal resource.
CoRMaT is a proven, next generation, tidal stream turbine.
The technology       is regarded by the       Carbon Trust, Scottish Enterprise and both UK and Scottish Governments as       being a next       generation technology which is `disruptive' to the industry.
This       `disruptive' nature is associated       with the delivery of necessary step changes to make it more cost       competitive with other forms of       renewable energy.
The capital cost has been assessed by the Carbon Trust,       UK (Source B) and       the Scottish Government to deliver &#163;3,240/kW for a 500 kW device,       approximately 40% of the       costs quoted for competing 1st generation technologies.
The projected       electricity generating cost,       14p/kWh, is currently within the predicted 2020 band (12 to 18p/kWh) for       tidal stream turbines       operating in a velocity between 2.5 m/s and 3.5 m/s.
The costs for CoRMaT       are expected to be       profitable.
Operational costs have been calculated at &#163;160/ MWh while       existing Government       incentives of 5 Renewable Obligation Certificates (ROC's) will provide a       revenue of approximately       &#163;230/ MWh.
The university spin-out company, Nautricity, is in the process       of demonstrating the       commercial viability of CoRMaT when deployed at full scale to capitalise       on this.
In 2011 Nautricity secured an agreement to lease for the development of a       3MW test array from       The Crown Estates.
This led to the development of the first small array at       the Mull of Kintyre off the       south-west coast of Scotland, with the potential to build out to a 30MW       tidal array.
Nautricity has       secured outline consent for a tidal site together with grid connection       approval to facilitate the       development of the site in 2014 (Source C).
In February 2012 Nautricity       secured a &#163;250k       SmartScotland award from the Scottish government for a &#163;900k project       developing and proving a       novel tidal energy mooring system to augment the performance of the CoRMaT       system.
The       prototype mooring system with a full scale CoRMaT turbine was deployed at       the European Marine       Energy Centre, Orkney in February 2013.
In July 2012, Nautricity secured a       Scottish Government       WATERS II award of &#163;1.4M against a &#163;5.5M project to deploy and demonstrate       a commercial       system in deeper waters off the west coast of Scotland, to be deployed and       commissioned during       the summer of 2014.
Influence on Government Policy: The delivery of the CoRMaT       technology has changed both UK       and Scottish Government marine renewable policy.
The realisation of next       generation technology       being available has scoped the development of the Scottish Government's       Waters II competition in       2012 to specifically support the delivery of next generation wave and       tidal energy technologies       which promise to deliver `step-change' cost reductions (Source D).
Subsequently, the Carbon Trust       is using the cost benefits of the CoRMaT technology as a bench mark for       the capital and       operational costs of tidal technologies (Source B).
Nautricity personnel       have been invited (January       2012) to sit on the Scottish Government's reconvened Marine Energy Group       (Source E), and       Scottish Renewables: Marine Energy Working Group (Source F).
Both these       groups have a remit       to inform both the Scottish and UK Government of necessary policy       development in order to deliver       a marine renewable industry.
These groups informed the recent Waters II,       Wave Energy       Acceleration, and Marine Renewable Consolidation Fund calls, which are       managed by the Scottish       Government and the Carbon Trust.
Commercial benefit to utility companies and other organisations:       Nautricity have       demonstrated the commercial viability of marine power extraction to the       energy utilities.
This is       bringing commercial benefit to the European Marine Energy Centre (EMEC)       and its supply chain in       the Orkney Islands and the Kintyre peninsula, where the commercial       deployment of the technology       at the Mull of Kintyre is taking place.
The CoRMaT design is protected       internationally by Patents       GB2005/161492 and GB2010/ 1104524.2 and once an indigenous UK market is       developed an       International market will be exploited.
In overseas market development,       Nautricity's CoRMaT       technology has been shortlisted as a preferred technology by Fundy Tidal       Inc. for a 3MW project it       is developing in the Bay of Fundy, Nova Scotia Canada, and by Haida Gwaii       Tidal, British       Columbia Canada for a 1.5MW community tidal energy project.
With the       growth in electricity       supplies from renewables, especially in Asia, Nautricity has been invited       to develop and deploy its       CoRMaT technology in these emerging markets.
The recent Memorandum of       Understanding       between the Scottish Government and the Incheon Authority, South Korea (in       May 2013) to       collaborate in the development of tidal energy in the Incheon region       provides the delivery vehicle       for the tidal energy technology.
The Director of Incheon Metropolitan City       Green Energy Policy       Division said: "The MoU gives momentum to encourage joint studies and         knowledge sharing, thus         helping to establish Incheon as a "mecca" for tidal energy."
(Source       G).
Wider implications: To summarise, currently the impact is in terms       of the adoption of the new       technology and its influence on Government policy on renewable energy       companies.
The wider       implementation of the technology will lead to benefits to the local       economy through job creation       within Nautricity, and its strategic supply chain partners, and commercial       expenditure within       communities where the technology is being deployed.
The eventual cost       reduction and       environmental benefits will be to the consumer.
