     Process/Events From Research to Impact: The underpinning research       made a significant contribution to changing the practice of the profession       from rule compliance to goal-based regulations with specific emphasis on       ship damage stability (Source 1).
This provided the platform for       introducing and developing a workable rule-set of probabilistic       regulations via a series of large-scale international research projects.
In particular the HARDER project provided all requisite input to IMO for       SOLAS 2009.
On this basis, the IMO Working Group, with the support of the       HARDER project findings (Source 6) developed the harmonised regulations in       draft form in 2004.
Following various amendments for ease and consistency       of implementation, these entered into force in January 2009.
NA-ME       researchers were involved in the Working Group and played a pivotal role       in the development of the SOLAS 2009 rules.
The underpinning research       towards the development of SOLAS 2009 also proved instrumental in the       eventual adoption of the regulations by the international maritime       community (Source 2).
This effort has thus resulted in new worldwide       safety policy and improved standards; ultimately to safer shipping.
Successful spin out company: NA-ME research by Vassalos and Turan       led to the formation of a spin-out company Safety at Sea Ltd (SaS) in 1999       to offer specialist safety services to the marine industry and this spin       out has continued to have impact since 2008.
Safety at Sea is now a wholly       owned subsidiary of Brookes Bell Partnership following its merger with       that company in 2011, and is a successful marine consultancy, specialising       in marine and offshore safety, engineering and cost effective operation       (Source 3).
Impact on International Regulations: All new ships built worldwide       after 2009 must comply with SOLAS 2009 regulations.
Given that damage       stability failure represents 90% of the risk to human lives in maritime       accidents, this affects over 2 billion people who travel on passenger       ships each year, and around 100,000 commercial vessels, operated by around       1.5 million crew.
In 2009-2012, over 10,000 ships were built under SOLAS       2009 regulations (Source 7).
Currently, over 2,500 ships worldwide (worth       $100Bn) are being designed and built to SOLAS 2009 regulations.
The impact       of the NA-ME research in Europe is even greater, as the performance-based       standards in the Stockholm agreement have been applied to existing       Passenger/Car ferries as well as new builds since 1997.
In Northern Europe       more than 200 existing vessels were upgraded to the standards set out in       the Stockholm agreement in the period up to 2009.
The impact continues as       300 existing vessels in Southern Europe are being upgraded to the standard       in the period 2009 to 2015.
More than 200 million passengers and 15       million cars/trailers are transported annually throughout Europe on these       vessels.
Reduction in risk to human life: IMO statistics show a reduction       of around 15-20% per annum in the loss of life in maritime accidents since       the introduction of SOLAS 2009 (Sources 8 and 9).
This equates to an       average of 200-300 fewer fatalities per annum due to safety failures since       the introduction of SOLAS 2009; this rate of reduction will improve       further as new ships are being built to the new rules.
Since 2009, two       billion passengers are travelling in a safer environment at sea.
IHS       Fairplay's 2010 World Casualty Statistics publication shows that the       number of lives lost at sea fell sharply in 2010 compared with the       previous 12 months.
In 2010, 250 seafarers lost their lives, the lowest       figures for loss of life since 2003 (quoted in Source 9 p.18).
Improvement to build and design: Since 2008 NA-ME researchers and       the spin-out company Safety at Sea Ltd (SaS) have contributed to upgrading       of some 130 EU vessels to new damaged stability standards, as well as       design of new-build ships owned by international companies including       P&amp;O Ferries, Stena Line, Caledonian MacBrayne Ferries, Viking Line,       Color Line, DFDS Ferries, Irish Ferries, Grandi Navi Velocci, Grimaldi,       VShips and Blue Star Ferries.
These ferries continue to operate in the UK       and European waters providing safer maritime transport to the UK and EU       public (Source 3).
Using the new rules and expertise gained via research, SaS has been       involved in the design of cruise vessels and RoPax for EU-based companies       including Caledonian MacBrayne, P&amp;O Ferries, Color Line, Stena Line,       Carnival Cruises and Royal Caribbean Cruise Lines (RCCL) (Source 3).
SaS are involved with design of some of the most innovative passenger       ships ever built e.g., Royal Caribbean Cruise Lines' Genesis class,       designed on the basis of the new rules with safety as the main objective       and demonstrating significant and cost-effective safety enhancement (see       Reference 4).
SaS is now responsible for all aspects of safety for Titanic         II, a replica of the legendary ship currently being designed (2013).
Similar support has been provided to other organisations around the       world, including the US Coast Guard, Daewoo and Samsung Heavy Industries       (Korea), Mitsubishi (Japan) and NCL (Singapore), to help increase safety       performance and standards.
Since 2009 more than 15 cruise ships have been       built in Europe to SOLAS 2009 regulations at a cost of $15Bn to the ship       building industry.
Economic Impact &#8212; cost savings and employment: The SOLAS 2009       performance-based standards enable cost-effective safety improvements.
This incentivises the maritime industry to invest in safety whilst       offering significant economic savings, including substantial savings in       insurance costs.
SaS Ltd employs more than 25 engineers offering services       worldwide and has strategic partnerships with Lloyds Register of Shipping       and Brookes Bell (UK); Deltamarin (Finland); Alpha Marine Services       (Greece); Maersk (Denmark) and Panama Canal (Panama).
Embedding a safety culture in the shipping industry: An important       contribution of NA-ME led research on safety has been in incentivising a       change of the industry mind-set from rules-based to performance-based       safety standards, enabling measurement of safety and offering a mechanism       to facilitate and sustain a maritime industry safety culture.
This has       impacted on promotion of safety awareness and a proactive approach to       effective life-cycle risk management; promulgating a maritime safety       culture; enabling safer shipping in a cost-effective manner and reducing       risks to life, property and the environment.
International standards       developed at IMO form the foundation for national standards and rules of       related regulatory bodies, e.g.
classification societies.
The Executive       Vice President of Royal Caribbean Cruise Lines notes that "Performance-based approaches         to addressing maritime safety, in particular damage stability, provided         the foundation for innovative designs with demonstrable safety, achieved         cost-effectively.
This has enabled a step change in the profession's         mind-set and practice in addressing maritime safety at large"       (Source 1).
To facilitate understanding of the new rules and the ensuing       safety regime, a series of CPD Workshops has been organised regularly by       NA-ME with participation from professionals worldwide.
The training       material developed is now a reference on maritime safety for the industry       while training workshops have been attended by over 150 industrial       practitioners.
The Marketing Director, Deltamarin Ltd notes "I was one         of the designers called upon to help NA-ME combine theory and practice         and to offer a course that has helped make a step change in design         practice with focus on ensuring high levels of damage stability"       (Source 4).
Reach and significance This research reaches the worldwide       shipping industry through IMO regulations.
The IMO's rules are the most       important international instrument addressing maritime safety today,       covering such areas as ship design, construction and equipment,       subdivision and stability, fire protection, radio-communications, safety       of navigation, carriage of cargoes (including dangerous cargoes), safety       management and maritime security.
NA-ME research is promulgated through       IMO, National Regulatory Bodies, Classification Societies, ship designers       and builders, ship operators, and most importantly 2 billion passengers       and 1.5 million seagoing crew worldwide (Source 5).
Performance-based       safety allows the introduction of safety as a design objective, which       leads to improving the overall performance of ships, i.e., better designed       and operated ships, finally, addressing safety rationally incentivises       safety investment and encourages a safety culture, leading in turn, to a       sustainable and continuous improvement (as evidenced in the SAFEDOR       Project website, Source 10).
