     Process from research to impact:     The output of the extensive research activity conducted over almost two       decades has resulted in the preparation of frameworks and models that were       operationalized through practical workbooks, guidelines, audits and       assessments, as well as training courses.
The industry-facing seminars       (e.g.
JIT Club, SPEED, competitiveScotland.com) led to knowledge exchange       engagements with 102 companies across the UK and over 76 companies across       Europe, and involved the application of the frameworks and the associated       tools and techniques.
In all cases, the research team engaged with the       management teams of the organisations through intensive workshops and       longer-term KTP type engagements, educating and facilitating the critical       evaluation of the organisations' performance measurement and management       practices.
The resulting tools and techniques have now been adopted by a       wider community of support organisations ultimately impacting on over 1000       companies.
Type of impact:     Engagements with companies resulted in redefinition and redeployment of       the organisations' performance measures with more rigorous use of the       performance measurement system at all levels, aided through visual       management systems.
This process, in many cases, was supported by more       effective use of existing, or introduction of new, ICT infrastructures       within the companies.
Implementation of the frameworks and models devised       from the Strathclyde research resulted in:            improved communication of organisational objectives and priorities at         all levels;       improved staff motivation, involvement and engagement at all levels       increased participation and innovation.
The combination of these improvements led to sustainable growth in       revenues, productivity and cash-flow facilitated thorough more systematic       and focused customer service, and product/service and productivity       improvement initiatives.
Reach and Significance     Some of the most significant benefits in productivity to be realised       during the REF period, through application of the Strathclyde research,       have been reported by Highland Spring, Clydesdale Bank, Blairs Windows,       Riley Dunn and Wilson, and Brian Hewitt Construction.
In each company, the       performance measurement framework was implemented and used to assess the       status of their core capabilities against three core value drivers:       operational excellence, product leadership and customer intimacy.
Highland Spring Limited: The Strathclyde researchers helped       the company to obtain more relevant, timely, consistent and accessible       (ICT based) performance information.
This facilitated more meaningful       strategic and operational interactions within the organisation, resulting       in more informed and confident decision making, as well as more focused       action at all levels.
This resulted in improved efficiencies across sales,       manufacturing, materials and distribution operations, as well as improved       customers service levels, resulting in a 150% increase in turnover (from       &#163;54M to &#163;81M) and a 80% increase in the workforce (107 new employees) by       the end of 2009.
Further acquisitions resulted in the business growing to       become the UK's number 1 bottled water producer with a turnover of c.       &#163;100M and 450 people (Sources 1 and 2).
Clydesdale Bank: Prior to engagement with Strathclyde, the       bank had implemented in-house productivity and customer focused       performance measurements, without achieving significant improvements.
The       Strathclyde research team conducted a maturity assessment and then a pilot       intervention with two different teams, using one half of each team as a       control group.
Approximately one year after the intervention the bank       reported 6% improvements in staff engagement, productivity and customer       service (Source 3).
Blairs Windows: A quick response manufacturing programme       was implemented which enabled the company to produce customised products       for their customers in very short turn-round times.
This contributed to       the reputation of the company and customer satisfaction.
Riley Dunn and Wilson: The company benefited from a       business process re-engineering programme which stream-lined their book       binding processes, improving productivity and use of labour.
Brian Hewitt Construction: The Strathclyde researchers       assisted with the development and implementation of engineering systems to       enable the company to very quickly design and manufacture commercial       buildings.
This was based on creating systems that would generate the       design of a new building through use of a library of design rules.
Wider impact     The European wide FP7 FutureSME project (2009-2013) led by the       Strathclyde team developed and delivered a &#8364;6M programme to improve the       competitive capabilities of European Manufacturing SMEs.
The research       described above, and particularly the maturity models and the visual       performance measurement and management approaches, formed the foundations       of the project.
Over the duration of the project, it delivered detailed       longitudinal interventions with 13 European SMEs, as well as education       programmes and performance measurement and management maturity diagnostics       with 63 manufacturing SMEs across Turkey, Italy, Czech Republic, Poland,       Spain, Slovakia, UK and Ireland.
In 2012 the training programme developed       was awarded the European Training Programme of the Year Medal by the       Polish Chamber of Commerce (Source 4).The following quotations from three       different companies provide corroborating evidence of the benefits       experienced:     "We worked with Prof Bititci and his team to adopt the performance         measurement and management methods and tools developed through his         research.
The visual management approach has transformed the way we         manage the strategy and performance of our business which resulted in         the company exceeding its growth objectives".
Source 5 &#8212; Linn       Products, UK.
"In a constantly changing global environment, the performance         measurement and management approach developed at Strathclyde University         taught us how to adapt to change, which has had a positive impact on our         business".
Source 6 &#8212; Deka Elektroteknik A.S, Turkey.
"Our consultant, Dr Laului, has introduced us to the visual         performance management tools developed at Strathclyde.
It helped us         survive through a deep recession and made us stronger for growth in the         future" Sources 7 and 8 &#8212; Roco Manufacturing, Ireland.
Furthermore, organisations such as the Scottish Manufacturing Advisory       Service, Tsunami (Ireland), Ernst &amp; Young (Italy), Lean Institute       (Poland) and the Turkish Shoe Manufacturing Federation (Turkey) have       adopted the methods and tools developed through the Strathclyde research       and are actively encouraging their clients/members to engage with the       methods described resulting in the total reach exceeding 1000       manufacturing companies across Europe (Source 9).
