     Process/Events from Research to Impact:     Carron Phoenix Limited based in Falkirk, Scotland, is the world's largest       manufacturer of composite `granite' kitchen sinks employing over 400       workers, and is part of the Swiss Franke Group.
Through a partnership of       complementary expertise between the departments of Chemical &amp; Process       Engineering (CPE) and Pure &amp; Applied Chemistry (PAC) within the       University of Strathclyde, a major collaborative Knowledge Transfer       Partnership (KTP) with Carron Phoenix was established.
The specific aim       was to create a new range of synthetic granite kitchen sinks, enabling the       company to sustain its position in the higher-end designer kitchen sink       market across Europe and compete in markets worldwide.
The initial work       was undertaken by the company through an EPSRC CASE studentship with PAC       which operated from 2002-2005 and led to the development of novel polymer       nanocomposite formulations with mechanical, thermal and barrier properties       superior to the base polymers.
Such innovative formulations offered the       potential of significant benefits to Carron Phoenix Ltd in terms of       process flexibility, enhanced product performance and reduced wastage.
Following promising results in establishing the underlying polymer       chemistry, a wider and considerably more major expansion of the project       via a KTP programme (Source A) was established in January 2005 involving       specialists in chemical and process engineering in CPE as well as chemists       in PAC, which was followed by a Short KTP (sKTP) collaboration between the       company and the University, over the period 2009 - 2010.
These knowledge       transfer programmes brought together the complementary expertise of the       Strathclyde chemists (Pethrick, Liggat) and chemical engineers (Schaschke)       with technologists at Carron Phoenix Ltd (Dennis, Hunter, Mackintosh).
The       main engineering focus was to ensure that the prior chemistry findings       could be fully translated and scaled-up as an industrial production       process that delivered a consistent high quality product.
Nature of the Impact:     Improved manufacturing process     The KTP projects consolidated the findings of the preliminary research by       providing a full evaluation of the chemical processing practices as well       as material and energy audits.
From a detailed understanding of the       mixing, reaction characterization, heat and flow properties, a radically       new approach was devised for all aspects of the process operation,       including the reallocation of labour, reduced process times, increased       mould tool usage and major capital investment in automation (Source A).
Process acceleration and automation created new challenges in terms of       control of the flow behaviour of the composite sink formulation during the       final curing step.
In particular, more rapid heating rates led to greater       sedimentation of the fillers resulting in product defects.
Detailed and       extensive chemical and processing studies were required in terms of       formulation, cure characteristics, flow and thermal properties of the       nanoclay materials.
This provided the necessary platform for the       development of a completely new process with the successful commercial       production of high-end designer synthetic kitchen sinks sold worldwide.
The research enabled the team to identify a suitable type and       concentration of nanoclay filler and rheology modifier to allow control of       a) the mixing and distribution of materials, b) the effective transfer of       the mix, and c) heating and curing rate, to produce synthetic sinks free       from warpage and surface blemishes and thus reduce wastage from spoiled       products.
Prior to this project, it had been necessary to re-work moulded       kitchen sinks in such a way as to avoid warpage and product spoilage.
The       company is forthright in its acknowledgement of the criticality of the new       formulation: "The nanoclay influenced the processability significantly         and enabled us to introduce the new process technology with its         significant savings.
No nanoclay - no new process at that time, it is as         "simple" as that", (Source B, Head of R&amp;D, Carron Phoenix/Franke       PL Colour).
Production efficiency and cost savings     The implementation of the changes to the process enabled by the new       nanocomposite formulation resulted directly in considerable production       efficiency gains through the reduction of raw materials wastage, the       reduction in manufacturing time and the significant reduction of landfill       costs of failed and out-of-spec products.
These savings alone amounted to       in excess of &#163;1 M annually, significantly in excess of the 25% target       defined for the project.
Franke's Sustainability Report 2011 notes that:     "Our production processes mainly use electricity and natural gas.
We         have experienced that the combination of process and technological         improvements result in major energy savings....In Falkirk, United         Kingdom, the energy required for the moulding of granite composite could         be reduced by 20 % per annum with an innovative process called "Rapid         Energy Distribution" (Source C p.19).
Competitive advantage to the company     By creating superior, high quality products and reducing production       costs, the research outcomes from this project have enabled the company to       maintain its international business and market share in the higher-end       designer kitchen sinks.
The company has been able to use these efficiency       savings to sustain its drive to maintain the economic viability of the       Falkirk site relative to other competitive options.
In 2010, Franke the       parent company, subsequently established Carron Phoenix in Falkirk as the       Group Competence Centre for composite sink technology, due in part to the       strong research and development brought about by the incorporation of       nano-composite technology.
This has secured both major employment for 170       workers in the composite sink division at the Falkirk site and retained       the associated supply chain infrastructure supporting further employment       locally and nationally (Source D).
Investment     The successful research outcomes from this project were further supported       by internal company investments securing significant investment in new       automated production facilities with a capital investment of approximately       &#163;4 million.
These were installed in 2008 and 2009 to incorporate the new       nanocomposite technology with the production and sale of over one million       kitchen sinks by Carron Phoenix.
This resulted in generating income in       excess of &#163;50M for the company as well as generating support for the       associated supply chain involved and contributing to the UK economy       generally.
Ongoing collaboration     The Carron Phoenix company remains in regular contact with researchers at       Strathclyde, using facilities such as the Advanced Materials Research       Laboratory.
Schaschke and Liggat provide training courses on polymer       chemistry and process technology for company staff.
Skilled researchers       from the University have transferred to posts in the industry; a PhD       graduate from the Liggat research group, and an MEng graduate from       Chemical &amp; Process Engineering have been employed by Carron Phoenix       since 2012.
