     Process from research to impact: The research undertaken at the       University of Strathclyde between June 2003 and June 2008 was conducted in       close collaboration with Scottish &amp; Southern Energy Power Distribution       (SSEPD).
As research results generated from 2005 until 2008 started to       look promising and the proposed Active Network Management technology       looked viable, discussion turned towards implementation in the Orkney       network as a technology trial.
The main focus of the activity under the       two follow-on contracts (April 2006 - June 2008, [Refs 6-7] involved       knowledge exchange into SSEPD, into SSEPD's contractors for the trial       deployment, and into the patents drafted and submitted in 2008 [Refs 3 and       4].
On the basis of the research, SSEPD took the decision that a viable       alternative to network reinforcement (through an additional subsea cable       to connect Orkney to the mainland) was available, with considerable cost       savings as outlined below.
Types of Impact: The following impacts arose from the       collaborative programme of research.
Commercially successful spin out created: As SSEPD explored how to       support the deployment of ANM on Orkney and elsewhere, discussions around       commercial spin-out from the University of Strathclyde began and quickly       developed into a proposal approved by the university and external       investors (Scottish &amp; Southern Energy Venture Capital and the Scottish       Co-Investment Fund managed by the regional development agency Scottish       Enterprise).
Smarter Grid Solutions Ltd was incorporated in June 2008 and       spun out from the university on an arm's length basis in September 2008.
The spin-out process enabled a focus on industry needs to deliver ANM       technology on a fully supported commercial basis.
Smarter Grid Solutions       Ltd. has grown substantially since formation in 2008 with total revenues       to the end of March 2013 standing at &#163;6.1M from projects with UK and       European power network operators.
These revenues are based on the core ANM       technology researched and developed at the University of Strathclyde.
Smarter Grid Solutions Ltd. employs 35 FTE staff (at May 2013) and       supports several companies in the UK and overseas on smart grid       investment, trial and roll-out.
The company has received equity investment       totalling &#163;3.5M to 2013.
[Source A supports all claims related to Smarter       Grid Solutions.]
New technology adopted: From 2009, SSEPD started connecting       additional wind generation to the Orkney power system under the ANM       scheme.
Until that point the network had effectively been closed to new       generation connections due to network thermal capacity constraints and       this has been resolved through application of the ANM solution delivered       by Smarter Grid Solutions Ltd.
Cost savings to Scottish and Southern Energy: The deployment of       ANM technology on the Orkney power network in 2009 has resulted in power       network reinforcement deferral savings of &#163;30M from an avoided additional       sub-sea power cable from mainland Scotland to Orkney [Source B].
Costs and customer benefits: As highlighted within the UK Power       Networks Business Plan [Source F], significant savings have been produced       following a trial of the Flexible Plug and Play Network (FPP) which       utilised the ANM method resulting in an average saving of 87% covering six       wind farms.
Economies of scale have reduced the costs of the ANM system       and telecommunications platform for the FPP project to about &#163;2 million.
Power generation: The deployment of ANM technology on the Orkney       power system has led to the connection of 18 additional wind farm       developments with 25.91MW aggregate capacity on the Orkney power network       between 2009 and 2013.
There are carbon reduction and local, social and       economic benefits from the development of these additional renewable       generation schemes, and wind farms connected to Orkney gained earlier and       cheaper access to the power system through the deployment of ANM       technology [Source C].
Changes to investment strategy of UK network operators: The       research and subsequent commercial deployment of ANM technology has       provided new power system investment options for the UK distribution       network operators and these have fed through into their 8-year investment       plans being published in 2013 [Source E and F].
Smarter Grid Solutions       Ltd. has been at the forefront of advising UK power companies on ANM       technology and this impact on design and investment policy is a direct       result of the research.
In the UK, the impact of successful deployment of       ANM technology on Orkney has given confidence to power companies to invest       in further deployments of this technology under innovation funding (i.e.
Low Carbon Network Fund) and to include ANM technology in their investment       plans for the period 2015-2023 under the RIIO price control mechanism       [Source D].
The ANM technology (being promoted by Smarter Grid Solutions       Ltd.) has been the focus of industry wide assessment in the Ofgem/DECC       Smart Grid Forum Workstream 3 modelling activities in 2012/13, and has       been the focus of business planning activities with all 6 of the UK       Distribution Network Operator companies (i.e.
Scottish &amp; Southern       Energy Power Distribution, Scottish Power Energy Networks, Western Power       Distribution, UK Power Networks, Northern Power Grid, and Electricity       North West).
Wider adoption: By July 2013, Smarter Grid Solutions Ltd. was in       advanced stages of discussion relating to feasibility assessment and       deployment with clients in the EU, US and Asia Pacific.
Smarter Grid       Solutions personnel have presented training and knowledge exchange       workshops, training session and tutorials for international recipients at       trade exhibitions, and workshop events and company seminars in the EU, US       and Asia Pacific.
The impacts described above indicate the financial, economic, employment,       and design benefits that have resulted from the research into ANM       technology at the University of Strathclyde.
Furthermore, the success of       the technology is now informing long term strategy and investment plans of       the UK distribution network operators.
