     Process from research to impact: The vehicle for policy change has       been Shipton's membership of the Royal Society and Royal Academy of       Engineering working group on Shale gas extraction in the UK (Feb 2012 to       present) and Lunn's membership of the UK Government Committee for       Radioactive Waste Management (CoRWM) (2008-present).
The UK Government's Chief Scientific Adviser asked the Royal Society and       the Royal Academy of Engineering to carry out an "independent review of       the scientific and engineering evidence relating to the technical aspects       of the risks associated with hydraulic fracturing" to inform UK government       on shale gas extraction.
Prof Shipton was recommended for the joint       academies working group by Prof Boulton, the leader of the Royal Society's       policy advice group, based predominantly on research track-record [Source       A].
The working group terms of reference were: What are the major risks       associated with hydraulic fracturing as a means to extract shale gas in       the UK, including geological risks, such as seismicity, and environmental       risks, such as groundwater contamination?
Can these risks be effectively       managed?
If so, how?
The working group first met to review the scientific       and engineering evidence in February 2012 and their report, Shale gas         extraction in the UK: a review of hydraulic fracturing, published in       June 2012 [Source B], includes explicit recommendations originating from       Lunn and Shipton's research, addressing (a) the need for careful site       characterisation (ref.
1), (b) data pooling (refs.
2 and 3), (c) the need       for detailed in situ stress characterisation (refs.
5 and 6), and       (d) microseismic monitoring (ref.
4).
The report was launched at a media       briefing and Prof Shipton (one of 4 working group members to act as media       representatives) was quoted extensively in the national press, Radio 4 and       the World Service.
Shipton has since participated in other media events       and a briefing for MPs at the House of Commons (July 2013).
The working       group continue to be consulted nationally and internationally (e.g.
Chinese delegation to the UK in July).
The working group were invited to       meet with DECC on 14/6/13, where Shipton presented a policy brief on       "Reducing geological uncertainties related to fracking".
Shipton led a       workshop for Scottish Government Energy Team (May 2012) on unconventional       gas, presenting results of the Joint Academies report and the reasons for       the large variation in estimates in UK and global reserves (geological       uncertainty being a big factor).
As a result of this workshop the Energy       Team convened a Scottish Government Expert Scientific Group on       Unconventional Oil and Gas in June 2013, of which Shipton is now a member.
Shipton was also an expert reviewer of the New Zealand Government's       guidelines on Guidelines on Hydraulic Fracturing and Related Activities       for Oil and Gas Development (July 2013).
Types of Impact: The immediate benefit of the research is on the       UK government in terms of regulations and policies relating to exploration       for shale gas and to the disposal of radioactive waste.
The longer term       impact will be on the UK public in terms of energy supply/security, and to       energy companies.
Lifting the fracking embargo &#8212; new policy and regulations.
In December 2012, the Energy and Climate Change Secretary announced that,       after reviewing the evidence in the report, exploratory drilling for shale       gas could resume in the UK, subject to new controls to mitigate the risks       of seismic activity [Sources C and D].
In July 2013, DECC published the       guidance document "About shale gas and hydraulic fracturing (fracking)"       [Source E].
To gain a frack consent, DECC now requires operators to       develop a Hydraulic Fracturing Programme (HFP), a detailed risk assessment       describing the "control and mitigation measures for fracture containment       and for any potential induced seismicity".
An HFP requires operators to       conduct detailed geological modelling to delineate any faults in the area       of a well to be fracked, characterise the local stress fields, and monitor       for small seismic events on those (or any unidentified) faults.
"Guidelines for UK Well Operators on Onshore Shale Gas Wells" [Source F]       published by the newly formed UK Onshore Operators Group contains details       of the HFP and emphasises that "Operators should not overlook the       potential presence of faults that cannot be detected given the limits of       seismic reflection surveys."
The UK is the only country so far to have       plans to regulate induced seismicity.
The EU is currently looking into       shale gas regulation, with the UK's approach considered best practice.
Economic impact &#8212; gas exploration.
Multi-&#163;M investment,       investigation and development of fracking for shale gas in the UK was only       made possible by the lifting of the embargo arising, in part, from the       Strathclyde research.
Since the lifting of the embargo in 2012, UK shale       gas exploration has resumed, with "around 10 companies at       present...looking at drilling 20 to 40 wells before 2015" (Ken Cronin,       UKOOG chief executive, 2/5/13).
This exploratory drilling is essential for       operators to make informed licence applications to UK's 14th       onshore licencing round in 2014.
Lord Browne, Chairman of Cuadrilla told       the Guardian (12/3/13) that his company intended to invest billions of       pounds over 10 years in UK shale gas.
Duarte Figuera, the head of the       newly formed DECC Office of Unconventional Gas and Oil has suggested that       several &#163;100M will be spent by operators in the UK 14th round       even if no reserves are proved (ESGOS conference, 20/9/2013).
Benefits to the consumer.
Although the plummeting gas price seen       in the US is unlikely to be replicated in the UK due to differences in the       mineral rights and licencing regulations, there are significant energy       security benefits to the UK in prolonging its supply of indigenous gas.
A       report by the Institute of Directors said that shale gas could supply up       to 1/3 of peak gas by 2030, could lower net imports by &#163;8Bn, bring in an       investment of &#163;3.7Bn and support over 70,000 jobs.
Shale gas is a labour       intensive industry and requires jobs across the supply chain, therefore UK       shale gas extraction will impact contractors, and create local jobs.
The       Energy and Climate Change Committee has said "While it is difficult to say       with any accuracy how many jobs a successful UK shale gas industry would       create, estimates range from the thousands to the tens of thousands"       [Source G].
Public debate and understanding.
Publication of the Joint       Academies report, and subsequent media coverage, has stimulated public       debate and has helped to allay public fears about the risk of seismicity.
There has been a key shift in the in focus of the "anti" debate away from       earthquake risk and water contamination towards the climate change risks       (e.g.
interview with Caroline Lucas MP Radio 4 Today Programme 20/8/13):       this represents a real result for evidence-based policy.
Lifting the       fracking embargo has sent a positive message globally about the relative       magnitudes of risks associated with shale gas.
UK radioactive waste disposal &#8212; policy change.
The same underlying       research that informed and generated shale gas policy has resulted in       substantial changes to the siting policy for UK radioactive waste       disposal.
Policy change has been influenced through Prof Lunn's membership       of the UK Government Committee for Radioactive Waste Management (CoRWM)       (2008-present) [source H].
CoRWM provides independent scrutiny and advice       to Ministers on radioactive waste management and disposal.
Development of       a new policy began in February 2013, as a consequence of West Cumbria       withdrawing from the previous siting process.
CoRWM's policy advice       (16/4/2013), the geological aspects of which were led by Prof Lunn, has       resulted in a new approach to consideration of geological uncertainty;       geological information will be considered earlier and uncertainty will be       presented explicitly [Source I].
This will increase the chances of       successfully siting a UK geological disposal facility (GDF) for higher       activity radioactive waste; a policy outcome to which the UK government is       committed (Managing Radioactive Waste Safely White Paper) and without       which, planning permission cannot be granted for new-build nuclear power.
Greenpeace lodged an application for judicial review of the new nuclear       reactor at Hinkley Point C in May 2012, on the premise that planning       permission should not have been granted without having a credible policy       in place for dealing with radioactive waste.
If successful, this       application would have halted the UK's entire Nuclear New Build Programme.
Greenpeace eventually withdrew their application on 27/10/13, because the       launch of the Government's proposed new siting process provided a credible       way forward for dealing with nuclear waste [Source J].
