     Lee's practice impacts community participants, arts practitioners,       audiences and the community       dance profession.
Lee fosters an environment of mindful attention and       group creativity to empower       participants to develop work on issues that are important to them.
Participants include therapeutic,       inter-generational and inclusive groups, who experience a humane approach       to dance practice,       and take the qualities of mindful listening and touch into their lives.
Nature and extent of the impact     For participant dancers:     Feedback from participants says that Lee's work significantly impacts       their lives and work, because       of her use of care and attention with inclusive and intergenerational       participants.
The influence of       her work on individuals is evident in their responses and the communities       of interest built through       engagement with Lee's work.
A few of her participants have gone into dance       training, some have       danced in other intergenerational dance projects, and an 84-year-old       participant has gone on to get       a gold medal in ballroom dancing.
A Skinner Release Technique practitioner       says that as a young       mother at the time that she participated in Common Dance,       she felt listened to by Lee.
She says       that Lee works with people from diverse races, genders, class and       nationalities, and her close       attention to people and their childhood memories, helps diverse groups       find common ground and is       a path-breaking method for community arts practice.
A medical General       Practitioner finds that       Lee's `incredibly generous' work helps participants move through creative       blocks, deal with grief,       and in his work, helps him negotiate the use of touch with patients.
Participants stay in touch on       active Facebook pages and Lee says that for new pieces, she can readily       access participants from       those lists.
On arts practice:     Inclusive dance practice and site-specific work benefit from Lee's       processes through international       workshops and mentoring, and wide dissemination of work.
As the       retired-director of the       Foundation for Community Dance, Ken Bartlett, says, the work differs from       the tradition of a       choreographer/director working with trained dancers who follow       instructions for a set piece, and       uses mindful group work that empowers community participants.
Resulting       DVD, papers,       symposium, workshops and performances allow other practitioners to learn       from her approach and       undertake inclusive work.
Dr. Martin Whelton, a Senior Lecturer in Theatre       and Performance at       Queen Mary, says that Lee has developed a new practice-as-research       methodology that allows for       an accounting of arts work.
Lee is invited to teach workshops and courses internationally.
These       invites are evidence of her       international reputation and show further routes to impact.
On 24-27 July,       2012, Lee led an       International Summer School for the Foundation for Community Dance, De       Montfort University,       attended by seven artists and led a choreography session for three other       Summer School groups.
Feedback reveals that course participants found Lee's sessions inspiring,       especially her way of       working with trained and non-trained dancers, and her sharing of values       for participatory practice.
In 2012, Lee gave a talk for British Dance Edition at three venues to       international promoters, on       site-specific work for a 100 people; a talk for 20 post-graduate students       at The Place on engaging       the audience; a workshop for choreographers at The Place on working in       education; with artsadmin       she hosted a Columbian dance company with members from disadvantaged       backgrounds; a       workshop for community participants at Chisenhale Dance Space; a guest       workshop at Norfolk       Dance; a workshop at Brighton SEDAnce on working outdoors; a workshop for       young graduates at       Independent Dance; and a summer school on community arts in Tampere,       Finland for 70 people.
In 2011, Lee led a seminar on creative reflection called `Collaborate       Evaluate Create' for the       Foundation for Community Dance at Yorkshire Dance, for 20 participants.
In       2010, she presented       a talk about her process to the Office of Social Inclusion and Culture,       developed works, including       one commissioned by Crossover Dance, Oxford, for 12 intergenerational       performers, and for       parents and children for Bloomsbury Festival.
In 2009, she led a workshop       for the FCD conference       in Glasgow; a seminar at The Place for choreographers working with young       people; workshops       with Plymouth University dance students on participatory practice, with a       master class for local       artists; a conference presentation on intergenerational work by Bubble       Theatre; a workshop with       Suffolk artists, on sensory experience of the natural environment and the       somatic experiences of       the dancer; a sharing of her process with artists at Crossing Borders,       Independent Dance; a talk on       the process of making collaborative work to artists from Beijing at       Middlesex University; and she       worked as choreographer in residence in Limassol, Cyprus, where she       developed a site-specific       work.
On audiences:     The Artistic Director of Dance Umbrella, Betsy Gregory, says that Lee's       work has a significant       impact on people who watch it, leaving audience members incredibly moved       and often in tears.
She says that the biggest contribution that Lee makes is that even though       her work is inclusive and       participatory, and includes dancers and non-dancers from the community,       Lee never loses sight of       artistic goals and makes work of the highest artistic quality.
Audiences       see work that is       participatory and inter-generational, and based on real, everyday and very       humane themes.
Feedback from audiences in comments books is overwhelmingly positive.
Audience members       comment on how moving it is to watch Lee's work, how effortlessly she       carries out inter-       generational work, how connected the participants seem, and how much care       goes into the work.
Martin Green, Head of Ceremonies at the London 2012 Olympics and       Para-Olympics said in a       comments book that he has never seen participatory and cross-generational       work that is so       effortless and powerful.
Professor Theresa Buckland found the piece       `genuinely moving,' while a       researcher from Wales Louise Ritchie found it uplifting.
In an evaluation       carried out for Square           Dances, participants said that the experience was enabling,       empowering, moving, memorable and       inspirational.
Collectively the commentaries present evidence of impact that is both       highly personal - evoking       change for individuals' sense of themselves and of others: and highly       influential - promoting new       forms of best professional arts practice in inclusive, inter-generational       dance.
