     Process/Events from Research to Impact:     The original research team developing STAR consisted of Dr Switzer (lead       experimental PDRA) and Dr Rein (computational PDRA) at the University of       Edinburgh under the direction of Dr Gerhard (PI), Prof Torero (Co-I).
All       researchers moved to other institutions beginning with Dr Gerhard's       departure to University of Western Ontario in 2007.
Dr Switzer, Dr       Gerhard, and Prof. Torero agreed research licences with the University of       Edinburgh to continue research on STAR.
In 2009, Dr Switzer joined the       University of Strathclyde and continued her research to develop the       engineered system.
This was first achieved at 3m3 scale [4] and       then during in situ and ex situ field studies [Source B].
After 2009 Dr Switzer supervised Ph.D researchers with Prof. Tarantino       focussing on scale-up of the STAR process (Robson) and geotechnical and       geochemical properties of the resulting soils (Zihms), which industrial       site owners and other clients have said are key issues.
Smouldering remediation technology is delivered commercially as       Self-sustaining Treatment for Active Remediation (STAR) by SiREM, a       division of Geosyntec Consultants, Inc., which is a multi-national       environmental consultancy that employs 1000+ individuals [Source A].
SiREM       was founded in 2002 with the mission of bringing to market unique,       science-based products and solutions in support of groundwater       remediation.
Types of Impact from the adoption of new technology:     Economic benefits: In 2010, STAR was officially launched within       SiREM as a side project of one Geosyntec employee.
In 2012, the first full       time STAR employees were appointed.
Since that time, STAR has grown to be       a department (January 2013) with 5 employees working full time and varying       numbers of other employees part time as needed on STAR projects.
[text       removed for publication] SiREM has formed strategic partnerships with two       large, international Fortune 500 companies (who have asked not to be       named).
Stage 1 remediations with STAR have been carried out on       contaminated materials from the USA, Canada, Australia, and Europe.
STAR       projects have been highly profitable for Geosyntec, given them access to       new clients, and increased revenue to other parts of the company [Source       A].
A major international manufacturing company commissioned the first in       situ Stage 1 implementation of STAR at the site of a former creosol       manufacturing facility in the USA in 2009.
Dr Switzer provided extensive       consultancy support during all stages of the remediation, including advice       on planning and design of initial tests; experimentation at Strathclyde to       develop the ignition protocol for in situ ignition; on site support during       initial tests; monitoring and data analysis during the tests; and further       analysis and interpretation after the tests [Source C].
During her time on       site and afterwards, Dr Switzer trained SiREM personnel how to run STAR       and interpret field data.
Based on the success of these initial tests, the       client commissioned the design of the full Stage 2 system for       implementation in 2014 to enable redevelopment of the site in 2016.
[text       removed for publication] This client demonstrated their commitment to       implementing STAR by terminating the lease with the existing site tenant       (waiving additional income) and clearing the site for remediation.
The       Stage 1 remediation was published as a Project Spotlight [Source D] and       has been presented at major remediation conferences around the world since       2010.
SiREM agreed a second strategic partnership with a Fortune 500 oil and       gas company to commission a prototype ex situ reactor and a series of       tests on its waste materials [text removed for publication] which it paid       to ship from Australia to Canada.
The design of this reactor was directly       influenced by research [Refs 1,2,4].
Dr Switzer provided consultancy in       the form of guidance during the design of the reactor, planning of initial       tests, and interpretation of data after the tests.
Environmental impacts: STAR provides significant environmental       improvements to sites contaminated with heavy hydrocarbons.
In both of the       cases outlined previously, STAR was the only viable option for       remediation.
STAR destroys 99.9+% of contaminant mass in place in the soil       whereas competing technologies recover some of this mass and require its       disposal as hazardous waste.
STAR returns visibly cleaned soil that is       suitable for reuse [Reference 3 and Source A].
Sustainability analysis by       SiREM in year, for the client who commissioned the first in situ Stage 1       test of STAR, showed that remediation with STAR provided significant       reduction in lifecycle carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions relative to their       expensive dig and dump alternative because STAR generated most of its own       energy for remediation.
Analysis of greenhouse gas emissions in tonnes of       equivalent CO2 emissions (eCO2) showed STAR would emit less       than 10% of other potential remediation approaches: 4,400 eCO2       from STAR compared to 41,000 eCO2 for low temperature thermal desorption       and 46,000 for excavation and disposal.
This analysis, which was based on       the Stage 1 remediation supported by Switzer, created further value to the       client who wanted to maintain their corporate reputation for       sustainability alongside their commitment to remediate the site.
Practitioners and Professional Services: Dr Switzer tested field       hardware (2009) and provided field trial support on site (2009-11),       directly supporting field operations, interpreting critical process data,       and effectively training SiREM employees on the job for in situ and ex       situ Stage 1 tests.
She provided further support remotely through       conference calls, emails, and file sharing (monthly or more frequent       engagement, (2009-present).
Her interpretations were based on experience       gained during the research, particularly scale-up and emissions       interpretation [1,4].
The United States Environmental Protection Agency       (USEPA) began including STAR in their training materials for remediation       practitioners in 2012 [Source E].
USEPA is the main environmental       regulator in the USA and the precedents that it sets have global       implications for the uptake of STAR technology, as it meets these widely       accepted standards.
USEPA has conducted independent evaluations       (2012-2013) of the technology and continues to advocate for STAR to USEPA       project managers [Source A].
Reach and Significance:     SiREM and Geosyntec [text removed for publication] benefitted from the       development of highly-skilled employees, and increased the potential to       gain access to new sites and commercial clients.
SiREM's clients are       supporting the development of STAR because they see benefits from early       access to this remediation technology, substantial cost savings, carbon       footprint reduction, and reduction of their environmental liabilities.
In       many cases, STAR will be the only viable remediation option for their       contaminated soil or waste.
In three years of commercial activity, SiREM       has formed strategic development partnerships with two major international       Fortune 500 companies, each with unique waste management needs.
Their       investment activity has been key to demonstrate STAR in Stage 1 tests in       both in situ and ex situ settings for contamination issues       of worldwide relevance.
One client has requested that Geosyntec develop a       full-scale design of in situ remediation and that the potential       application be staged to allow further evaluation of STAR to meet their       remedial objectives.
The USEPA now includes STAR in its training materials       [Source E].
Further, rapid escalation of STAR is expected to follow these       significant, initial developments.
