     Process/Events from Research to Impact: The underpinning research       identified specific areas, e.g.
water, sanitation, hygiene practices, and       community health activity, where implementation of controls and       interventions could have direct impact on disease prevalence and mortality       in the communities of Chikhwawa.
The research produced a body of evidence       strong enough to elicit funding from the Scottish Government through their       International Development Fund, which allowed Drs Morse and Grimason to       set up the Scottish Chikhwawa Health Initiative (SCHI) in 2006 [Source A].
Dr Morse has been the programme manager since inception, with funding now       amounting to over &#163;0.5M (2006-2013).
Working with Ministry of Health,       Chikhwawa District Health Office and the University of Malawi, SCHI       implemented a programme of interventions designed to reduce mortality and       morbidity in the target communities.
This included provision of clean       water at source and household level, supporting the construction of       improved latrines, improving health facilities and access to such       facilities, training of Health Surveillance Assistants (HSAs) and       voluntary community members who form village health committees, and water       point committees to build capacity for sustainable change at community       level.
Subsequent funding (2009 - 2013) has been used to implement       maternal health programmes using the same principles and interventions,       and has enabled expansion from the original 4 communities to over 150.
The SCHI programme approached the issue of diarrhoeal disease in a       holistic manner addressing community health education, health access,       capital investment, capacity building in government health workers and       community based volunteers, and access to effective interventions, e.g.
dose chlorination of water at household level.
This combined approach       aimed to achieve sustained behaviour change.
The pilot communities were       also developed as model populations, which were the basis for peer       education and dissemination for their surrounding area.
Improvement in monitoring of health and reduction in disease: An       overall reduction in diarrhoeal disease of 30% was achieved across the       target communities (ranging from 20-35% from baseline data) during the       first funding cycle (2006-09).
This was due to a combination of       improvements including a 20% increase in latrine coverage, 25% increase in       improved latrine coverage, 100% increase in access to integrated       management of childhood illness (including diarrhoeal disease prevention       and treatment) at community level, 75% increase in access to growth       monitoring and immunisation programmes at community level.
These       interventions were supported through capacity building of health workers       and community volunteers, as well as specific infrastructural improvements       [Sources A,B,H].
SCHI has also worked with a sister programme in Chikhwawa       on renewable energy (Community Renewable Energy Development) which has       allowed the provision of solar refrigerator units within health posts and       therefore continuous access to vaccinations integral to diarrhoeal disease       control [Source F].
Provision of training to health staff: One of the key investments       of SCHI has been capacity building among government health staff (Health       Surveillance Assistants, medical assistants, Environmental Health Officers       and nurses).
Health Surveillance Assistants (HSAs) are resident within       communities and are responsible for community health access at health       posts and clinics, health surveillance, water and sanitation development,       and health education.
Their positive impact can be utilised through       increasing numbers of and empowering HSAs with knowledge to effectively       disseminate information about disease and mechanisms of spread, and the       ability to provide basic health services at community level.
SCHI provided       training on integrated management of childhood illnesses including       diarrhoeal disease, HIV testing and counselling, and growth monitoring to       all HSAs in the catchment area, 23 in total.
To allow HSAs to conduct       their activities effectively requires them to be resident within their       catchment area and have access to affordable transport.
SCHI has provided       20 bicycles, and 3 houses to support HSA activities, and this led to an       increase in the satisfaction level of communities in their health access       and support [Source F]; communities without an HSA have been shown to be       less knowledgeable about causes, symptoms and prevention of diarrhoeal       disease [Source C].
This training was supported by the construction and       refurbishment of 4 health posts to provide a basis for services and were       provided with solar refrigeration units and lighting.
23 bicycle       ambulances have also been provided at strategic points within the       catchment villages to enhance emergency transportation cover.
Turnover of       health staff in Chikhwawa is high due to the remote location in one of the       hottest parts of the country and therefore staff retention is a key       objective; capacity building is only beneficial where staff knowledge can       be retained.
To aid retention at health centre and hospital level, the       SCHI has improved infrastructure through construction of further housing       and facilities, e.g.
a senior staff house, 3 nurses houses and an 18 bed       nutrition rehabilitation unit with associated offices and teaching area       [Source F].
Environmental Impacts: In relation to areas such as water and       sanitation, the SCHI has provided two new wells, repaired non-functioning       wells and upgraded 17 others.
A key issue in water quality is post       collection contamination.
To reduce the risk of disease transmission via       this route, chlorine can be added to household storage containers.
The       programme has been involved in distributing 8748 bottles of chlorine       tables per year which treats 8.7 million litres of water.
To ensure       sustainability of water sources, community committees received training on       maintenance, health education, revolving fund management and community       participation [Source F].
Through community engagement and voluntary       committees, the programme has introduced simple ecological sanitation       technologies and increased pit latrine ownership from 39% to 59%; this was       supported by health education on the need for effective hand washing.
Public Policy Impacts: Due to in-country expertise and       underpinning research, Dr Morse was invited by PATH (Program for       Appropriate Technology in Health), an International NGO, and funded       through Gates Foundation Funding, to assess current programmes and       challenges for diarrhoeal control in Malawi [Source D].
The final report       "Towards an Integrated Approach to Diarrhoeal Disease Control in Malawi"       [Source E] put forward recommendations on reducing diarrhoeal disease       burden in Malawi, and is now being used as the basis for the development       of a national diarrhoeal disease control policy by the Malawian       Government.
Acknowledging the challenge a high burden of       preventable/treatable disease and limited health service brings to Malawi,       the Government instigated a 5 year Health Research Capacity Strengthening       Initiative (HRCSI), co-ordinated by the National Commission for Science       and Technology (NCST), with the aim of promoting multidisciplinary health       research; one of the milestones of the HRCSI was the development of       National Health Research Agenda, a policy document setting national       research priorities for 2011-2016 [Source B].
To address national       limitations in Environmental Health provision, the NCST approached Dr       Morse to undertake a gap analysis of Environmental Health research needs,       with the goal of recommending research priorities and an effective action       plan to address the gaps; research priority areas highlighted include       water and sanitation, disease surveillance and response, health promotion       and education.
The Gap Analysis (2012) has been incorporated into the       National Health Research Agenda [Source G].
Reach and Significance: The SCHI was initially designed for       implementation in 4 villages, covering a population of about 5700.
Continuation of the initial programme through subsequent funding       (2009-2010, 2010-2013) resulted in implementation in over 150 communities,       covering a population of over 110,000.
The SCHI has been highlighted       during review of the Scottish Government International Development Funding       as representing a good example of best practice "in terms of         partnership working, applying technical knowledge in a practical manner         at community level and in terms of working with communities and         listening to beneficiaries at community level to ensure that planned         activities are meeting local needs and with regard to ongoing feedback         for planning future activities" [Source A] The health impact       resulting for the SCHI is significant; the work is life saving through       implementation of health interventions designed to reduce morbidity and       mortality, and improve the standard of living and quality of life of       communities in rural Malawi.
