     Process/events from research to Impact:       As a consequence of media attention from Reference 1, Professor Cunningham       was contacted in       2006 by Mike Short, Unison's National Organiser for the Voluntary Sector       to undertake the       research on workforce insecurity in the sector.
The research was       successfully completed and       disseminated to the national organiser, the union's executive, and       Unison's Community and       Voluntary Sector national and regional conferences.
Unison subsequently       used the findings to       inform internal deliberations and external campaigning relating to the       sector.
Description of Impact:       The above research has led to three forms of impact:     1.
Impact on public policy, law and services &#8212; specifically, the       `policy debate' has been       stimulated or informed by research evidence leading to a change in policy       direction.
2.
Impacts on practitioners and professional services &#8212;       stimulated practitioner debate and       changed policy.
3.
Organisational Impacts - changed approach to management of       resources resulting in       improved service delivery to union members and aided dispute resolution       between       employers and unions.
Research on workforce insecurity in the VSSC       Recommendations from the workforce insecurity project were adopted by       Unison.
The research       stimulated practitioner (union) debate by enabling Unison to develop a       comprehensive `state of       play' in the sector, which from 2008 onwards helped them in becoming more       in tune with the       realities that workers faced in the sector.
This led to recruitment       efforts better reflecting those       realities and in turn increasing membership.
Indeed the research has been       described as a `major       factor' in this increase in membership (Source 1).
The research also had       significant organisational       impact as in 2009 the wider union at Unison realised that VSSC members       deserved their own       `service group' &#8212; the union's term for key industrial sectors.
A service       group for Unison's VSSC       members was created, giving them parity with the union's membership groups       in health, local       government, and higher education.
According to the Senior National Officer       (Source 1), the       Strathclyde research `played a role in kick-starting the debate that         led to this structural change,         leading to a more equal voice for voluntary sector members in the union'.
Research on re-tendering       The report for the research on re-tendering was launched in 2009 in       Edinburgh, by Cunningham       and Nickson to an audience of over 80 policymakers and practitioners,       including several members       of the Scottish Parliament.
The research on re-tendering has been credited       by sector-level policy-makers       as influencing the conduct of subsequent re-tendering exercises and was       highly praised in       an evaluation of VSSWU's work.
Specifically, it was noted with regard to       the research on re-tendering       that the report stimulated policy debate as it `provides a clear         evidence base on the         impact of the retendering process, and spells out implications which         need to be addressed by the         sector' (Source 2).
This contribution to the policy debate is also credited by CCPS for       making a significant contribution       to the weight of evidence it put forward to decision makers, resulting in       further impact by prompting       significant changes to procurement practice and policy.
As a result of       these endeavours, the       Director of CCPS, reports a `demonstrable shift in procurement         practice away from the wholesale         re-tendering of care and support services, which resulted in major         upheavals to workforce planning         and development due to large-scale TUPE transfers between providers, and         towards the use of         framework agreements which offer employers (and commissioners) much more         potential with         regard to achieving workforce stability and the avoidance both of the         "casualization" of the social         care workforce and of the "race to the bottom" in pay, terms and         conditions that were highlighted         by the research' (Source 2).
Further evidence of influencing debate and policy is found in relation to       how the research has       proved to be very influential in persuading the Scottish Government in       initiating a programme of       work that led to the formal publication of specific guidance on social       care procurement (Source 5).
The guidance document cites Cunningham and Nickson's research report.
Based on the evidence       from the research, the document recognises that `frequent re-tendering         can have adverse         implications for staff morale and conditions of service and can lead to         the loss of highly motivated         staff'.
It goes on to suggest `decisions about contract duration         should also include consideration of         the need for a stable and developing workforce in social care' (see       page 65 of Source 5)     The impact of the guidance document on the conduct of procurement policy       is significant, the       Director of CCPS states, `until its development was announced, social         care procurement practice         was, in our view, extremely damaging, not least its impact on the         workforce, which the research set         out to document.
As a direct result of the project to produce guidance,         many local authorities put         their procurement plans on hold, as a result of which the number and         pace of workforce transfers         slowed rapidly and employers were able to achieve much more stability'       (Source 2).
Moreover,       CCPS reports that through the dissemination of the research findings in       the parliament, there is       now a consultation on procurement reform which asks specific questions       about the scope for       workforce Terms &amp; Conditions and the Living Wage to be addressed in       procurement practice       (Source 2).
The work on retendering in the VSSC also led to the findings from the       research being put forward       for debate through a Motion in the Scottish Parliament by Jackie Baillie,       MSP (Source 6).
The       report was also circulated amongst members of the Scottish Government's       Local Government and       Communities Committee.
Research on impact of budget cuts on employment conditions in the VSSC     The work undertaken on terms and conditions of employment by Cunningham has     also led to three     key note addresses with employers and trade unions, including the Executive     of CCPS (Dundee,     2011), and a joint forum of employers and officials from UNITE and the     Scottish Trades Union     Congress (Edinburgh, 2011).
Further evidence of organisational impact is in     the area of     contributing to effective dispute resolution.
The 2011 report on terms and     conditions of employment     and its recommendations were accepted by both sides of the employment     relationship, i.e.
an     influential employer' organisation and union representatives.
Specifically,     members of CCPS     (employer body) and the Scottish Trade Union Congress (STUC) (union     confederation) have used     the research as a basis for on-going discussions regarding continued     cooperation between     employers and unions to protect wages and conditions in the VSSC.
This began     in December 2011     with a joint seminar with CCPS, the STUC and the union UNITE, and included     discussions     regarding developing sector level agreements on pay.
The Deputy General     Secretary of the STUC     states &#8212; `The research...has fostered a shared understanding of the       respective difficulties faced by       employer and employees' and `A number of the key recommendations of       the report have been       taken up by unions and community care umbrella bodies, informing joint       initiatives on issues such       as procurement and the living wage and an approach to local government       funding issues.'
(Source     4).
Specific recommendations adopted by the STUC related to embarking     on joint lobbying with     employer bodies such as CCPS relating to worker terms and conditions and     training of the social     care workforce (Source 4).
Research work on the impact of budget cuts on terms and conditions of       employment in the VSSC       has significantly benefitted CCPS by assisting them in their efforts to       influence policy and practice.
CCPS presented the findings to the Scottish Parliament.
The research       findings have also made       their way into the Audit Scotland report on social care commissioning       (page 7 of Source 8).
This       report, drawing from the research, has led to the establishment of a       Scottish Government National       Steering Group on joint strategic commissioning and a whole range of other       initiatives according to       the Director of CCPS.
The report's recommendations relating to training       and development have       also been accepted by the Scottish Social Services Council (Source 7 and       can be supported by       Source 3).
