     Process/events from research to impact     As evidenced above, an extensive body of research conducted by       researchers within the Strathclyde Institute of Operations Management       (SIOM) resulted in the development of performance measurement and       management models and frameworks.
Insights from this work were published       in leading international journals but also operationalised through       practical workbooks, audit tools and self-assessment forms to make it       easier for practitioners to benefit from the research.
In particular,       engaging with industry via industry facing seminars organised by CompetitiveScotland.com       (a networking organisation dedicated to facilitating companies operating       in Scotland) along with SIOM's own industrial seminar series, became a       powerful mechanism for the dissemination of key research findings widely       to industry.
Such events led to interest from workshop and event       participants leading in turn to further consultancy agreements (e.g.
Allied Distillers) and KTP projects (e.g.
Houston Co-Pack, Korway Foods,       Simpson Labels, Campbell &amp; Kennedy) to embed the frameworks and the       associated tools.
This case study features impact generated for an       illustrative selection of companies during the REF period.
Description of impact     The Strathclyde research was instrumental in reshaping and reengineering       the performance measurement and management practices in a large number of       organisations.
Records of interventions show that approximately 170       companies have directly benefited from working with the Strathclyde team       (Source 6).
The adoption of the performance measurement research by       intermediary organisations including Scottish Enterprise, the Scottish       Manufacturing Advisory Service and research partners across Europe (e.g.
The Lean Institute (Poland), Ernst &amp; Young (Italy) and Tsunami       (Ireland)) has also created conditions for the further diffusion of impact       to a much larger number of organisations &#8212; in the region of 1000 (Source 6       and 3).
In addition, the European wide FP7 FutureSME project (2009-2013)       led by the Strathclyde team developed and delivered a &#8364;6M programme to       improve the competitive capabilities of European Manufacturing SMEs.
The       research described above, and particularly the maturity models, team       performance tools and visual performance measurement approaches, formed       the foundations of the project.
Over the duration of the project, it       delivered detailed longitudinal interventions with 13 European SMEs and       also involving performance measurement and management maturity diagnostic       with 63 manufacturing SMEs across Turkey, Italy, Czech Republic, Poland,       Spain, Slovakia, UK and Ireland (Source 7).
The training programme       developed was awarded the European Training Programme of the Year Medal by       the Polish Chamber of Commerce.
The impact of these changes began to be evident between 2008 and 2013 in       the form of improved productivity and growth within the collaborating       organisations.
Benefits for the companies has been significant as the       Managing Director of Linn Products explains:     "We worked with the Strathclyde team to adopt the performance         measurement and management methods and tools developed through their         research.
The visual management approach has transformed the way we         manage the strategy and performance of our business, which resulted in         the company exceeding its growth objectives" (Linn Products; Source       2).
For some organisations the interventions have been timely helping them       survive tough economic conditions:     "Our consultant has introduced us to the visual performance management         tools developed at Strathclyde.
It helped us survive through a deep         recession and made us stronger for growth in the future" (Roche       Manufacturing; Source 4.)
Highland Spring provides a detailed example of an organisation       where the impact has been extensive.
A long-term relationship was       developed with Highland Spring via various mechanisms which have included       6 KTP projects, jointly funded research (funded through the EPSRC and EU)       and numerous student projects and placements, as well as a number of       consultancy assignments.
Together these interventions have ensured the       adoption of the key research findings within the Highland Spring business,       which resulted in the delivery of relevant, timely, consistent and visible       performance information.
This in turn facilitated more meaningful       strategic and operational dialogue to take place within the organisation       resulting in more informed and confident decision making, as well as more       focused action at all levels.
This resulted in improved efficiencies       across sales, manufacturing, materials and distribution operations, as       well as improved customer service levels.
During just one KTP project       (between 2008-2010), Highland Spring Ltd. saw improvements in productivity       (2%), 150% increase in turnover (from &#163;54M to &#163;81M) and a 80% increase in       the workforce (107 new employees) (Source 8).
Further acquisitions       resulted in the business growing to become the UK's number 1 bottled water       producer with a turnover of c. &#163;100M and 450 people (Source 1).
Daniel       Muir of Highland Spring has commented on the importance of the Strathclyde       research in helping achieve the improvements:     "We've had better planning, better control, better use of resources as         well, so probably less wastage.
So a number of benefits.
It also went on         to be the basis for further development that could take place that's         helped with reporting and performance improvement throughout the         operations side of the business.
I think it has benefited the company.
We also turn to Strathclyde because we have that relationship, and         definitely that is valued within the company."
(Source 1)     So successful was the use of performance measurement at Highland Spring,       the Scottish Manufacturing Advisory Service (SMAS) has been using Highland       Spring as a best practice example and encouraging Scottish manufacturers       to adopt similar solutions.
To date over 50 other Scottish companies have       been introduced to the concepts and systems that underpin Highland       Spring's performance measurement and management systems (through the SMAS       network).
More recently Strathclyde has been expanding the reach of the performance       measurement research whilst working with Babcock International Group.
Strathclyde developed an executive development programme with a module on       Operations and Performance Improvement at its core.
Since 2009 over 800       managers from the Babcock organisation have been through this training.
This has had a profound effect on the multinational business, which has       now embraced the Strathclyde performance measurement frameworks and tools       throughout its business.
"The partnership with Strathclyde works so well because they tailor it         to our company.
Together, we have provided the senior teams in each of         our divisions with a toolset and knowledge that have helped shape our         corporate strategy and improved collaboration across the business."
(Source       5).
In parallel to the operations and performance training provided,       Strathclyde researchers also worked with managers from different parts of       the Babcock International Group to improve performance and productivity.
As an example, the successful transformation of Her Majesty's Naval       Base-Clyde (HMNB-C) resulted in changes to working practices and       significant cost savings.
Between 2002 and 2012 the total running costs of       the Naval Base were reduce by over &#163;190M (whilst Babcock still maintained       profit).
From 2002-2005 much of the cost saving came from renegotiation of       subcontracts and rationalisation of expensive maintenance regimes, but       from 2005-2012 the change was carried out using performance measurement as       a key lever in the change process (Source 9).
