     This work has had impact on: Key Stage 5 (AS and A Level) curriculum       development; practice of       Key Stage 5 teachers; student understanding at Key Stage 5 and earlier       stages (which also has       impact on curriculum developments).
Curriculum Development       Our research is playing an important role in the development of new AS and       A level English       specifications.
Clark's research on reader and writer inferences, and how       this can help students to       understand their own practice as well as texts and writers, has been       particularly influential.
A wide       range of activities led to this impact.
Clark was a consultant at an AQA       event on developing new       specifications at the University of Sheffield in 2012.
With Dr. Andrea       Macrae (Oxford Brookes       University) and Dr. Marcello Giovanelli (University of Nottingham), he was       commissioned to write       HEA reports on `Lang/Lit' work at school in 2012 and 2013.
Corroborating       evidence here comes       from a statement from an A Level examiner involved in revising AS and A       level specifications: `Dr.         Clark's work has influenced my thinking and practice as an educational         linguist and teacher trainer.
His work has also influenced and informed discussions regarding the         design and writing of a new A         level specification in English Language and Literature that I have been         working on with .
.
.
the         largest awarding body for school examinations and assessment in the UK.'
Teaching practice       Teaching practice has been affected through workshops and other events       organised for teachers       in schools and in higher education.
Clark co-presented (with Giovanelli) a       workshop for teachers at       the 2013 National Association for the Teaching of English (NATE)       conference, presenting ideas for       classroom practice based on his research in pragmatics and stylistics and       classroom experience at       Middlesex.
These activities raise student awareness of the nature of       inferences they make when       reading and writing, and help them to adapt reading and writing practice       in the light of this.
The       workshop, for 20 teachers, was oversubscribed and teachers provided       positive oral and written       feedback.
Clark co-presented (with Dr. Gary Wood, University of Sheffield,       and Louis Blois,       teacher at Leggott Academy, Scunthorpe) a workshop on the UK Linguistics       Olympiad at a       conference for English teachers at the University of Huddersfield in 2012.
He has taken part in a       large number of Higher Education Academy subject centre workshops on       transition from A level to       BA level.
Corroborating evidence here comes from feedback forms and       statements from teachers.
One teacher says: `an excellent balance between practical application         (always at the forefront of a         teacher's mind) and theoretical challenge and learning .
.
.is the real         power in the work undertaken         by Dr Clark .
.
.
all students can better appreciate literature when         they have the skills to confidently         deconstruct the language `magic' at work.
Dr Clark's work offers us         practical tools through which         this can be explored and reinvigorated my personal passion and         professional conviction to keep         language at the heart of everything we do because this ultimately         enriches our study of literature.'
Student understanding       A number of activities have helped students understand the nature of       language and linguistic       study, influencing choice of subjects and more general interest and       understanding.
With Dr.       Graeme Trousdale (University of Edinburgh), Clark has taught a 5-day       residential course on       linguistics (`Linguistics: The Language Detective') for the Villiers Park       Educational Trust every year       since 2007 and a course in English Language (`Language Meaning, Language       Change') for the       first time in 2012.
Each of these courses is attended by up to 25       students.
Students provide very       positive feedback (always over 95% rating the course excellent).
Clark was       `Linguist-in-Residence'       at the English and Media Centre Student Conference on English Language in       2011 (attended by       over 800 students and teachers from across the country) and regularly       attends workshops and       higher education days in schools.
His work with the UK Linguistics       Olympiad (UKLO) committee       encourages interest in language and problem-solving among students in       secondary school at any       age and level.
Participation has risen steadily since the first Olympiad       in 2010.
UKLO has been       supported by a wide range of sponsors, including universities, publishers,       learned societies, the       British Academy (&#163;10,000) and the Leverhulme Trust (&#163;50,000).
Corroborating evidence here       comes from Villiers Park student feedback forms, statistical evidence of       yearly increasing numbers       taking part in Olympiads (from 562 participants in 2010 to 2878 in 2013),       statements from teachers       and Villiers Park staff.
The success of these activities has provided       evidence of potential for a       linguistics-based A level in English Language currently being developed by       another awarding body,       who invited Clark to contribute to the development of this award.
The new       specification will be       submitted to Ofqual in spring 2014, materials will be available to       teachers in September 2014, and       first teaching will be in 2015.
