     Process from research to impact     The 1994 and 2001 reports were commissioned by the legal aid authorities       because a robust quality assessment mechanism was required in order to       implement franchising, contracting and competitive tendering on price.
The       Legal Services Commission (LSC) accepted the 2001 report's recommendations       on peer review and implemented a three year rolling programme in 2003       using reviewers trained and monitored by the research team, of a sample of       contract holders in all areas of civil and criminal work in England and       Wales.
This has continued to the present day under the aegis of Avrom       Sherr of London University.
Professor Paterson was formally appointed by       the LSC as the designated cover for Professor Sherr in 2008.
Initially the dissemination of the quality assessment research by       Professors Sherr, Moorhead (now UCL) and Paterson was through the       publications listed in section 3.
However, from presentations by       Professors Paterson and Sherr at the 2001, 2005 and 2007 International       Legal Aid Group (ILAG) conferences the leading policymakers of the most       developed legal aid programmes globally became aware of the outcome of the       peer review research.
As a result, Professor Paterson, already Chair of       ILAG and the research adviser to SLAB, was asked to devise a peer review       scheme based on the teams' research to assess the quality of the legal       work done by the recently established Public Defence Solicitors Service       (PDSO) in early 2003.
Shortly thereafter he became the adviser to a       partnership of SLAB, the Law Society and the Scottish Executive which       established peer review for all civil legal aid practitioners in Scotland       based on the research set out in section 2 (Source 1).
Prof Paterson has       been responsible for the training and monitoring of the reviewers between       January 2008 and the present day.
Lindsay Montgomery, the CEO of SLAB       stated in 2013 that "the development of our quality regimes for legal         aid lawyers in Scotland was heavily influenced by the research work         published by Professor Paterson (in conjunction with Professor Sherr)         demonstrating the efficacy of peer review as a tool for quality         enhancement in the legal profession and legal aid" (Source 4).
Strathclyde contribution to impact: The research contributions of       Paterson (University of Strathclyde) and Sherr (University of London &#8212;       Institute of Advanced Legal Studies) are approximately equal with respect       to peer review.
Paterson took the initial lead on measuring quality, and       shared the responsibility for the research into, and eventual format of       the peer review, equally with Sherr.
From 2003 onwards Moorhead       (University of Liverpool) played a major role in the implementation of the       research in England and Wales.
Types of Impact: The immediate impact of Paterson's research has       been the establishment of a peer review programme for civil and criminal       lawyers across the UK.
The secondary impacts arising from this peer review       process are improvement in the quality of service provided, which in turn       has transferred to the recipients of Legal Aid.
The UK peer review scheme       has now been implemented in several European countries with Paterson       playing a key role in the training of these reviewers.
Establishment of peer review system in the UK:     From 1st Jan 2008 to July 2009 400 civil firms in Scotland with around       800 practitioners and 4,000 files were assessed by peer review.
An 18       month fundamental review of the civil peer review programme, conducted by       SLAB and the Law Society drawing on the monitoring work done by Professor       Paterson in relation to civil and children's peer review concluded that       peer review was reliable and value for money even in times of austerity.
In implementation of the review and in keeping with risk based quality       assurance the decision was taken in 2011 to extend the cycle to 6 years in       which every civil firm and practitioner's files would be assessed, to       focus particularly on poorer performing firms and to review a much larger       range of files for practitioners working in areas of law with vulnerable       clients (child law, mental health and immigration), together with the       existing review of all civil practitioners.
Since the start of the third       cycle reviews of 140 firms, 320 practitioners and 2,240 files had been       conducted by January 2013.
In 2011 despite the cuts to legal aid, the       Scottish Government, SLAB and the Law Society agreed to introduce a peer       review programme based on Professor Paterson's research to assess the work       of all 550 criminal law firms and 1500 criminal legal aid practitioners in       Scotland over a six year cycle (Source 2).
By January 2013 80 firms, 230       practitioners and 2,000 files had been assessed.
In England and Wales the peer review programme conducted reviews of       approximately 1,000 firms between 2008 and 2012.
The process in England       and Wales is on a sample basis rather than the case in Scotland where       every civil firm and practitioner is reviewed in cycles.
Quality of service provision:     The purpose of the quality assurance programme for legal aid providers is       not to covertly reduce the supply base, but to demonstrate the quality       floor that exists in the profession and to gradually raise overall       standards.
The programme has established that errors in legal advice,       professional negligence or professional misconduct are relatively uncommon       in Scotland.
The evidence also suggests that the programme is raising       standards.
In the first cycle 10% of files failed the initial review       compared with 9% in the second.
However, in the second cycle a tougher       standard was imposed to pass and in the third cycle the threshold has been       raised again.
The proportion of special reviews (triggered by serious       concerns) reduced from 2% of firms in the first cycle to 0.5% of firms in       the second and the number of firms taken to final review decreased from 3%       to 2%.
Further evidence of quality improvement stems from the fact that       practitioners and files received a higher proportion of distinction grades       in the second cycle (15.9% of practitioners and 11.6% of files as compared       with 13.7% of practitioners and 10.2% of files in the earlier cycle).
Benefits to recipients of Legal Aid:     The 350,000 persons a year who apply for or receive legal assistance each       year in Scotland, England and Wales are benefitting not just from the       raised standards, but from by a reduction in delays, an improvement in       client communications and a greater scrutiny of at risk files.
International reach and significance:     Dissemination at ILAG conferences in 2005 and 2007 led to requests for       Paterson to demonstrate the Scots peer review model in Canada, Chile,       Finland, Hong Kong, Moldova, the Netherlands, New Zealand and Northern       Ireland.
Delegations from several of these jurisdictions have visited       Scotland to see the programme in action.
Paterson was invited by the Dutch legal aid authorities to demonstrate       peer review in Amsterdam and to train reviewers in 2008 to initiate a       pilot programme using peer review in mental health cases there in 2009.
In       the meantime, the Dutch notaries made peer review compulsory in 2009 in       part drawing on demonstrations of the Scots programme.
This was followed       by further training visits and a request in 2012 to assist with the       establishment of a pilot programme in social welfare in the Netherlands.
Inspired by a visit to Scotland to meet Paterson in 2007, the       representatives of the Ministry and The Finnish Bar Association agreed to       start examining different options for the development of quality       evaluation of legal aid in Finland.
At the request of the Finnish Ministry       of Justice, Paterson demonstrated the peer review system in 2009 and in       2011 he provided training for 15 Finnish reviewers for a peer review pilot       programme there.
In April 2013, the Head of Legal Aid in the Finnish       Ministry of Justice wrote, `The expertise of Professor Paterson has         been of key importance during the entire development process of the peer         review system in Finland.
Thanks to Professor Paterson's         inspiring and professional training, the peer reviewers attending the         training were able to truly understand and appreciate the importance and         use of peer review as a quality evaluation method.
The positive         experiences gained in England and Scotland convinced them of the         potential of peer review in getting valuable information on the quality         standard" (Source 3).
In 2011, Paterson visited Moldova twice to train ten reviewers for a       criminal legal aid pilot peer review project there.
In summary: Scotland's legal aid lawyers are in effect being re-validated       well before the doctors in the UK, or the criminal advocates in England       and Wales, putting them ahead of anything that exists in other legal aid       countries
