     Process from Research to Impact       The impact arises from the research commissioned in May 2007 by the Risk       Management Authority (RMA).
Following its publication on the RMA website       in 2008, the report `Serious Violent Offenders: Developing a Risk       Assessment Framework' was widely circulated among policy makers and       practitioners working with the agencies involved in the risk assessment       and management of violent offenders.
The report included 18       recommendations and the Risk Management Authority responded in writing to       fully endorse these, and address a number of issues highlighted by Dr       Barry's interview data.
The research enabled the RMA to move to an improved model of risk       assessment, which ensured greater consistency of risk assessment across       Scotland and across criminal justice agencies.
The Chief Executive of the       Risk Management Authority Scotland has noted that the Government's, 2011,       Framework for Risk Assessment Management and Evaluation (FRAME) policy       paper (Source 1) was directly influenced by Barry et al.
's report, the       recommendations from which "were opportune and influential" in       creating the 2011 guidance, and notes that FRAME `applies across all         offender groups and agencies [and] to this extent the impact and reach         of [Barry et al.
's] report can be viewed as being significant'       (Source 2).
In one RMA document entitled `Violence Risk Assessment: Towards a       structured decision making framework: Phase 1' the RMA suggested that the       Barry et al.
report was `[a] first step in a long-term project... the         journey towards a universal framework for violence [which] will not be         quick or straightforward'.
Chapter 1 page 6 of the FRAME guidance states "This project is focused         on the development of a consistent, evidence-based framework for risk         assessment and management that is grounded in first principles and is         applicable across agencies and offender groups.
.
.
The origins of this         project lie in the findings of earlier Scottish research [Barry et         al.2008] that sought to explore and advise on violence risk assessment.
The research identified confusion within and between agencies on         fundamental issues of understanding, assessing and communicating risk"       (Source 1).
Impact on policy makers and policy       The RMA welcomed the recommendation that agencies collaborate to achieve       common definitions of risk and accepted that it should lead this process       through a national debate with stakeholders.
The Multi-Agency Public       Protection Arrangements (MAPPA) Guidance for Scottish professionals was       revised in early 2012 to incorporate Barry et al.
's recommendation that       the Violent and Sex Offender Register, which shares information between       police and social work, be rolled out nationally and include health boards       and prisons, and this has now been implemented.
Within the Scottish Government, the Community Justice division is now       looking at including violent offenders within MAPPA in view of developing       policies in this area (2013), and Scottish Government policy makers are       currently meeting with their counterparts in England and Wales regarding       lessons to be learnt from south of the border.
The Scottish Government       also recently employed a researcher for two years to look at the       feasibility of violent offenders being incorporated into MAPPA.
The Barry       et al.
report was deemed crucial background reading for this new staff       member, since the report gives a clear structure to bringing violent       offenders into MAPPA (Source 3).
Impact on training of professionals       The RMA agreed with the recommendation that staff training on risk       assessment and management needed to be addressed.
It also acknowledged       Barry et al.
's advice that training should not only focus on assessment       tools, but also on wider concepts of risk, risk formulation and theories       of risk and violence.
The Chief Executive of the Risk Management Authority       Scotland noted that by May 2012 around one thousand social work staff had       undertaken this training, and the number has increased steadily since then       (Source 2).
The risk and needs assessment tool recommended by the Barry et al.
research was the Level of Service/Case Management Inventory (LS/CMI) which       supports criminal justice social workers to assess offender needs and risk       and to identify the most appropriate intervention.
This tool has now been       wholly adopted by social work departments in Scotland and training in its       use is now complete.
The recommendation that the tool's use and       effectiveness should be evaluated has been implemented, and in 2013       evaluation is ongoing (Source 3).
Influence on planning and strategy       In turn, this training and Barry et al.
's report are contributing to       further reflection within the RMA and among its key stakeholders on the       best way forward in the development of a consistent risk assessment and       management tool for violent offenders.
The RMA consultation document       'Standards and Guidelines' (Dec 2012) acknowledged that " a consensus has       developed in Scotland about the need to establish a meaningful way of       expressing risk that is shared between agencies and across geographical       boundaries".
This document was updated in March 2013 and now additionally       states that "the publication of FRAME has laid the foundation for a shared       language of risk assessment and management" (Source 4 p.103).
Management of risk       MAPPA operates 3 levels of risk to determine the intensity of agency input       into sexual and violent offenders: level 1 is low risk of harm and managed       by single agencies; level 2 is medium risk of harm and is managed by       practitioners in several relevant agencies; and level 3 is high risk of       harm and is managed by senior managers in several relevant agencies.
The       aim is to downgrade the risk level according to the effectiveness of       interventions, not least because level 2 and especially level 3 input is       intense and therefore costly.
Since 2008, the number of sex offenders       managed at level 1 and down-graded from levels 2 and 3 has been       `significant' (Source 3).
Level 1 offenders have increased to 88% of all       high risk offenders managed under MAPPA in 2012 compared to 76% in 2010,       and 66% in 2009, following on from Barry et al.
's recommendation that       categories of offender risk should be monitored and downgraded based on       sound risk assessment, management and regular review.
Wider influences       Since 2008, Barry's research has reached a wider audience of professionals       including a Think Tank organised by the Scottish Centre for Crime and       Justice Research (2008) and senior policy makers and practitioners in risk       assessment and management of high risk offenders at Rikkyo University in       Tokyo, Japan (2011).
The Scottish Government's Children, Young People and       Social Care Directorate consulted with Barry on the future implementation       of the Protection of Vulnerable Groups (Scotland) Act 2007.
Her research       is referred to in Chapter 7 of Scottish Youth Justice Practice Guidance,       Feb 2013, (Source 4) noting that the comprehensive assessment of an       offender must include an assessment of the likelihood of the individual       committing further offences.
In 2012, Barry was funded by the London Probation Trust to undertake a       study of MAPPA processes and outcomes across London.
This informed a       large-scale research proposal to ESRC in mid-2013 to compare the Scottish       risk assessment and management framework with similar developments in       England.
