     OntoREM has been applied in the aerospace company Airbus.
One key       application to date has       been in the development of aircraft operability requirements for the wing       design.
This has entailed       instantiating the OntoREM approach using its RE process and domain       metamodels and the       development of domain ontologies specific to Airbus' aircraft operability       and wing domains.
This       resulted in the generation of requirements specifications for Airbus that       embodied both existing and       newly identified requirements.
These are concerned with ensuring effective       and efficient full life       cycle support of aircraft regarding maintenance, repair and other       operational airline aspects, as       well as health and safety.
OntoREM was initially developed and implemented as a prototype, together       with its supporting       tools: Ontology-driven Requirements Analysis Tool       (OntoRAT) and OntoREM MindMapper (OMM)       both funded by Airbus and researched and developed by UWE in collaboration       with Airbus.
A number of different case studies were pursued following that in the       aircraft operability domain, in       particular in the domain of aircraft industrialisation.
Here the       industrialisation requirements for a       major aircraft program were specified using OntoREM.
A direct comparison of data from these case studies using OntoREM       was made with two other       cases for which Airbus's traditional RE approach had been applied.
Underlining the advantages of       an ontology-based approach to RE, the comparison revealed significant RE       process improvements       concerning: cost savings; enhanced quality of the resulting requirement       specifications; and       reduced time taken to generate them.
Airbus has reported the following specific impacts during its application       of OntoREM to date.
Improved quality of the final requirement specifications     Three quality indicators were compared: (i) overall completeness of the       individual requirements       statements; (ii) their completeness in terms of mandatory attributes and       link information; and (iii)       their structure.
On these measures, the ones generated using OntoREM were       significantly better       than those developed using the traditional approach.
This is largely       because the OntoREM RE       process and domain ontology metamodels enforced the population of all       mandatory attributes,       ensured integrity with the relevant domain ontologies and automatically       compiled requirements in a       predefined structure.
Time and cost savings     The development of new AO requirements using OntoREM took less time than       using the traditional       Airbus approach [text removed for publication].
Cost savings from using       OntoREM in the above       mentioned case studies also resulted [text removed for publication].
This       does not take into       account further savings resulting from the higher quality of the       requirement specifications, such as       the reduced corrective reworking later in the development lifecycle, or       from re-use of the specified       domain ontologies for new aircraft programmes [S1].
Reusable domain knowledge     An additional advantage of the OntoREM process has been the development       of domain ontologies       that serve as a formal repository of validated domain knowledge that can       therefore be re-used in       new projects once they have been validated by experts, with minimal need       for further validation       apart from periodic/cyclic verifications of the integrity of the domain       ontology.
This has therefore       demonstrated scalability of using OntoREM for aircraft programmes within       Airbus, with further cost       and time savings.
"The saving potential in case of a larger scale         application of OntoREM and even         more so considering the re-use of domain ontology once it has been         specified for the first time, is         of course of a very different order of magnitude.
[text removed for       publication]" [S1].
Improved advanced estimation of the cost of requirements development     OntoREM has made it possible to forewarn programme managers of the likely       percentage of re-usable 	  requirements and the proportion of new requirements.
This in turn       enables more accurate       estimates of the time and costs of developing projects' requirements, and       informs the level of       associated risk, e.g.
a high proportion of new requirements implies higher       associated risks for the       programme.
OntoREM has delivered these benefits in a real industrial environment,       with substantial,       measurable cost savings to Airbus.
A joint IPR document between UWE and Airbus has been formally signed.
Airbus fully funded the       cost of filing a US patent concerning OntoREM in February 2012 [S2]       reflecting OntoREM's       significance and its expected contribution to next generation requirements       engineering at Airbus.
Airbus has subsequently invested [text removed for publication] to apply a       new derivative of       OntoREM to a further area, its Photonics research project with development       cost savings already       identified [S1].
Airbus and UWE have been working on developing OntoREM into a full       industrial platform to       include: (i) transnational use of OntoREM by many concurrent users and       integration with       organisations' IT systems; and (ii) linking the OntoREM process and its       metamodel with       configuration and quality management processes generically and thus       instantiating these into       particular organisation-specific implementations.
OntoREM has also been the driver for collaboration with Airbus, SogeClair       France and P3       Germany to develop the business case for establishing the European         Institute for Configuration         Management (EICM).
This is intended to be the European focal entity       for configuration       management research/development, training and certification with UWE       Bristol nominated as its       EU-headquarters [S3].
EICM objectives include: (i) advancing the state of       the art (research and       development) in configuration management including processes, tooling and       integration with the       other stages of the systems development life cycle; and (ii) aspiring to       achieve and sustain world-wide       recognition as a leader in developing standards and processes for "best       practices" in       configuration management.
