     Process from research to impact:     The EPRC research on the governance of Cohesion policy made a distinct,       material contribution to the debate in 2007-13 on the reform of the policy       for the 2014+ period.
It informed or influenced specific elements of the       Commission's draft legislative package, evident in the use of EPRC       research in key policy documents, published mainly by the European       Commission, as follows.
1.
The 'Barca Report' on the Future of Cohesion Policy [source 1]     commissioned by the EU Commissioner for Regional Policy, Professor Danuta     H&#252;bner.
On the basis of the above research on the governance and performance     of Cohesion policy over the 1995-2007 period, John Bachtler was appointed in     2007 by the Director-General of DG Regio, Dr Dirk Ahner, to work with Dr     Fabrizio Barca (Director-General of the Italian Ministry of Economy &amp;     Finance) on an independent report on the future of EU Cohesion policy.
As     stated by Dr Ahner [Source 7]:     "We wanted to put together a top level research team to undertake a       critical and independent assessment of the EU's Cohesion Policy (CP) and       its governance....we looked for candidates who had an excellent academic       reputation in the field of regional development as well as the CP and its       governance, from a theoretical as well as a practical point of view, and       who had a good overview of the situation in the different Member States of       the EU.
In particular as far as the governance aspect is concerned, the       EPRC came out of our search as one of the best &#8212; if not the best &#8212;       competence centre in Europe".
This is reinforced by the assessment of Dr Barca [Source 9]: "The         perceived academic credibility of EPRC was based, in particular, on         their record of published research in leading academic journals which         demonstrated important insights into the interaction of EU, national and         regional levels in the implementation of Cohesion policy and the factors         which influenced the variable performance of the policy across the EU."
During the drafting of the Barca Report over the 2007-9 period, Bachtler       contributed to the analysis, led meetings with senior national government       officials from 27 Member States and co- authored the Report's       recommendations.
The research of Bachtler &#8212; and EPRC colleagues Mendez,       Ferry, McMaster and Polverari &#8212; is extensively cited in the report [Source       1, especially preface (iii) and section II.4].
The Report was published       online in 2009.
DG Regio webmaster figures estimate c.25,000 downloads       over the 2009-13 period and, in 2009, it was among the top 100 downloaded       European Commission documents [Source 8].
Its recommendations set the       terms of the debate on reforming Cohesion policy and provided a reference       point for the Commission's subsequent proposals.
2.
Evaluation study on the management and implementation of Cohesion         policy.
Again on the basis of the above research, EPRC was awarded       the largest single research contract by DG Regio (in 2008) to evaluate the       management of Cohesion policy in 2000-06 and make recommendations for the       post-2013 period [Sources 2 and 7].
The study, which was published online       in 2010 (recording c.1,700 downloads), concluded with specific       recommendations relating to improvements in performance management,       stronger leadership, a greater effort to promote organisational learning       and more investment in institutional capacity [Sources 3 and 8].
The EPRC contributions via these reports are included in three important       Commission policy documents:     a) an orientations paper published in December 2009 by EU Commissioner       for Regional Policy, Pawel Samecki [Source 4, see especially pp.
2 and 6];     b) the European Commission's Fifth Cohesion Report published in October       2010 [Source 5, see especially pp.
244 and 266]; and     c) the European Commission's obligatory Impact Assessment, published in       October 2011, of its draft legislative package on Cohesion policy       2014-2020 [Source 6, see especially pp.
21, 43, 68 and list of studies in       Annex 5].
Types of impact (2009-13)     Influence on policy: Specific examples of policy recommendations       in the Barca Report that were taken up in the Commission's reform       proposals are:     (i) the creation of a strategic territorial framework with common       strategic objectives and priorities and consistent guidelines [Source 1,       section V.1, p.163], which was introduced as a `Common Strategic       Framework' in the Commission proposals;     (ii) the use of a new type of contractual arrangement between the       Commission and Member States, focusing on performance [Source 1, section       V.2, p. 163 and V.3, p.166] &#8212; introduced in the Commission proposals as       `Partnership Contracts', agreed in Council as `Partnership Agreements;     (iii) performance monitoring of core priorities [Source 1, section V.4,       p.173], introduced in the Commission proposals as a performance framework.
EPRC also played an important role in providing credibility for these       recommendations: "its long-standing academic research on the         performance of cohesion policy also provided the ground for breaking         into several prejudices with which Member States and experts approached         the new ideas launched during the preparation and discussion of the         Report" [Source 9].
Shaping institutional change: An example of the direct link       between the above research and institutional change is the proposal made       in the Barca Report [Source 1, section V.8, pp.
183-4] and in the EPRC       study recommendations [Source 3, section 7.5, p.162] for the establishment       of a `competence centre' in DG Regio with the remit to improve       administrative capacity &#8212; identified as a major factor explaining the       variable performance of Cohesion policy.
A centre of competence was       subsequently established by DG Regio in Spring 2012 [Source 7].
Overall, therefore, in the words of former EU Commissioner, Danuta H&#252;bner:         "I regard the research undertaken by Professor Bachtler and his EPRC         colleagues to have made a significant policy impact on the reform of         Cohesion policy during the formative period 2008-11 when proposals for         change were conceptualized and drawn up the European Commission"       [Source 2].
