     Process from research to impact       In 1993 a group of ex-World Bank employees with third world experience       founded Transparency       International (TI) in Berlin to undertake a global campaign to reduce       government corruption.
When       TI launched its Research Advisory Committee in 1998, Rose became a pro       bono founder member       along with other specialists from the World Bank, Yale and G&#246;ttingen       universities, development       agencies and international management consultants.
Transparency       International is an evidence-based       global advocacy organisation, which has been responsible for commissioning       global surveys       of corruption since 2003.
It uses the evidence from these surveys to lobby       organisations such as       the World Bank, European Commission and The Organisation for Economic       Co-operation and       Development (OECD).
A key TI resource is the Global Corruption Barometer (GCB), which       includes questions on the       payment of bribes for major public services [Source A].
Since 2008 there       have been three Global       Corruption surveys; in 2009 (covering views of 73,132 people in 69       countries); in 2010/11       (covering more than 100,000 people in 100 countries) and in 2013 (covering       114,000 people in 107       countries).
The following evaluation has been given by Dr. Robin Hodess, the Group       Director of Advocacy and       Research for TI:     "Transparency International is highly supportive of the work undertaken       by Professor Richard       Rose on studying corruption issues around the world.
We have been able to       draw upon the       academic expertise of Richard Rose for a number of our research tools.
Most significantly, the       design of Transparency International's Global Corruption Barometer survey,       which this year will       cover more than 100 countries on every continent, has been influenced by       the contribution of       Professor Richard Rose, a longstanding member of our Research Advisory       Committee.
His       specialist knowledge of sampling problems in developing countries has been       of value in       evaluating proposals for fieldwork and his innovative module of questions       measuring the       experience of bribery has enhanced the value of the data that we will       distribute to inter-governmental       organizations, the global media and, via our chapters in 90 countries to       relevant       policy-makers and the wider anti-corruption community" [Source B]     Types of impact (2008 -2013)     1.
Shaping and influencing the work of Transparency International.
Rose has contributed to       the design of the Global Corruption Barometer surveys since 2009.
His       expertise in the area of       data collection led them to focus on bribery and corruption in public       services.
His input ensured       that these surveys included questions on paying bribes for major public       services such as health,       education, police, tax collection, and offices issuing permits, and       stressed the importance of       asking whether non-payment of a bribe was due to non-contact with services       or delivery       according to the rule of law.
Rose was also consulted on the content of TI       presentations at the       European Survey Research Association Conference, Ljubljana, Slovenia,       15-19 July 2013       [Source C], which brought together producers of major multi-national       continental surveys,       sponsoring organisations and TI's Research and Advocacy Team to suggest       ways in which the       design of questionnaires may be expanded in order to provide more and       better data that can be       used in the worldwide effort to reduce corruption.
2.
Efficiency within Transparency International.
This       non-governmental organisation sub       contracts out large-scale survey work to global survey providers, who       tender for the contracts.
Rose advises TI on this aspect of `value for money' and the cost per       country.
In preparation for       the 2013 GCB survey, Rose evaluated key characteristics of previous       surveys on a country by       country, and variable by variable basis and advised on the suitability of       different sampling       methods proposed, e.g.
face-to-face, telephone, via internet in the       developing countries       included in the total survey budget of more than &#8364;750,000 for fieldwork.
3.
Advocacy campaigns: TI uses the GCB in its advocacy campaigns       that have an impact on       national governments and major intergovernmental organizations.
It       maintains a substantial       Communications and Advocacy staff in Berlin, with a website [Sources D and       G] that is       international both in content and reach.
It has access to       intergovernmental institutions       concerned with reducing corruption, including OECD, the European       Commission, the World       Bank and UN agencies.
To put pressure on national governments, it has 90       national chapters       that take initiatives on their own and draw on TI's central resources and,       where there is strong       resistance from the national government, as in Russia, seek to mobilize       international opinion       and institutions to put pressure on their national government.
In addition       to the work of TI, Rose       disseminates the results of his own research into corruption in Russia to       policy makers and       related organisations in the UK, such as the Serious Fraud Office.
4.
Publicizing and fighting corruption worldwide.
From 2008 to       2013 Transparency       International has conducted three major rounds of Global Corruption       Barometer surveys that       interviewed upwards of 450,000 people in more than 110 countries on every       continent.
The       Global Corruption Barometer now includes questions about whether and how       citizens would       seek to take actions to report bribes and reduce corruption.
Transparency       International uses       evidence from its 2013 Global Barometer Corruption report to endorse       recommendations to give       national citizens specific tools that they can use to fight against       corruption.
(P.4 of its 2013       Report, on website) In addition, in this period questions about contact       and paying bribes have       been asked in surveys of the EBRD Life in Transition survey of       post-Communist countries, the       Latin American Public Opinion Project and the Eurobarometer.
The results       of these surveys are       disseminated worldwide on a multi-lingual basis through Transparency       International's       Secretariat in Berlin and 90 national chapters, through national offices       of the European Bank for       Reconstruction and Development and through the US Aid for International       Development.
Since       they are in the public domain and available via the internet, the evidence       can be picked up by       national media and by elected representatives seeking to put pressure on       governments that       tolerate their officials extracting bribes from citizens.
[Sources E and       F].
Leading members of TI       also highlight the need to fight against corruption [Sources H and I].
The       importance of this       corruption research is illustrated by acceptance for attendance at 23-25       September, 2013 joint       CSPP-Transparency International Workshop in Berlin on use of surveys in       combatting       corruption.
Representatives of the World Bank, European Commission, OECD,       European Bank       for Research and Development, UN Development Programme, UN Office on Drugs       and Crime       and the UK Department for International Development attended.
5.
Increasing awareness of the importance of contact with specific         public services.
The       dissemination of surveys of the experience of bribery has moved the       discourse around       combatting corruption from the fight against `corrupt countries' to       pinpoint problems with specific       services.
Health care and education, the two services that Rose's research       has identified as       among those most likely to involve bribery, are of central importance in       achieving three of the       eight Millennium Development Goals of the United Nations.
"As the Global       Corruption       Barometer 2013 shows, corruption is seen to be running through the       foundations of the       democratic and legal process in many countries, affecting public trust in       political parties, the       judiciary and the police, among other key institutions" from `Key       findings' GCB survey 2013       [Source J].
Summary: The political and economic significance of bribery is far       greater than the sums that       actually change hands as payments.
Corrupt public affiliations tend to       reduce support for a regime       and provide an incentive for street demonstrations that call for its       downfall, as has been shown in       Moscow, Istanbul and Cairo.
Bribery reduces the effectiveness and       increases the cost of health,       education and other investments in human capital.
The rents collected as       bribes reduce the       efficiency of enterprises and increase costs to their consumers.
Bribery       also handicaps the       competitiveness of enterprises in an increasingly globalized economy,       discourages direct foreign       investment and wastes foreign aid.
