     Process from research to impact       The research highlighted the potential value and benefits to be derived       from Arts Festivals on       mental health, and the desirability of an inclusive team to produce such       an event.
A broad-based       alliance of partners in Glasgow then worked explicitly to include those       with experiences of mental       health issues in the development of an arts festival.
This consortium       involved the Scottish       Government, NHS Boards, the national anti-stigma campaign (`see me'),       national mental health       voluntary sector partners, arts organisations, local authorities, human       rights and equalities       agencies, academics, and community activists and groups.
This broad-based       alliance of partners       adopted as their starting point, the Strathclyde research conclusions that       positive messages       through culture and art were likely to deepen reach into the BME       communities, to develop and fund       an arts festival focussed on mental health.
The festival was designed to       promote positive attitudes       towards mental health, mental illness, support and recovery, and so       generate significant cultural       change amongst opinion through the insights and influences of the creative       arts.
Evidence that the       research was significant can be seen in the fact that the Scottish       Government and NHS invited the       Strathclyde researchers to chair the group.
Type of impact: The formation of a national Arts Festival       has produced the following benefits     Annual cultural events:       The consortium created a month long annual festival (initially the Glasgow       Mental Health Arts       Festival but now Scotland wide) blending culture, contact and community       development in order to       engage and influence marginalised communities.
The first was held in 2006,       and each year the       programme has led to the creation of 300 events each year using a range of       art forms such as film,       theatre, literature, visual arts, dance, and comedy (Source 1).
In the       last five years since 2008, the       event has engaged over 40,000 people.
It is one of the largest arts and       social justice festivals in       Europe (Source 2) supporting a network of 16 regional grassroots festival       groups covering all of       the major regions of the country, each having its own identity, structure       and purpose.
With local       communities and mental health professionals organising events alongside       music, drama and       acting professionals, the Festival has involved high proportions of people       living in poorer areas,       minority ethnic groups and people with experience of mental health       problems.
Lee Knifton acted as       Director of the Scottish Mental Health Festival in 2013.
The Scottish Mental Health Arts and Film Festival approach has been       replicated by similar events       in Northern Ireland (Source 3) and in Ireland (Source 4).
An organiser of       the Northern Ireland event       has stated "The Scottish Mental Health Arts and Film Festival has been the       inspiration and impetus       for a similar Festival for Northern Ireland.
The Scottish Festival's       collaborative model of       organisation, emphasis on inclusion, and incorporation of research on       impact have provided the       template for Northern Ireland" (Source 3).
Changing attitudes to mental illness: by challenging established       norms, improving social       welfare, contributing to campaigns for social change.
For example, at the North Lanarkshire festival in 2012, three community       forums (Motherwell;       Wishaw, Murdostoun and Fortissat; and Bellshill and District) pledged       their involvement in anti-stigma       action (Source 5), and enhanced cultural understanding of issues around       stigma and       mental health, for example increased positive attitudes to reduce stigma       amongst audiences       (Source 6).
Referring to the Scottish Mental Health and Arts Festival,       Isobel McCarthy, Mental       Health and Wellbeing Development Officer for South Lanarkshire Council       said "Working in       partnership with our colleagues in NHS Lanarkshire, North Lanarkshire       Council and a variety of       local services to support the Scottish Mental Health Arts and Film       Festival to create an exciting       calendar of events this October (2012) has been a real privilege.
The       opportunities this has       created for local people to engage in activities that support good mental       health and wellbeing and       promote recovery makes all the efforts worthwhile."
(Source 10)     Influence on local communities and organisations:       This influence included new partnerships with teachers to deliver mental       health awareness lessons       in schools, with mental health groups to deliver training in workplaces,       and with community groups       to deliver a community conversation programme with BME communities (Source       7).
Mental health       arts festivals are being incorporated within cultural strategies in       Glasgow and Renfrewshire, with a       new planning group being established, `The Creative Forum', which includes       a number of local       partners (Source 8).
This has been supported through the embedding of       mental health in local       socio-cultural contexts through the choice of local venues including pubs,       prisons, shopping       centres, shop windows, libraries and community centres.
The festival       programme in 2012 was       extended to new regions and genres, achieved record attendances and media       coverage, increased       online engagement, and developed new partnerships and projects.
(Source 9)       There were more       than 100 articles during the Festival period from publications including:       The Scotsman; The Herald;       The Edinburgh Evening News; The Daily Record; The Evening Times; The       Skinny; STV Local and       The List.
There were also discussions on radio stations such as: BBC Radio       Scotland; BBC 6       Music; The Vile Arts Radio Hour; and Radio Awaz, as well as a number of       local radio stations.
(Source 9)     Impacts on strategy of NHS and charitable bodies: influencing       policy and practice leading to       improved take-up or use of services, and improved health and welfare       outcomes.
Health Boards including NHS Greater Glasgow and Clyde, NHS Lanarkshire       (Source 10), and       NHS Lothian (Source 11) have built the festival into their health       improvement policies and       strategies.
NHS Health Scotland has included the festival as part of its       planning and funding       arrangements since 2009, with the Scottish Government's National       anti-stigma `see me' campaign       adopting the festival as part of their national strategy (Source 12).
The       Campaign Implementation       Manager for `see me' has stated that "One of the key elements of this       success (of `see me') has       been the unwavering partnership working bringing together numerous       national and local       organisations as well as hundreds of dedicated individuals" On the `see       me' website (Source 13) it       notes regarding the 2012 annual festival "This year's Scottish Mental       Health Arts and Film Festival       (SMHAFF) was the sixth time that the Festival brought together thousands       of people to celebrate       and explore the meanings of mental health.
'see me' is proud to say that       we are one of the       founding partners of SMHAFF and have been one of its main funders from the       beginning."
The overall impact of the research into the prevalence of stigma and       discrimination around mental       health within traditionally hard to reach communities has led to an annual       programme of cultural       events, which is now emulated in other parts of the United Kingdom, and       forms part of wider       government and NHS strategies to promote positive attitudes to mental       health.
