     Process from research to impact:       The Scottish Executive's Race Equality Scheme (RES) 2005 `Working Together       for Race Equality' commented that, at that time, not all Gypsy/Traveller       communities were recognised for the purposes of the race relations       legislation but acknowledged the need for protection from discrimination       and abuse.
Plans for services for the traveller community in Scotland       prior to 2008 were dealt with under the Equal Opportunities agenda.
In September 2008, an industrial tribunal case was brought in Aberdeen by       Mr Ken MacLennan claiming that his employers at the Gipsy Traveller       Education and Information Project (GTEIP) had dismissed him for "taking a       stance on behalf of gipsy travellers".
Dr Clark was called as an expert       witness on behalf of the plaintiff, appearing before Judge Nicol Hosie and       others to argue the case for Scottish Gypsy/Travellers having legal       protection under the terms of the Race Relations Act of 1976 (as amended       2000).
Over a two day period (8th- 9th September), Clark       presented as evidence his research findings from the 2006 study [5] and he       was questioned by both the plaintiff's and defendant's legal teams as well       as the Judge himself.
At the heart of this case was a question over the       legal ethnicity and standing of Scottish Gypsy/Travellers in regard to       Race Relations legislation.
Using his prior research, Clark indicated that       in the absence of a `protected' socio-legal status of Scottish       Gypsy/Traveller ethnicity, this group would, if they were to experience       social and cultural stigmatisation and discrimination, struggle to have       the same legal redress that other ethnic minority groups had in Scotland.
This hearing thus became the pivotal `test case' that Clark (2006) had       argued was required to provide legal clarification [5].
The judgement was in favour of the plaintiff, Mr MacLennan, with Judge       Hosie concluding: "Having satisfied ourselves, therefore, that the two         main characteristics set out by Lord Fraser in Mandla were satisfied and         that the other non-essential characteristics were satisfied in varying         degrees, we arrived at the view that Scottish Gypsy-Travellers have         "ethnic origins", with reference in particular, to Section 3(1) of the         1976 Act and that they therefore enjoy the protection of the Act" (page         15, point 49).
Judge Hosie referred to Dr Clark's evidence       throughout his judgement and determined him to be an "impressive and       persuasive witness" (page 6, point 14).
The unanimous judgment of the Tribunal is summed up in the conclusion on       page 15 of the written judgment (dated 21 October, 2008).
This judgment is       all the more remarkable as the Judge admits a previous mistake he had made       at an earlier industrial tribunal hearing in March 2008 which was       conducted without consulting the available evidence base or asking for       expert witness testimony: "I think it is worthy of comment that,         having now approached the issue in this manner, I was convinced that I         had fallen into error by conducting the previous hearing in the way I         did and not hearing evidence.
I am satisfied that my decision to review         that judgment, at my own instance, and to hear evidence, was the correct         one."
Types of Impactm     1.
Changes in public policy and law       Following entry of the judgment into the Registry on 21 October 2008, the       test case had immediate and far-reaching impacts for all 20,000 to 22,000       Gypsy/Travellers in Scotland - in terms of their legal protection, support       of future legal challenges, influence on public policy and in the       approaches taken by service providers to Gypsy/Travellers (Sources 1 and       2).
Further, as legal precedence, the judgment has in subsequent cases       been used to support Gypsy/Travellers in challenging decisions which       affect their everyday lives and their identity.
The research in Clark       (2006) [5] continues to be used by Scottish Gypsy/Traveller individuals       and families to challenge discrimination in courts of laws.
The judgment officially granted legal protection as an ethnic minority       group to rights enshrined with all Race Relations legislation (now       superseded by the Equality Act 2010).
Amnesty Scotland in their report `On       the Margins - Local authority service provision for Scottish Gypsy       Travellers' April 2012, has noted that this has provided security of       protection for the entire Gypsy/Travellers community and impacted on their       confidence and ability to engage with local authorities and other       communities (Source 2).
The Equal Opportunities Committee, Scottish Parliament 1st       Report March 2013 (Source 5) acknowledges "A recent Tribunal judgement (Mr       K MacLennan v Gypsy Traveller Education and Information Project 2009) held       that Gypsy Travellers are a distinct ethnic group and therefore covered by       the Race Relations Act 1976."
2.
Improved social welfare and inclusion       The outcome of the judgement has impact on enhancement to policy and       practice, improved social welfare, inclusion and access to justice for all       Gypsy/Travellers in Scotland.
The implications in relation to human rights       were acknowledged immediately by the Scottish Government in their `Race       Equality Statement' published in December 2009, and in statements on their       website including:     "Although it is not in our power to make change in relation to the legal       recognition of Scottish Gypsies/Travellers as an ethnic group since       legislation around equal opportunities is reserved, the Scottish       Government continues to recognise Gypsies/Travellers as an ethnic group in       its work and encourages others to do likewise.
The Scottish Government       acknowledges that Gypsy/Traveller communities have specific requirements       and require the same level of protection from discrimination and abuse in       common with all of Scotland's minority ethnic communities.
A recent       judgement in relation to an employment tribunal (K. MacLennan Vs.
Gypsy       Traveller Education and Information Project) has set a precedent in this       regard, it concluded that "Scottish Gypsy/Travellers" is a group which can       be defined by reference to it ethnic origins and therefore can be afforded       the protection offered by section 2(1)(d) of the Race Relations Act 1976."
(Source 3)     The Statement goes on to propose the provision of resources for       education, transit sites and community development, with an unspecified       number of transit sites in place by March 2011.
It notes that these were       priorities in the 2005 Equal Opportunity Committee Interim Report and from       the Gypsy/Travellers Steering Group (from 2005-06).
BEMIS, the Black and Ethnic Minority Infrastructure in Scotland working       group, is a network of ethnic minority organisations convened to address       the gap that exists in support for the ethnic minority voluntary sector in       Scotland.
The BEMIS report `Gypsy Travellers in Contemporary Scotland',       2011, (Source 1) cites Clark's research to support many of the points made       in the report, including the argument that the Scottish Travellers are a       distinct indigenous group.
From Chapter 2 p.17 of this report - `Clark (2006) argues that at various       stages in Scottish history, dispossessed labourers and other marginalised       people may have complemented the original Scottish nomadic.
Hence, he       argues that it is true that Scottish Gypsy/Travellers are quite distinct       from recent Roma arrivals in Scotland, via government asylum dispersal       schemes for example, because they are an indigenous nomadic group' (Source       1).
It continues to shape policy through debate in the Scottish Parliament,       being part of the evidence drawn upon by the Equal Opportunities Committee       of the Scottish Parliament in their 2013 hearings addressing where       Gypsy/Travellers live (Source 5), and in the case made by the Equality and       Human Rights Commission (Source 4) where a new tick box stating       "Gypsy/traveller" has been incorporated into the census which will assist       in monitoring accommodation needs for the Gypsy/Traveller community       (Sources 5 and 6) and in relation to employment law (Source 7).
The ruling has had implications for service provision for all       Gypsy/Travellers.
Across service providers and local authorities, the       outcomes of the legal case have been reflected in the guidance issued in       relation to social inclusion and discrimination across professions       including nursing and health care (Source 8) and social work (Source 9).
