     Smith's work [R1] on this unique monument has provided       unparalleled insight into how Roman emperors were viewed in the political       culture of the Greek-speaking East, which resonates with western academia       and the public, locally and internationally.
International visitors to       Aphrodisias are inspired by the scale, beauty, and physical effect of the       reconstructed building and the museum display of the reliefs.
The       combination of ancient architecture and the co-located museum-display       greatly enhances the visitor's aesthetic and learning experience.
Smith       has distilled his research into a series of easily-understood bi-lingual       wall texts that have wide educational impact.
The content and meaning of       the reliefs has been made thoroughly accessible.
Smith's careful documentation of the reliefs, now available in a major       monograph [R1], enabled them to be passed to professional       conservators who prepared them for display.
In 2007-8, a large new museum       hall was designed and built to display the reliefs in the full       archaeological sequence identified by Smith.
The reliefs were conserved       and the museum built with financial support from private sponsors: Sevgi       G&#246;n&#252;l, the Geyre Foundation, and the UK Friends of Aphrodisias.
Smith's       texts for the explanatory bi-lingual wall-panels inform visitors about the       monument and the individual reliefs.
These texts also formed the basis of       a bi-lingual guidebook [Section 5: C1] which has sold more than       3,000 copies.
The new museum hall forms a large wing of the existing       Aphrodisias Museum (Fig.
2), and is now a tourist destination in its own       right [C2].
It was opened on 31 May 2008 by the Turkish Director       of Antiquities to great press interest &#8212; for example, Bizden Haberler       7, 2008; Yapi 2, 2008; Euro News 2, 2008.
The museum display is located on the site just 150m from the Sebasteion       building itself.
In 2000-2011, the project architects carried out a modern       anastylosis (stone-for-stone reconstruction) of part of the       building, based on Smith's study of its facade.
The restored building was       fitted with precise copies of the reliefs and recreates their original       context.
The best preserved part of the complex has now been restored to       its full three-storey height, and since 2011 has been open to visitors.
It       is the only major classical monument to have been restored in situ       with its reliefs, and as such represents an important development in       heritage management and the tourist experience of antiquities.
From this       painstaking reconstruction, carried out with each original part of the       architecture in its exact position, visitors can understand the physical       context and ancient function of the reliefs, which they also see close-up       in the new museum space.
The close proximity of both the restored building       (Fig.
1) and the museum display of the reliefs (Fig.
2) enables visitors       to understand and to visualize this extravagant ancient showpiece of a       monument.
Impact on international visitors and tourism:     The results of Smith's research have reached over 600,000 international       visitors between 2008 and 2012 (averaging 147,000 annually) [C3].
High visitor numbers are managed by 20 museum staff members.
The appeal of       the new display of the reliefs can be seen on a number of tourist review       sites, such as Trip Advisor.
One site, for example, says: `The Aphrodisias       Museum...has lots of helpful signage.
I actually gasped when I entered       into the Sebasteion sculpture hall.
It was so impressive to see such a       complete and beautiful collection of 1st century AD Roman reliefs... My       only regret is not spending more time in the Museum' [C4].
Another       travel website writes: `The museum of Aphrodisias is one of the most       outstanding museums of western Anatolia.
The monuments of unsurpassed       value which have been found at the excavations are displayed here' [C5].
The Sebasteion reconstruction already has near-iconic status in tourism in       Turkey, seen for example in the well over 100 pictures of it that result       from a simple google search for `sebasteion aphrodisias turkey'.
More       qualitative evidence is provided by a university course leader, who states       that `[the Sebasteion] allows...the wider public the chance to       understand fully how such a monument would have worked within the ancient       cityscape ... provides the opportunity for a direct engagement with the       ancient monument, allowing a deeper understanding of how it would have       worked visually in the past' [C6].
Educational impact:     Over the last two decades, Smith's research and lecture programmes have       also given rise to several communities of enthusiasts around the world &#8212;       the large network of `Friends of Aphrodisias' groups in London, New York,       Istanbul, and Izmir [C7].
These groups combine talks and       educational programmes with fund-raising on behalf of the excavations.
For       his work on the Sebasteion project, Smith received (on behalf of The       Aphrodisias Excavations) the Certificate of Merit for `distinguished       achievement in, and contribution to Archaeology' from The National Arts       Club of New York, in December 2011.
More specifically from an educational perspective, both the Sebasteion       and Smith's publications on it have become core topics in the study of       Rome in the Greek East in teaching and learning in HEIs outside Oxford and       outside the UK (for example, Warwick University, The University of       Minnesota, and New York University).
The course leader for `Art and         Architecture of Asia Minor' at Warwick states: `This       monument plays a key role in the undergraduate course... [Smith's]       publications on the monument form the basis for presentations in which       students describe the form and iconography of the monument and analyse the       evidence it presents for provincial views of the Roman emperor' [C6].
The rich evidence of the reliefs, as presented in Smith's published       research, has been used widely in books intended for a broad public [C8].
The Sebasteion restoration has appeared in popular publications aimed at       archaeology and ancient history enthusiasts, as well as the wider public.
Smith was invited to contribute a lead article on the Sebasteion in Omnibus,       the Joint Association of Classical Teachers (JACT) magazine for school       students, and produced, with Julia Lenaghan and renowned Turkish       photographer Ahmet Ertu&#287;, a large-format publication on Aphrodisias and       the Sebasteion sculpture for the wider public.
The Aphrodisias excavations       and the Sebasteion have also featured in popular publications &#8212; such as       the Turkish National Geographic [C9].
In 2009,       the Aphrodisias excavations and the Sebasteion display were the cover       story for the bilingual in-flight magazine for Turkish Airlines, Skylife       [C10], and in 2011 were the subject of a three-page spread in the       popular Turkish lifestyle magazine Diva [C11].
Smith's research is embodied in the display and public explanation of the       Sebasteion.
The on-site reconstruction and museum installation enhance       visitors' understanding as well as their enjoyment of a remarkable       monumental complex.
