     Process from research to impact       Media interest       From its publication date in 2009, Heimann's book attracted widespread       interest in non-academic       circles.
The day after publication, the book appeared on the front page of       Liter&#225;rn&#237; noviny (the       Czech equivalent of the TLS or New York Review of Books)       under the banner headline `Can this       shocking reflection really be us?'
It was condemned as `anti-Czechoslovak'       in a public speech by       the Czech Consul-General in Los Angeles.
`US historian provokes the       Czechs' appeared on the       cover of Respekt, the glossy Czech current affairs weekly.
The       weekend Arts section of Lidov&#233;         noviny, (the Czech Guardian), featured it under the caption       `Heimann turns twentieth-century       Czech history on its head.
What will the consequences be?'
The book attracted about 100 reviews from around the world.
It was picked       up by diplomats and       policy-makers via Foreign Affairs, Le Monde Diplomatique       and the US Foreign Service Journal.
It       was made known to the business sector as the first featured book in the       Books and Arts section of       The Economist (1.5 million readers) and had articles in the Financial         Times and Hospod&#225;&#345;sk&#233;         noviny.
It was singled out as literature of general interest in many       places, including the Campaign       for the American Reader, the TLS, Atlantic magazine and the 23rd       international Prague Writers'       Festival.
Public engagement       The author was interviewed by the Czech Press Agency, the current affairs       magazine Respekt, the       Czech World Service, BBC Radio 4, the Times Higher Education, The         Prague Post, Radio Wave,       the Czech equivalent of The Guardian (Pr&#225;vo) and the Financial         Times (Hospod&#225;&#345;sk&#233; noviny).
She       spoke about her research findings and their reception to a public audience       of several hundred at       the Slovak Embassy [SOURCE 1] and to about a hundred Czech and Slovak       &#233;migr&#233;s in Edinburgh       (April 2012).
She met with Czech, Austrian, Rusyn, and German readers,       corresponded with       Australians, Canadians, Poles, Hungarians, Americans and others; and       responded to a formal       request to publish a reply to internet discussion about her work on H-Net.
Heimann was included in a special symposium of leading Central European       diplomats, scholars       and policy-makers held at the Czech Embassy in London in September       2010[SOURCE 2], at       which passages from the book were read aloud by the Czech Ambassador and       debated by those       present, including former US Secretary of State Madeleine Albright.
Heimann was one of 7 writers from around the world chosen for the       international Writers' Festival       held in Prague (13-18 April 2013) on the theme `The Birth of Nations'.
This involved book signings       in the National Theatre, press interviews, on-air conversation on Radio       Wave, meetings with the       Friends of the Festival, the Mayor of Prague, Egyptian Ambassador,       President of the Czech       Senate, and the Czech Minister for Culture.
The visit involved discussions       with the other invited       writers including Nobel Prize winner Orhan Pamuk from Turkey and       bestselling fiction writers from       Egypt, Algeria and Portugal.
[SOURCE 3]     Heimann took part in a two-hour panel discussion, held in the Czech       Parliament (Senate) in front of       a live audience, on `The Birth and Death of Czechoslovakia' (18 April       2013).
The public discussion,       which centred around Heimann's research findings lasted 2 hours, was       broadcast live on Czech       Television and was reported in many newspapers.
It is available to       download from the Czech       Television 24 website.
The importance of Heimann's work for the Czech       nation was specifically       commented upon by the former Prime Minister in the television broadcast.
[SOURCE 4]     Type of Impact       The research findings have changed public perceptions of Czechoslovak       history and increased       understanding and raised awareness of current attitudes towards minorities       in the Czech Republic.
Reach within Czech Republic: The book's impact is particularly       clear in the Czech Republic,       where an initially hostile reception gave way to a period of dialogue that       led to acceptance of the       research findings articulated in the book.
It sparked debate and       discussion in the Czech Parliament       (Senate), in the press, media, and on the internet.
The book was first discussed in the Czech Senate (Parliament) in 2010       [SOURCE 5] as a work       whose interpretations and research findings ought to be explored through a       series of radio       programmes and conferences.
It was made the subject of a half-hour panel       discussion programme       on the Czech World Service [SOURCE 6].
The research was discussed at a       conference held by       Czech &#233;migr&#233;s in T&#225;bor in July 2010 and Heimann was one of 7 writers from       around the world       chosen for the International Prague Writers' Festival (April 2013).
This       included appearing in the       National Theatre (Nov&#225; Scena), speaking in the Czech Senate, and being       interviewed by the press       (television, radio and newspaper) about her research.
International reach: Media interest has been widespread in Europe,       USA and Canada.
The       research findings also informed a BBC Radio 4 `Friday Play', for example,       and are referred to in       unexpected places, such as a Gay website, expatriate blogs, literary       magazines, and in-house       parliamentary newspapers, in explanation for current Czech attitudes       towards minorities.
It has       been discussed by the Austrian Institute of Conflict Research, among       Visegrad policy-makers, and       chosen as a prize by the UN Secondary Schools Conference in Quebec.
It has       been picked up by       book club and library blogs such as the Campaign for the Public Reader,       the Scottish Review of       Books, and New Books in History.
It launched major internet discussions,       for example the Czech       internet newspaper Britsk&#233; listy alone published 45 new articles on the       subject [SOURCE 7].
Significance: The book launched an entirely new debate and sparked       widespread public and       private discussion about Czechoslovakia's past.
It is very widely cited       and is continuing to change       public perceptions of the minorities question in Central Europe.
Czechoslovakia:         The State That         Failed was noted in the Chairman of the Czech Academy of Science's       published report for 2010 of       the most significant books to have been published in the Humanities in the       past 20 years       [SOURCE 8].
It led to the author's invitation to appear at the 23rd       international Prague Writers'       Festival, an honour usually reserved for Nobel, Pulitzer, Booker, Man and       Goncourt prize winners,       and to speak in a televised panel discussion in the Czech Parliament       (Senate) [SOURCE 9].
The book has overturned conventional public understanding of the       Czechoslovak state as having       been more liberal and tolerant than its neighbours.
It complicates       simplistic notions of       Czechoslovakia as a `victim' country, showing Czechoslovakia to have been       a perpetrator, as well       as a victim, of state-sponsored persecution of minorities.
It has begun a       process of widespread       discussion and debate.
As Petr Pithart, former Czech Prime Minister, said in the televised panel       discussion held in the       Czech Parliament (Senate) on 18 April 2013: `Your book has helped by       sparking our conscience...       We can't go back and rectify things, but we can make our understanding       more precise.
We will       always need to grapple with national myths and superstitions.
Some of them       are impossible to       uproot.
I believe that your book will contribute to a certain cleansing of       the atmosphere in this       country.
But it is going to be painful'.
[SOURCE 10]
