     The Errant Mobility report was published on the EFUS (European Forum for       Urban Security, an EU-wide network of 300 local and regional authorities)       website and advertised through its listings.
The findings officially       informed the documentary `Welcome Europa' (2006), which was produced and       broadcast by the Arte channel and selected at the Sundance Film Festival       (2007).
They inform the `Training, Information and Research on       Unaccompanied Minors' policy document produced by the DEVMED       (Mediterranean Development Department) of the PACA regional authority.
According to a representative of Save the Children Italy `the report       became a standard reference for Italian judges, policymakers and project       workers in Italy to understand the intricate relationship between       exploitation and advantage experienced by unaccompanied migrant minors'.
The theoretical and methodological approach and the findings of Mai's       research became the blueprint of the PUCAFREU (Promoting Unprotected       Unaccompanied Children's Access to their Fundamental Rights in the       European Union) EU-funded research project.
The combined findings of the ESRC-funded research, the Haringey Council       evaluation and the IOM-funded project had an important impact on public       debates, policymaking and service provision in the UK.
They led to the       implementation of specific language translation and outreach services for       migrant sex workers in London and in the rest of the UK.
Haringey Council       used the evaluation results to successfully argue for the need to hire       Romanian and Brazilian Portuguese speaking outreach workers.
Mai's       research reinforced ECP's `priority as an organization to focus on       providing rights based information in various languages as well as in       English'.
According to a representative of UKNSWP, `project feedback was       that that they had a greater understanding of the experiences of migrants       which could inform their outreach and support service provision to ensure       appropriate services were provided'.
The research informed and shifted public policies and media debates       towards a distinction between migrants' involvement in the sex industry       and trafficking (i.e.
see Guardian article by Nick Davies on `Prostitution       and trafficking &#8212; the anatomy of a moral panic', 20 October 2009).
The ECP       used the research in their campaign against the 2009 Policing and Crime       Act and `the increased criminalization of sex workers and the closures of       premises justified in the name of clamping down on trafficking'.
Following       the launch of the research findings, Mai was consulted by the Association       of Chief Police Officers (ACPO) during the preparation of the `Setting the       Record' report, so far the only official police quantification of sex       trafficking in England and Wales, confirming that only a minority of       migrant sex workers are trafficked.
The findings were presented at the       ACPO 2010 and at two of the UKNSWP yearly national conferences in 2009 and       2010.
The research completed a tradition of participative and ethnographic       research engaging sex workers directly in identifying their needs and       priorities.
It has `directly informed policy development at a national       level and informed support service practice across the UK' (UKNSWP       representative) and was pivotal in producing a forceful impact on current       UK government guidelines and strategies on trafficking, which are now       separate from those on prostitution and acknowledge that a minority of       migrants working in the sex industry are trafficked.
The findings of the       research inform the influential 2012 report `Silence on Violence' on the       violence experienced by sex workers in London and on the way       anti-trafficking campaigns exacerbated their vulnerability.
The report was       authored by a London GLA member, according to whom Mai's research `helps       both quantify and qualify' the `options and choices open to trafficked       people' and provided `invaluable' insight in an area characterised by       `little data'.
Mai's film `Normal' is informed by the combined findings of Mai's       research and was selected at the Raindance International Film Festival       2012.
It was screened at several projects and events of the UKNSWP, as       well as at a range of national and international academic, policymaking       and activist settings.
The film has been regularly included in syllabi of       teaching modules in Criminology, Gender and Sexuality, Public Health,       Anthropology and Sociology at several UK (Leeds, LSE, LSHTM) and       international (Paris &#8212; EHESS, Nijmegen &#8212; Radboud) universities and has       impacted on the training of prospective practitioners and policymakers.
It       has been seen as helping sex workers to `voice their own experiences of       migrating to the UK' (Open Doors director) and `helping break down       stereotypes' (ECP) while project practitioners have seen it as `an       important resource to inform their partner agencies and the general public       about migrant sex work' (UKNSWP representative).
