     BU's work has benefited a range of research users on a local, national       and international scale.
It has shaped breastfeeding policy and       guidelines, training for midwives and lactation consultants, and has been       applied to direct intervention for breastfeeding mothers through the       website HealthTalkOnline.
Policy and best practice guidelines     Internationally, BU's peer support research informed the Australian       Breastfeeding Association in their submission to the Parliamentary         Inquiry into the Health Benefits of Breastfeeding.
When referencing       BU's research the report states: "It has been found that a large part of       the reason why women find peer-to-peer groups helpful is due to the       psychosocial support they provide, resulting in increased confidence in       breastfeeding for the women and greater satisfaction with their       breastfeeding experience" (R1).
The Inquiry led to the Australian         National Breastfeeding Strategy 2010-2015, which is employing a       range of methods to contribute to improving the health, nutrition and       well-being of infants and the health and wellbeing of mothers by       protecting, promoting, supporting and monitoring breastfeeding (R2).
On a regional level NHS Devon and Devon County Council used the work in       their guidelines as recently as 2012.
Best Practice for Breastfeeding         Peer Support was designed to show what a good quality, effective       breastfeeding peer support initiative should include, providing details of       the pitfalls and examples of best practice.
BU's research formed part of       the evidence base for the benefits of peer support services (point 4.1) in       the section `Peer Support &#8212; The Evidence Base' (R3).
Improved practice for midwives, lactation consultants and other         related professions     One of the key findings from P5 was that listening to and learning from       women's experiences has the potential to change midwives' attitudes       towards breastfeeding.
This acted as a trigger to promote midwives'       critical thinking around practice-based issues involving personal       reflection and self-awareness.
The video narratives chronicled between       2005 and 2007 (G2) informed the development of two training units.
Both       units are aimed at health professionals and peer support workers and       require participants to identify and reflect on their own attitudes       towards infant feeding, to enhance their understanding of breastfeeding       and encourage critical reflection on practice.
The first, Supporting Breastfeeding Mothers, is a distance       learning continuing professional development unit.
Since its establishment       in 2010 it has been delivered to 27 midwives, nurses, health visitors and       other allied health professionals.
The second, BU Resource Package Infant Feeding (BURP), was originally       developed for Winchester and Eastleigh Healthcare NHS Trust in 2011.
It       has since been sold to Princess Anne Hospital, Southampton for &#163;7,500.
An       estimated 600 staff are trained using this package.
When compared with the       standard breastfeeding training course cost of &#163;250 per staff member from       an external provider, this package saves an estimated &#163;142,500 per NHS       Trust.
A midwife at Princess Anne Hospital, Southampton, who completed the       unit in January 2013, confirms it is not just cheaper but is a very       effective learning tool.
"I really do think it will help in practice," she       said.
"I think it is a fantastic way to learn, read a bit, watch a bit, do       a few quizzes.
Well done for all your hard work" (R4).
Improved experience for breastfeeding mothers     BU research has been providing direct support to breastfeeding mothers       via HealthTalkOnline; a website run by the charity Dipex and in       association with the University of Oxford.
The site covers a wide range of       health issues and BU researchers used the video interviews and emerging       themes from G2 to compile and produce the breastfeeding pages (R5).
The       website was selected as the best communications channel because it would       be accessible across the globe at all hours.
Since the pages were launched in 2007 the number of visitors has risen       steadily.
In February 2013, the webmaster reported an average of 37,000       page views on BU's breastfeeding pages from 1,500 unique users each month       (R6).
While it can be difficult to demonstrate how web use constitutes       impact, there is strong evidence that users are immersing themselves in       the content rather than simply browsing the pages with no effect.
HealthTalkOnline data shows 44% of page visits are for over three minutes,       with 8% over thirty minutes (R7).
The findings from Dipex's online evaluative questionnaire reinforce this       assertion.
Results indicated that most users were very positive about the       quality and coverage of the information on the breastfeeding webpages.
Nearly all (97.4%) considered the webpages helpful.
Most importantly       though, responses demonstrated changes in users' behaviour or attitudes,       with 7.7% of respondents deciding to continue breastfeeding or start       breastfeeding after visiting the HealthTalkOnline website (R8).
The HealthTalkOnline breastfeeding pages developed by BU are used across       the globe.
Dipex's evaluative questionnaire showed the resource is used in       Australia, New Zealand, the USA and Canada (R8).
Location information       taken from IP addresses shows over half of visitors are from overseas,       including South Africa, Philippines and India among other countries (R9).
These webpages are an invaluable resource for breastfeeding mothers       because they provide round the clock, consistent advice from an       evidence-based and trustworthy source.
Unlike many evidence-based sources,       which make dry and sometimes difficult reading, the BU breastfeeding pages       on HealthTalkOnline present information through real relatable stories.
The website has an excellent reputation through its connection with the       University of Oxford.
The continuity of the website medium means the       impact of this work will continue.
This is one example of the longevity of       this impact.
The BU team continue to study the obstacles to and facilitators for       breastfeeding and it is hoped that impacts will extend to further       beneficiaries in the future, improving the experience for breastfeeding       mothers and helping to achieve the best possible levels of care by       midwives and lactation consultants.
As recently as September 2013, the       United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF) drew from BU research in its Baby       Friendly Initiative standards (R10), which demonstrates the continuing       impacts arising from this work.
