     MAG's research has led to better, safer, faster, more accurate and less       intrusive reconstructive surgical procedures.
The direct impacts of the       research have been:            improved dignity, comfort and quality of life for thousands of people         and;       significant savings for the UK taxpayer.
MAG has worked with 84 hospitals since 2008.
At least 2,214 individuals       have directly benefitted from their work in the period [7] and a       further 282 have benefitted from NHS services exploiting processes and       techniques pioneered by the group [8].
In 2012 alone, MAG provided       550 custom medical models and devices for the NHS, research organisations,       charities and museums.
They have disseminated their techniques and       processes to over 330 individual company and public sector representatives       and scoped the potential for bespoke medical device design and production       with 198 companies in the period [9].
MAG's impacts are achieved in four ways:            by reducing invasive patient interactions;       by increasing the speed of delivery of prostheses;       by improving quality and consistency of prostheses, and;       by reducing cost.
Such impacts are confirmed by surgeons and other clinicians with whom MAG       has collaborated in the period [10, 11] and are discussed       in more detail below.
MAG's techniques allow digital data to be used both to plan surgery and       develop prostheses without the need for patients to repeatedly attend the       hospital.
This has typically reduced the number of invasive patient       interactions from four to one [10].
Before MAG's processes became       available it was necessary to produce a series of prostheses at ever       increasing levels of fidelity until a `correct' fit was achieved; a       process which typically took up to a year to complete.
The use of MAG's       techniques has reduced this process typically down to six weeks [11]       because the prosthetic device consistently fits the patient first time.
In       addition, the production of more accurate prostheses has resulted in a       reduction in theatre time for patients.
This significantly reduces the       risk of infection, another key benefit to patients of methods enabled by       MAG.
The accurate positioning of a prosthesis requires a full understanding of       the anatomical `environment' into which it is fitted.
Computer Aided       Design (CAD) allows this in a way that cannot be achieved by traditional       means.
MAG's techniques have allowed the production of accurate digital       models of a patient's anatomical structure thereby improving the quality       and, importantly, the consistency of prostheses.
The use of CAD tools has       also reduced the `craft' aspect of prosthetic development thereby       facilitating a previously impossible level of consistency of output [13].
In addition to the impact the use of these procedures has had on       patients, their introduction has also reduced the amount of time required       of surgeons and other medical professionals.
This has the effect of       reducing the cost of such procedures to the NHS and consequently the UK       tax payer.
For example, use of MAG's methods has led to a 19% reduction in       the cost of delivering an average sized semi-digital cranioplasty when       compared with conventional methods [12].
In summary, the impact of the implementation of methods researched and       developed by MAG have benefited a combined total of at least 2,496       patients since 2008.
The introduction of MAG processes have ensured that       prostheses fit accurately and properly first time and reduced each       patient's experience of invasive procedures associated with device fitting       by, on average, 75%.
Each patient has been saved an average of 46 weeks       without an implant which equates to more than 2,200 patient years of       improved dignity, comfort and quality of life.
Adoption of the methods developed by MAG have enabled the NHS to provide       a better service to these patients, more efficiently and at a reduced       cost.
