     The research developments that took place at CMV attracted much interest       from companies in the manufacturing and construction sector.
This led to a       range of commercial applications in: (i) ceramic tile manufacture       inspection; (ii) polished stone defect inspection; and (iii) 3D       characterisation of aggregate materials.
All of these followed from CMV's       work on evolving static PS to dynamic PS.
Further application has been in:       (iv) 3D automotive wheel alignment; and (v) the segmentation and       characterisation of large objects.
Both these followed from CMV work in       isolating 2D and 3D data, as detailed below.
One of the companies that approached the CMV was Quantronix Inc,       an American company operating globally, specialising in object metrology       for freight forwarding.
In 2000 the company funded the CMV to develop an       Overhead Dimensioning System (ODS &#8212; see right) able to rapidly acquire 3D       data from any object(s) of up to 3m x 3m in size.
CMV researchers       developed the system using the PS method (hybrid) and in 2001 the       innovation was protected and a patent application filed by the company.
In       2004, a full prototype ODS was realised with a commercial product, known       as the CubiScan 1000-VS, becoming available in 2009.
First sales were made to an international freight forwarder and, since       then, over 40 systems have been sold in the US and in other countries,       including ten to FedEx and one to our own MOD at $50k each, with a total       value of over $1m.
A range of benefits were delivered to their customers,       through new capability and more efficient processes.
For instance,       courier, freight handlers and airlines customers, including FedEx, have       used it to measure the sizes of packages automatically, enabling them to       achieve efficiency gains by reducing both time for measurement and       previous losses due to inaccurate manual measurement, offering an average       3-week payback (S1) and other benefits such as reduced fuel consumption,       pollution and packaging materials.
Government facilities (MOD) and retail customers have been able to       optimise the use of storage space, handling assets and processes, with one       customer reporting that "one of the CubiScan 1000-VS machines they         purchased... generated over $1 million additional revenue for the         company in one year" (S1).
The impact of the ODS has been continuous       since its availability and has resulted in broadening Quantronix's       in-house knowledge base to include vision-based technology.
The company       has now produced a business case for developing a countertop device based       on CMV PS vision technology (S1).
For this, they returned to CMV in       2012/13 to undertake the necessary R&amp;D incorporating some of the       latest hybrid PS approaches and a new system developed by CMV is now       scheduled for release this year.
CMV's leading research in 3D metrology attracted a new collaboration from       a company in India in 2011 &#8212; Precision Testing Machines Pvt Ltd       (PTM) &#8212; which operates in the automotive sector and is the lead supplier       of sophisticated automotive diagnostic and body shop equipment       manufactured in India.
A non-contact optical measuring device for       automatic automotive wheel alignment was developed by CMV, minimising       subjectivity, operator error and allowing faster throughput.
In 2012, the       demonstrator was handed over to PTM engineers to develop the system to       commercial requirements.
[text removed for publication]     Another application has been that of the Dynamic PS prototype developed       by CMV in 2005 for Surface Inspection Ltd, a global company which       specialises in machine vision systems and automation equipment for the       ceramic tile industry.
The system developed was used to detect, isolate       and characterise concomitant 2D printing (including colour and glossiness)       and 3D moulding defects on complex surfaces with deeply relieved       topographic features and is currently in use for quality control in       ceramic tile manufacturing worldwide (S3).
[text removed for publication]     The final application has been the Petroscope system developed by CMV for       Petromodel, a knowledge-based company based in Iceland, providing       software and high-technology testing instruments for quality and process       control in the aggregates industry.
The Petroscope replaces labour       intensive techniques and is shaping the inspection methodology used by the       construction mineral industry (S4).
A patent for this work was filed in       2004 and granted in USA and Eurasia in 2012 and in China in 2013.
This       system has been demonstrated in a commercial environment for petrographic       analysis, including the characterisation of the complex 3D morphology of       aggregate particles using techniques developed as part of CMV's earlier       work in 3D face recognition, with use in the construction sector and       benefiting companies producing gravel and crushed rock for asphalt,       concrete, and railways.
The system is currently being marketed and a new       version including composition (PETROSCOPE 4D) has been under test by the       Austrian railways (Jan &#8212; Aug 2013) (S4).
