     The research of the Design Policy Group has directly influenced the       design innovation policies of the Welsh Government and the European       Commission.
The group have also influenced the UK's policy discussions       through expert input to parliamentary debate.
Influence on the European Commission: In 2010, the European       Commission included design as one of ten priorities for stimulating       innovation.
This was the first time design had achieved such a high       priority, and this is important since the policy guides how the Commission       distributes funds.
The reasons for design's inclusion can be directly       traced to the Design Policy Group's SEE Platform (see 2. above).
The policy in question, Innovation Union is a ten year economic       development plan for Europe.
The EC Policy makers responsible for it       directly referenced Raulik &amp; Cawood's SEE bulletins as evidence       underpinning the 2009 European Commission staff working document from       which the Innovation Union policy was formed [7, 8].
As       part of Innovation Union's implementation plan the European       Commission also drafted an Action Plan for Design-driven Innovation in         Europe.
The Design Policy Group's research also provided the       evidence base for this document, and SEE is also directly referenced in       it.
[9].
A Policy Officer at the European Commission for the       Director General Enterprise and Industry, Innovation Policy for Growth,       stated:     "Research generated by PDR (the centre where the       Design Policy Group is situated) through the SEE Platform has           proved a valuable resource in preparing the Commission's policy work           on design-driven innovation including the two           staff working documents on design in 2009 and 2013 which have directly           influenced the EC Innovation Policies" [10].
Influence on Welsh Government: The Welsh Government debates and       policy have been directly shaped by the Design Policy Group's activities.
In 2010, an Assembly Member referenced their Design for Innovation in         Wales Manifesto [11] during a debate on innovation policy       development in Wales, including the role of design.
The resulting vote       gave unanimous, cross-party support for design becoming a key Welsh       priority for the first time.
That came to fruition with the publication of       the Welsh Government's The Innovation Strategy for Wales, 2013 [12,         13].
Influence on the UK parliament: In recognition of the Design       Policy Group's influence on Welsh and EU Policy, Cawood was invited to       engage in a debate on the effectiveness of the EU's Research and       Innovation proposals and on design and innovation policy development.
In       2013 he did so by joining the Associate Parliamentary Design &amp;       Innovation Group which provides a forum for open debate between Parliament       and the UK's design and innovation communities [14].
2013 also saw       Cawood's invitation to and participation with the House of Lords Select       Committee on the European Union as an Expert Witness on Design's role in       innovation policy [15].
In summary, WIRAD's Design Policy Group's research into design policy       efficacy has resulted in a series of impacts at national and international       levels.
They can evidence a sustained and substantial influence on the       policies of the Welsh Government and the European Commission and have also       provided expert input to the UK parliament's debate on design's role in       innovation policy.
