     Central to the impact of work on Danebury and Brading has been the       establishment of the Museum of the Iron Age at Andover and the Museum and       Visitor's Centre at Brading.
The archaeological excavations and the       research on the inhabitants of the sites, conducted by Oxford researchers,       have brought to life the Iron Age and Roman periods.
The research has       provided the basis for the narrative upon which both museum facilities are       based, so as to promote substantial learning of our earliest history.
Architectural forms provide key materials and narrative thread in both       facilities, showing how family and broader social structures were       influenced by the movement from round to rectangular architecture,       culminating in the villa complex seen at Brading in the third century AD.
The Oxford researchers have helped to design exhibits of the finds, and       develop descriptions of the excavations and modes of life both in the Iron       Age and Roman periods.
The activities in both places are run through       Charitable Trusts, which have been integral to the research work and its       public dissemination.
The Brading Visitor Centre, funded by an HLF grant,       was based on the findings of the excavation and research.
Two Trusts care       for the villa, the Oglander Family Trust (run by the family owning the       villa) and the Friends of Brading Roman Villa.
The Danebury Trust (a       charitable partnership between Oxford University, Hampshire County Council       and English Heritage) is responsible for the Danebury site and the Andover       Museum, and has been funded by grants from charitable and governmental       bodies since its inception.
Danebury Hillfort and the Andover Museum of the Iron Age:     In 2013, the Museum of the Iron Age employed three full-time and three       part-time employees (one qualified curator) and benefitted from a       supportive group of Friends for volunteer activities.
Within Hampshire's       Museums Service as a whole, five (of 120 employees) are directly involved       in caring for the Danebury collections (the Conservator, Registrar,       Collections Manager, and Collections Officers).
In addition to the new HLF       programme, the material excavated from Danebury plays an important       part in the cultural programme of Hampshire County Council, and attracts       significant numbers of visitors and volunteers.
Over 30,000 people per       annum (not including school visitors) came to the Andover Museum of the       Iron Age and 60,000 people per annum visited Danebury hillfort, with a       good number visiting both [Section 5: C3].
The Museum has been       well received by teachers and members of the general public alike.
One       teacher stated: `Organised a school trip here &#8212; lovely atmosphere, well       led, pacey learning and hands on activities'; while another visitor       remarked: `Excellent to see local history that is well preserved.
I was       interested throughout and will be back again soon!'
[C5]     Although the Andover Museum is of long-standing origin, museum and       educational activities concerning Danebury received considerable new       impetus through a recent HLF grant in 2011, awarded to Professor Cunliffe       and the Deputy Head of the Museum Service Learning, Access and       Interpretation Team (&#163;43,500) [C4].
This funding enabled new       resources (based on the research [R1, R2]) to be created for use       both by schools and the general public.
Researchers and museum staff       worked collaboratively to produce story podcasts, a film, children's       explorer sheets, teacher guidance notes, and activity resources (most of       these are accessible through the project website) [C1].
Between       2011 and 2013, 760 school children from 21 schools visited Danebury       hillfort and the Museum of the Iron Age [C3].The museum also held       activity days and guided walks to encourage members of the public to       engage with the hillfort (over 700 people attended these over the same       period) [C3].
Further tools to attract visitor engagement include       the construction of an `earth seat' on the site of an Iron Age roundhouse       as a teaching aid and place of contemplation.
The site attracts members of Young Archaeology groups.
The North       Hampshire Young Archaeologists Club, established in March 2000, and based       at Andover Museum, has approximately ten meetings annually.
The club has       around 40 children registered at any one time, approximately half of which       it sees at each meeting.
Between 2008 and 2013, these meetings have       included regular discussion of Danebury material and visits to the       Danebury Project sites [R1, R2; C3].
Contact with similar Young       Archaeologist groups in Bagshot and Southampton has also led these groups       to visit the site [C3].
In addition to Cunliffe's own academic and public lectures on Danebury,       Hampshire Museum staff have also given around 200 talks, lectures, and       presentations in the period 2008-2013, with the Danebury research material       as a core element.
Danebury material also continues to be displayed       outside the site and museums as part of Hampshire Country Council's       touring exhibition programme (focussing on Hampshire's main nine sites)       and in the smaller Hampshire's Hidden Treasures display.
Danebury       (including the excavation and research material) has also featured in       major exhibitions in Winchester and Andover, such as The Forgotten         Emperor (2010) [C3].
The excavations at Danebury have been the subject of several television       broadcasts.
The Danebury site was the subject of a Team Team       special by Channel 4 in 2008, in which Professor Cunliffe was interviewed       and provided expertise.
Cunliffe also appeared twice in the BBC series Neil         Oliver's History of Celtic Britain for in 2011, talking on the       subject of Iron Age Danebury.
The popularity of Danebury, evident in the       repeats of earlier programs and the making of new ones, has brought the       site to an even wider audience, and made a significant impact on the wider       public's awareness of Iron Age Britain.
Brading Villa and the Brading Museum and Visitor Centre:     The Brading Museum and Visitor Centre was established in 2004, following       various sources of funding, including an HLF grant of &#163;2,000,000 with       further varied funds of &#163;1,000,000.
The new villa complex was built partly       to protect the mosaics and fabric of the villa.
However, once in place       museum staff in combination with Cunliffe and his team realised that new       educational possibilities offered themselves, and much work has been       carried out during and since Cunliffe's excavations to realise these       possibilities.
The Visitor Centre introduces the villa complex, including       the famous mosaics, and the Museum provides a narrative of life in the       late Iron Age and Roman periods from the presentation of the finds and       their archaeological contexts.
In both cases, the key materials and       insights were provided by Cunliffe's excavations.
Currently the museum       facility attracts 35,000 visitors a year, with more coming to visit the       reconstructed Roman garden and landscape [C6].
As with Danebury and the Andover Museum, educational materials [C2,         C6] have been prepared for schools and over 100 school visits are       made every year, annually reaching over 2500 children on average [C6].
The Centre has won a number of awards, including Green Apple Awards for       Architectural Heritage (2009 &#8212; Silver Award and 2013 &#8212; Green Champion);       Tourism South East 2011 Small Visitor Attraction of the Year &#8212; Silver       Award; and a Trip Advisor Certificate of Excellence 2013.
The Museum and       Visitor Centre have been well reviewed &#8212; `This museum is a lesson on how       to make a potentially dull visit, exciting!
The route through the ground       plan is carefully constructed to give the best view of the wonderful       mosaics, and provides clear and interesting information on the history of       the house and it's inhabitants' and `A fantastic place for adults and       children.
Loads for kids to do, our 7 year old loved the activities.
Staff       were very helpful.'
[C9].
There is also considerable volunteer activity around the villa complex,       and over the last year the Friends of Brading Roman Villa have given over       5000 hours to help with the running of the visitor facilities [C7].
They are also actively engaged in fundraising for the Centre and the site.
Volunteering has been a strong feature of the work at Brading, as the       excavations were carried out by a team composed of one third each of       professionals, students and interested locals [C7].
The Brading Museum has recently become a partner of the British Museum,       who will lend 52 antiquities from their collections for a forthcoming       exhibition (expected 2014) in Brading on Roman Sexuality.
This partnership       demonstrates the national importance and appeal of the educational work       and research at Brading.
