     The claimed impacts have exclusively been led by or delivered at       Loughborough University between 2011 and 2013.
There have been four       primary impacts.
(1) a novel assessment tool (CET; 3.3) (2) the       LEAP treatment manual, available to download from http://www.lboro.ac.uk/research/nceds/resources/       (3) Patient benefit (n = 520 patients treated to date); (4).
Training       workshops and consultancy for clinicians and exercise professionals (n =       circa 600 delegates to date).
The significance of both the CET and LEAP can be verified by our audit       report which suggests that these innovations have changed the way in which       clinicians across the globe assess and manage compulsive exercise within       their services.
(1)The CET [3.3] is being used as a screening tool for eating       disorder (ED) pathology, specifically for the compulsive       exercise that often pre-dates eating concerns.
In fact, the National       Eating Disorders Collaboration (NEDC, Australia, http://www.nedc.com.au/identifying-people-at-risk)       and Harvard University - affiliated ED service both recommend the CET as a       key screening measure [5.1, 5.2, 5.5].
The CET is published within       a book, written by two Harvard University Academics.
The use of the CET       has a preventative impact of considerable significance by providing       assessment of this early ED symptom and thereby providing a target for       early intervention and reducing the overall number of ED cases.
(2) LEAP is an empirically-based [3.2, 3.4] cognitive-behavioural       intervention [3.5] delivered via either group or       individual settings and for use with in-patients and out-patients.
Pilot       data (from 30 hospitalised patients), demonstrates the significance of the       LEAP impact in reducing length of hospitalisation (from 41 days in the       control group to 31 days in the LEAP group), improving quality of life and       reducing levels of anxiety among patients.
In addition, there were       significant reductions in psychopathology, and increases in weight,       sustained at 12 month follow-up in comparison to `treatment as usual'       (data presented as Meyer et al., at the London International         Conference on Eating Disorders, 2009; 2010).
Clinicians have       welcomed this development [5.1-5.5] with LEAP being presented at       over 25 clinical services and at NHS R&amp;D events.
Director of the       Sydney Eating Disorders Service in Australia and the Associate Director       from Harvard University's affiliated eating disorder clinic both       acknowledge that this treatment will radically change the way in which       clinicians treat their patients [5.1, 5.2].
LEAP is currently       subject to an international, multi-centre randomised controlled trial,       funded by the Australian National Health Medical Research Council.
(3) In relation to direct patient benefit, the LEAP manual has only been       available for download since September 2011, and has been downloaded by 56       specialist eating disorder services in: the UK, USA, Australia, New       Zealand, Germany, Norway and Italy.
The reach of the manual's impact can       be seen by the number of patients who have already received the LEAP       programme.
Our recently conducted audit provides a conservative       approximation of 520 patients worldwide, external to Loughborough       University, who have benefitted as a direct result of the research       outlined in section three.
Feedback reports that 80% of the services       endorsed LEAP as either "useful" or "very useful" at reducing patient's       compulsive exercise.
In addition to the worldwide reach of LEAP, more       locally, a further 40 patients have benefitted from the LEAP work,       delivered at Loughborough University's (LU) partner services; Leicester       NHS Adult Eating Disorder (ED) service, and the Birmingham &amp; Solihull       Mental Health Foundation Trust ED inpatient service [5.3].
The       impact of LEAP is significant; with over 80% of the recipients reporting       that the treatment was either "helpful" or "very helpful" at helping them       to manage their unhealthy exercise in a healthier way, with all patients       endorsing that LEAP increased their awareness of the nature and function       of their compulsive exercise.
(4) The reach of LEAP is not constrained to directly benefitting eating       disorder clients.
In addition, the underpinning research has led to       training workshops delivered to clinicians, who are now delivering LEAP to       their patients, as well as disseminating their acquired knowledge to       colleagues within their services [5.1-5.5].
85% of clinicians, who       received LU's training, endorsed it as either "useful" or "very useful" at       increasing their ability to understand and appropriately manage       problematic exercise in their service.
In addition to the CET and LEAP impacts, the underpinning research has       led to the development of education and training programmes for athletes       and coaches (delivered to Athletes, Clinicians, Medics, Physiotherapists,       Sport Nutritionalists, Performance coaches, Teachers etc from       organisations including the English Institute of Sport, UK Athletics,       British Gymnastics, The Royal Ballet, British Triathlon etc).
As a result,       LU now delivers consultancy, previously unavailable in the UK, to key       stakeholders.
