     The ethos of the Economic and Social Research Council's (ESRC's) Teaching       and Learning Research Programme (TLRP), of which the UWE research was a       part, was to produce research in practice (what it termed       `evidence-informed principles for teaching and learning or pedagogies').
The manner in which the research was disseminated and its wider pathways       to impact were central to this process.
One output of the research, the       book by David James (UWE) and Gert Biesta (Exeter) (reference [1] above),       was aimed at college practitioners and managers.
It has been well received       across the sector and is widely acknowledged that it has helped them       better understand the complexities of the changing funding and policy       landscape.
The Head Of Adult Skills And Learning at Leicester City Council       describes it as `simply the best book we have come across for years in       presenting, and giving concepts and words to, what tutors experience       day-to-day in trying to do their job' (source [1] below).
The project was backed by an elaborate dissemination plan supported by       the Learning and Skills Development Agency (LSDA).
Project activities and       outcomes were reported to practitioners, managers and policy-makers within       and way beyond the four selected FE colleges, through local, regional and       national workshops, seminars, conferences and publications - the strategic       enhancement of impact on college processes, teachers' practice and learner       outcomes being integral to the project's design.
The research team worked       closely with organisations including City of Bristol College and the       regional Learning and Skills Research Network to facilitate the       incorporation of research findings into their activities and practices.
A partnership ethos existed within the TLC project, involving close       collaboration between FE- and university-based researchers, together with       FE teachers, students and managers.
It also integrated with existing       communities of practice.
This raised the capacity of the sector, beyond       the traditional research community, to engage in research for themselves       and improving the quality of their work, as exemplified by City of Bristol       College as highlighted below.
This addressed the professional needs of       those involved, and the needs of the students they worked with, well       beyond the period of the research itself.
College practitioners were       supported in researching their own practices using ideas developed within       the project, and operationalised, experimented with and evaluated the       themes identified by the project teams.
The project's outcomes have informed the content of various Initial       Teacher Education programmes, for instance the PGCE Post-Compulsory       Education and Training at Cardiff University (which was not involved in       the research).
Cardiff's programme has taken up key findings from the       research, such as the nature of contemporary professional roles in FE and       the need to understand learning cultures to ensure the best outcomes for       learners.
The course leader for this award has confirmed that as a       consequence of adopting the project research findings and recommendations       into their course, students are now far more capable of discerning and       understanding distinctive learning cultures in a diverse range of       departments, giving them a depth of insight missing in cohorts previously.
The outcome of this is a vast improvement in the trainees' `observational       writing' and ability to understand and articulate `ethnographic case       studies on student/teacher interactions'.
Like some of the many other       teacher education programmes that have also adopted findings from this       research, the Cardiff team identify a positive impact on the student       teachers' `professional learning and their written performance'.
They also       suggest trainees are much better prepared to cope with the realities of       working in the sector, and that `drop out and attrition is much reduced'       as a consequence.
Another benefit is that, given their knowledge of this       research, the trainees are much better placed to take the opportunities       afforded by `occupational learning' whilst on placement (see source [2]).
The practice of other HE institutions unconnected to the research has       also been impacted in ways beyond teacher education programmes.
Thames       Valley University, for instance, used the research findings in adopting a       university-wide change to the planning and delivery of its programmes, and       in methods of assessment they employ for their students.
These changes       were a direct result of an invited keynote speech and series of curriculum       and staff development workshops that were run there by James and another       co-director of the project (Prof Phil Hodkinson) in 2009.
The day-long       event was attended by several hundred university staff, including       academics and programme managers, and staff concerned with a range of       university services including HR.
The changes introduced at the university       drew directly upon the four key project findings identified in section 2       above.
Processes to ensure high-quality teaching in FE, such as the peer       shadowing initiative at City of Bristol College, have been implemented as       a consequence of this research, improving the skills of FE lecturing staff       and outcomes for learners.
A Research Steering Group was established at       the college, and bursaries have also been awarded for teachers to       investigate and improve their practice, and to present their findings to       colleagues and spread the impact wider.
Both of these schemes were set up       in 2005, shortly after the conclusion of the research (in which the       college was a participant), aligning their policy and practice with the       findings in section 2 above, particularly around pedagogy and tutors'       professionalism (see source [3]).
On a wider level the UWE research has influenced policy debate in       post-compulsory education.
Expert commentator and policy adviser Professor       Frank Coffield highlighted, in his influential report in 2009, how the       research's impact included tackling what he considers the flawed view of       the 2006 Leitch Report into the UK economy's skill requirements.
He       suggested the TLC project as a whole, and in particular James and Biesta's       book, impacted on practice across the sector by enhancing our       understanding of how and why people learn through offering an approach       consisting of two powerful, interlocking ideas `a theory of learning         cultures and a cultural theory of learning'.
Coffield also       emphasised the important role of this work in influencing the national       policy debate.
This concept was crucial in the subsequent formulation of       policy at a national and institutional level to help the creation of the       `individual learning revolution', which Coffield claimed `the government       had called for 10 years ago' (source [4]).
The veracity of Coffield's observation is evidenced by James's invited       contribution to the ESRC seminar series 'New Directions in Learning and       Skills in England, Scotland and Wales' to articulate the TLC project's       research findings to a wider group of stakeholders across the nations of       mainland Britain.
The series was unusual for its deliberate combination of       academic researchers, senior policy makers and institutional leaders from       the three countries, and enabled them to compare policy and practice, and       to take lessons from one another for the benefit of systems, organisations       and individual practitioners and learners.
After James's contribution to       this had been written up as part of a book based on the seminar series       (reference [8] above), his chapter was specifically requested as evidence       for the joint NIACE/Association of Colleges/157 Group Inquiry 'Colleges in       their Communities', launched in December 2010.
The Inquiry was chaired by       Baroness Sharp of Guildford and published its final report in November       2011 (see source [5] below).
Returning to national activities having local impact, as a consequence of       the research's acknowledged importance, James gave an invited keynote       address to over 1000 delegates at the Association of Colleges (the FE       college principals' body) in 2007 on How to Improve Improvement:         Learning cultures and FE improvement.
It influenced practice in       colleges locally on the four key findings identified by the project, with       the Principals taking back recommendations and implementing them in their       own organisations.
The research is acknowledged to have led to a       re-evaluation of college procedures on issues including staff development       and quality monitoring across much of the sector, and benefits have been       felt as a consequence across the duration of this census period.
