     Evidence-based decision making lies at the heart of areas of       policy-making.
Under the principle of       subsidiarity, road safety policies have been predominantly developed and       implemented at national       level, while the safety performance of vehicles and other technical       measures has been specified       through international agreements, increasingly on a global scale.
In 2001,       in its Transport White       Paper [5.1], the European Commission identified that it could       support casualty reduction at national       level by providing a consistent mechanism for EU Member States to monitor       progress, prioritise       measures and to understand better the causes of crashes and injuries.
At       that time little was known       about the manner in which safety policy-making was conducted or the       optimum characteristics of       the evidence base, so in the Road Safety Action Plan [5.2],       published in 2003 the Commission       decided to request research into the development of the European Road       Safety Observatory       (ERSO).
This would "coordinate all Community activities in the fields of       road accident and injury       data collection and analysis" and the purpose of the research programme       was to design the       framework, content and dissemination aspects of the Observatory according       to state of the art       scientific evidence, user requirements and the best dissemination       principles.
The Transport Safety Research Centre at Loughborough University led a       series of three EU fnded       projects to first design the framework of the ERSO and then to augment and       enhance its       capabilities.
Building on previous research conducting in-depth accident       research under the       Pendant research programme the Loughborough University research team       identified the following       areas of data and knowledge to be of most value in supporting national       road safety policy- making.
National accident data              Exposure data              Intermediate outcome indicators              In-depth data on accident and injury causes              Road safety management practise              Evaluation and forecasting methods              Driving safety behaviour              State of the art reviews of key safety areas                 A series of research phases was undertaken for each area of data and       knowledge to identify the       most appropriate indicators or knowledge areas and to develop the most       suitable protocols.
These were reviewed by representatives of the 27 EU Member States, and, by       2010 the set of       protocols was adopted as the European Standard to be implemented within       ERSO and by       Member States.
The relevance and applicability of the Observatory was       finally reviewed by       national representatives of each EU Member State.
Before it was       transferred to the European       Commission DG-MOVE website in 2009 the Observatory was attracting over       5,000 internet hits       from road safety policymakers across the EU each month.
The reach of the impact has been very broad covering all 27 EU Member       States and increasingly       countries outside the EU that have reviewed and identified the value of       the work.
The research has       validated the concept of the Observatory, which has now been incorporated       within the EC website       [5.5].
Since the completion of the SafetyNet programme national       observatories have been       developed in many countries including the UK, France, Spain, Czech       Republic, Poland, Tunisia       and Netherlands and 20 South American countries.
In 2011 the Transport and       Tourism Committee       of the European Parliament conducted a review [5.4] of the       Commissions Road Safety Programme       to 2020 [5.3], its conclusions were supported by the full       Parliament in a vote and the final motion       [5.7] called for the results of SafetyNet and DaCoTA to be deployed       across the 27 Member States       by 2013.
The availability of the information within the ERSO and its application       to road safety policy-       making has been promoted by many international road safety organisations       including            European Transport Safety Council       Centro Regionale di Monitoraggio della Sicurezza Stradale       European Association for Injury Promotion and Safety Control       Deutscher Verkehrssicherheitsrat       Road Safety For All (low and middle income countries)       Welsh National Assembly       Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development Transport Forum                         The availability of the Observatory has improved the evidence base       available to road safety       policy-makers and this has improved the quality of decision making,       particularly in the countries       with less well developed road safety cultures.
The development of ERSO       continues to have an       impact in new areas; the European Commission is currently developing a       serious injuries strategy       [5.8] which will apply to all Member States.
This directly       implements the research and       recommendations conducted in SafetyNet concerning this casualty group by       making standard the       research protocols defining serious injury and the methods to relate       national counts to a harmonised       EU method.
The impact of ERSO has been corroborated by the EC Project       Officer [5.9].
As further       recognition of the impact of the Observatory in 2013 ERSO was presented       with the HRH Prince       Michael International Road Safety Award [5.10].
