     The evidence of the research impact is wide and significant.
It has been       evidenced by a) advancing assistive technologies in a sporting       environment; b) having peer-reviewed knowledge; c) being of an applied       nature with out-reach to athletes, coaches and wheelchair manufacturers       and d) has instigated collaborative networks with several key       internationally renowned researchers.
The PHC's research (2008-13) has       delivered on a number of performance related projects which have impacted       on UK Sports funded Paralympic Sports and contributed to ParalympicGB's       achievements at the London 2012 Paralympics [5.1, 5.2].
Supporting Paralympic Performance: The outputs from the PHC's       wheelchair configuration research theme has significantly influenced the       preparation strategies of the Paralympic athletes leading into the 2012       London Paralympic Games, by better educating them about wheelchair       configuration and chair choice (all members of the wheelchair rugby and       basketball teams, n=36).
The research findings have been presented by Dr's       Goosey-Tolfrey and Mason to ParalympicsGB practitioners and both GB       athletes/coaches.
The LU based research found that changes in wheelchair       camber greatly influenced wheelchair mobility performance.
With Dr's       Goosey-Tolfrey and Mason's assistance they worked closely with UK Sport's       Research and Innovation team on individual case studies to optimise       straight line speed and agility within the sport of wheelchair rugby.
Working with the rugby athletes on an individual basis provided them with       the evidence-base to help inform their choice when purchasing sports       wheelchairs for London 2012.
Consequently, two of the twelve players       reduced their chair camber following this work [5.3].
Furthermore,       one of the central projects in LU's partnership with UK Sport was       identified from the earlier work of Dr Barry Mason's PhD, where the need       to individualise the wheelchair-user-interface was identified.
This led to       a joint partnership between UK Sport, BMW and LU (including the Sports       Technology Institute (2011-12)) where a systematic ergonomic approach was       adopted to improve the design of wheelchair seating.
This team developed       individualised seating for 8 players (4 men and 4 women) competing in the       Paralympic Games in London 2012 [5.4].
At the other end of the       sporting spectrum, the key insights from this work have advised athletes,       particularly those who are new to wheelchair sport or inexperienced, to       configure their sports wheelchairs to 18&#176; camber and 26" wheels.
The LU based research has facilitated the development of on-court       wheelchair sport specific procedures, a pool of normative physiological       data and training guidelines that can and have been used by sport science       practitioners within the Home Institutes (English Institute of Sport       (EIS)) and National Governing Bodies.
Moreover, a presentation has been       made by Dr's Leicht and Goosey-Tolfrey to the UK Sport talent team       entitled `The physiological determinants of performance in upper body       exercise in athletes with a disability' to inform the talent scientists of       the disability pathways.
Similarly, the PHC's work has been cited within       the guidelines for preparing the Paralympic athlete and practitioner for       the 2012 London Paralympic Games that was circulated to all GB staff and       athletes at the Games (~600).
With Dr Goosey-Tolfrey's assistance novel       training strategies have been identified for those practitioners working       in disability sport enabling them `To deliver the best prepared       Paralympics team to the Paralympic Games' (achieving the strategic       objective of the British Paralympic Association) [5.1, 5.5].
The PHC's research agenda has helped inform the talent identification for       British Disability Cycling/ British Para-triathlon, identifying credible       performance for Goalball and assisted the applied research that has been       provided to the British Wheelchair Basketball Association and Great       Britain Wheelchair Rugby.
LU's research has helped with the development of       heart rate (HR) guidelines for GB wheelchair athletes during training and       with the quantification of exercise intensity through the use of rating of       perceived exertion (RPE) methods.
For example, individualised HR training       methods have been established by testing at LU, and consequently been used       by several of the GB wheelchair basketball players whilst they were       overseas in Europe to support their training (2011) [5.6].
Education and Knowledge Transfer: The PHC is recognised as a       leading Paralympic research centre and proof of this positioning was the       invitation to lead and organise the 2013 UK High Performance Conference       for Paralympic Sports Science and Sports Medicine (with the British       Paralympic Association and EIS) funded by the PHF.
Moreover, at the other       end of the exercise continuum, the key studies cited earlier [3.1, 3.2         &amp; 3.3] underpin sections of a 20 page booklet (which was       developed with Bromakin and RGK wheelchair manufacturers and       ParalympicsGB).
This information is essential as it guides rehabilitation       specialists and those involved with development athletes through the       journey of wheelchair sports chair selection from beginner to elite       performer [5.7].
