     Impact of ROLE project       The way in which the internet is used is changing.
Once, websites were       used passively to view       content already created.
Now users are interacting and collaborating with       each other in social       media dialogue within virtual communities.
Examples of this so-called Web       2.0 concept include       social networking sites, blogs, wikis, video sharing sites, hosted       services, web applications,       mashups and folksonomies.
The ROLE research project explored the place of e-learning in this new       context.
Its main objective       has been to support teachers in developing open personal learning         environments for their       students.
The project has created resources and tools for teachers which       give them the ability to       create such technology-driven learning environments for their       students, which they are able to       adapt to their own specialisms and needs, irrespective of individual       operating systems.
These       resources and tools include software applications with which teachers and       trainers can build their       own online learning environments, and widget bundles to support a specific       learning or teaching       task.
It has also developed a mash-up collaboration system called Graasp,       which enables teachers       and students to link different social media applications into their       personal learning environment.
Most of the technological solutions developed as part of the ROLE project       are shared with the       open-source community &#8212; that is they are freely available to anyone to       download.
Access points have recorded more than 100,000 page views.
The       users/beneficiaries include:     HEIs and Schools &#8212; creating effective e-learning environments for         students &#8212; The open access       software and tools created by ROLE have been used by RWTH Aachen       University in Germany in a       Computer Science course.
They created an electronic reference book, the       Web 2.0 Knowledge       Map, as a kind of improved Wikipedia system.
The application supports       students in looking up       factual knowledge needed in their homework assignments to design computer       software.
Students       can search for knowledge articles by entering topic keywords and navigate       from the current article       to related articles using hyperlinks.
It is based on semantic net       technology, where hyperlinks are       not just links, but belong to predefined categories, each bearing a       meaning, as a named relation.
The Knowledge Map tool won the second prize in the 2010 International       E-Learning Association       Awards, in the category "Academic Blended Learning".
IMC AG &#8212; developing commercial products for the e-learning sector       &#8212; The international company       IMC AG is based in Germany and provides technology-enhanced solutions for       learning and       training.
IMC has integrated ROLE technologies into their R&amp;D       programme.
They have been used       to underpin and improve their products for teachers and trainers,       including an award-winning       learning management system called CLIX.
It has also underpinned a MOOC       (Massive Open       Online Course) platform called OpenCourseWorld &#8212; this is an online       course aiming at large-scale       interactive participation and open access via the web.
The company is also       working on the       development of a mobile learning infrastructure for tablet- technologies.
It is designed to implement       the use of social media in the classroom to create a useful and efficient       learning environment.
POLO is still at the developmental stage but the R&amp;D programme at IMC       AG is underpinned by       ROLE technologies and insight.
(5.5)     Festo &#8212; enhancing employee training through more effective e-learning         tools &#8212; Festo is a leading       world-wide supplier of automation technology and the performance leader in       industrial training and       education programs.
The company uses the CLIX learning management system       and was one of       the five main test-beds for ROLE, to evaluate the project's solutions for       technology-enhanced       workplace lifelong learning.
(5.6)     Impact of Go-Lab project       The EU Go-Lab project &#8212; Global Online Science Labs for Inquiry Learning at       School opens up       remote science laboratories and their online models (online labs) for       large-scale use in education.
Students from around the world can perform personalized scientific       experiments with online labs,       and teachers can enrich their classroom activities with demonstrations and       disseminate best       practice in a web-based pedagogic community.
It also gives the owners of       the labs the chance to       promote their scientific activities.
As of Sept 2013, 43 students and 685       teachers have used Go-       Lab, inspiring young people to enjoy and pursue careers in science &#8212; a key       priority in both the UK       and European Union, to support future knowledge-based economies.
(5.7)     Impact of the 80-Days project       During the 80Days project, researchers worked with the games       developer community to develop       psycho-pedagogical and technological foundations for successful computer       games in terms of       educational efficacy as well as financial turnovers.
(5.1, 5.2)     Economic impact on SME partners       Two game developer companies were involved with the 80-Days project &#8212;       "learning games"       specialists TAKOMAT GmbH, of Germany, and "serious games" experts       Testaluna, of Italy.
Involvement in the 80Days project enhanced both companies' know-how in       designing and       developing complex and high-quality learning games.
Both companies use       their involvement with       leading-edge research has a "unique selling point" when marketing       themselves.
Both companies used the 80Days demonstrator game &#8212; Lizard 3.0 (developed       at Leicester) &#8212; and       the scalable 80Days game concept for acquisition of other learning game       projects and the search       for investors and/or publishers to realize the 80Days game concept and       turn it into a full game title.
TAKOMAT also used the demonstrator game for the successful acquisition of       a commercial       serious game project &#8212; Energetika, the winner in the Best Serious Game       category in the 2010       German Game Prize.
(5.3)     TESTALUNA also used involvement in the research to win a contract for the       development of a       serious game.
The company is developing two separate lines of products:       one for medium-sized       educational products, in association with national public bodies, and the       other for small educational       serious games, to be launched by free games portals.
(5.4)     Awareness raising within the games developer community       The 80-Days project team from Leicester were involved in several       international events which       raised the awareness of techniques that support high-quality learning       games to game developers.
These included the Montr&#233;al International Game Summit 2008 (1,300+       participants) and       Gamescom 2009 (circa 245,000 participants).
Awareness raising within the potential beneficiary community       The Leicester team contributed to a number of initiatives for raising the       awareness of scientists,       politicians, professionals, teachers and pupils to the role and       opportunities of video games for       learning experience.
These included the World Cyber Games 2008 and 3rd       Youth Forum North-Rhine-Westphalia,       Cologne, Germany, 07-08.11.2008.
More than 5,000 people attended including       schools teachers, e-learning professionals and politicians.
