     The National Space Centre (NSC), which opened on June 30th       2001, was conceived by its       founding partners (the University of Leicester and Leicester City Council)       as a &#163;50 million flagship       Millennium Commission project for the English East Midlands and has, in       the intervening decade,       established a reputation as one of the foremost science visitor centres in       the UK.
The space       science and astronomy programmes of the Unit gave rise to the NSC and       continues, throughout       the 2008-13 period of interest here, to make significant inputs to many of       its activities (A).
The NSC's rocket tower, designed by the Nicholas Grimshaw architectural       practice, houses       original Thor and Blue Streak rockets raised to the launch position and       has become a regional       icon, featuring each evening on the introduction to the BBC East Midlands       early evening news       bulletin.
Since its opening, over 2.5 million visitors have passed through       its doors (including Buzz       Aldrin, the second man on the moon, in 2005).
Visitor numbers are on an       upward trend.
The yearly       rolling average number of visitors was 235,000 in December, 2012 but the       most up-to-date data       (March 2013) indicates an 11% year-on-year increase in visitor numbers.
The number of       schoolchildren on educational visits reached the NSC's capacity in 2008       and has remained at that       level (65,000 students per annum) ever since.
The staff complement is 127       (92 FTE) and the       Centre's turnover in the last year was &#163;4.0M, returning a small surplus       for re-investment in the       exhibit (C).
The NSC's growth has given rise to two subsidiary       business units.
The first of these &#8212;       NSC Education &#8212; is responsible for the Challenger Centre (where students       fly simulated space       missions) and for the major initiative for science teacher engagement,       Space Academy.
Originally       Space Academy was a regional activity funded by the East Midlands       Development Agency       (EMDA) but from 2011 has become a national programme, with a second Space       Academy office       on the Harwell campus in Oxfordshire.
The funders include the UK Space       Agency and the       European Space Agency.
The second NSC business unit &#8212; NSC Creative &#8212;       produces 2D and 3D       full-dome planetarium shows for the in-house Sir Patrick Moore space       theatre and, increasingly, for       other science-based visitor centres throughout the world.
Twelve such       shows have been variously       translated into the major European languages, Hebrew and Russian.
Shows       have now been sold       to 230 venues in 30 countries.
The impact claimed consists of the following distinct elements:     (i) The establishment and continuing growth of a centre of national scale       and significance in the       communication of science to the general public and, more significantly, to       8-14 year old school       children faced with career choices, so that they may be more likely to       pursue the STEM subjects       vital for a competitive UK economy (see details of early measured outcomes       in section (ii) below).
The current Innovation Growth Strategy (IGS) for the UK space industry, in       particular, is wholly       dependent on increased numbers of trained young people in order to meet       its ambitious goals for       the period 2015-30.
(ii) The resulting influence on the UK national and European STEM       agendas, through the       demonstration of better learning outcomes for those who have visited the       NSC and participated in       educational programmes using space as an instructional theme.
Evidence for       these improved       outcomes has been collated, with the intention of future publication in       the science education       literature, by NSC staff (B).
In particular, the August 2013 AS       level outcomes for the first cohort of       Space Academy students are, on average, significantly higher than would       have been expected       from the same students' results at GCSE, traditionally taught.
Using Monte       Carlo techniques to       randomly sample the national distribution of AS grades, Professor Fraser,       has shown that there is       only a 6% probability that the Space Academy results were down simply to       chance (D).
(iii) The establishment of a physical focus for the regional space       industry in the East Midlands.
The       first innovation /incubation centre component (recently christened "The       Dock") of the Leicester       Science Park (now called "Pioneer Park") has just (September, 2013) opened       on the Abbey       Meadows site adjacent to the NSC.
Ten initial company tenancies have       already been agreed (E).
(iv) A significant and continuing contribution to urban regeneration; the       NSC was built on a       brownfield site associated with waste water management in the River Soar.
The new adjacent       Innovation Centre is accompanied by a bridge over the River Soar which       will begin to realise that       neglected waterway as an asset for the City of Leicester.
(v) The establishment of a first point-of-contact for regional and       national media enquiries related to       space science and technology and for the dissemination of space and       astronomy news and       information (including under this heading the UK National Near-Earth       Object (NEO) information       centre, funded until 2012 by the UK Space Agency is at the NSC).
(v) The substantial local economic benefit of a successful, established       visitor / education attraction       which provides employment to over 100 people.
The total turnover since the       NSC's establishment       has been &#163;36 million, which, when the construction cost is added and the       spend by out-of-region       and overseas visitors on items such as overnight accommodation is taken       into account, may       signify a total benefit to the economy of Leicester and Leicestershire       approaching &#163;100 million.
The       new innovation centre adjacent to the NSC represents a &#163;5.9 million       investment by Leicester City       Council, while a second innovation space funded by the Science Park site       developer (Sowden plc)       adds another &#163;2.2 million leveraged investment (C).
