     This has two separate strands, each set out under its own subheading       below.
1.
Improvements to learning outcomes in Bristol schools by changing         governance         systems     As recommended in the research findings, UWE itself entered into       `extended partnerships' with       local schools.
This began in the South Bristol constituency, the location       of the research itself, with       the Bridge Learning Campus (BLC), and went on to include a major       initiative beyond that area, the       Cabot Learning Federation (CLF).
It has also influenced the `widening       participation' (WP) practices       of other universities.
For example, the neighbouring University of Bristol       has entered into a similar       partnership with another school academy in the city.
All this happened after Raphael Reed was invited to present the research       findings at Bristol Local       Authority and regional School Leadership events.
As a result, she was       invited to advise a number       of local schools and academies to set up new governance systems, including       those mentioned       above; these are now set out in more detail below.
Bridge Learning Campus (BLC)     Hengrove Secondary school in South Bristol had been identified as a       failing school.
In 2009 it was       replaced by the Bridge Learning Campus (BLC), an innovative school       providing for pupils across       the entire age range from 4 to 19 years old.
It was set up after the       research &#8212; its governance       system was heavily influenced by the findings.
The innovative Trust       partnership running the school,       Trust in Learning (TiL), includes UWE, City of Bristol College and       Bristol City Council.
TiL was       seen as a solution to the distinctive challenges facing this school, and       another in north Bristol,       Orchard Academy, which similarly served a predominantly white working       class community.
UWE's       Prof Ron Ritchie was chair of the partnership, and Raphael Reed was on the       board of TiL and a       BLC governor until her retirement from UWE in 2012.
The effect at BLC has been profound &#8212; its Chief Executive describes it as       `transformational'       [source S1 below] &#8212; radically improving both community expectations and       the standards actually       achieved (compared with the secondary school that it replaced).
For       example, in 2012, 45% of       students achieved five or more A*-C GCSE grades, compared with only 11% in       2006.
The school has changed its approach to parental and community engagement       as a consequence       of the research.
According to its Chief Executive, the implementation of       the UWE report's       recommendation to have FE and HE providers involved in the management of       the school has       aided its work in `supporting lifelong learning and engaging our hard to       reach and vulnerable       families to be more resilient in looking for learning opportunities' [S1].
Cabot Learning Federation (CLF)     John Cabot Academy, Bristol, is a successful school located outside the       south Bristol area.
It       entered into a partnership with a weaker nearby school, seeding what was       later to become the       Cabot Learning Federation (CLF).
By July 2013 this had grown into a       federation of 11 schools       across Bristol, including six secondary academies.
It has a central chief       executive, and each       school has its own principal.
Primarily as a result of the research findings, UWE became a principal       sponsor of CLF, developing       the extended form of partnership employed by TiL.
UWE is represented on       the governing bodies of       all of CLF's schools, providing expertise to meet the particular needs of       each one.
For CLF, the       implementation of the new governance arrangements identified in the       research have given a       clearer chain of accountability for the senior staff in the federation,       and was a key factor in raising       standards for its pupils.
The Principal of John Cabot Academy says       `...UWE's engagement with the       federation in this way uses the knowledge and skills of its staff at a       strategic level to raise the       attainment and standards, which then helps more students have the       necessary qualifications as       well as the confidence to apply for HE'.
This has caught the attention of policy makers nationally: it has twice       been highlighted as an       example of good practice in Michael Gove's Academies Annual Reports to       Parliament (June 2012       [S2] and especially 2013 [S3]), by the recent Universities UK report on       widening participation to HE       [S4], and by the Milburn 2012 report on the role of universities in       advancing social mobility [S5].
Elsewhere and more generally in south Bristol     The innovations at BLC described above drew attention the research that       had inspired them.
As a       result, Raphael Reed was asked to present the findings to various key       stakeholders, including a       seminar called by the then Minister of State for Lifelong Learning,       Further and Higher Education,       the Rt Hon Bill Rammell, and also at the Teaching and Learning Research       Programme's       `Diversities in HE seminar' series.
The findings were welcomed by HEFCE,       OfSTED and the DfES.
Crucially, Bristol South's MP, Rt Hon Dawn Primarolo, recognized their       importance, and drew them       to the attention of others both locally and nationally.
This gave impetus       to the development of CLF       as described above, and also to further local developments.
For example, the research led another south Bristol school, Brislington       Enterprise College, to       reconsider its approach to raising its students' aspirations.
As a direct       result of the findings, they       appointed new members of staff with that specific brief.
The College has       also strengthened links       with local businesses and other providers of post-16 educational       opportunities.
Its Vice-Principal       (Learning) has confirmed that this was a direct result of the research       findings [S6].
Dawn Primarolo sums this up as follows: `Since the publication of this       study we have seen a       change in the delivery of education in South Bristol with many schools now       working in partnership       with or sponsored by local Further Education and Higher Education       institutions and I know this       piece of research was influential in bringing about these significant       changes' [S7].
2.
Influence on the policies of HEFCE and on debate on local education       provision     The research's influence extends beyond the effects it has had in       Bristol.
Dawn Primarolo goes so       far as to say that `the research was highly valued by Education Ministers       in the previous Labour       Government in which I served and am aware that the study informed and       influenced policy in this       area at the time.
The findings of this work...continue to prove invaluable       to schools, policymakers       and Higher Education institutions' [S7].
The research has influenced the policies of HEFCE and other government       departments.
As a       result of Raphael Reed's `Four Cities' overview report (see section 3       above), HEFCE's strategic       approach was changed so that its priorities shifted in favour of       evidence-based, theoretically       informed research.
The first instance of this was the expansion of its       commissioned research into       another five studies (undertaken by various organisations and subsequently       supplemented by yet       further studies), adopting the socio-cultural model developed at UWE (see       section 2 above).
It also       led to HEFCE commissioning a series of studies of extended forms of       partnership between schools       and universities based on UWE's work with BLC and CLF, one of which [S10]       was done by UWE.
The influence on HEFCE's policy is corroborated by its then Chief Exec,       who said the research       was `enormously helpful in informing policy and enabling us to evaluate       and prioritise interventions.
Of all the research sponsored, this was one of the most valuable and       valued reports' [S8].
Raphael Reed's synthesised findings in the `Four-cities' report (see       section 2) have influenced       policy debates on local education provision in various parts of the       country.
HEFCE's then Head of       Widening Participation has corroborated its effect on Nottingham and other       areas: `The Four Cities       Research... provided a model for others to undertake similar work... in       Hastings, Leeds, East       London and Salford, and indirectly in other towns and cities...
In       Nottingham the Report was taken       up by Graham Allen MP...it became the basis for discussions in the       city...it certainly stimulated city-wide       discussions and about how widening participation could be effectively       extended' [S9].
Another senior HEFCE manager, the then Director of Education and       Participation, noted that the       detailed understanding of local contexts in the Bristol South and the       `Four Cities' reports has       informed policy: `Widening participation practice is certainly more subtle       and sophisticated than it       was before the research was carried out.'
