     The research has had global impact in three areas &#8212; the development and       testing of a FRMS; campaigns against the liberalisation of EU FTLs; and       (on-going) campaigns by the Society for the Welfare of Indian Pilots       against similar liberalisation proposals.
The night-freight airline, aware of Bennett's research, asked him to       tailor the FRMS model to accommodate the fatigue-risk management needs of       a night-freight operator.
To refine the FRMS Bennett conducted surveys       throughout his 3.5 years at the airline.
The design of the FRMS involved       modification of the standard International Civil Aviation Organization       model to accommodate intense night operations through the circadian low.
The adaptive work drew on Bennett's research into flight-deck labour.
Testing and refinement of the system was based on his involvement as an       action-researcher.
Bennett's participant observation/action research       approach helped maintain pilot engagement which assisted in the       identification of feedback problems in the standard FRMS system.
Without       feedback FRMS becomes a source of risk.
The development of a FRMS allowed the airline to verify and fine-tune       rosters.
It enabled the development and validation of a variation that       satisfied both the CAA's safety criteria and the airline's operational       requirements.
Data generated by the FRMS was used to optimise the       trans-Atlantic rosters such that an acceptable safety margin was       maintained.
Bennett's work (validated by the CAA) laid the foundations for       a `virtuous circle' of research.
Because they required the introduction of       the new, larger Boeing 767F, the trans-Atlantic services revolutionised       the airline's operations.
For example, instead of a crew heading to Italy       on the same day they were due to operate from that country, they were       flown out the day before, allowing them to sleep prior to their duty.
After this roster change, the FRMS confirmed the beneficial impact on       fatigue levels (fewer fatigue reports were filed for this duty).
Bennett       confirmed the safety benefits of new facilities (like a new sleeping       facility at the airline's Italian hub and expanded accommodation at its       German hub).
The night-freight FRMS research attracted BALPA's attention, who       commissioned Bennett to further investigate the pilot lifestyle.
BALPA has       10,000 members.
Bennett had contributed to BALPA's journals for over a       decade and his report The Pilot Lifestyle was distributed to the       European Commission, European Aviation Safety Agency (EASA), ICAO,       International Air Transport Association (IATA), CAA, Members of the       European Parliament, Members of the UK Parliament, airline managements,       pilots, civil servants, journalists and trade unions.
Bennett engaged with       opinion-formers and decision-makers, in 2011 attending a Parliamentary       Reception to bring this research to the attention of Ministers.
Since       publication of The Pilot Lifestyle Bennett has contributed to the       media debate (via, for example, the newspaper Politiken and a lead       news item for the Danish Broadcasting Corporation in June 2013, a Channel       4 documentary in July 2013).
He has corresponded with the British Prime       Minister, the Minister of State for Transport, the Chair of the Transport       Select Committee, the CAA's Head of Safety Strategy, the Chief Executive       of the United Kingdom Flight Safety Committee, the Chairman of the All       Party Parliamentary Group for Freight Transport and the Executive Director       of the Parliamentary Advisory Council for Transport Safety.
The EU       campaigns included the writing of papers that were strongly informed by       Bennett's research.
An example is a lobby paper written by Bennett for the       Parliamentary Advisory Council for Transport Safety (Contemporary         issues: Fatigue impacts of employee commutes).
An example of a       position paper is that written for a Parliamentary Reception hosted by       BALPA (Executive summary of The Pilot Lifestyle: a sociological study         of the commercial pilot's work and home life).
The Indian campaigns       included the publication of a report by Moebus Aviation on behalf of SWIP.
Bennett contributed a chapter to the report.
Documents and presentations made by BALPA and Bennett were part of a       campaign to show that the harmonisation of standards in the EU would relax       rather than improve them.
Bennett's main contributions were The Pilot         Lifestyle and his contribution to the position paper The Next         Chapter.
He published summaries of his BALPA-funded research       throughout 2011 and 2012 (in the Flight Safety Foundation's AeroSafety         World, the Royal Aeronautical Society's The Aerospace         Professional and the UK Flight Safety Committee's Focus on         Commercial Aviation Safety).
Bennett's action-research made him an       actor in BALPA's campaign against the harmonisation of EU FTLs.
In a       letter, BALPA's Head of Flight Safety said: "I am pleased to say your work       has importantly informed the current BALPA Safety Plan and also the       current House of Commons Select Committee enquiry into pilot fatigue."
Further union work, specifically participation in the UK Independent       Pilots' Association campaign video Pilot Fatigue: Is Your Captain Awake?
The documentary drew on his research findings and featured Bennett talking       about the factors that induce pilot fatigue.
The BBC approached Bennett       for an interview.
A former Training Captain wrote to Bennett: "I would       like to congratulate you on your crystal-clear analysis of the fatigue       issue in the IPA pilot fatigue film; very well done."
Bennett's publications and his work for BALPA and the night-freight       airline attracted the attention of Moebus Aviation, a consultancy engaged       by the Society for the Welfare of Indian Pilots to help it campaign for       safe FTLs.
Bennett contributed a 950-word critique of the FRMS methodology       (`Fatigue-risk management systems &#8212; requirements for successful       operation') to Moebus Aviation's 2012 report.
In the Summer of 2012 Bennett secured a 12-month research placement with       British Airways World Cargo (BAWC).
The airline's ultra long-haul (ULH)       operation will add a new dimension to Bennett's research and produce       further impact in the future.
