     The two areas in which this work has had its impact are 1) Rail Safety       and 2) Healthcare Alarms.
1) Rail     Edworthy and Hellier were awarded a series of competitive tender       contracts concerning alarms by the Rail Safety and Standards Board (RSSB),       a not-for-profit company owned by major stakeholders in the railway       industry.
The RSSB had identified a number of problems in terms of how       rail alarms were implemented and designed, and wished to address these       problems using our expertise and research findings.
These outputs, in       their entirety, represent a comprehensive set of tools and guidance for       use by professionals involved in both new implementations (signalling, new       rolling stock and so on) and the retrofit of old systems and installations       across the rail industry.
The outputs from these projects are: a good       practice guide to the implementation of alarms and alerts containing       significant elements directly following from our research such as urgency       mapping, alarm confusability, considerations when implementing speech       warnings, and other important elements underpinned by our research [1]; an       alerts and alarms assessment tool, which is a broad-ranging, interactive       tool (including all of the underpinning research mentioned above) for       users to assess the extent to which alarms might conform with good       practice, giving guidance as to how evidence-based research might will       produce improvements in alarm systems [2]; practical observations of real       train cabs indicating how alarms might be improved [3]; and studies       testing the learnability and discriminability of modified and improved       alarms for rail use.
The group also developed a sound library to support       the alerts and alarms assessment tool, which embodies many aspects of our       research (for example, how to manipulate the perceived urgency of an       alarm; and the relative advantages and disadvantages of different types of       sounds as alarms).
The dates and copyrights of the documents listed in       Section 5 confirm that these outputs were published from 2009 onwards, and       authorship is clearly attributed to the group in most cases.
The work was       led by Edworthy and Hellier, with input from Professor Jan Noyes       (University of Bristol, who collaborated on a report on the potential use       of speech warnings); Bill Gall (Human Factors consultant, who collaborated       on collating and interpreting railway standards); and Greenstreet Berman       (a Human Factors consultancy, who produced the final working version of       the alarms and alerts tool in terms of improving its organisation, layout       and usability - Edworthy and Hellier produced the original concept, scope       and content).
The RSSB has presented the alarms and alerts assessment tool at a number       of industry and policy forums [4].
The beneficiaries of these tools are       companies concerned with rail activities such as Network Rail, the       Association of Train Manufacturers (ATOC), regulators (such as the RSSB       and the Health and Safety Executive) in general terms.
More specifically,       beneficiaries include human factors specialists (of which there are many       in the rail industry), train designers, alarms and alarm-related equipment       hardware manufacturers, and train manufacturing companies such as       Bombardier.
Bombardier has used the tool and the sound library to: develop       call-for-assistance alarms; to generate evidence-based design principles       in order to scope alarm design protocols and principles; and to evaluate       the efficacy of their existing alarms [5].
In 2010-11, Edworthy was invited by the RSSB to design and document a new       Train Protection and Warning System (TPWS) based on the principles       encapsulated in our evidence-based guidance, particularly the need to       avoid confusion with other alarms in the train cab and to design an alarm       with appropriate attention-getting and urgency characteristics.
The TPWS       is the system which alerts the driver to take action (because of, for       example, a red signal ahead, or over-speeding), before the brakes are       automatically applied [6].
This alarm now supports Railway Group Standard       GE/RT 8030 Issue 4, the new national standard for TPWS alarms for all       trains operating in the UK since 2012.
The documentation of the new       standard indicates that use of this alarm is mandatory [7].
Health     Here, the beneficiaries of our work are policy-makers, medical instrument       manufacturers and medical alarm designers.
Our research has filtered       through to medical standards and alarm policy debate, particularly in the       US, where `alarm fatigue' has been identified as a major patient safety       issue by medical safety organisations such as the Association for the       Advancement of Medical Instrumentation (AAMI), the Emergency Care Research       Institute (ECRI), and the Joint Commission.
These groups convened an       alarms summit in Herndon, Virginia in October 2011.
Edworthy was invited       to contribute to this as part of an acoustics group which wrote a white       paper on alarm fatigue [8].
An important global standard, IEC 60601-1-8 8 (`Medical electrical       equipment: General requirements for basic safety and essential       performance') is causing great concern for those people whom it affects (a       broad range of policy-makers, regulators, medical instrument companies and       safety organisations) because the alarms specified in that standard are       known to be problematic in their design.
As a consequence, Edworthy was       invited to join the Association for the Advancement of Medical       Instrumentation's IEC 60601-1-8 alarms committee instigated since the       alarms summit) and alarms steering group in 2012.
The AAMI IEC 60601-1-8       committee has direct links with the IEC 60101-1-8 standards committee       (they share the same Co-Chair) who is keen to redesign the alarms       supporting this standard as there are known problems with them [9], which       will feed into subsequent versions of the standard.
The principles of perceived urgency in sound (a main thrust of our       research) have already been embraced in the new version of this standard       (IEC 60601-1-8, 2013) independently of committee activity, through direct       knowledge of our research.
Within the main body of the standard there is       much reference to the matching of the urgency of the audible alarms to       medical priorities.
How the standard indicates this might be achieved       relies exclusively on our research findings.
Annex D of this standard       (p.83), which provides guidance for the construction of alarm signals and       the manipulation of acoustic urgency, lists the composite findings of our       research into perceived urgency.
It begins: `Parameters that affect the       perceived urgency of a burst of sound include the inter-pulse interval,       the number of repeating bursts, the rhythm of the pulses in the burst,       changes in intra-pulse duration within a single burst, the pitch contour,       pitch range and musical structure'.
Annex D goes on to display a table of       the attributes of perceived urgency, which has been taken directly from       Edworthy and Adams (1996) Warning Design: A Research Prospective,       p.155, which summarises the known perceived urgency principles available       at that time [10].
