     Impact upon Public Policy     The IST project exerted an influence on policy made by the UK government       in relation to its       guidance to schools on primary-secondary transfer (including the       recommendation to schools       to make use of bridging units), and upon the Key Stage 3 Strategy for       science (including a       greater emphasis upon pupil-led enquiry approaches adopted from the       primary sector) through       the inclusion of project materials on the DCSF website       (http://nationalstrategies.standards.dcsf.gov.uk/node/97530       &#8212; archived on the change of       government in May 2010).
The former Qualifications and Curriculum Authority (QCA) Science Officer,       interviewed in       2013, reported that `the examples of science bridging units provided by       the IST project and its       overall approach to primary-secondary transfer constituted best practice       that the QCA wished       to promote to schools.'
Impacts upon Practitioners and Professional Services     The IST project led to the development of resources to enhance       professional practice.
These       included an online CPD unit for primary teachers on the AstraZeneca       Science Teaching Trust       (AZSTT) website on the use of `floorbooks' (see above) as a formative       assessment strategy in       science (www.azteachscience.co.uk/resources/cpd/floorbooks.aspx);       and a set of online       materials on the AZSTT website to support primary teachers in planning for       focussed       assessment of scientific enquiry (www.azteachscience.co.uk/resources/materials/scientific-inquiry-sc1.aspx)     Use of these resources by teachers in the UK and internationally to       change their practice       significantly increased the reach of the project.
Download data from the       AZSTT website       monitored over a 12 month period indicates that the `floorbooks' CPD unit       was downloaded       741 times between Feb 2009 and Jan 2010.
This included `hits' from around       the world, of       which the most came from Netherlands and Australia.
A teacher in Barnsley       who had       downloaded and used the materials, interviewed in 2012 said: `I have       enjoyed using floorbooks       this year and will continue to use them with future classes... it is       preferable to tests and far       easier to manage than hoping you obtain enough detail by observing the       children.'
Usage data       on the `Focused assessment of Scientific Enquiry' materials on the AZSTT       website, indicates       that these materials received 13,527 visits during the year from Feb 2009       to Jan 2010.
This       included `hits' from around the World, of which the most came from USA,       Australia, UAE, India,       Malaysia and Nigeria.
One Advanced Skills Teacher (AST) in Durham who had       downloaded       and used the materials, interviewed in 2012, said: `They are a great way       of demonstrating       progression and development of skills.
As an AST I recommend that schools       do one per half       term and keep a spreadsheet of children's levels, this can then be used       via best fit to assign a       level for SC1 at the end of the year.'
A 2012 survey of 500 schools       awarded the Primary       Science Quality Mark reported that 40 of them (8%) were using these       materials from the       AZSTT website to support their assessment of science.
Through the       publication of an article       based on the IST project in Primary Science Review, the main       science magazine aimed at       primary teachers which has a readership of around 4,000, the research had       potentially wider       impact on professional practice.
A further indicator of reach of impact is provided by the use of research       outcomes and       resources from the IST project in CPD courses run by the National Science       Learning Centre       (NSLC) at the University of York, and subsequent impact upon teachers       attending those       courses.
A primary CPD provider for NSLC, interviewed in 2012 said: `...       if I'm doing an       assessment course, floorbooks are a natural part of that as they offer       teachers a holistic       approach to collecting evidence from the children's initial thinking and       initial questioning to       having answered the questions and then reflecting back on the work they       have done... they're       brilliant... a lot of the teachers I have worked with and have introduced       floor books to, have       gone off and used them very successfully and incorporated them into their       practice...       hundreds, maybe thousands.
I come across people who have emailed me, or I       have met again       who say they have been using them.'
The most significant impact upon changes in practice for a specific group       relates to the teacher       participants in the IST project.
A survey of teachers in the original       project schools undertaken       in 2012 indicated that eight of the original 20 primary schools were still       using approaches       influenced by the IST project, 10 years on.
Involvement in the project has       also positively       impacted upon the careers of participant teachers; eight were still       working in the same schools       &#8212; often now in senior positions &#8212; whilst a further 10 had moved school to       take on management       responsibilities, including one headship, one deputy headship and one       academic at the       University of Bristol who said `Involvement in the IST project helped       establish my research       credentials when I applied for an academic post'.
The IST research has had a widespread impact upon professional training       of primary school       teachers in England, through the publication of textbook for primary       teachers and PGCE       trainees using material derived from the project: Howe, A., Davies, D.,       McMahon, K., Towler       L., Collier, C. and Scott, T. (2005, 2009) Science 5-11: A Guide for         Teachers, London:       Routledge.
According to data from Routledge publishers, the first edition       of this book sold       3,931 copies and sales of the second edition currently stand at 2,124.
The       publisher confirms       that it has been adopted as a core text for Primary PGCE courses at       Cambridge, Birmingham,       Greenwich, Leicester and the Institute of Education, London, together       training over 1,000 pre-Service       teachers per year.
