     Mortimore's work on dyslexia, learning style and multilingualism,       undertaken through the Centre for Research into Inclusion and Vulnerable       Learners (CRIVL) at Bath Spa University, has made impacts upon a number of       user groups, both in the UK and internationally:     Impact upon Public Policy     Mortimore's textbook Dyslexia and Learning Style.
A practitioner's         handbook (2nd edition 2008) based on her research was       recommended by the Department for Children, Schools and Families as a core       text for training teachers on the SpLD/Inclusion Development Programme,       and was included as a set text on the DCSF dyslexia-friendly school       website before its archiving by the Coalition Government.
Mortimore was       invited to lead workshops for practitioners within Local Government       (Wiltshire 2008; Bath &amp; North East Somerset 2010), and with parents       and teachers via local dyslexia organisations (e.g.
Leicester 2011,       Bridgnorth 2009, Richmond 2012).
Impacts upon Practitioners and Professional Services     The greatest reach of impact from the dyslexia research has been achieved       through its influence on the South African Association of Learning       Differences (SAALED).
Mortimor gave keynote presentations to SALEED       conferences in Cape Town (2008) and Johannesburg (2011) and delivered       workshops in Paarl (for 120 teachers); in Soweto (for 150 teachers); and       in Limpopo (for 200 teachers).
The conferences attracted attendees from a       wide range of independent schools and public schools, and private       practitioners in the fields of speech and language therapy; occupational       therapy; psychology; and social work, in addition to support groups such       as Autism SA, Downs Syndrome, and Blind Association, who have adopted       Tilly Mortimore's approaches and strategies in the development of their       own work.
In 2011, she delivered training for over 1,000 people in areas       from Cape Town to the North East Vende rural region in collaboration with       the Oprah Foundation.
Impact statements from participants in these       programmes indicate significant changes in practice.
For example, one       participant reported:"I have been fortunate to have heard almost all of       the talks Dr Tilly Mortimore has presented for SAALED in South Africa.
Her       work has had a significant impact on my practise as a learning support       specialist".
Another said: "These strategies have been used in the       classroom and during Remedial and Speech and Language therapy sessions."
She also published in practice journals for teachers in South Africa such       as the SAALED bulletin (2011), a journal with over 2000 readers.
She       established a partnership with the Bellavista School in Johannesburg to       develop specialist dyslexia training for teachers, as a consequence of       which a CPD course to train teachers to work with learners with SpLD       across South Africa is in development, the only existing course of its       kind in the region.
Dr.Melodie Hougaard President of SALEED said: `Tilly       has become a household name for all in South Africa who are in any way       involved with children with different needs in education... work that will       impact on the lives of many young people, through changing perceptions and       giving skills and understanding to their teachers and therapists.
She has       taken an understanding of Dyslexia and Learning Style to new heights in       South Africa."
In the UK, Mortimore's research has had a significant impact upon       professional organisations such as the British Dyslexia Association (BDA).
The BDA has used the Dyslexia and Multilingualism project to guide       its policy and practice through the following channels:            Research report published on the BDA website: (http://www.bdadyslexia.org.uk/files/Big-Lottery-Research-Report.pdf);       BDA Multilingualism conference 26/09/12, including presentations on         the project       Publication of Dyslexia, Languages, and Multilingualism as         part of the BDA 40th anniversary series of mini-books, with         chapters by Dr Tilly Mortimore et al.
A chapter on Dyslexia and EAL/Multilingualism included in the BDA Dyslexia           Friendly Schools Good Practice Guide (2012);       Chapters on Dyslexia and Multilingualism by Dr Tilly Mortimore and         others in The Dyslexia Handbook (2012).
The project report has already changed practice and training materials       for the BDA dyslexia- friendly school and for BDA training courses, such       as bespoke courses for international schools and colleges and open courses       for teachers and TAs.
The project itself made significant impacts on       specific groups of professionals.
For example 60% of the 131 participant       TAs and SENCos reported increased knowledge of dyslexia with 50% reporting       an increase in understanding of bilingual issues.
Over 50% of both       reported higher levels of confidence in their roles as SENCo or TA.
89% of       SENCos reported higher knowledge of screening/testing tools with 75%       suggesting that their TAs' skills and confidence had increased during the       project.
As a result of Mortimore's training of staff on paired reading       (another finding from the project), the approach she devised is being       utilised by Norton Hill School in Somerset in their library lessons and by       sixth formers who are piloting paired reading during tutor times.
In       addition, the school is launching a training session for parents of year 6       and 7 students to enable the support of students with developing literacy       skills.
Mortimore's other dyslexia research has also impacted upon policy and       practice in the BDA.
Dyslexia and Learning Style.
A practitioner's         handbook is a core text on the BDA website and forms the basis of       BDA-accredited teacher training courses such as Southampton and Birmingham       Universities.
Bath Spa University, which has been recognised by the BDA as       a Centre of Excellence for Research and Practice in SpLD/dyslexia.
This       has resulted in reciprocal partnerships with Bath and North East Somerset,       Wiltshire and South Gloucestershire Local Authorities to train their       teachers for Associate Membership of the British Dyslexia Association       (AMBDA) accreditation, and a collaboration with the Professional       Association of Teachers of SpLD (PATOSS) to train teachers to assess for       SpLD.
Approximately 150 teachers have either qualified to AMBDA level or       are undergoing training which involves changes to classroom practice.
It       has also resulted in Bath Spa University being commissioned to deliver UK       Government-funded Special Educational Needs Co-ordinator (SENCo) standards       training to support teachers' work within inclusive and specialist       settings.
Graduates of this programme report that it has been `life       changing' both for them, their learners and their colleagues and it has       given rise to applications for Dyslexia-friendly status from schools.
