     We now present evidence to show how our research, as cited in s2 and s3,       has led to substantial commercial and innovative impacts on a global scale       which have included the development of the world's first purpose-built       hydrogen fuel cell motorbike, the world's first manned fuel cell aircraft       and a zero emission fuel cell hybrid London taxi, with major international       companies, such as Suzuki, Boeing and Lotus.
LU's fuel cell research, as cited in s2 and s3, has led to a steady       accumulation of impact with global reach since the spin out company       Intelligent Energy (IE) was created [5.1].
Note that prior to IE       an earlier University spin out company, Advanced Power Sources (APS), was       established and carried out developmental work, however, this predates the       impact period for the REF and hence details are not included here.
IE currently employs some 350 personnel [5.1] and it is       anticipated by the company that this will rise to 400.
The majority are in       the UK (Loughborough), with other bases in the US, Japan and India.
In       2011/12, shareholder investment was in excess of &#163;100M since       incorporation.
It had a 269% revenue growth, 150 patents granted and 298       others pending in 76 patent families filed around the world [5.1].
The company was valued at $0.5B in 2012.
R&amp;D expenditure accounted for       more than 30% of total turnover [5.2].
In 2013, the company       completed its largest ever capital raise of $51 million for the next       stages of the company's development [5.3].
Strong links and       collaboration exist between LU and IE on fluid transport, fuel cell       control and system integration, materials, reliability, etc [5.1].
The company has conducted numerous projects with LU covering, for example,       fluid flow, materials, vehicle control, reliability, and heat transfer,       and fully expects such collaborative agreements to continue in the future       [5.1].
The research into thin metal bi-polar plates, the techniques that obviate       the need for external humidification and those that prevent the build-up       of contaminants, as cited in s2 and s3, came to fruition in first APS's       and then IE's development of fuel cell stacks and vehicles.
The research       findings underpin the work to make fuel cells and their vehicles `real       world'.
In 2008, a 70 kW IE fuel cell system powered Boeing's inaugural flight of       the world's first manned fuel cell aircraft [5.4].
In the same       year a three-year Technology Strategy Board funded partnership with PSA       Peugeot Citroen culminated in the H2Origin hybrid battery and a 10 kW fuel       cell powered van that had a 300 km range [5.5].
By 2011 the partnership with Suzuki led to a major breakthrough, the fuel       cell powered Burgman scooter that achieved `whole vehicle type approval'.
It is the first (and to date) only fuel cell vehicle to achieve the       certification approving it for production and sale in Europe.
Vehicles       such as prototypes or demonstrators that do not have this status must be       inspected and tested one by one.
In summer 2012 IE announced a 50:50 joint       venture &#8212; Smile FC System Corporation, based in Japan &#8212; with Suzuki Motor       Corporation to manufacture air-cooled fuel cell technologies for various       industries [5.6].
Funding from the UK's Technology Strategy Board enabled a major       collaboration between IE and Lotus Engineering, LTI Vehicles and TRW       Conekt.
The result was a zero emission fuel cell hybrid London taxi that       had all the features and functionality of a diesel taxi [5.7].
It       can operate for a full day without the need for refueling, is capable of       achieving a top speed of over 80 mph, refuels in about five minutes and       produces no emissions other than water vapour.
A fleet of five hybrid fuel       cell taxis were deployed to transport VIPs around the capital during the       2012 Olympics, with hydrogen refuelling stations at Heathrow Airport and       in the City of London [5.8].
In 2012, a partnership was formed       with the global multi-industry consultancy Ricardo, which gives each other       the status of `preferred supplier' as they further the development and use       of fuel cell systems.
Alongside transportation, other applications being       explored include scalable power cores for consumer electronics (e.g.
mobile phone charger) into the consumer market from 2013 onwards [5.9].
The company's competitive advantage is based on its expanding IP       portfolio, knowledge base and research capability, further mitigating risk       through partnerships with industry-leading or specialist companies.
The       company operates a "Licensing +" business model, thus the bulk of the       improved financial performance results from licensing and technology       transfer revenue [5.10].
