     Informing national policy debate 	Enquiries, consultations and       committee hearings on the many proposed reforms to funding local services       have been held; many submissions to these consultations refer directly to       the SST.
For example the Finance Committee of the Scottish Parliament met       eight times between September 2005 and Jan 2006 to discuss the detail of       the Bill which was put before Parliament in February 2006.
In [2002] the Scottish Socialist Party (SSP) adopted the SST as its model       for local services funding.
The adoption was made at the Party Congress       and has been a part of their campaigning activity ever since [see       testimonial from Colin Fox].
The SSP drew up a draft Bill for debate in       the Scottish Parliament, which allowed the merits of SST to be debated       within the Scottish Parliament and the proposed model and underpinning       research to be highlighted to a wide range of MSPs and consequently to       local authorities and the wider policy-making community [see evidence from       Gordon Morgan].
Informing government policy and legislation 	In 2008 the Scottish Parliament launched a consultation on &#8216;A Fairer Local 	Tax for Scotland&#8217; which received submissions on SST [B].
After the consultation 	process the Scottish National Party (SNP) developed and adopted a model of a local 	income tax as its preferred option for paying for local services.
Supporting NGO and union policy/campaigning       Whittam and Danson were invited to make presentations to several       non-government organisations (NGOs) such as Oxfam, [see testimonial from       Oxfam].
These organisations have subsequently used the work to inform       their own positions on `what makes a good tax policy' and adopted the       principles of local service taxation, especially as a mechanism to       alleviate poverty.
As mentioned above, several NGOs submitted evidence to `A Fairer Local       Tax for Scotland', consultation by the Scottish Government 2008.Several       NGOs cite evidence from the researchers and support the SST as a model for       funding local services.
Oxfam Scotland reports that the research informed its analysis of using       taxation as a means to reduce poverty.
The charity states: "The ideas         of fiscal transfer at the centre of the SST are precisely what Oxfam         advocates, we fully support the aims of the SST."
[C]     The research commissioned by Poverty Alliance was reported in the       publication Local Taxation, Spending and Poverty: New Choices and Tax       Justice (See Section 2).
Poverty Alliance stated that this report was "written         as a contribution to the recently-muted debate on how the overall tax         and benefit system operates at the local level and how the conspiracy         across the political spectrum in Holyrood of the last few years to         freeze the Council Tax has impacted on families and authorities" [D]     The Rail Maritime Trade Union (RMT) supported the SST.
The union states       that the adoption the SST is "still union policy".
Before being       adopted as union policy it was widely debated at all levels of the union       [see testimonial from the RMT].
The researchers have over the last decade been invited to make       presentations of their research to a number of organisations such as       Glasgow Centre for Population.
Similarly, the Scottish Trade Union       Congress invited the authors of the SST to make a presentation to members       of the trade union movement.
[see testimonial from the STUC]     Informing public discourse       Since 2008 there have been numerous occasions when the merits of the SST       have been presented and debated within public fora, including newspapers,       magazines and television.
The SST has also been debated at trade union       meetings, community group meetings and public meetings, typically during       local authority or Scottish Parliament election campaigns.
