     Nature of the Impact: PPG has applied academic expertise and       knowledge of comparative       practices to substantially improve budget procedures and financial and       performance reporting in       large organisations, thereby enhancing transparency and accessibility to a       variety of stakeholders.
A.
Improving peer learning and budget practices       OECD's peer learning efforts centre on its annual Senior Budget Official       (SBO) meetings, where       detailed country reports produced by OECD study teams are discussed.
Wehner regularly       attended SBO meetings from 2008 to 2013, and served in five budget review       teams, covering       Estonia (2008), Bulgaria (2009), Latvia (2009), Lithuania (2010) and       Luxembourg (2011).
These       form an important part of peer group learning by senior budget staff of       the countries involved.
In       September 2012 Wehner was invited to join the OECD Advisory Panel on       Budgeting and Public       Expenditures, composed of former SBO chairmen and selected academics and       experts.
Wehner       has contributed to OECD's peer-learning advice to member governments on       public budgeting,       using its evidence base.
Other international bodies including the IMF [A]       and the World Bank [B]       also cite his work on budget structures and reforms.
Wehner's research has       been incorporated into       the IMF's globally-promoted series of Technical Notes and Manuals [C].
Inherently, international peer learning at top government levels is a       confidential process of mutual       exchange, and the OECD's role is advisory and not executive.
Still,       Wehner's work has directly       shaped budget reform efforts in some countries.
In Luxembourg, the finance       minister       acknowledged the OECD review as a stimulus for change and the main       recommendations &#8212; such       as the adoption of a medium-term framework &#8212; are being implemented [D].
In       March 2012, Wehner       gave evidence in front of a committee of the Canadian Parliament on how to       strengthen financial       scrutiny.
Several of his recommendations &#8212; such as to appropriate money on       a program basis       instead of more aggregated totals so as to limit executive discretion       during the execution of the       budget &#8212; were adopted by the committee and are part of current reform       debates [E].
B.
Understanding budgeting in African governments       As development aid policies have shifted away from funding specific       projects and towards `budget       support' funding and developing `good governance', accurate knowledge of       government budgeting       practices in target countries is essential.
But evidence here is often       scarce or unreliable: Wehner's       work filled a key gap for DfID, World Bank and other donor agencies.
The       budgeting databases are       available on OECD and CABRI (Collaborative Africa Budget Reform       Initiative) websites, and are       valued by the IMF [F] and the World Bank [G].
Gabriel Negatu, Director at       the African       Development Bank, described the 2009 research as a "landmark in guiding       reforms in budget       institutions and practices in Africa" [H].
C. Improving financial reporting in the European Court of Auditors       As a result of their earlier track record with the UK's National Audit       Office, from 2009-11 Dunleavy       and PPG were contracted by the European Court of Auditors (ECA or `the       Court') to review the       content and presentation of half of their `special reports' (essentially       VFM studies) and their Annual       Report.
This contract was renewed in 2011 for 3 more years.
The Court is       the `fifth institution' in       the European Union, responsible for monitoring the legal and financial       regularity of all the       European Commission's directorate-generals and other EU institutions.
The Court's primary output is a single, long Annual Report (AR),       which goes to the Budget       Committee of the European Parliament.
The Court also produces a number of       Special Reports       (SRs) which set out the results of selected performance and compliance       audits of specific       budgetary areas or management topics, also considered by the European       Parliament.
Along with       many internal changes, external evaluation feedback was brought in to       provide important key       performance indicators (KPIs).
PPG's advice, along with that of the other       external evaluator Ernst       and Young, and internal factors, helped the Court to introduce significant       changes in the 2010,       2011 and 2012 Annual Reports (published a year after their coverage year)       [I] along with       improvements to Special Reports.
Relevant changes included:     - a whole new chapter in the Annual Report on "Getting the most out of       the EU budget"       which addressed PPG recommendations on making performance more visible and       strengthening the VFM focus of ECA reporting;     - an Information Note with the 2011 Annual Report that set out more       clearly why ECA's work       and reports are important for helping citizens to assess the quality of EU       financial       management;     - notable improvements in ECA's presentations of graphs, figures, and       data; and     - a closer link between evidence in Special Reports and discussions in       the Annual Report,       one of PPG's specific suggestions [J].
Collectively these changes were major innovations for the Court.
In addition, Dunleavy delivers a feedback report each year to 120 senior       ECA staff on PPG       recommendations, covering both the Annual Report and Special Reports.
In       2012 and 2013 he       met the Court's President V&#237;tor Caldeira, and also chaired a key 35th year       anniversary conference       session with leading MEPs.
In May 2013 the European Parliament's Budget Committee considered the PPG       and Ernst and       Young reports, and strongly endorsed the recommended shift to performance       budgeting.
From       January 2014, both evaluators' feedback will be publicly available,       including KPI scores: this is an       important change in the rigour of ECA's public accountability and       transparency &#8212; a strong       emphasis of PPG.
Wider implications: Beyond its more immediate impact, this work       contributes to a wider debate in       the wake of the global economic crisis and the sovereign debt crisis in       Europe on more effective       accountability and oversight in public finance.
A renewed emphasis on       strengthening budget       governance is reflected in recent initiatives by the OECD and the IMF to       revise budget principles       and guidance on fiscal transparency practices.
