     Outcomes of the One-to-One midwifery project provided evidence that       changing the organisational culture, with principles of care promoting a       woman-centred philosophy, would meet the needs of women in the 21st       century.
This has been germinal in future developments.
Women-centred       care, with the partnership approach to developing relationships with       women, promoted by the One-to-One project, informed the evidence to the       House of Commons Select Committee on Health (2003): Provision of Maternity       services.
The English National Board led adoption of the outcomes from       this evaluation, to create change and educate midwives to a new philosophy       of care, for Nursing Midwifery and Health Visiting (ENB 1995).
The       principle of women-centred care is now embedded within professional       guidelines throughout the UK, such as the National Service Framework         standard 11 (Department of Health 2004).
The project is referenced       in the RCM position paper on woman-centred care (RCM 2008), and the       philosophical approach exemplified by the project underpins the progress       towards midwifery-led units in the UK (RCM, 2000).
The philosophy of care that the project propounded has assisted with the       instigation of movements for organisational change in Australia       (Queensland Government, 2012) and New Zealand.
The impact of this       women-centred approach to care has been demonstrated in the development of       midwifery practices in the Canadian provinces (Page 2003).
Whilst organisation of care into caseloading and group practices has not       been unique to the project, the findings indicated the value of this form       of care.
Further research in this area shows that women of ethnic minority       prefer integrated community-based midwifery-led care (McAree et al 2010).
Dissemination of the One-to-One practice reports within the United Kingdom       and internationally has led to the development of varied forms of this       type of organisation of care, as shown for example in the Wirral (http://www.onetoonemidwives.org/our-service)       and Australia: (http://www.latrobe.edu.au/news/articles/2012/article/one-to-one-midwifery-improves-care).
The Nursing and Midwifery Council now requires student midwives to       undertake caseload practice within their training.
Adopting caseload or       group practice requires adaptation to local circumstances.
With current       emphasis in policy, for example 'Maternity Matters' (Department of       Health 2007) on promotion of an integration of maternity services within       the community setting, this evidences encouragement of women to make their       own choices for care (a value emergent from the One-to-One report).
The       term One-to-One is now well-accepted into the language of maternity       services for care, antenatally during labour and the post natal period,       and is advocated by the National Childbirth Trust in their position       statement: (http://www.nct.org.uk/sites/default/files/One- to-one%20midwifery%20care%20in%20labour.pdf).
Continuity of care/r is now considered `best practice' and in particular       for disadvantaged and vulnerable women and those in labour (RCM, 2000).
The study of vulnerable women in 2013, is being developed further through       a PhD thesis at the University of West London researching ethnic minority       women's experiences of maternity care.
The importance of continuity in labour and the associated reduction of       interventions has led to this becoming a requirement in current policy as       well as the women centred care approach to care as indicated in Changing       Childbirth.
Endorsement is evident in current NICE guidelines (http://www.nice.org.uk/nicemedia/live/11947/40145/40145.pdf).
The advantageous effects of One-to-One care in       labour in providing continuity, is recognised as a fundamental requirement       within standards of midwifery practice in labour (RCOG 2007), e.g.
the       minimum standard for normal birth stipulated by the Berkshire West       Clinical Commissioning Group Service Specification for the Royal Berkshire       Hospital.
Women view continuity of care/r as beneficial (McCourt and Stevens, 2005)       and consider this their ideal form of care (NPEU, 2007).
An example of       'women voting with their feet' to have One to One care is given on the       website of a women's campaign group in maternity care in Yorkshire (http://bornstroppy.wordpress.com/).
Thus the findings from the original One-to-One study have now become       accepted within policies and guidelines for maternity care.
