     The impact of this work has been in four areas     1.
Staff Movement from Academia to Local Government     Knowledge Transfer Partnerships (KTPs) were established between the       University and both Cornwall County Council and Devon County Council       [1,2].
The explicit aim of these KTPs was to transform the councils into       evidence-led organisations, and to embed the research evidence into       practice locally and nationally.
Following the awards, a permanent       position, `Evidence-Based Researcher' was created in DCC (post filled by       Poppy Husband formerly employed by the KTP) [2]     The awards were as follows:            2010-2012 Knowledge Transfer Partnership with ESRC/Cornwall County         Council (Hewson and Hellier).
To improve road safety programme delivery         through evidence and research led practice, specifically focussing on         fatalities within the elderly, the young and motorcyclists (&#163;116,000).
2008-2010 Knowledge Transfer Partnership in collaboration with         ESRC/Devon County Council (Hellier and Hewson).
Evidence based practice         for road safety practitioners.
(&#163;109, 635).
2.
Changes to National and Local Government guidelines     In 2009 the group was commissioned to produce a Public Information       Booklet for the MoD on Nuclear Emergency at Devonport Dockyard.
This       booklet incorporates specific research findings (in particular, from       Edworthy et al.
2004 and Edworthy and Adams, 1995), for example, the use       of the personal pronoun, definitive language, increased readability and       print size/colour).
The booklet has been distributed to 30,000 homes       within a 3km radius of Devonport Dockyard and has been shown to be more       understandable, more memorable and preferred to the previous booklet [3].
This work was cited by HM Government Emergency Preparedness Guidance       (Chapter 7: Communicating with the Public) [4] as a case study of good       practice for using research evidence to inform the design and evaluation       of guidance for the public.
The key findings have also more generally       informed HM Government Emergency Preparedness Guidance on Part 1 of the       Civil Contingencies Act (2004, guidance revised in March 2012) [5].
Front       line responders nationwide are required to use this guidance to develop       and implement their emergency communications.
The key research findings on warning perception and compliance (Edworthy       and Adams, 1995; Edworthy et al.
2004; Hellier et al.
2000; Hellier et al.
2007) have been incorporated into DCC's Guidelines on Persuasive       Communication (2011) which guide the design of communication with the       public across all Council Departments [2].
The guidelines are also       incorporated into DCC's `Evidence-Based Practice for Road Injury       Prevention' course which has been delivered to 50 road safety       professionals in Devon and 40 nationally, with 100 participants       anticipated in 2013 [6].
The course has been designed to ensure that road       safety practitioners use research evidence to inform their professional       practice.
In DCC amendments have been made to on-road text warnings, to       bring them into line with the guidance [2] and research       findings.
3.
Changes to national/local Government Practice     The research findings in their entirety (warning perception and       compliance; psychological factors of and demographic factors in road       safety) have been applied to road and driver safety.
The research into       road safety (Rolison et al., 2012; Rolison et al., 2013) identifies       problem areas in driver safety which can be addressed through behavioural       change programmes.
Through Knowledge Transfer Partnerships awarded to       Hellier and Hewson, and Devon and Cornwall County Councils from 2008       onwards (see above), the application of the HFG's work has been translated       into a number of practical outputs.
Reports applying the evidence to       promoting safe behaviour in older drivers (2009), younger drivers (2010),       motorcyclists (2010), and work-related drivers(2010), as well as the       influence of deprivation on safe behaviour and the effectiveness of       cognitive training and behaviour change techniques, were published on the       Road Safety Knowledge Centre (2266 subscribers, approximately 1400 views a       month) [7] .
These reports are disseminated to road safety professionals       nationally and now influence practice.
For example, the deprivation report       resulted in the introduction of 20mph zones in deprived areas in Cornwall,       and was included in the Cornwall and Isles of Scilly Alcohol Awareness       Strategy [8], leading to interventions for drunken and teenage pedestrians       in deprived areas [9].
The behaviour change report led to a revision of       all CCC's road safety initiatives in line with the recommendations that       they include a variety of behaviour change techniques.
This initiative won       the Prince Michael International Road Safety Award (2012), and has been       adopted by other local authorities.
The Director of Road Safe has asked to       share this work with the World Health Organisation [1].
The report on       young drivers led to the re-design of Devon and Cornwall's `Learn2Live'       programme (a road safety intervention delivered to 14,000 17-18 year olds       pa [2].
The motorcycle report (and subsequent paper, Rolison et al.
2013)       resulted in a campaign to prompt anticipated regret amongst riders and       awareness campaigns for specific risk factors of motorcycling such as       engine size [1].
The research evidence was also integrated into the Department of       Transport's National Evaluation Toolkit 2010 for road safety practitioners       [10] (Husband was National Champion for this toolkit, hosting workshops to       embed it in practice) and into the monitoring and evaluation framework for       the Local Transport Plan.
The toolkit is for use by all UK road safety       practitioners to evaluate road safety interventions.
The HFG's evaluation       of DCC's `Honest Truth' intervention won the Chartered Institute of Public       Relations West of England PRide award for best Use of Measurement and       Evaluation 2012 http://www.cipr.co.uk/content/events-awards/pride-         awards/results-2012/west-england     In addition, change management teams have been created within DCC and CCC       to embed the research evidence into practice.
The change management teams       go beyond road safety professionals and also include fire service, police,       driving instructors, and neighbourhood groups [1,2,8].
4.
Participation in national public policy/advisory committees     The HFG have been invited as research experts to several policy/advisory       committee meetings.
These committees shape national and local government       policy and practice.
These are: Cabinet Office Civil Contingencies       Secretariat Warning and Informing Workshop 2009 (Hellier); Parliamentary       Advisory Committee for Transport Working Party on Young Drivers 2010       (Husband); and Cabinet Office Civil Contingencies Secretariat Cell       Broadcast Feasibility Working Group 2009 (Edworthy)
