     The centre's research in cross cultural HCI and its co-operation projects       and tours in India and China have had a direct effect on highlighting the       value of user-centred design as a subject to be taught in universities and       practiced in the local IT industry and public sectors.
Aniruda Joshi (IIT Bombay) confirms IESUP gave a quick start to the then       nascent field of usability and HCI in India.
The project led by SCIUX       funded trips by several HCI researchers (Prof Andy Smith, Prof Liam       Bannon, Prof Jan Gulliksen) from the EU to India, which initiated       relationships and collaborations between HCI academics in India and       Europe, some of which continue today.
As part of the impact, Smith       initiated and chaired the first India HCI conference in 2004, which runs       its fifth edition in 2013.
While there have been other HCI and usability conferences and events,       India HCI has been the first double-blind peer reviewed research       conference, and it continues to be well respected.
Its impact on usability       practice in India has stimulated the creation of local user experience       consultancies, such as iGatePatni, who provide offshored services to the       UK and Europe.
In 2005-2007, when usability practice began in China, there were very few       enlightenment and introduction activities, with a lack of communication       within the community.
SESUN activities were of great help for those       practitioners interested in usability practice, to be able to understand       and enter the field, (reference: Director of the Sino European Usability       Centre).
Each SESUN tour covered three major cities across China.
Each held a       1-day seminar at each city, led by 3-4 leading usability experts from       Europe.
Overall they attracted over 1,000 practitioners and university       students from around the country.
Many people involved in usability in       China nowadays actually became aware of the usability concept and got       their introductory knowledge of this field from this series of events.
On       completion of the SESUN project Prof Andy Smith jointly co-chaired the       China EU Summit on Human-Centred IT and Applications which was held in       Beijing in May 2007, inaugurated jointly with the Chinese Ministry for       Information Industry.
The impact of both IESUP and SESUN can be summarised in terms of the       following points:            Assisted people from industry and academia to practice usability/UCD         for the very first time;       inspired the first batch of Indian and Chinese companies to set up         usability units in the industry and to start UCD practice in product         development;       fostered user centred research methods to be introduced in HCI         technology related research activities;       introduced interaction design and UCD knowledge into the HCI         curriculum in universities;       played an important role in infiltrating the idea of user experience         and UCD into government sectors and at enterprise managerial levels;       facilitated practitioners networking to share common interests in         usability and HCI, to establish special interest groups online and         offline to support each other.
In addition to the direct impact on India and China, the underpinning       research discussed above and IESUP and SESUN projects allowed us to engage       in more recent projects in other countries such as Kenya, where, through       the EPSRC funded VeSeL project, we addressed the effects of culture in       participatory design and interactive technologies for rural farmers.
The       RA for the SESUN project, Christina Li, went on to become a User       Experience (UX) consultant and UK expert on Chinese usability issues.
She       founded her own company (http://www.ii-worldwide.com)       and is now organising a UX tour of China with a number of UK based       companies.
Driven by the experiences of IESUP and SESUN, David Lee completed his PhD       at UWL in 2009.
David worked in the field of cultural aspects of software       development and quality management in offshoring contexts.
His findings       were presented at the Software Quality Management 2011 and India HCI 2010.
He is now Head of Strategy at Vocalink.
In VeSeL we were able to help a cross disciplinary and cross-cultural       team of researchers to solve a design problem using knowledge acquired by       SCIUX in relation to localisation of HCI methods, elicitation of cultural       differences is user research and in liaison with the University of       Nairobi, to develop capacity in UCD methods.
In this case, the centre's       work had an impact on the daily life of two farming communities in Kenya       (Kiangwachi and Kambu).Our PhD student supporting VeSeL, Souleymane       Camara, successfully defended his viva in 2012 and is now working at       Thomson Reuters.
UK UXPA recognise Souleymane as an expert on African UX.
