     Carel has employed a variety of means to ensure public and professional       engagement with her research, resulting in widespread influence and uptake       among a diverse range of people and stakeholders.
Particular emphasis has       been placed on maximising knowledge exchange through interaction with       health practitioners.
Carel's book, Illness, received an enthusiastic reception.
It was       shortlisted for the Wellcome Trust Book Prize 2009 and was swiftly       translated into several languages.
A doctor at Cheltenham Royal Hospital       wrote that "as a doctor who tries and regularly fails to get things right,       it has already informed my practice and views" [S1].
The AHRC, in its       annual report 2009/10, highlighted the exemplary nature of its influence       on health professionals and policy makers [S2].
Patients also valued the       book as helping them understand and articulate their own perspective of       illness [S3].
The book is currently used in the teaching of medical       students in numerous universities including Cambridge, Cornell, Duke,       Temple, Bristol, Durham, Lancaster, Central Lancashire, Aberdeen and Kings       College London [S4].
Its impact has spread well beyond the health       professional arena, for example inspiring the work of artist Kamina Walton       who quoted from Carel's book in her touring exhibition `Heavy Words,       stories from the cervix: a visual exploration of cervical cancer" [S5].
Illness triggered an international debate on the experience and       understanding of illness through widespread media coverage and internet       discussions.
For example, an interview on Australia's ABC Radio's The       Philosopher's Zone [S5] and a video debate on the meaning of pain for       iai.tv (philosophy for our times: cutting edge debates and talks from the       world's leading thinkers) [S7].
Among the many blogs that discuss the       book, an example [S8] from New Zealand commented that it is "a book I       would recommend for anyone &#8212; healthy and non-philosophically inclined       included &#8212; because inevitably, directly or indirectly, sooner or later,       the way you yourself and society around you thinks about illness will have       a major impact on your life."
As a consequence of the widespread interest in her work, Carel       participated in book festivals, such as the Dartington Literary Festival       (2009), the Durham Book Festival (2010) and `How the Light Gets In' (the       philosophy and music festival at Hay on Wye) (2012).
She appeared on Radio       3's Free Thinking Festival (2010) and discussed the book and its practical       application in the medical arena with numerous groups of physicians and       nurses at events such as Medfest (2011), Medicine Unboxed (2011) and the       `Schwartz Center Rounds' in Gloucester and Cheltenham Hospitals (supported       by the Kings' Fund and designed to help healthcare staff provide       compassionate care).
Carel's work was at the core of a multidisciplinary       research network supported by AHRC on `Concepts of Health, Illness and       Disease'.
The book's reach has even extended into prisons; in a pilot       project at Erlestoke Prison, Wiltshire, inmates were able to relate the       book's discussion of a changed geography and a new relationship to space       brought about through illness to their own experience of dislocation as       prisoners.
In a podcast interview with Carel and a feature article in the AHRC       research magazine Carel's two-year network grant was flagged up by the       AHRC as promoting innovative high-impact research [S2].
It also resulted       in a multidisciplinary and accessible volume (Health, Illness and         Disease, Acumen, 2012)     The AHRC project included public events that were free, open to all, and       widely advertised.
Each event was attended by more than 100 members of the       public, health professionals and other practitioners.
For example, an       event on "Addiction: should we penalise or treat?"
held at the Watershed,       Bristol (2010) received widespread coverage in local media and attracted       many health and social care practitioners.
Analysis of more than 50       feedback forms showed that around two thirds of practitioners believed       that the event had provided them with new ways of thinking about their       professional practice which would continue to influence their work.
One       participant wrote that "the event impacted on my practice in understanding       that how we frame our attitudes to the client affects their ideas of       agency" [S10].
At a similar event on `Organ Donation' more than three       quarters of participants said that it had provided new ways of thinking       about their practice and many said, on a personal level, that it had made       them re-think the need for an open discussion about organ donation with       family members [S10].
The events were made available as freely accessible       podcasts.
Carel's publications have engaged the medical profession in particular;       for example, her British Medical Journal article has been       downloaded nearly 3,000 times.
Her work with health professionals has also       included invitations to speak at high profile meetings such as keynotes to       the British Medical Acupuncture Society Annual Conference 2010 and the       British Pain Society Annual Conference 2011.
Not content with simply       disseminating her research, Carel has sought to engage health professional       directly by designing and running bespoke workshops.
Piloted on nurses and       physiotherapists, the workshops have since been used with groups of       psychiatry trainees, respiratory registrars and respiratory nurses.
These       workshops enable participants to reflect on their professional practice,       making them aware of and influencing, their underlying thinking about the       human body.
Proactive engagement with the media has brought Carel's work to a wider       public audience.
She has written for the Independent and The         Daily Telegraph [S8] and been interviewed on BBC Radio 3, BBC Radio       Bristol, Y-net, Israel and ABC Radio, Australia [S6].
She has received       many responses and reactions to her public engagement work and continues       to exert influence in key policy areas and in cognate fields.
For example,       she has been invited to act as an advisor to the King's Fund on the       benefit to patients of the `Schwartz Center Rounds' (2013) and her work as       been commended by Sir Tom Shakespeare, Disability Advisor to the WHO at an       event at the Sage, Gateshead as part of the Free Thinking Festival (BBC       Radio 3, 2010).
