     Nature of the Impact: The `digital era governance' model, with its       focus on organizational reintegration, holistic services and       digitalization, has stimulated policy debate and impacted UK government       policy.
Working with and for the UK government, PPG research has played an       important role in shaping the evolution of UK e-government policy.
Evidence of Impact: In 2002 the House of Common's Public Accounts       Committee (PAC) considered progress since PPG's first report in 1999 and       its second in 2002, and confirmed all of these reports' recommendations       [A].
The formal government response to this, via a Treasury Minute,       committed government bodies to monitoring their web traffic, encouraging       the take-up by citizens of online services and ensuring the good design of       websites [B].
These were seemingly small changes but the two reports       contributed to a shift in thinking about online public services.
As       personal testimony from a Cabinet Office official sets out: "In some ways,       therefore, the real value and influence of Government on the Web       (1999) was less in its specific findings (which inevitably became dated       relatively quickly, if not as quickly as we all would have liked) and more       in pointing to a different way of framing questions and designing an       evidence-based approach to answering them" [C].
In 2003 the UK Political       Studies Association awarded Dunleavy and Margetts a `Making a Difference'       award for the 1999 and 2002 reports.
The 2007 Government on the Internet report [D] was considered in       detail by the PAC.
Dunleavy attended the PAC hearing, briefed the NAO's       Comptroller and Auditor General in the session, and the report's findings       fed directly into the Committee's conclusions and recommendations [E],       which the government overwhelmingly accepted [F].
These committed the       government to monitor both the costs of websites (often previously masked       within integrated service contracts) and the usage of their sites.
Dunleavy was consulted by Cabinet Office/COI staff implementing the       recommendations in April 2009 on the detailed design of the new annual web       use and costs survey.
This resulted in the implementation of a new       database on Whitehall Web costs by the Central Office of Information [G].
In addition, government departments were encouraged to develop channel       strategies whereby those who were able to switch to online interactions       were helped to do so, ensuring parallel offline services for those who       were digitally excluded.
NAO and HM Treasury have agreed savings arising       from the 2007 report of &#163;4,800,000 in 2011 [H].
In May 2009 Dunleavy and PPG published another VFM study for NAO, Department         for Work and Pensions: Communicating with Customers [I].
The central       finding was that DWP was conducting only 0.5% of its transactions online       and was lagging well behind other government departments.
The accuracy and       accessibility of online information within DWP also continued to have       serious problems.
In 2012 NAO and the Treasury agreed a first tranche of       &#163;715,000 savings identified in the report [H].
The report also stimulated debate in the wider policy community, and       Dunleavy and PPG participated in a number of high profile       academic-policymaker seminars.
For example Dunleavy presented key policy       lessons at a well-attended LSE/Institute for Government seminar to launch       PPG's `Innovating out of the Recession' seminar series in June 2009,       chaired by Lord Michael Bechard [J].
Dunleavy also drew on this work when       looking at DWP's productivity in comparison with other government       organisations for an event at HM Treasury in 2012.
The 2009 NAO report was       therefore an early factor helping to catalyse for a fundamental       reappraisal of delivery methods.
In this context of heightened scrutiny of       DWP, the new Secretary of State, Ian Duncan Smith, launched a large-scale       reform of DWP to introduce a Universal Credit benefit, together with a       major savings/austerity programme.
In response also to a general       government IT initiative, DWP policy changed radically in mid-2011 to       commit to a `digital by default' strategy with a target of getting 80% of       its customer transactions online by 2015 [K].
A new &#163;1 billion set of IT       contracts for universal credit to be delivered online began in 2012.
Wider Implications: Government understanding of how it provides       services online and how it assesses its own performance in this sphere has       dramatically changed since the first NAO report in 1999 and is reflected       in citizens' corresponding take-up of these services.
This outcome has       brought greater efficiency, ease-of-access and transparency to government       services and produced significant costs savings that are imperative in an       era of dwindling government budgets.
