     Policy making (Informing and influencing policy debate)     Crofts' research (References 1 and 2 above) enhanced understanding of the       transition to digital projection and informed the UK government Department       of Culture, Media and Sport's Film Policy Review report (Source 1 below),       `A Future For British Film' (2012) including policy recommendations for       new economic models of digital distribution and exhibition (Recommendation       13, p. 92) and the development of a digital preservation infrastructure       and standards (Recommendation 48, p. 94).
Recommendation 48 in turn shaped       the British Film Institute's policy, `Film Forever', Strategic Priority 3       on investing in preservation, digitisation, interpretation and access       (Source 2), (also corroborated by Sources 3 and 4).
Cultural Life (Preserving, conserving, and presenting cinema heritage)     The legacy of the Curzon research collaboration (Reference 4) is an       archive of digital cinema memories kept in the Curzon's records,       preserving memories for future generations and presenting them to the       public.
One-minute extracts are shown routinely as pre-film screeners       reaching 57,000 annual cinema visitors.
A short compilation of Curzon         Memories was screened at opening of the `Living History' exhibition       (March 2011), and edited highlights were screened at the Cinema Memories       Celebration Day (20 April 2013) (Source 10).
The innovative application of digital technology in the field of heritage       interpretation (References 3 &amp; 4) has raised the profile of the Curzon       Community Cinema, Clevedon, enabling them to win &#163;4,600 Heritage Lottery       Funding, from the `All Our Stories' strand to curate the Curzon Memories       Celebration Day.
This included the purchase of three iPads to demonstrate       the app and Projection Hero to visitors (Source 10).
The director       of the Curzon Board of Trustees says "This Curzon app is an extraordinary       project that is absolutely at the cutting edge of new media technology and       puts us way ahead in heritage interpretation.
Charlotte has gained us a       national reputation by her ground breaking work" (Source 5).
As a result of her research (References 3, 4, 5 &amp; 6), Crofts was       invited to speak to the International Museum Theatre Alliance, English       Heritage and the Arts Libraries Society of UK and Ireland.
This increased       awareness, which led directly to further heritage interpretation       commissions for Calvium, notably the English Heritage funded Heritage         Eye App (Source 6) and Heritage Lottery funded Clifton         Suspension Bridge App (Sources 6 and 9).
Educational form and content     The Curzon Memories App demonstrates innovation in educational       form, having won the British Universities Film and Video Council (BUFVC)       Learning on Screen Award for best non-broadcast, general education       multimedia production (April 2013) for its "impressive and innovative use       of app technology, with strong educational insight into the cinema"       (Source 8).
Winning the award also impacted on both the Curzon's       reputation (Source 5) and Calvium's (Source 6).
The Curzon Youth Panel were involved in evaluating the app, providing       them with a new sense of community, "one in which they were empowered       through having their opinions taken seriously on a new resource for and       about the Curzon.
It enabled them to engage with memories of the Curzon in       a different way" (Source 5).
One of the features of the app&#8212;that it can be       accessed remotely as well as `on location'&#8212;has helped raised the profile       of the Curzon's educational activities, with Further Education college       tutors, who accessed the app remotely, subsequently bringing students to       the Curzon.
In addition, the research has informed educational content.
The memories       collected as part of the collaboration have been used regularly in       educational activities by Curzon's Education Officer (Source 5).
This       included a selection of war memories used with two hundred 5-6 year olds       as part of the Prince's Foundation for Children and the Arts Start       Programme in 8 schools.
The Start programme gives schools in deprived       areas the motivation, means and opportunity to engage their pupils in a       series of creative experiences with arts venues outside of the school       environment.
As part of memory collecting, Crofts also documented a visit       by Yeo Moor Primary School, which resulted in a 10-minute film       screened to staff, pupils and parents at the Curzon (6 April 2011).
Curzon's Education Officer stated, "This has been beneficial in enabling       the Curzon to demonstrate to prospective schools what educational activity       at the Curzon looks like, and also for evaluative purposes for the       organisation" (Source 5).
Creativity and innovation (contributing to innovation and         entrepreneurial activity through the design and delivery of new products         or services).
The Curzon Memories App was selected to pitch before prestigious       industry judges at AppCircus, Google Campus, London 2012.
The       event spread awareness of Calvium's AppFurnace development software and       was featured on Twitter and BBC Radio 4's `You and Yours' (30 July 2012,       19 minutes in).
The app was featured in several key technology       publications, including the Guardian's App's Rush (27 March 2012)       and Wired UK Magazine (3 May 2012).
Calvium's Creative Director       commented that "The subsequent presentations and social media helped to       raise awareness of Calvium and the potential of AppFurnace for creating       location aware apps ...
These communication activities helped maintain       visitors to the Calvium sites which averages 14,000 per month" (Source 6).
The City Strata collaboration enabled creative economy partner,       Calvium, to develop a new capability, making scalable apps which draw from       a remote database rather than storing the content within an app,       increasing the product portfolio of the company.
Heritage partner, Bristol       City Council's City Design Group benefited by reaching a wider community       audience for their interactive geo-referenced map, Know Your Place,       as a result of the collaboration.
It also enhanced their national       reputation, generating "wide interest from local authorities, communities,       data managers and web developers".
Jo Reid (Creative Director of Calvium)       and Charlotte Crofts were invited to speak at Bristol City Council to       "Historic Environment Record officers from various local authorities and       Jane Golding from English Heritage" (Source 7).
Bristol City Council have       since gone on to win &#163;20K English Heritage funding to further develop Heritage         Eye App with Calvium based on the City Strata system (Source       7).
