     The development of the Bridges programme has changed practice among       stroke practitioners in London and Surrey, and has recently been taken up       in New Zealand.
The first vehicle for achieving impact was a programme of Bridges       workshops that commenced in 2008.
Since then, the Bridges stroke       self-management programme and training has been delivered to more than       1200 health and social care practitioners, and remains the only stroke       specific self-management programme accredited by the Stroke Specific UK       Forum for Training [1].
The programme has advanced the understanding of       how to deliver a self-management programme for stroke and directly       addressed the guidance in the National stroke strategy in 2007 which       stated `There is scope to expand the range of `self-management' activities       available for people with stroke' ([2] chapter 3, p39).
The Bridges programme was adopted as a priority project by the National       Stroke Improvement plan in 2009 (under its previous title of "Stepping       Out") [3], and Bridges was cited as an exemplar case study in the `Life       after Stroke' commissioning guidance for London in 2010 [4].
As a direct       result of Bridges being included in the Life after Stroke commissioning       guidance, the programme has been commissioned in stroke pathways such as       Islington, London, where over 70 stroke practitioners were trained to use       the programme.
An evaluation of the impact of Bridges training in       Islington and three other stroke pathways in 2011 (Newcastle, Wandsworth       and Worcestershire), involving 82 stroke practitioners from 6 different       professional groups found that 99% changed their practice to include a       greater focus on self-management as a result of the training [5].
The       results showed that practitioners are now more knowledgeable in the use of       methods to support self-management, and now integrate Bridges into their       practice [6].
Evaluation carried out by Dr Meriel Norris (Brunel) has also       demonstrated changes in beliefs, attitudes and practice after training in       the Bridges programme [5].
As a consequence these teams are able to show       they are addressing the key priorities to promote self-management       confidence and increase control as outlined in the UK Stroke strategy       (2007) and Kings Fund report (2012).
In 2011, a project funded by the South West London Academic, Health and       Social Care Systems (SWL AHSCN) evaluated the introduction of Bridges in       the stroke pathway in Kingston, Surrey.
The results showed that the       Bridges programme changed attitudes to self-management and improved cross       team working [6].
These findings led to a further award from SWL AHSCN and       HIEC in 2012 to explore the `Sustainability of Bridges one year on'.
This       was the first evaluation of the impact of Bridges in the longer term, and       led to a new programme of training for `Bridges champions' which was       launched in 2012 and delivered by Jones at Kingston University, in which       senior stroke practitioners are supported to use a whole systems approach       to self-management [7].
Further funding has also been awarded in 2013 by SWL AHSCN to develop and       evaluate the use of Bridges with care support workers &#8212; this is responding       to feedback from teams trained in Bridges to extend the training to a       wider group of care staff that plays an important role in supporting       self-management post stroke.
Stroke practitioners in an East London trust have reported a number of       changes to their practice after introducing Bridges, which have been       beneficial to service delivery.
These include introducing Bridges in the       acute/hospital setting, innovative ways to use Bridges with Bengali stroke       survivors, and involving service users in an evaluation of the programme       [8].
75 practitioners have been trained since 2011, and have used Bridges       with more than 200 patients across acute and community teams.
The impact       of Bridges in the East London stroke pathway was presented at the UK       stroke forum 2012 [8].
Bridges has led to changes in the way in which stroke rehabilitation is       delivered in stroke teams, towards using more person centred and       self-management approaches.
This impact on practice has been recognised       through an `excellence in stroke care' award received by Jones from the       Stroke Association in 2009 [9], and a Fellowship from the Chartered       Society of Physiotherapists for the contribution to advancement in       neurorehabilitation in 2010 [10].
The effectiveness of Bridges has received international recognition.
Feedback from attendees of a workshop and series of invited keynotes       presentations by Jones in 2011 highlighted the need for such a programme       in New Zealand.
12 stroke professionals and academics from an Otago       district health board were trained by Jones to deliver the programme in       August 2012 [11].
The programme is also being piloted for young stroke       survivors by the Laura Fergusson Trust in Canterbury, New Zealand [12].
