     ICMEC's research has delivered impacts for policy-makers, childcare       professionals and families with young children within the UK, Europe, and       also the global South.
This is achieved not only via its co-directors'       provision of expert advice to those stakeholders, but also through their       contributions to national media debate and discussion and, subsequently,       to enhancing public awareness of and engagement with their research and       with important associated issues.
In recognition of these many significant       impacts, Lloyd was awarded an OBE (2013).
Contributions to and influence on the development of international           policy: Penn's extensive work for OECD generated numerous       requests for her provision of expert advice to international policy-makers       and practitioners, including in Canada, where it has been widely promoted       by the Childcare Research and Resource Unit, a clearing house for       pertinent national and international policy research [a].
In New Zealand,       government advisers and early childhood provider representative groups       have also used ICMEC research to articulate high level policy       recommendations [b].
Within the EU, Penn has undertaken studies for       various EU directorates and contributed to EU presidential conferences in       Hungary (2011), The Czech Republic (2009) and Cyprus (2012).
In 2010, the       Education Directorate convened a special conference for senior policy       makers in Brussels to discuss her paper on ECEC [2].
Penn has also worked       widely in Southern Africa, where research impacts derive particularly from       her links with local Non Governmental Organisations.
Dr Marito Garcia,       chief economist for Africa in the World Bank's Human Development Division,       accepted Penn's invitation to launch an important World Bank publication       at a 2010 ICMEC seminar run in partnership with the Overseas Development       Institute [c].
The launch of that publication &#8212; which proposed ways       forward for ECEC policy and practice in Southern Africa &#8212; at an ICMEC       event, demonstrates the international standing and influence of the       Centre's research in this area.
The Global South strand of ICMEC's work       also generated Penn's keynote on financing ECEC, given at the 2010 first       UNESCO World Conference on Early Childhood to an audience of global policy       makers.
That presentation's publication in the Russian education journal Pedagogy         and Practice and in a UNESCO ECEC Handbook [3] means that it has       also informed a large practitioner audience both within and beyond Russia.
Contributions to and influence on national policy: In 2009       Lloyd co-authored the national evaluation of the piloting of free       education for disadvantaged two year olds [7].
This is the first reference       listed among the body of studies forming the evidence base for policy       options and proposals set out in two key policy documents steering this       initiative's further development under the Coalition Government; key       evaluation findings are cited prominently among its evidence base [d].
This work led the DfE to trial new approaches to improving quality in       provision for targeted two year olds after 2010, paving the way for the       expansion of the current offer to reach 40% of two year olds by 2014/15.
This programme is now the Coalition's major child poverty initiative.
The       OECD childcare costs research was commissioned on the DfE's behalf to       inform the Coalition Government's 2012 Childcare Commission [4].
Having       been widely referred to in the written and broadcast media, its       publication coincided with the Government's response to this Commission's       recommendations.
Both this paper and Lloyd and Penn's co-edited book on       childcare markets [8] have directly informed political discussion and       debate within and beyond both parliamentary houses.
For example, on 15       June 2012 Lloyd met with Crossbench Peer the Earl of Listowel to discuss       the book's findings.
The day after its publication, he mentioned Childcare         Markets in a House of Lords debate, referring to ICMEC's work in       support of the contention that private-for-profit involvement in mixed       social welfare markets may be problematic.
Penn and Lloyd discussed childcare market issues raised in their Costs         of Childcare report with Sharon Hodgson MP, Labour's Shadow Minister       for Children and Families, in December 2012.
Hodgson has since asked       questions in the House about this research and referred to ICMEC's work in       a Committee meeting on the 2013 Children and Families Bill [h].
ICMEC's       co-directors were also invited to a January 2013 high level meeting called       by Shadow Education Secretary Stephen Twigg MP to discuss future childcare       policy and the Labour Party's own Childcare Commission.
ICMEC's position       was subsequently cited in Labour party documentation [i].
These citations       in parliamentary discussion and policy documents demonstrate the       contribution by this research to high level debate about the UK childcare       market and thus to present and future early childhood service quality,       accessibility and affordability.
ICMEC research has also informed policy development via its authors'       contributions to policy and strategy advisory boards.
Between 2010 and       2012, Lloyd was a member of an Expert Panel advising the NICE Public       Health Interventions Advisory Committee (PHIAC) on the development of       guidelines promoting the social and emotional wellbeing of vulnerable       children under five, published in 2012.
As a result of her input, these       guidelines reflect an enhanced understanding of the effect of the British       childcare market on the sustainability and quality of early childhood       provision for vulnerable children [e].
From 2011-2013, she was the only       academic member of the Co-production Steering Group, a high-level advisory       group convened by Ministers at the DfE and Department of Health.
In this       role she made a significant contribution to the planning and drafting of       proposals in the Coalition Government's 2011 policy statement Families         in the Foundation Years, and to their subsequent implementation [f].
This resulted in an increased emphasis on provision quality as a       pre-condition for beneficial developmental outcomes for children.
Lloyd       also co-chaired the DfE's Early Education Co-production Group, which was       selected as an Expert Reference Group for the 2012 National Audit Office       inquiry into value for money in delivering the free early education       entitlement for three and four year olds.
NAO's influential report       prompted the House of Commons Public Accounts Committee to require DfE to       make changes to ECEC monitoring and regulation processes at local and       national level [g].
Both Lloyd and Penn participated in numerous childcare       policy roundtable discussions held by government departments, the Greater       London Assembly and public policy think tanks such as IPPR, IFS, Policy       Exchange and the Resolution Foundation, as well as having individual       discussions with national policymakers.
They were among six experts       invited to a September 2012 Department of Work and Pensions Roundtable       discussion forming part of DWP's work programme for the 2012/1213       Coalition Government Childcare Commission.
They contributed advice about       the likely effect on service quality and equality of access of the       for-profit sector's rapidly increasing childcare market share.
Indicative       of ICMEC's national standing as an authoritative source of such research       was the fact that two of the other four experts present were current and       past ICMEC Advisory Board members.
Contributions to practitioner press and popular media discourse           about childcare-related issues: In spring 2012, politicians       mooted childcare deregulation in order to reduce its costs (for instance       by relaxing adult/child ratios); concrete deregulation proposals followed       in a January 2013 DfE policy paper, More Great Childcare.
Responding to these, Lloyd and Penn used ICMEC research to highlight       deregulation's risks to ECEC quality, its lack of impact on costs, and the       inappropriateness of the international examples used in support of these       proposals, in the practitioner press.
They also contributed several       analysis and opinion pieces, some co-authored with members of the Centre's       network of scholars.
The OECD childcare costs research and the comparative       study of the Dutch childcare market featured in ensuing media debates on       childcare costs and ratio changes.
In subsequent media appearances by       Lloyd and Penn they shared these studies' key facets with large national       audiences.
Since May 2012 ICMEC's co-directors have made at least 10 live       media appearances and ICMEC's research has featured on national television       and radio programmes, including BBC 2 Newsnight, Sky TV News, Sky TV Adam       Boulton Politics show and on the Radio 4 programmes Today, You and Yours,       Woman's Hour and PM.
Apart from mentions on Channel 4 and BBC1 News,       ICMEC's Dutch childcare market research was used in Channel 4's FactCheck       web pages to query the accuracy of the government's statements on ECEC.
In       the same period ICMEC's research was cited in the Sunday Telegraph,       the Observer, the Independent on Sunday, the Daily         Mail, the Irish Times and Metro [j].
In June 2013       the ratio relaxation plans were dropped by the Coalition government, a       decision influenced in part by ICMEC's research findings.
The public       attention attracted by media coverage of this debate promoted enhanced       public awareness and engagement with issues relating to ECEC       marketisation.
