     The European Food Safety Authority (EFSA) is the main body providing       scientific advice to the European Union on risks in the food chain.
Naughton led an initiative to improve the scientific quality of ESFA's       outputs, resulting in improved processes and procedures and a significant       reduction in flawed outputs.
The vehicle for achieving this impact was the External Review Working       Group (ERWG), which was established in 2009 to audit scientific outputs       generated by EFSA [1,2,8].
Naughton was appointed chair of this group in       2009.
His appointment as chair, and his expert contributions to the work       of the group, were based on the underpinning research discussed in       Sections 2 and 3 and drew materially and distinctly upon that research, in       particular the application of risk assessment tools, the study of heavy       metal contamination and trends in food alerts and supplements/additives       [5].
The material impacts occurred as a result of the ERWG annual reviews,       which made detailed recommendations of change to the practices and       procedures of EFSA.
By identifying issues relating to EFSA outputs,       procedures and processes during these reviews, a series of recommendations       were proposed to EFSA and were implemented the following year.
The major       impact of these scientifically formulated expert recommendations was to       improve processes and procedures, resulting in improvements to the quality       and clarity of EFSA's work.
The 2009 Review contained 7 clusters of recommendations with a focus on       improving: clarity of Terms of Reference, structure of outputs to reflect       recognised risk assessment formats, proof reading, adherence to EFSA       guidelines, and more in-depth consideration of uncertainties and       limitations [1].
These recommendations were implemented by EFSA in 2010       and 2012 [3,6].
As a result of the improvements made by EFSA the number of erroneous       scores made by the reviewers dropped from 6% in 2009 to 1.4% in 2011 as       measured on a comparable basis [3] [4, p. 38][7].
Extrapolating to the       full cohort of outputs produced annually by EFSA, this change represents       the significant decrease from some 80 flawed outputs to around 20.
The 2011 Review made 13 recommendations and highlighted 9 key issues that       led to low scores [3].
Specific emphasis was placed on the issues which       were deemed to limit the quality of EFSA's outputs: i) a lack of clarity       of databases used for the identification of reference material, ii) weak       conclusions, without concrete evidence, iii) deficiencies in referencing       and availability of original documentation, iv) deficiencies in synthesis       and analysis, v) limited consideration of uncertainties and final       integrated risk assessments, and vi) inadequate summaries which exclude       important critical parameters.
EFSA implemented changes based upon the       recommendations of the ERWG which led to improved processes and       procedures, resulting in improvements to the quality of EFSA's work and       its ability to guide stakeholders to improve food safety [5,6].
The work of EFSA directly affects food safety in the EU, impacting on the       daily lives of over 600 million citizens, and also influences policy in       countries outside the EU.
EFSA answers some 700 formal questions per       annum, mainly arising from the EC, Member States and Industry with a range       of functions including risk assessment, informing new laws and the       licensing of new food constituents.
Stakeholders with direct reliance on EFSA guidance to inform decision       making in food safety, risk assessment and health claims are widely       dispersed across the EU and include the EC, European Parliament, National       Risk Managers and Assessors, NGOs, Scientific Organisations, Food Industry       Managers, and Consumer Organisations [4, pp 245-270].
These parties attest       to the contribution EFSA makes to their safety work [4, pp.
267-312].
For example, 90% of the responses from National Risk Managers stated they       had benefited from taking part in EFSA Advisory Forums [4, p. 286] and 71       % of the sample registered a reduction in their own risk assessment       activities after the creation of EFSA, with 77.4% stating their national       food safety authority benefits from EFSA in terms of cost savings [4, p.       289].
The ERWG contribution, with significant leadership from Naughton and       scientific contributions based on his research, was to reduce by around       75% the number of erroneous outputs produced by EFSA.
This has improved       the quality of the scientific advice provided by EFSA to EU stakeholders,       with consequent reductions in food risk for EU citizens.
