     Since 2008, the research outlined above has delivered benefits to a wide       range of end-user groups operating at local, regional, national and       (increasingly) international levels.
We have worked with these groups on       the development of improved emergency education and service provision.
It       has also, less directly, impacted upon a much broader pool of       beneficiaries constituted by populations living within areas affected by       these changes.
In all projects, elements of co-production are used to       maximise impact.
The following examples illustrate the realisation of       these benefits.
National impacts on preparedness education and warning / informing           policy and practice:       The research has informed elements of UK-wide policy and practice         through its use by central government agencies including the Civil       Contingencies Secretariat (CCS), which is responsible for emergency       planning in the UK, and which has used the research to inform its warning       and informing strategy for 2013 / 2014 [a].
As the Secretariat's Policy       Manager explained, Preston's findings and expertise:     "...were helpfully shared with colleagues here which enabled them to       provide feedback and kept CCS (Civil Contingencies Secretariat) informed       of these emerging findings.
At the end of the project Professor Preston       gave a presentation to the National Committee for Warning and Informing       the Public (NSCWIP) which was attended by various CCS members and other       practitioners involved in warning and informing.
The findings from this       presentation were considered a part of the development of CCS's warning       and informing strategy for 2013 / 2014" [a].
The use of the research by the CCS ensures its relevance to the whole of       the UK population in a crisis situation, and to local populations in       smaller emergencies.
Changes based on the research findings have conferred       city-wide and regional benefits by enhancing provision for warning and       informing within these cities, and thereby increasing the security &#8212; and       with it the wellbeing and quality of life &#8212; of their citizens.
[b].
These       findings have also been disseminated to the general public through high       profile events, including the 2011 University of Cambridge `Festival of       Ideas' Violent Nature Debate, which was attended by an invited public       audience of over 100 [h].
The national impacts of the research findings have also been realised       through their communication between 2010 and 2013 to the advisory board of       the `Game Theory and Adaptive Networks for Smart Evacuations' project.
That board included senior representatives of the Cabinet Office, Home       Office, and Government Office for Science who, in turn disseminated key       insights within their own organisations.
In 2013 the Cabinet Office asked       Preston to produce guidance on `disaster education' to be distributed to       all local authorities.
Preston has also contributed to the policy debate       on pandemic preparedness [g].
Benefits for international policy development and in warning /           informing policy in the US:       The Unit's disaster education research is, moreover, also beginning to       produce benefits for international users: in 2011 the Department       of Homeland Security (DHS) invited Preston to present his research at       their Science Conference [d].
This, the only UK project presented at the       conference, was used by the DHS to scope social media / disaster education       policy and fed into the development of a set of guidelines ("Understanding       Risk Communication Best Practices: A Guide for Emergency Managers and       Communicators), published in May 2012 for the DHS [e].
City wide benefits in terms of emergency planning and preparation           for mega events: The `Game Theory and Adaptive Networks'       project has informed emergency policy, planning and practice at         city-wide levels.
Following a series of focus groups and       dissemination events, its findings have catalysed the reappraisal of       existing disaster education provision in major UK cities; in particular,       the research has prompted proposals among emergency planners in       Birmingham, Carlisle and London for changes to their social media       strategies for emergency situation responses.
In 2010 Preston implemented       a series of requirements analyses involving emergency planners across       those cities, the results of which were reported in 2012 and which have       already led to several changes in both policy and practice relating to       disaster planning [b].
In addition, in September 2011 Preston and       Kolokitha were asked by Essex Fire and Rescue Service to appraise their       social media education strategy, leading to changes to the ways in which       they communicated disaster education to their constituency.
Policy-makers and planners in London have also benefited from the       production of our 2012 planning report for the ODA, which led to changes       in the activities of transport operators in the run-up to the Olympic       Games, including better signage and the increased use of volunteers to       direct attendees.
These changes, which helped increase public safety       during a national `mega event', brought benefits not just for planning       officials, but to all those involved in and attending the highly       successful 2012 Games [i].
Benefits in terms of deepening individual understanding of           preparedness: On a smaller scale, but also with intensive       impact, Chakrabarty's research into the application of theatre education       methods to disaster education provided the basis for her development in       2010 of a tabletop exercise to inform the development of disaster       preparation policy and emergency service delivery within West Sussex local       authority.
`Operation Snowman' constituted a unique intervention within       this local authority, highlighting completely new social and practical       issues in its disaster preparation planning, and suggesting novel and       effective methods of tackling these.
Since taking part in the exercise,       the Local Authority has responded to the research findings by taking steps       to facilitate the inclusion of young people in emergency planning, and to       explore issues of youth understanding of emergencies.
This was achieved by       inviting the FE students and emergency planning professionals who       participated in the research to share their experiences and new knowledge       via an internet forum set up in 2010 both to help them reflect on the       project and to provide a publicly accessible learning resource for use by       young people and policy makers.
Participants' responses demonstrated that       the exercise significantly enhanced their understanding of emergency       preparedness, a subject about which they had hitherto known little or       nothing.
The theatre education was undertaken in a unique preparedness       site (the nuclear bunker in which the exercise was staged), and they       reported that the activity invoked in them a sense both of agency and       responsibility, altering their perceptions of disaster preparedness       education [c, f].
Improving social inclusion for young people through internet radio:       The Friereian approach to pedagogy and learning design in the       `Radioactive' project, led by Ravenscroft, has resulted in the involvement       of 55 young people (8 - 19) from disadvantaged backgrounds and 8 youth       workers in creating community radio.
This has led to social inclusion and       civic participation benefits for the young people and for society [j].
