     The success of the ePsychNurse project has led to a catalysing effect in       Finland, with substantial       reform in psychiatric nursing practice and facilities being rolled out       nationwide.
Prior to the ePsychNurse project, psychiatric hospitals made routine use       of mechanical restraints       and seclusion.
The seclusion conditions were extremely basic, having       remained essentially       unchanged for a century: the seclusion room was a bare cell with no       furniture and primitive toilet       facilities, and the secluded person had no opportunity for activity or       conversation during seclusion       periods that lasted from several hours up to a week.
There was no       involvement of service users in       issues relating to clinical care, policy development, research or       education.
In 2008, following the successful pilot study in Finland, and other       nurses completing the course,       Halikko hospital changed its policy on the use of coercive interventions.
The use of mechanical       restraints was entirely stopped, and the seclusion rate was reduced by       approximately 50-60%.
In       addition, the physical environment of seclusion rooms was entirely       redesigned, with the       introduction of furniture, a radio, a clock, proper toilet facilities and       a buzzer to press to       communicate with nurses.
These changes were made with the involvement of       service users, and       drew substantially on their wishes for reform of seclusion.
The benefits of these changes are that patients are more satisfied with       their treatment, and trauma       to patients has been reduced.
The new treatment regimes are not only less       harsh, as detailed       above, but also more individualised.
Where restrictions are employed, they       are based on the       specific needs of individuals, rather than being generalised restrictions       as in the past.
These changes have proved to be successful, and have been disseminated to       over 18 other       hospitals and hospital districts in Finland.
Over 1000 registered nurses       in Finland have now       completed the ePsychNurse.net course.
The use of mechanical restraints and       seclusion in       psychiatric care has decreased throughout Finland, as a consequence of       this project.
These changes in nursing practice have been driven by a significant       change in mindset within the       Finnish psychiatric care system.
Before the ePsychNurse project, this was       a strongly professional-led  	  system, with little or no room for service user involvement.
This has       now changed, as a result       of ePsychNurse, and service users now have a strong voice within the       system.
Furthermore,       doctors and nurses would not previously have shared a public platform with       patients/service users       addressing multi-professional audiences: this is now commonplace.
The Finnish Social Affairs and Health Ministry issued a new national       guidance document on mental       health and substance abuse work in 2009.
This set the core national       principles for mental health       care in Finland from 2009 to 2015.
As a result of the work described       above, this guidance states       that service users must be included in the development of mental hospital       services.
