     4.1 Knowledge exchange with start-ups and designers     The research above underpins the formation of active knowledge exchange       relationships with       micro businesses and start-ups in the digital media innovation sector       which has enabled them to       start up, develop their market profile, produce better media products and       services, and increase       their market share.
Co-creating a critical language for Pervasive Media       enabled new start-ups and       designers to articulate their offer to the market with more clarity and       the design dimensions       approaches enabled them to deliver better products and services [S5, S6].
4.2 Pervasive Media Studio and Calvium     The experience design framework developed by the 2004 workshop team (and       published in R5)       was incorporated in Hewlett Packard's (HP) MediaScape training materials.
(MediaScapes were       the forerunners of Pervasive Media.)
The improvement in HP's ability to       communicate the potential       of mobile media led to Dovey being invited in 2008 to bring the UWE       Digital Cultures Research       Centre team (including Fleuriot, Giddings and Kennedy) to become co-       founding members of the       Pervasive Media Studio.
This is Watershed Media Centre's innovation lab       partnering University       research and digital start-ups.
(It was cited in the `Creative Britain:       New Talents for the New       Economy' Feb 2008 DCMS report as a `ground-breaking new innovative place       of learning'.)
The Director of Watershed's Pervasive Media Studio confirms that "The       partnerships,       collaborations and knowledge built up through your research into       Experience Design and Games in       the emerging ecosystem of Pervasive Media has been invaluable in       catalysing and supporting our       network of artists, creative and technologists."
She adds that the       research "has shaped policy [and]       strengthened our business performance" [T1].
The design framework also at the core of the approach to mobile media       design adopted by       Calvium Ltd, a new spin-out company from the HP Bristol Labs that also       became a founding       member of the Studio.
Their Creative, Sales and Marketing Director says       that the research and       partnerships from the workshops "have had a lasting impact on the       development of our own       business (Calvium) and on the wider innovation community round the       Pervasive Media Studio.
[...]       Calvium now have a thriving consultancy and app development business built       around our own       Experience Design framework honed from the early experimental work".
4.3 Creative innovation network     The original design frameworks and common-language approaches to embodied       experience       design were key contributors to the formation of a vibrant creative       innovation network.
The       stakeholders in this network are Creative Industry start-ups, SMEs,       cultural industry agencies,       media professionals and practice-based researchers in media, design and       digital innovation.
The       research insights from the 2004 workshop have been debated face to face,       discussed and       developed through the DCRC and Pervasive Media Studio networks and events.
These have       reached a range of audiences (of up to 300 people) including business and       the general public.
The       design framework and common critical language developed by the research       have been shared as       follows:     a) SME creative economy partners who have participated in workshops or       case studies.
Specific       examples of these companies include Mobile Pie (games) [see T4], Thought       Den (design),       Interactive Places (heritage), Play it Again Sam (music), Duncan Speakman       (artist), Guerilla       Dance Company, Calvium (app platform developers) [see T2], Stand and Stare       Theatre, Matter       to Media, ProtoType Theatre, igLab (games) and Moksha (design).
These       companies have       been enabled to improve their sales through experiencing the co-created       methods of the       design framework.
For example, the MD of Mobile Pie (a games development       studio) confirms       that "Having such direct access to an academic team has proven immensely       useful to our       business over the years, helping us to make sense and understand the wider       implications our       work in such a fast moving industry" [T4].
b) Summer schools for 24 Creative Producers run in 2010 and 2011 (in       conjunction with iShed).
Producers gained an in-depth understanding of how to transfer their       existing skills into the       emergent domains of Pervasive Media by understanding embodied user       experience [S1].
c) iShed's `Sandbox' production programme has led to the creation of 44       innovative digital media       products, all of which have incorporated UWE's `design dimensions'       approach in their planning       stages.
4.5 Pervasive Media Cookbook     The Knowledge Transfer Fellowship described in section 2 above led to the       publication in 2012 of       the online `Pervasive Media Cookbook' (http://pervasivemediacookbook.com/).
This       was co-produced with the Pervasive Media Studio.
It included 14 case       studies of different kinds of       Pervasive Media project.
The Cookbook republished and updated the       research's original design       framework, together with other materials, providing the world's first       `how-to' guide to producing       Pervasive Media.
The Cookbook has expanded the market in this field of       digital innovation by       offering the first guidebook aimed at first-time producers [S2].
4.6 REACT     The accumulated experience of the UWE team in knowledge exchange based in       the research       above underpin UWE's leadership of REACT (Research and Enterprise for Arts       and Creative       Technologies), one of the AHRC's four &#163;4.8m Creative Economy Hubs.
Dovey       is its Director.
REACT has hosted 300 academics and businesses in `Ideas Labs', formed 100       new relationships       between academics and business and produced 30 digital media projects.
These build on the       approaches to experience design and co-creative research relationships       developed from the       original 2004 workshops (see section 2 above).
REACT has taken the       approach to digital media       experience design arising out of the research and built on it in the       fields of heritage, publishing and       future documentary.
This has led to partnerships producing prototype       products and services that       enhance the product portfolio of Creative Economy businesses.
Companies       supported by REACT       have produced an additional &#163;500k worth of business in the year since       their completion.
Partner       companies have invested 5800 hours of paid time into the projects so far       produced.
The creation of       new academic/business relationships is at the core of REACT's achievements       [S3].
For example, the Creative Director of Splash &amp; Ripple writes that       "REACT enabled me to get our       first commission...
The fact that the Sandbox was informed by research       into Experience Design       principles that we could put into action was a really great help in       developing our ideas for the       project."
Her involvement with REACT "has directly resulted in many new       leads and a &#163;100k       commission for the National Trust.
My business is now established as a new       brand within the       Heritage Market" [T3].
