     Research at UCL Scandinavian Studies has provided a means by which Nordic       cultural organisations can mediate their works to UK audiences and has       created an environment in which new modes of mediation can develop.
This       is achieved both through organised events attracting diverse London       audiences, and by developing new channels through which partnerships are       strengthened with a range of collaborators, such as embassies, publishing       houses, translator networks and theatre companies.
This activity has been       facilitated through the application of Thomson's and Stougaard-Nielsen's       research expertise in digital technology and medium-specificity to the       development of multi-platform publishing and cultural mediation.
Working with the London embassies of Denmark and Sweden and Nordic       cultural institutions such as the Danish Agency for Culture, our research       enhances public awareness of Scandinavian cultural heritage and         produces new cultural resources.
We are regularly called upon by       such institutions to collaborate on developing effective and innovative       modes of engaging UK audiences with the aspects of Scandinavian culture       they wish to promote, and we often lead on the design and delivery of such       activities through multiple channels which, during the impact period,       included exhibitions and talks, theatre collaborations, translation and       publication of important literary works, and the development of networks       of translators, illustrators and publishers who benefit from our research       insights in mediating these works to Anglophone audiences.
Our research       combines expertise in `classic' Scandinavian literature and cinema with       new insights into the cultural and technological contexts in which they       emerged: we thus assist cultural institutions to re-interpret and mediate       Scandinavian cultural capital for British audiences in ways which speak to       contemporary interests and media consumption practices.
A recent and major example of this collaboration &#8212; in this case with the       Embassy of Sweden in London &#8212; was the exhibition and event series Strindberg's         Red Room at UCL [1-3].
This exhibition was commissioned and funded       entirely by the Embassy of Sweden in London, which provided total funds of       c. &#163;5000.
It took place in UCL's North Lodge exhibition space from 22       September to 22 October 2012, and featured 22 events as well as a core       exhibition including materials provided by the Swedish Institute and the       Nordic Museum in Stockholm.
Curated by Thomson, this exhibition provided       an introduction to the life and work of August Strindberg to mark the       centenary of his death, but was characterised by a concern, rooted in       Thomson's research, with Strindberg's creative output across media, genres       and fields (e.g.
plays, photography, painting, science essays).
Visitors       thus benefited from an enhanced knowledge and understanding of the       significance and range of Strindberg's oeuvre, but could also hear       presentations (e.g.
one based on Stougaard-Nielsen's research on Hans       Christian Andersen [c]), engage in discussion, and be exposed to artefacts       and images on related topics such as the production of scientific       knowledge, the role of chance in art, and nineteenth-century photographic       experimentation.
In addition to some 230 visitors in situ, the Red Room       website had by 31.7.2013 attracted 6500 page views from 61 countries [1].
Visitor comments [2] included: `impressive and inspirational exhibit';       `enlightening and thought-provoking'; `very stimulating'.
Another element       in this commission was a special issue of the magazine Swedish Book         Review [4] (including an essay by Thomson on Strindberg's       photographic experiments [f]), published by Norvik Press and distributed       to 380 subscribers.
The Swedish Embassy confirms [3] that Strindberg's         Red Room at UCL achieved two key goals: the centenary was marked in       the UK in an innovative multidisciplinary academic frame, and in physical       settings which brought Strindberg to audiences beyond the Embassy's       established contacts.
The application of our research to enhancing public awareness and       enjoyment of cultural heritage also extends to more straightforward forms       of mediation.
Thomson's introduction to a screening of Vinterberg's Festen       at London's Nordic Film Festival 2012 at Riverside Studios, attended by 68       people, drew directly on her monograph [d] and was positively reviewed in       Kettle Magazine [5].
Her Bright Club podcast on Nordic cinema       including Dogme 95 was downloaded 1114 times (Feb 2011-Jan 2012).
She also       wrote and performed two research-based comedy sets on Danish film for       Bright Club, UCL's academic comedy night, at Bright Club LIFE (4.2.2011,       audience of 554, set and interview filmed by BBC [6]), and at Bright Club       READING (9.5.2013, audience of 230) [7].
Our research has catalysed changes to existing businesses which has,         in turn, benefited our cultural partners.
Central to this endeavour       has been the relocation to UCL in 2010 of a specialist Scandinavian       publishing house, Norvik Press, first established at the University of       East Anglia in the 1980s.
Leveraging the support structures provided by       UCL Advances and UCL Enterprise, more commonly used by STEM researchers       commercialising discoveries, Thomson, as a Director of Norvik Press, has       worked to create synergies between emerging print technologies, the       department's collective expertise in Scandinavian culture, and its public       engagement activities, in order to develop modes of mediating Scandinavian       literature that are sustainable, cost-effective, inflected by research,       and sensitive to readers' attachment to books as attractive material       objects.
In 2010-11, Thomson was appointed a UCL Knowledge Transfer Champion (KTC)       to apply her research insights on digital technology and       medium-specificity to the development of multi-platform publishing.
This       KTC award funded a research assistant post (held by Marita Fraser) to       provide the necessary expertise in production technology.
Thomson also       worked with UCL Advances to broker the appointment of Norwegian literature       specialist Elettra Carbone as a Knowledge Exchange Associate seconded to       Norvik Press to manage and evaluate the transition to digital       print-on-demand (PoD) technology as Norvik's mode of production and       distribution.
PoD obviates the need for expensive storage of back stock       and streamlines the ordering process.
This had a critical impact on       Norvik's dissemination of Nordic literature: sixteen books, including       several key projects in collaboration with Nordic institutions, were       published as PoD in the period 2011-13.
An important example is the translation series `Lagerl&#246;f in English',       edited by Helena Fors&#229;s-Scott (researcher at UCL, retired 2010).
Five       volumes in the series have so far been published via PoD, all classic       Swedish works that would not otherwise be in print in English.
Building on       the department's research emphasis on books as intermedial objects, this       series also provided a framework to promote Swedish artists in the UK: the       Embassy brokered a competition to design book covers for the series, in       partnership with Beckmans College of Design, Stockholm.
This provided UK       exposure for the winner, Sture Pallarp.
Similarly, illustrations for a new       translation of the two-volume children's classic Nils Holgersson's         Wonderful Journey (trans.
Peter Graves, Norvik Press, 2013) were       selected via open call.
The selected artist, Bea Bonafini, benefited not       only financially from use of her images but also in terms of artistic       development, as evinced by her essay (included in the book [8]) discussing       her conceptual engagement with the translated text.
The cultural impact of       the availability of this novel by Selma Lagerl&#246;f, the first female Nobel       Laureate in Literature, was powerfully expressed by critic Paul Binding in       his TLS review: "my own life is unimaginable without Nils       Holgersson" [9].
The synergies between UCL's public engagement activity       and Norvik Press are further exemplified by Norvik's use of the Strindberg       exhibition as an environment in which to re-launch and contextualise Peter       Graves' translation of the Strindberg novel The Red Room (first       published in 2009; 645 copies sold to date) [4].
These, and similar       projects, have enabled Nordic cultural organisations to ensure that UK       readers have access to significant works of Nordic fiction through an       established and sustainable channel whose publication strategies are       informed by UCL's research in Scandinavian culture and book history.
A second, and related, example of our contribution to business       development is our ongoing collaboration with the semi-professional       theatre company Foreign Affairs.
Our Strindberg centenary activities       included the publication by Norvik of a volume of 4 one-act plays by       Strindberg, an initiative designed with the Swedish Embassy and       coordinated under the auspices of our Impact Studentships (see below) to       provide opportunities for networking and skills development for       Swedish-English translators.
Experienced translation mentors were assigned       to aspiring translators, who worked in pairs on the translations,       consulting Foreign Affairs on the performability of the resulting texts.
Two of these plays were then produced by Foreign Affairs, premiering on 19       October 2012 at the Bloomsbury Theatre Studio (2 performances, c. 60       attendees).
This translation project thus expanded the young company's       repertoire with two new productions of Strindberg's lesser known plays.
This collaboration is acknowledged by the co-founder of Foreign Affairs,       Trine Garrett, as a watershed for the company, crystallising its focus on       translated material and artistic collaborations.
Foreign Affairs' income       from the Strindberg productions funded the group's membership of the       Independent Theatre Council and its incorporation as a company [10].
That our contribution to the mediation of Nordic culture in the UK is       regarded by our partners as a sustainable and valuable exchange of         skills, knowledge and resources is evinced by significant financial         investment on their part, not only for specific events but also in       the form of scholarship funding.
Three doctoral studentships have been       part-funded by Nordic cultural institutions under the UCL Impact PhD       Studentship scheme, which couples research with impact-generating       activities; this partnership scheme is otherwise predominantly used in       STEM research.
In 2010, two PhD studentships in Swedish-English       translation were brokered by Thomson and the Swedish Embassy's Cultural       Counsellor, and co-funded by the Swedish Academy, the Barbro Osher Pro       Suecia Foundation, and Mr Stefan Olsson (a total of &#163;64,575) [3].
These       PhD projects draw on Thomson and Stougaard-Nielsen's research in print       culture, intermediality and cultural transfer.
The projects have enhanced       the public's and cultural institutions' understanding of the agency of       translators and other actors in the translation, publication and promotion       of Swedish literature, and developed and sustained networks between       stakeholders in the UK and overseas, via such channels as the students'       contributions to Swedish Book Review, presentations on Radio       Wales, at the Gothenburg Book Fair, the British Centre for Literary       Translation Summer School, and at London events such as the Nordic Noir       Book Club and New Swedish Fiction Book Club, as well as the collaborative       drama translation project outlined above.
A third Impact Studentship in       2013 demonstrates that this model is recognised as successful and       sustainable.
With the intention of building on existing literature-focused       collaboration in London with the Danish Embassy, the Danish Arts Council's       Committee for Literature contributed &#163;32,353 in summer 2013 to co-fund an       Impact PhD studentship focusing on the role of social media in the       promotion of new Danish fiction in the UK [11], with the practical remit       of establishing a new network for Danish-English translators.
