     Influencing government policy and practice: The potential impact       of this research was       identified in its early years by the Ministry of Defence and, on the basis       of his research       expertise, Owen was invited [Finlay] to be a UK representative on the       Aerospace Systems       Group of The Technical Cooperation Programme (TTCP), a body with       representatives of the       defence agencies of the UK, US, Canada, Australia and New Zealand.
The       Group coordinates       and disseminates international research into maritime helicopter       operations and Owen has been       the sole UK academic on this group (TTCP-AER-TP2).
In 2011 Owen was also       invited by the       UK MoD [Duncan] to represent the UK on a NATO working group (AVT-217)       which is       coordinating international efforts in ship design guidance for aircraft       operations.
Owen was also asked by MoD to use his research expertise to create the       airwakes of the Type       23 frigate and the Wave Class auxiliary oiler; these were implemented in       the Merlin simulator at       RNAS Culdrose to improve the realism of the simulation environment.
Professional practice in design: In 2012 Owen was engaged by BAE       Systems Surface Ships       to provide design advice for the new Type 26 Combat Ship [Foreman].
This       advice drew on the       techniques developed from research conducted while Owen has been at       Lincoln.
The Type 26 will operate with Merlin and/or Lynx helicopters and to       maximise the wind       conditions (strength and direction) under which the aircraft can operate       it is essential that the       ship superstructure does not unnecessarily shed excessively large and       unsteady flow features       into the flight path of the helicopter, particularly above the main rotor.
The design presented to       Owen in January 2012 showed that the ship had a `stealthy' superstructure,       relatively       uncluttered with sloping surfaces.
However, on top of the hangar and ahead       of the landing deck       there were a number of large structural and operational features which       were of concern       because of their aerodynamic profile and their emitted thermal signature.
This preliminary       design was evaluated and modified using the Virtual AirDyn technique       outlined in Section 2.
Using Computer Aided Drawings of the ship provided by BAE, the Virtual       AirDyn technique was       applied such that, for different wind directions, the helicopter model was       held at seven positions       along the path of the lateral traverse that a helicopter follows when       repositioning from off the       port side of the deck to the landing spot.
The simulated helicopter was       placed at each position       for 30 seconds in which time the unsteady forces (lift, drag, side) and       moments (pitch, roll, yaw)       were recorded.
From the integral of the power spectral density plots, the       root-mean-square       unsteady loads in each of the 6 axes were quantified, and the effects of       the different features on       the ship superstructure were isolated and quantified.
The final       superstructure design had to       consider not just aerodynamics but other factors such as structural       architecture, operational       efficiency and radar cross section, requiring close cooperation with the       BAE design team to       evolve a favourable design.
From applying this research methodology, the design of the Type 26 has       been changed so that       the placements of the weapon systems and the position and profile of the       exhaust stacks have       been modified.
Analysis of this detail has never before been carried out       on a naval vessel at       the design stage.
Engineering drawings of the ship are restricted and       permission to include a       detailed image in this submission was not forthcoming.
However, the image       below is a close       representation of the final ship design following Owen's design guidance.
Of note are the       various large-scale features on the superstructure ahead of the landing       deck.
It is the design       and placement of these features that were the subject of the AirDyn       analysis.
This experience has also been fed into TTCP and the NATO project       [Wilkinson], so extending       the reach of the impact.
Further impact will be achieved because Owen has       been commissioned       by BAE [Hodge] to apply this research to the new Queen Elizabeth class       aircraft carriers, and by       the MoD [Finlay] to unmanned air vehicle launch and recovery from ships.
