     Our research enabled us to optimise the porous structure and mechanical       properties for several       types of acoustic materials produced from industrial waste, which would       otherwise have been       destined for landfill.
We were able to enhance the acoustic absorption and       vibration damping       performance of these products and to maintain quality and reproducibility       of the scaled-up       manufacturing process.
To commercialise this technology, the University of Bradford set up a       spin-off company, Acoutech       Ltd, in 2000 and started scaling up the technology (a).
In 2003, the       technology was licenced to       Armacell (b), which in 2004 started manufacturing a range of products in       Europe, the Far East and       the USA under the brand name ArmaSound.
It is estimated that the       production of this product       created directly at least 20 full-time engineering and manufacturing jobs       worldwide, including 4 in       the UK.
Originally a slow starter, ArmaSound soon began to       demonstrate its capability as a       material unlike any other, offering acoustic benefits that were difficult       to replicate with conventional       acoustic insulation.
Early projects included acoustic linings for heavy vehicles and equipment       as well as       telecommunications cabinets and domestic boilers.
Later on, it found its       way into linings for       canopies and enclosures used for housing industrial scale generators and       compressors.
The jewel       in the crown, however, was when ArmaSound was approved for use in       an acoustic system       designed to reduce noise from process pipe-work including very large bore       pipes.
This product has       enabled the design of a compact vibro-acoustic insulation system which       reduces the noise levels       emitted by petrochemical equipment and machines below the 75 and 80 dB       noise limits       recommended by the UK national and much international noise control       legislation.
More       specifically, the availability of this range of products has led to a       shift in the conventional way in       which large pipes at petrochemical plants and offshore platforms are       treated for noise, and       ArmaSound has been specified on many prestigious petrochemical       project sites around the world.
Following success within the ammonia and ethylene segments, ArmaSound       achieved approval for       use on Liquid Natural Gas (LNG) facilities in 2010.
These included the       Skikda `Mega Train' LNG       facility with Sonatrach in Algeria and PNG LNG facility with Exxon Mobil       in Papua New Guinea.
Sales of ArmaSound in 2012 were around &#8364;4M, (growing from around       &#8364;3M in 2011).
Despite hard       economic times, especially for manufacturing industries, ArmaSound       bucked the trend by       continuing to grow year on year.
In early 2012 Armacell were awarded a       contract to supply       ArmaSound to the Gorgon LNG project operated by Chevron/Shell, a       $45 billion facility to be       constructed on Barrow Island, off the coast of Western Australia (b).
The       value of ArmaSound       insulation in this project is estimated at US$23M.
This facility is the       largest ever constructed and       will utilise ArmaSound to treat around 200km of pipe-work.
ArmaSound       will experience its largest       growth period to date during 2013.
The accessible pipework insulation material market is estimated to be       &#8364;200m/annum.
ArmaSound       system market penetration is estimated at 5% or &#8364;10m/annum in terms of the       insulation systems in       which this product is specified.
Before licencing our technology, the       company was not active in this       market at all, so our technology has enabled the company to enter an       entirely new and lucrative       market.
Armacell's clients now include Foam Techniques (c) (one of the       world's largest insulation       contractors), Baxi Potterton, Durabella, and Sterling Generators.
Companies who specify this       product include BP, Amec, and KBR (d).
ArmaSound products have not only generated revenue for Armacell       (e,f,g,h,i), but have also had a       significant environmental impact in three ways: firstly the acoustic       quality of spaces has been       improved through the introduction of a new product with better acoustic       properties and durability;       secondly as the product is at least half the thickness of conventional       sound-proofing material and       95% of it is recycled waste, it provides more environmental benefits than       other more conventional       products which are made from virgin materials; thirdly the company has       significantly reduced its       industrial waste.
