     A body of funded and published research activity by Dr Catherine Lido and       Dr. Lucy Solomon, in collaboration with Professor Mary Stuart (now       Vice-Chancellor, University of Lincoln), has lent itself to interventions,       workshops, conference days and policy implications for the support,       retention, progression and employability of widening participation       students.
This work began in approximately 2006, securing Higher Education       Academy (HEA) funding to explore widening participation, alongside an       international expedition to assess WP funding across five countries (Action         on Access funded), and to evaluate AimHigher initiatives       within the UK.
Post-2008, the body of research took the direction of       examining widening participation students before, during and after their       studies, looking especially beyond classroom experiences, for a more       holistic and interdisciplinary approach to diversity and inclusion in the       UK.
The team's expertise in understanding the impact of gender, disability       and socio-economic status (SES) were applied initially within an HEA       project to widen access into postgraduate study.
The project report (HEA,       2008) is: part of the HEA EvidenceNet resource library, has       promoted access to PhD programmes particularly amongst black British       students, forms part of the `Higher Education Empirical Research Database'       for informing policy and practice, and forms part of a report to the       Secretary of State (BIS) for the `One Step Beyond' initiative).
The HEA EvidenceNet resource library contain also the outcomes of       further funded work on the importance of extracurricular activities to       strengthen widening participation students' employability, as published in       `Active Learning in Higher Education' (Stuart, Lido, Morgan, Solomon,       &amp; May, 2011).
This publication was listed (October 2012) as being       amongst the top 20 most-accessed papers within this journal.
A further paper in the International Journal of Lifelong Education       (Stuart, M., Lido &amp; Morgan, 2011) led to a book chapter aimed at HE       practitioners entitled `Choosing a Student lifestyle?
Questions of         taste, cultural capital and gaining a graduate job', published in       `Issues in Widening Participation' Hinton-Smith (ed.
), 2012.
According to       the publisher, Palgrave MacMillan, it gives insight into the "extent to       which higher education is able to act as a force for social equalization       or exclusion of opportunities".
This, together with Dr Solomon's chapter:       `Pre-Arrival' in the book `Supporting Student Diversity in Higher       Education - a practical guide' (Morgan, 2013) have been widely accessed by       UK and international HEI practitioners.
In addition, This body of research has been disseminated at national and       international conferences at: the Centre for Social Psychology in Ireland       (Limerick), the Centre for Applied Positive Psychology (Warwick, UK), the       HE Research &amp; Development Association (Torquay, UK), and as part of       the Higher Education Academy Seminar Series, `Higher Education         Students &amp; Ethnicity: Lessons from Research'.
Led by Professor       Stuart and Dr Lido, this workshop engaged high profile practitioners       (diversity specialists, senior management and human resources contacts)       with policy implications in the area of diversity and inclusion, spanning       multi-disciplinary and national and international contexts.
The main narrative of this body of research stems from the team's       promotion of `belonging' and `cultural capital "fit" measures', and       interventions for students.
Interventions include Dr Lido's user- friendly       'Key Statistical Skills' workshops for non-traditional students, to help       overcome statistics anxiety in the social sciences, and Dr Solomon's book       chapter `spoonful of sugar' where culinary analogies in quantitative       social research methods teaching are used.
In 2012, the University was       co-funded to host a flagship HEA conference for practitioners and       students, sharing best practice and revisiting WP policy in political and       economic climate for 2013.
An online forum remains, hosting a library and       networking space.
The research output of Lido and Solomon, informed by, and developed in       the context of the University's WP agenda, has impacted other UK HEIs       through dissemination of policy and practice.
This is evidenced via the       Higher Education Empirical Research (HEER) database, HEA EvidenceNet,       BIS reports and `Improving the student experience' online       resource.
