     There are four specific areas in which this work has had impact     1) Updated NICE guidelines for the treatment of depression     This impact has followed on from the pre-2008 impact.
The pre-2008 impact       can be summarised as follows: Kirsch was contacted by the NICE commission       following the publication of the second of his meta-analyses (2002) as       they were in the process of drafting guidelines for the treatment of       depression in adults.
NICE were also in the process of carrying out their       own analysis of the clinical trial data but lacked access to the       unpublished trials, hence their interest in the Kirsch et al.
(2002) data.
Both the 1998 and 2002 meta-analyses were subsequently cited in the 2004       NICE guidelines, with Kirsch being involved in drafts of these guidelines.
Kirsch et al.
's 2008 meta-analysis, which took account of the concern       that antidepressants might be more effective in more severely depressed       patients, was incorporated into the revised version of the NICE guidelines       (NICE, 2010) [1] and credits his work with documenting the       importance of the following issues.
Page numbers within the NICE       guidelines are indicated            that the benefit of antidepressants is linked to depression severity         (pp.
304 &amp; 314)       the finding that this apparent benefit is "due to the decreasing         efficacy of placebo with increasing severity of depression, rather than         increasing efficacy of the antidepressant drug per se (Kirsch et al.,         2008)" (p. 314)       the problem of publication bias towards clinically significant results         in the assessment of antidepressant efficacy (p. 309)       that the large proportion of the antidepressant response is actually a         placebo response (p. 314)          This acknowledgement that the effects of antidepressants may be largely a       placebo effect has increased the health service's focus on alternative       ways of dealing with depression.
For example, the Facilitator of the       Guideline Development Group for authoring these guidelines has       acknowledged that the findings have had a positive influence on the NHS's       program for Improving Access to Psychological Therapies [2].
A recent meta-analysis involving Kirsch (Khan et al.
(2012), see       Section 3) compared improvement rates from various treatments for       depression including antidepressants, psychotherapy, antidepressants and       psychotherapy combined, physical exercise, and acupuncture.
Their       meta-analysis of 177 clinical trials involving more than 24,000 patients       failed to find significant difference in outcome between these treatments.
Thus their data suggests that alternative therapies, potentially less       damaging to patients, are at least as effective as antidepressants.
2) Impact on other medical agencies     The 2008 meta-analysis also led the scientific committee of the European       Medicines Agency to reconsider its own approval of antidepressants       (Broich, 2009) [3].
Also, the meta-analyses are informing an effort by the       American Psychological Association to draft guidelines for the treatment       of depression in the U.S.
The Chair of the APA Advisory Steering Committee       charged with developing the US equivalent of the NICE guidelines has       indicated the important role that Kirsch's work has played in this       redrafting [4].
3) Impact on prescribing intentions     Antidepressants are known to have a raft of undesirable side effects       (e.g.
miscarriage, increased likelihood of suicide, especially in       adolescents, and other significant side effects directly affecting health)       and so their prescribing must always take into account potential costs, as       well as benefits.
Kirsch's work demonstrates that the benefits of taking       antidepressants are smaller than previously thought and has thus       influenced prescribing habits.
Forty-four per cent of 490 surveyed UK       doctors are reported to have reconsidered prescribing SSRIs (Selective       Serotonin Reuptake Inhibitors, a particular class of antidepressants) to       patients with depression ("Doctors change prescribing habits on back of       SSRI study", OnMedica News, May 23rd, 2008 [5]).Changes       in prescribing habits have implications in a number of areas of       measureable impact, though it is not possible to put specific figures to       those areas because of their complexity, lack of availability of reliable       and systematic data, interactions with other areas, and demographic       changes and patterns in people's psychological health.
However, changes in       the prescribing of antidepressants have implications for cost savings for       health services, for improved quality of life for sufferers (including the       provision of alternative interventions and therapies), reductions in sick       leave, and improved health through avoidance of adverse side effects of       the drugs.
This change in prescribing habits has occurred at both a national and an       international level.
For example, a Past President of the International       College of Neuropsychopharmacology has gone on record in 2013 [6]       to say that Kirsch's work has had a major impact in reducing unnecessary       prescribing of antidepressants to patients with mild depression or       environmentally induced stress responses, and has improved those patients'       quality of life as well as benefitting the integrity of the profession of       psychiatry.
4) Impact on public debate and public understanding     Kirsch's meta-analysis has also had a huge impact on public discourse and       debate on the efficacy of antidepressants.The 2008 meta-analysis was       critiqued in a press release by the American Psychiatric Association, and       defended in the New York Review of Books in 2011 by the former       editor-in-chief of the New England Journal of Medicine.
The research was       covered in a 5- page cover story in Newsweek in 2010, a       full segment of the popular American news program 60 Minutes       (February 2012), and front page stories in the Independent,         Times, Guardian, and Telegraph, all in 2008.
There       are hundreds of other media discussions of the questions raised by the       2008 meta-analysis[7].
In February 2013 a Californian resident filed a consumer class action       lawsuit against Pfizer [8], claiming that they deceptively       marketed Zoloft (an antidepressant) as a highly effective treatment for       depression whilst in the knowledge that the effects are barely       distinguishable from a sugar pill.
Kirsch is involved in this action as a       key expert.
