     Few strategies exist to control malaria, despite the fact that, every       year, it kills at least 600,000 people, predominantly very young children       in Africa.
The trials and analyses of IPTi led by LSHTM staff made key       contributions to the WHO decision to recommend IPTi as policy.
The IPTi Consortium, developed by Prof. D Schellenberg at LSHTM in 2003,       brought together some of the leading centres of malaria research in       Africa, Europe and the USA, plus two UN agencies, to complete the       evaluation of IPTi.
The Consortium generated key evidence to move beyond       the proof of concept towards a strategy for deployment as part of routine       immunisation programmes.
At the time, the Consortium model was a novel       approach to generate all the critical information for policy       consideration.
Under the Consortium, staff from all LSHTM faculties       generated information on issues surrounding the choice of drug for IPTi,       the relationship between IPTi and the development of drug resistance, and       the cost effectiveness, acceptability, mortality impact and community       effectiveness of IPTi.
School staff presented evidence to WHO technical expert groups in 2006       and 2007, but the WHO policy-making process became politicised and the US       Institute of Medicine (IOM) undertook its own review of the evidence.
Prof. D Schellenberg participated in the IOM committee meeting in January       2008,5.1 giving a two-hour presentation on the acceptability,       cost effectiveness and applicability of IPTi, plus an assessment of the       impact of IPTi on drug resistance.
This was based primarily on data from       the pilot implementation study he led in southern Tanzania.
LSHTM staff presented to all three WHO technical review meetings,       including the key session in April 2009 which recommended IPTi as policy.5.2       At this meeting, the Consortium presented robust information on the       efficacy and safety of IPTi in different epidemiological settings and       excluded the possibility of adverse interactions between IPTi and the       serological response to EPI vaccinations.
Prof. D Schellenberg presented       information on the safety of IPTi, its health impacts, effect on drug       resistance and the feasibility of large-scale deployment based on       experience in the southern Tanzania study.
In September 2009 another WHO expert committee was convened to consider       the relationship between IPTi and drug resistance.5.3 Dr Roper       presented her analyses of the molecular markers of resistance to sulfadoxine-pyrimethamine       and their relationship to IPTi efficacy in the Consortium's studies.
Prof       D Schellenberg presented the evaluation of the impact of IPTi on the       spread of resistant parasites in the pilot implementation study in       southern Tanzania.
This led to a key resistance-based criterion for       countries to consider prior to implementation.
The final step in the policy process was the endorsement in October 20095.4 	  of the Strategic Advisory Group of Experts (SAGE) for the WHO       Expanded Programme on Immunisation.
Prof. D Schellenberg once more       presented information (on efficacy, coverage, effectiveness,       acceptability, cost effectiveness, implementation lessons and impact on       EPI time use) from the southern Tanzania project.
WHO recommended IPTi as a malaria control tool for implementation in       areas of moderate to high transmission in March 2010.5.5 This       recommendation was based on the findings of seven studies, including those       carried out by LSHTM staff, showing the benefits of IPTi in reducing       malaria, anaemia and hospital admissions.
Joint WHO/UNICEF implementation       guidelines5.6 were released in September 2011.
These draw       heavily on the LSHTM-led southern Tanzanian pilot implementation study.
At       the time of writing, IPTi has been adopted by the national malaria control       programme of Burkina Faso.5.7 In 2012 a further eight nations       met to discuss implementation.5.8 Unpublished estimates suggest       that up to a million malaria episodes could be prevented annually if IPTi       were rolled out in the countries where studies have been conducted.
LSHTM's work on IPTi produced a number of additional benefits.
Firstly,       the Consortium model of malaria research has been adopted by others,       including the Artemisinin-based Combination Treatment (ACT) Consortium       funded in 2007 and led by Prof. D Schellenberg since 2009.
Secondly, the       review and modelling-based exercise to understand the age-pattern of       malaria disease and death in different transmission settings, led by Dr       Ilona Carneiro, continues to inform discussions in WHO, regulators and       within industry, about the possible deployment and dose scheduling of new       tools to control malaria.
For example, this work has been presented and       discussed at several meetings during the reporting period of WHO's Joint       Technical Expert Group on malaria vaccines in pivotal phase 3 evaluation.5.9       Finally, the complexities of the policy-making process provided a learning       opportunity, as captured by the LSHTM's Dr Cruz,5.10 helping       groups (including the ACT Consortium) to engage better with policy-makers.
