     The OFT estimates that UK consumers spent &#163;300 million on payment       surcharges at the ten largest airlines during 2009 alone [1].
Upon       receiving a super-complaint from Which?
in March 2011, the OFT       commissioned research into the advertising of prices, part of which was       our experimental study as described in section 2.
The experimental study       [e] became the prime evidence for the OFT's new stance against drip       pricing.
On 2 December 2010, OFT announced that it had identified, based on       `ground-breaking behavioural economics research' among other sources, that       drip pricing, time-limited offers and baiting sales were pricing       techniques with the potential to cause the greatest harm to consumers [2].
It warned that: "On drip pricing, for example, businesses that ensure all       compulsory charges are included in the headline price, and make details of       all genuinely optional charges available at the early stages of the buying       process are less likely to be subject to OFT enforcement action."
On 28 June 2011, the OFT took action on this finding, specifically in the       travel sector where abuse was felt to be most rampant.
It announced that       it had put passenger travel companies "on notice to change misleading       debit and credit card surcharging practices or face enforcement action       under consumer protection laws" [3].
It further added: "Publishing its findings on these surcharges, following       a super-complaint from Which?, the OFT also calls for the law to       be updated to stop consumers being surcharged when buying goods and       services with any debit card."
As an immediate result, in July 2012, 12 major UK airlines (including       Easyjet and Ryanair) announced that they would include debit card charges       in their headline prices [4].
Thus, for instance, Ryanair announced that       its &#163;6 per flight administrative fee would be included in advertised       prices by August 2012, and in the website headline price by December.
The       popularity of this move may be gauged by the fact that the news article       regarding this on the BBC website received 371 comments in a single day,       the content of which demonstrated the extreme frustration drip pricing had       caused consumers [4].
At this time, the EU Consumer Rights Directive, which would ban       businesses in many sectors, including the airline sector, from imposing       above-cost surcharges on any form of payment, was due to be implemented       from mid-2014.
In December 2011, however, the UK government announced its       intention of becoming the first European country to ban this practice by       bringing forward its legislation.
It cited the OFT recommendations based       on research as underpinning this decision [5].
In September-October 2012, the Department for Business, Innovation and       Skills (BIS) held a consultation on bringing the ban forward.
This was       formally published on 18 January 2013 [6].
Meanwhile, on 18 December 2012,       the Consumer Rights (Payment Surcharges) Regulations 2012 was laid before       Parliament, and came into force from 6 April 2013 [7].
The research and its wide coverage in the press [e.g.
8] also contributed       to public debate on drip pricing and contributed important evidence to       general public dissatisfaction with the practice.
As suggested by the       number of comments on the BBC news item described above, as well as the       439 comments received at the government announcement of December 2011, the       ban was immensely popular amongst UK consumers [9].
The UCL research has begun to influence regulation in other countries,       notably in the United States, where the Federal Trade Commission (FTC)       held a conference on drip pricing in 2012 where the OFT's chief economist,       Amelia Fletcher, presented the work [10].
As a result, in November 2012,       the FTC issued a warning to 22 hotel operators to stop drip pricing in the       United States [11].
