     Sholl's investigation of contemporary composers is unified by an       overarching concern with how musics of the 20th and 21st centuries have       reconfigured both aesthetic notions of `modernity' and traditional notions       of spirituality.
These themes are informed particularly by his research       into the theology underlying Messiaen's oeuvre, though also by his       interest in the work of P&#228;rt.
Sholl's work led him in February 2008 to convene Contemporary Music         and Spirituality, an international conference held at Southbank       Centre in February 2008 under the aegis of the University of West London       and the Royal Musicological Association.
The conference included keynote       lectures by James MacMillan, the late Jonathan Harvey and Francis Pott, as       well as a lecture by Sholl himself.
It was succeeded by a further       conference at the same venue on Boulez, in October 2011.
The proceedings       of the first conference are due for publication in 2014 [Ashgate].
A       chapter by Pott examines his own intentions in The Cloud of Unknowing,       while one by Sholl articulates a thematics of spirituality (embodiment and       presence/absence in works by Adams, Birtwistle, Ferneyhough, Feldman,       Tavener and Arvo P&#228;rt).
Collaboration between Sholl and Pott has also       extended into performance, with Sholl performing organ works by Pott on a       number of occasions and in significant venues, including St Paul's       Cathedral in December 2011.
Sholl has also performed music by composers       within his research focus and is currently preparing the complete oeuvre       of Messiaen for commercial recording on the Deux-Elles label.
Pott has acquired a reputation mainly as a composer of organ and       sacred choral music, but has moved gradually to a broadly agnostic,       humanist position.
He has found value in viewing the Crucifixion in an       emblematic light, as a symbolic phenomenon perpetuated in the human       atrocities and man-made tragedies of successive ages and conflicts.
This       has afforded a prism for contemplating the state of the modern world,       rather than meditating on the possibility of another beyond.
That       preoccupation is demonstrated at length in his oratorio The Cloud of         Unknowing, submitted for RAE 2005.
Currently realigning himself as a       composer through increasing outputs of chamber and orchestral music, Pott       has already produced a succession of substantial choral works (both       accompanied and a cappella).
A particular concern is interrogating in practice how far 16th-century       polyphonic technique can adapt to a modern idiom with an expanded       harmonic/tonal frame of reference.
This informed his 12-minute motet for       double chorus, When David heard that Absalom was slain (2008),       commissioned by the St Louis Chamber Chorus as part of its commitment to       perform modern and ancient settings of the same texts alongside one       another.
It was carried further in his Mass for eight parts       (2011), in which hocketing, cantus firmus technique, antiphonal homophony       and sustained imitative motivic counterpoint co-exist with cyclical       concerns relating to the 20th century.
The transmuting of ancient into       contemporary represents common ground with Sholl's pursuit of modernity       and tradition.
Present activity sits within a department with a widely       varied focus, the history of which is expanded within REF 5.
Pott was a nominated finalist in the choral section of the annual       BASCA/BBC Composer Awards in both 2006 and 2011, the latter occasion       concerning his Mass for eight parts, returned for REF 2014.
Winner       of national and international composition awards including the Prokofiev       Competition, Moscow 1997, in 2004 he received Honorable Mention for two       major choral works in the Barlow Competition, USA, placed 2nd       in a worldwide field of 362 professional composers behind the British       composer Judith Bingham: the first time in the award's history when any       British composer had been recognized.
His work has become known to a wide       audience on commercial CD (some twenty separate releases) and has been       broadcast widely, including simultaneous broadcasts to 22 separate       countries and the Vatican by BBC Radio 3 and separate transmissions in       many further nations.
Major artists in nearly 40 countries have given       performances worldwide.
Critical reception has been widespread and       positive, noting both the subject matter's preoccupations and the       revisiting of received techniques with new ends in mind.
In 1992 Musical         Opinion cited Christus, Pott's Passion Symphony for organ       solo, as `clearly one of the most important organ works in our       [the 20th] century'.
The Times described the work in       April 2001 as `Not a work beholden to any other: rather, an         astonishingly original composition, compelling in its structural logic         and exhilarating in performance'.
In November 2007 Pott's oratorio The         Cloud of Unknowing was described in International Record Review       as `[a] passionate and apocalyptic masterpiece, ...a tour de force',       a view echoed across the national and parts of the international press.
