 Since 1998 Dowd has developed a distinctive body of research notable for its ability to reach beyond traditional disciplinary boundaries.
The variety embodied in Dowd's scholarly interventions has been mirrored in the breadth of settings and institutions (outside academia) where those works have been re-voiced, adopted and adapted.
The evidence base for this claim derives from the number of responses to the research in popular publications such as magazines; in newspapers and invitations to contribute to public presentations and publications outside academia; in online media such as blogs and in programming notes for film screenings.
Considering the strand of his research that overlaps with visual cultures, Dowd's research has had impact in the area of the visual arts (broadly understood) beyond HEIs.
The path to this impact derives from the basis of his reputation for innovation and research not confined to a strictly demarcated discipline (Dowd 2003, 2006, and 2007).
He has been invited to speak at events co- hosted by Tate Modern (150 delegates), at The David Roberts Art Foundation, and to introduce film screenings at the Different Directions Film Festival in Galway, Ireland.
He was invited to write a catalogue essay (published in English, Italian and Hungarian) for the artist selected to represent Hungary at the 2005 Venice Biennale &#8212; B&#225;l&#225;zs Kisciny &#8212; and has written a short text published in Spanish on the work of his colleague Luciano Zubillaga (also submitting in this UOA).4 He has contributed to the reception of the work of these artists and through his engagement with cultural institutions and discourses concerning the visual and audio-visual arts beyond academia his work has contributed to cultural enrichment.
The influence of his 2006 edited collection Genre Matters (Dowd 2006) is registered in curricula in the census period and led to Dowd being invited to act in a consultancy capacity and subsequently to perform the role of project partner on the successful AHRC-funded Genre Studies Network led by the University of Birmingham (2012-13).
The pathway to impact claimed here is that through the underpinning research an impact was ultimately achieved in the shape of engagement with individuals located outside academia.
The audience for the sessions reached significantly beyond the academic community to include delegates and participants for a variety of professional fields including art, journalism, librarianship, film archiving and professional translation.
Dowd's research in the field of literary studies has achieved impact in similar ways to his work in film and visual culture.
The pathway to impact claimed in respect of his research in the field of literature is that on the basis of the underpinning research conducted by Dowd on the work of Beckett his work is now widely cited in undergraduate and postgraduate curricula.
Thus his work has led to the shaping and framing of debate within the field .as it is manifest in curricula.
The same underpinning research has led to a direct impact on a significant constituency outside academia.
Dowd's research into the work of the renowned literary author Samuel Beckett (1906-1989) is appreciated as having been of significant influence in establishing new links between the philosophy of Gilles Deleuze and Beckett (Dowd 2007) and for consolidating the perception of the viability of applications of so-called Theory (deriving from post-war European philosophy) to literature in the wake of the so-called `empirical turn' which has been felt in general in the area of Modernism Studies with which the work of Beckett now tends to be grouped (following distinct models of classification in preceding decades).
This influential work has translated into discernible impacts.
His work is frequently a primary resource in undergraduate and postgraduate (MA) reading lists.
His published methodological debate with Matthew Feldman (Dowd 2008) &#8212; widely regarded as one of the most significant empirical scholars of Beckett &#8212; for example has been extensively used in undergraduate and postgraduate courses exploring contending methodological perspectives in the field.
Dowd's standing in the sub-field of Deleuzian Beckett Studies was acknowledged when he was invited to participate in the Inaugural Samuel Beckett Summer School at Trinity College Dublin in July 2011.
The first summer school was themed `Beckett and Deleuze'.
Dowd was responsible both for the week-long seminar core series on Beckett and Deleuze and for a keynote lecture.
Notably, there were 80 delegates with more than half of the participants coming from outside the University sector.
During this period Dowd has published book reviews in the independent, collectively run journal Radical Philosophy and film that has a significant number of non-academic subscribers and in the trade magazines Film West (prior to the census period5) and Film Ireland.
