 The research described in section 3 underpinned the impact outlined in section 1 in a variety of ways.
The process of research into methods and means by which to explore the themes of his work led to exploration of archival sources, cultural capital (in the shape of the work of the composer Luis Zubillaga; the lost Venezuelan film El Huerco), and locations resonant (for example the Centro Cultural de la Memoria Haroldo Conti and the Ente Espacio Memoria y Derechos Humanos in Buenos Aires in the film Cosas por Venir1) of the political and cultural memory targeted by Zubillaga.
The research processes resulted in multiple methods of dissemination and impact.
For example, one of the research methods adopted by Zubillaga derives from his consideration of himself primarily as an artist.
The specificity of the intended output (film) did not preclude the artist framing and staging his work in sections, and in formats which allowed for a fragmentation and multiplication of modes of engagement by the audience (the latter being linked to Zubillaga's interest in a form of historiography marked by plurality).
This he has done in the shape of gallery installations and exhibitions.
In so doing he extended the range of engagement with his audiovisual work beyond the film festival context and into the realm of the gallery.
This has been true for the majority of his film outputs.
Dowd's research into theories of cinema has contributed also, in a material way, to generate impact.
As part of the research process, during the development of both Music for a Missing Film and Cosas por Venir, Dowd engaged with Zubillaga concerning narrative and the conceptual vocabulary used in the voiceovers for each film.
He has also published a text about Music for a Missing Film (cited in the 300 word statements on Zubillaga's work and included in the portfolio accompanying Zubillaga's submission).
Several constituencies have been affected by the work, and those constituencies are diverse.
The Latin American audiences who benefitted from exposure to Music for a Missing Film at its three festival screenings in South America were a cine-literate group engaged by a recognisable testamentary strand in Latin American culture.
The worldwide beneficiaries of the film through its DVD distribution and other public screenings are numbered at in excess of 4,000.
The impact of Cosas por Venir is in its early stages, but nonetheless can be measured via the engagement of audiences through gallery and theatre exhibition (at the IMT Gallery in London, the Buenos Aires Museum of Modern Art) and debate (as took place following the screening of parts of Cosas por Venir at the Theater Vierte Welt in Berlin).
The film was invited for consideration by the selection panel for the forthcoming Berlinale Film Festival (in February 2014) and the most recent iteration of this work will be submitted as a 2K DCP (Digital Cinema Package) screener to the selection panel in early December 2013.
A key element in the dissemination of the research processes that inform and thereby in part constitute the research outputs, is indicated in the research and development aspect of collaboration between Zubillaga and industry representatives.
In this context his work with RAW and Assimilate constitutes an exposure of his research to industry, with benefits both to industry by way of publicity and artist endorsement, and to the public through the joint collaborative element.
The extent of the impact The impact of Zubillaga's work may be evidenced by the invitation at the Bienale de la Imagen en Movimiento (BIM) to select a series of films screened at the event: http://bim.com.ar/luciano-zubillaga-argentina-uk/?lang=en The impact of his work is further evidenced by the invitation to curate an event: Memorias Perdidas at the Buenos Aires Museum of Modern Art in April 2010.
Music for a Missing Film has been viewed by a worldwide audience of more than 4,000 people (source: Film London) Attendances at public screenings: BAFICI: 1,200; S&#227;o Paulo: 500; Armory Volta (New York): 200; BIM: 150 Cosas por Venir has been screened at the Museum of Modern Art in Buenos Aires (to an audience of 85), at the IMT Gallery in London (50) and at the Theater Vierte Welt in Berlin (25).
