     Since 2009 a comprehensive         suite of training has been developed, arising from these research       findings, and extensively delivered.
These are rooted in an analysis of       religion and belief as an       issue for public actors(8) alongside original       research-based case studies(9) and are available as       PDFs on the Programme website (above).
These have been extensively       disseminated in events       and training and the programme has worked with 21 Vice Chancellors and       Pro-Vice Chancellors       plus 180 other senior university staff across 80 HEIs.
(10)       An average of six events per year has       resulted in change in areas including:            Religiously literate timetabling and exams, for example during Ramadan         in 2013-17       Saturday lectures and attendance       Public speakers on contentious issues       Canteens in relation to halal and kosher food       Alcohol, events and Freshers' week       Same sex areas and halal/kosher kitchens in halls of residence       Sports societies and the wearing of the 5 `k's by Sikhs       Campus banks and appropriate kinds of debt and lending       Counselling services and psychological and religious/spiritual         paradigms of self and society       The Bible for English Literature students (so as to read Milton and         Donne, for example)       Religion and belief in social work settings       The place of Theology &amp; Religious Studies in the modern university       Conflict resolution       Multi-faith spaces          This work has been extensively evaluated(11) and a       number of positive impacts noted, including:            raised awareness of religion and belief as a legitimate and pressing         issue for HEIs;       increased skills and confidence;       practical initiatives such as the establishment of Religion and Belief         Working Groups;       improved marketing; and       new admissions and student experience policies.
In addition, four Universities, (Sheffield, Edinburgh, Aberdeen and       Warwick,) have commissioned       and funded bespoke religious literacy programmes to work on their own       engagement within their       institutions, and specialist events have been held in addition on the       themes of law and conflict       resolution.
(12)     RLP has also increasingly reached beyond HE through its work with       government bodies (EHRC       and the Government Equality Office) and policy-makers.
For example, at a       conference on 18 April       2013, the keynote speakers were the Chief Executive of the Equality and       Human Rights       Commission and the Department of Communities and Local Government       Communities Director,       (deputising for the Minister for Faith, Baroness Warsi, who cancelled as a       result of Baroness       Thatcher's funeral).
Delegates included leaders of employer bodies,       service providers and trades       unions including the CBI, TUC, Chambers of Commerce and Stonewall.
(13)       The focus of this event       was on equality in employer settings and in service provision, and 100       delegates from a wide       range of sectors and settings attended.
Many of the participants came from       Third Sector and       welfare settings, which are prominent as service providers.
This work with the Equality and Human Rights Commission and the       Government Equalities Office       gave RLP the opportunity to develop religious literacy research and       training in employer and       service provider settings, and represents in itself an important impact of       the original work in HE       settings.
EHRC's evaluation of this work concluded that it had achieved a       much better mood and       environment for its engagement with religion or belief issues and groups,       and had enabled it to       take this area forward more effectively.
(14) As a       result, the EHRC has since requested a proposal       for ongoing packages of work to sustain and develop the network of public       actors which has       emerged.
It is anticipated that this will result in a new commission to       undertake a suite of practical       religious literacy activities during 2013-14.
(15)     Likewise, the Department for International Development has drawn on RLPs       work in developing       and disseminating it's Faith Partnerships Principles policy, and Dinham       has been involved in six 1-       2-1 consultations with DfID's civil service directorate on this, and has       joined a high level panel of       experts on religion and belief in international development settings,       including CEOs of major       NGOs, such as CAFOD and OXFAM.
DfID's religious literacy work has been       taken as a model       across Whitehall, and RLP has presented at meetings in the Foreign Office,       Communities and       Local Government and the Home Office as a result.
In September 2013, RLP, and its partners, was able to draw on its growing       credibility to convene a       high-level group to establish a pathway for continuing religious literacy       impact in policy-making       settings.
This includes Lord Rowan Williams (as chair), Lord Justice       Bernard Rix, Baroness Onora       O'Neill, Charles Clarke (former Education Secretary and Home Secretary),       Mark Hammond (CEO       of the EHRC), Baroness Warsi (Minister for Faith Communities), Professor       Linda Woodhead (who       directed the AHRC/ESRC &#163;12m Religion &amp; Society Programme), Professor       David Ford (Regius       Professor of Divinity, Cambridge University), the Chief Rabbi, the Chair       of the Muslim Council of       Britain, and Professor Dinham.
The specific remit of the group is to       strategically review the       effectiveness of law and policy on religion or belief and to make       recommendations for a change in       the law.
(16)     The Religious Literacy Programme entered in to partnership with Cambridge       University in 2011       and with the Coexist Foundation, based in Washington DC and London, in       2012.
Dinham attended       an event at the Harvard Club in New York in 2012 to share UK experiences       with US       counterparts(17) who have now launched their own       Religious Literacy Foundation, acknowledging       the influence of the UK programme.
This partnership has led to an       engagement with senior       politicians, religious leaders and business leaders in the City of London       via a Mansion House       dinner hosted by the Lord Mayor of London, dedicated to `faith and the       city', and an attached       roundtable event on religious literacy, at which Professor Dinham       keynoted, attended by business       and political leaders.
(18) The aim of this initiative is       to found a long-term purpose-built public home       for the Religious Literacy Programme in London, and this is being taken       forward in a partnership       with the Victoria and Albert Museum, the Inner Temple and the City of       London.
