     These outcomes support the achievement of Article 31 of the International         Human Rights Convention: Rights of the Child, which expresses the       right of children to participate fully in cultural life.
This is       particularly true of the Kent output, which targeted an area identified by       ACE and local authorities as a cultural `cold-spot'.
Theatre Jemilda, the       company formed to extend this work, has prioritised hard-to-reach rural       communities, where this lack of access is most acute.
Examples of feedback       from young people and schools can be found on the websites of Theatre       Jemilda, Theatre Centre and Pants on Fire (see section 2 and 3).
Deep       relationships have been formed with a small number of primary schools       within Bexley and Kent, where creative learning practices and staff skills       continue to be enhanced by an ongoing relationship with RBC, underpinned       by this research.
In addition progression from FE to HE for students from       Lewisham College has also been enhanced (see sections 2 and 3).
The research underpinning and contributing to the development of the new       writing and performance work, has had significant impact and benefit to       children and young people, aged 4 to 18, both in the UK and USA.
The work       has reached an audience of over 22,000 children and young people and       feedback from schools groups and individual audiences has substantiated a       range of benefits, both in terms of associated learning and broader social       and cultural outcomes, in line with the acknowledged benefits of arts       engagement for young people, as quantified in a range of studies including       those collated in the Cultural Learning Alliance's ImagineNation report.
Quality and benefit can also be evidenced by national press reviews of       some of the work particularly Pants on Fire's work and the award they       received in 2010 (see section 3).
Impact of the two `Dream: the joy of creating' residencies has also been       rich.
The two events have engaged 24 established practitioners from the       UK, France, Belgium, Ireland, Portugal, Germany and Puerto Rico, who have       used the research to underpin their own practice.
The second of the two       events, focussing on methodologies for working with children with profound       disability has been particularly influential, with a range of new       performance and process methodologies being adopted by companies including       Replay, Northern Ireland; Eclectico Internacional, Puerto Rico; Teatro do       Biombo, Portugal; Peplum Cactus, France; and Commotion Dance, SE UK.
Moreover, the research outcomes are underpinning new teaching practice in       special schools in Ashford, Newcastle Under Lyme, Leicester and Inner       London.
The benefits of the TYA Centre's work can be seen also in the impact it       has had on the national TYA landscape.
TYAUK, the UK Branch of ASSITEJ,       has collaborated on a number of projects and are now working with RBC to       create a new postgraduate qualification for established practitioners.
Drawing on the body of research outlined above, this will become an       important means of developing the TYA sector both in the UK and       internationally; of raising standards and quality, a strategic ambition of       ACE, expressed in its guidelines on theatre for, by and with children and       young people.
It should be noted that there is very little published research in this       area internationally, and next to nothing on practice in the UK.
TYA has       been largely viewed as a subset of Applied Theatre.
By focussing on it as       a performance practice RBC is pioneering the dissemination and exploration       of UK practice.
The range of outcomes underpinned by this work has had       impact on established professional practice, the work of emerging artists,       students and academics (see sections 2, 3 and 5).
It is evident that the research has directly influenced practice within       the UKTYA sector, in particular through a number of RBC graduate       companies, some of which are now receiving ACE funding.
It is clear that       their approach is informed by the methodologies resulting from the       research, using them as an impulse for original work which is reaching new       audiences and garnering critical acclaim.
The companies are itemised in 5.7 below.
Moreover, the College website www.bruford.ac.uk       gives examples of graduate destinations and impact; and this article in The         Stage reflects RBC's unique position in this sector: bit.ly/1hibJUI
