     Prior to the experience of using TGT, students were only using a Taylor         frame for making basic       shapes while studying geometry.
The procedure of geometric constructions       was dictated by the       class teacher and was written as Braille notes; the students memorised       those procedures.
In the       examination, the students used to narrate the memorised procedure of the       constructions and the       scribing sighted volunteers did the actual drawing of the construction.
In       the experiment using       `Tactile Graphic Tool' as part of this project, the students made the       tactile geometrical pictures of       polygons and lines by themselves.
They could also draw geometrical       constructions by themselves       with this assistive device.
The students were excited that it was         their first ever experience of         drawing tactile diagrams.
The orientation session was time       consuming, as the subjects had to       familiarise with the templates and learn the hand and finger coordination       of holding the templates       and drawing.
The tactile drawings of shapes on microcapsule (swell) paper       were found to be       essential in the initial sessions.
The quality of the drawings improved       significantly after the subjects       learned to apply less pressure and coordinate the hand accordingly.
With         TGT, these print disabled         students were able to make tactile (raised line) diagrams of graphs,         geometrical shapes and         statistical diagrams as any normal student would do in mainstream         regular classes.
This       enhanced the understanding of drawing mathematical diagrams.
The TGT tool       was used with       students of specialist Blind schools (e.g.
St. Louis School for the Blind,       Adyar, Chennai, India)       which are in remote, hard to reach, village areas and the students       themselves are from poor and       underprivileged families.
The impact of the research on improving the teaching and learning       processes of visually impaired       students has been acknowledged by special education centres for the blind       in India and the UK,       such as: St Vincent's specialist school for sensory impairment and other       needs at Liverpool;       specialist blind schools in India; UNESCO India; and the Government of       India/Tamil Nadu in India.
The impact of this research has been well demonstrated at an       internationally recognised centre       committed to supporting blind and partially sighted people, namely the National         Institute of Visually         Handicapped (NIVH) at Chennai (India).
The NIVH is a leading charity       offering information, support       and advice to almost two million people with sight loss and visual       impairment, and are passionately       committed to providing technological support to enable the blind and       partially sighted to live an       independent and fulfilled life.
NIVH is a premier Institute in the field       of visual disability, working       under the administrative control of the Ministry of Social Justice and         Empowerment of the         Government of India.
The Institute is concerned with the task of       empowering the visually       handicapped by encouraging and supporting the development of innovative       technologies.
The       choice of NIVH to deliver this strategic vision of Hope was on the basis       that NIVH is a leading       organisation for blind and visually impaired people, and shares the same       vision of empowering the       visually handicapped through the use of innovative technologies centred on       people-oriented       requirements.
This ensures that the MAGIC2VIP research has had a       significant and broad impact,       across geographies, on the educational empowerment of the blind and       partially sighted people.
As       mentioned above, this project on the use of TGT was piloted with St.       Louie's School for the Blind in       Chennai, including tools to teach Kolam patterns and play Sudoku.
Staff       and students of NIVH and       St. Louie's School were involved in all stages of the design and       development of the TGT tool to       ensure that usability issues were adequately met.
Each aspect of the tool       has been tied into       current knowledge of geometry and technology-supported learning for the       visual impaired.
At NIVH       specific activities were used to broaden the reach of the MAGIV2VIP, which       highlighted particular       impacts as detailed below:     1.
The Government of India through the National Institute for Visually       Handicapped (NIVH)       conducts human resource development programmes for special educators and       resource       teachers of blind schools.
The Rehabilitation Council of India (RCI), the       nodal agency that       regulates and monitors the services given to persons with disability in       India, approves these       programmes.
The southern Regional Centre of NIVH at Chennai conducted       training programmes       for resource teachers and special educators of schools from rural       districts of the southern states       Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Andhra Pradesh during 2012 and 2013.
The techniques       and tools       developed and modified through MAGIC2VIP at Liverpool Hope University were       introduced and       demonstrated at the training programme on "Teaching Algebra and         Geometry at Post-primary         level" (10 - 14 December 2012) and a refresher course on "Teaching         Arithmetic at Primary level"       (28 January &#8212; 1 February 2013).
The students and teachers who had the       hands-on experience       felt they had benefitted and gave their feedback, some of which is given       below (some of the       feedback sheets are in Tamil language and can be obtained from the HEI):     (a) "it is much better than the existing tool because of its       simple method with very few steps to       draw tactile pictures"; (b) "Yes, In a single board students can       learn graph, geometry, drawing any       shapes"; (c) "It will be easy to learn and draw by the visually       impaired &amp; totally blind"; (d)       "measurements can be drawn precisely" (translated from Tamil); (e)       "it is better to handle than       wooden models" (translated from Tamil); (f) "It is easy to handle       for the visually impaired children";       (g) "I can teach the steps better to my students through this tool"       (translated from Tamil); (h) "better       than existing device, very clear methods"; (i) "it is totally       different from ordinary tools"; (j) "looking       nice, attractive and weightless also".
2.
The TGT tool (geometry kit) has become a key resource for teaching       mathematics and tactile       geometry in many of the government sponsored workshops conducted by NIVH.
3.
Potential avenues for patenting the TGT tool have been highlighted in       discussions with       interested stakeholders concerned with supporting the visually impaired,       and are being pursed.
In a letter from the Regional Director of NIVH, he noted that he would be       delighted to see any       concrete steps taken towards making the TGT tools available for the need       and benefit of       students in blind schools.
4.
During the workshop at Hope, Prof Toriyama demonstrated tools for       teaching Science in general       and Geometry in particular; she did a public demonstration so that       participants from local schools       could see and consider the work being done and the philosophy.
This       workshop was very well       received and some very valuable feedback was collated.
The feasibility of       using the TGT tool kit       as inclusive, cost effective and portable make this relevant for math and       statistical education in       any developing nation.
This work continues to progress as a joint project between MCC (India)       and Hope, with on-going       discussions about a joint spin-off company for mass production and supply       of the Geometry toolkit       to specialist schools in India and outside India, including Africa and the       UK; discussions are also       on-going with the St Vincent's school in Liverpool.
