     In demonstrating that bank nationalisation is not as costly as had been       thought, research by Andrianova and Demetriades went       against previous orthodoxy promoted by the World Bank and the IMF.
Their       new research was presented at numerous academic conferences and seminars       in the UK and around the world, including Australia, Austria, China,       France, Germany, New Zealand and the Unites States, and in a series of       papers, the first of which was published in the Journal of Development         Economics on line in 2006 (in 2008 on paper).
Their ideas spread across both the academic and practitioner communities,       and were taken up by the media and policy commentators.
For example, Handelsblatt,       Germany's leading financial newspaper, ran a feature on 15 February 2010       ("Are state banks better than their reputation?")
comparing the findings       of the anti-nationalisation La Porta et al (2002) with those of Andrianova       et al (2008, 2011).
The newspaper concluded that the findings of La       Porta et al were ideologically driven ([Source 1]).
The research       was also cited by the media during the debate on proposals to privatise       Sberbank, Russia's largest savings bank.
In addition, an article warning       against the risks of early de-nationalisation, citing the research, was       posted in February 2010 on VOX EU, the leading economic policy       portal in Europe.
The research played a crucial role in changing the academic and policy       climate, laying the intellectual foundation for the wave of bank       nationalisations that started in 2007 at the outset of the financial       crisis.
Many bank nationalisations that have taken place since have been       directly or indirectly influenced by the research described above.
The       impact of the research is most evident in two cases.
These are the       nationalisation of Northern Rock in 2007-8, and the reform of Cyprus'       banking system in 2012-3.
Northern Rock is perhaps the first important episode in the great       financial crisis in the UK.
The bank applied for, and was offered,       liquidity support on 17 September 2007.
It was then fully nationalised on       22 February 2008.
The Journal of Economic Development paper       mentioned above was presented at a seminar at HM Treasury on 14 September       2007 ([Source 2]).
The seminar was attended by a large number of       government economists and officials.
Many of these were directly involved       in the policy decisions that eventually led to the nationalisation of       Northern Rock.
The bank's successful nationalisation in early 2008 paved       the way for further nationalisations in the autumn of the same year, both       in the UK and overseas.
Partly as a result of his influential research on bank ownership, in May       2012 Demetriades was appointed as governor of the Central Bank of       Cyprus and member of the European Central Bank's governing council.
When       he took charge, the Cypriot banking sector was already in a critical       situation, having suffered huge losses because of the Greek bonds crisis.
Since January 2012, Cyprus had been relying on an emergency loan from       Russia to re-finance its maturing debt.
On 13 March 2012, credit rating       agency Moody's slashed Cyprus's rating to the lowest "junk" status.
On 30 June 2012, a month after Demetriades' appointment, the Cypriot       government recapitalised the country's second-largest bank, Cyprus Popular       Bank (also known as Laiki Bank).
As a result, the government acquired 84%       of the bank's equity &#8212; a de facto nationalisation.
In the spring of 2013, after long and complex negotiations between the       Cypriot Government, the Central Bank of Cyprus, the European Commission,       the European Central Bank and the IMF, Cyprus Popular Bank was shut down.
The bank's bad assets are being liquidated, and any remaining good assets       will be transferred to the country's other bank, the Bank of Cyprus.
A       substantial fraction of the Bank of Cyprus' equity is therefore to be       owned by the government.
It is therefore evident that government's acquisitions played a major       role in the solution to the crisis of the Cypriot banking sector.
Although       the entire process has been controversial, many commentators argue that       the solution achieves financial stability while avoiding issues of moral       hazard, by putting the burden of future bank restructuring onto creditors       and depositors rather than taxpayers in general.
(Cyprus Popular Bank's       shareholder capital has been written off, and the uninsured deposits &#8212;       along with other creditor claims &#8212; will be largely lost).
In any case, the Cypriot banking sector has been stabilised, preserving       the viability of the Euro system.
Given the risks of financial contagion,       failure to solve the Cyprus crisis might have had catastrophic       consequences for a number of Southern European countries.
In his capacity as Governor of the Central Bank of Cyprus, Demetriades       has actively contributed to the rescue of the Cypriot banking sector       ([Source 3], [Source [4]).
In doing so, he has implemented the ideas       developed in his academic research at Leicester, to manage one of the       world's most complex banking crises.
