     The work has demonstrated the CAMSS's underlying philosophy of applying       Mathematical and Intelligent Systems approaches and techniques to solve       real world problems with user engagement.
The project was funded by HEIF       through CAMSS, which has enabled this impact.
As a result, the case study       demonstrates the central aim of the centre to engage in research aimed to       realise and adapt theoretical knowledge, including mathematical models and       intelligent systems algorithms and implementations, into feasible       real-life applicable tools and technological innovations for the       requirement and need of users.
The "reach and significance" of the impact       of the research for the beneficiaries is demonstrated by its development       with the Christian Medical College (CMC, India) based in Southern India,       which is a prestigious Medical College and Hospital and carries out over       500,000 imaginings per year; most of these are used in transfusion       medicine and immuno-haematology.
The impacts described in this case study       are a result of long standing research collaborations between the CAMMS,       Hope's partner HEI Madras Christian College, and the CMC, with the aim of       providing novel solutions that meet the requirement and needs of the       medical practitioners and organisations.
With a similar ethos and       background as that of Liverpool Hope, the Christian Medical College (CMC),       Vellore has its grounding in the work started by Dr Ida Sophia Scudder       (1870-1960), its founder.
Over the past century, CMC has contributed       significantly not only to the provision of health care to the poor and       needy but also in generating and advancing knowledge to improve the       provision of curative and preventive services to the people they serve       directly and nationally in India.
In addition to treating the patients       individually or promoting community health, they believe in fulfilment of       their motto `not to be ministered unto, but to minister' on the       widest and longest lasting scale.
It is with this ethos the CMC has been       engaged in realising the research work developed as part of this project       by implementing the developed technique as a pilot study in their       Transfusion Medicine section of the hospital wing.
The segmentation and watermarking application has improved the       objectivity of reporting slides and reduced turn-around-time.
With a       computer pre-screening the images, it has been possible to reduce the       human intervention on all slides; instead the expert person needs only to       focus on a review of those cases where there is diagnostic ambiguity or       the machine has raised flags about the validity of the result &#8212; thus       applying valuable human time to cases that actually deserve it.
The       watermarking work has enabled secure storage of patient related       information, embedded into the image itself.
This thereby ensures the       safety of the data and that the metadata associated with the case is also       preserved and moved contextually along with the image itself.
The technique of segmentation and watermarking of medical images       developed in this research case study has been shown, through its use at       the Christian Medical College, India (hospital wing of CMC in the       department of Transfusion Medicine &amp; Immunohematology), to aid in the       analysis of peripheral blood cell images, not just in obtaining good       results, but also in achieving this in a very short span of time.
The       clinicians who employed the new techniques of segmentation and       watermarking observed the results and stored the images securely so that       they can be used for further analysis and study.
Experimental results also       showed that a lot of information can be stored in a single image, whereby       patient details and diagnosis results can be stored within the images       themselves rather than in separate databases.
The segmentation results of       eosinophils and basophils were unlike the other cells on account of their       granular structure and allowed the practitioners to complete the image       analysis procedures in much less time than previous methods that the       hospital has applied in the past.
