     The main impact of the QACSO is that it is now a regularly used       international clinical tool.
It is       commonly used:            as part of a baseline assessment to identify treatment need in         clinical settings throughout         the world;.
as part of a repeat evaluation process to identify treatment gain;.
as part of the risk assessment and management process, with regard to         the identification of         particular critical acute and stable dynamic risk factors;.
as a core research tool in the understanding of sex offending and the         subsequent treatment         of sex offenders with an intellectual disability.
Early versions of the QACSO were presented in 2000 by Lindsay at the       World Congress of the       International Association for the Scientific Study of Intellectual       Disabilities.
Seattle, USA and in       2002 at the BPS annual conference by Carson.
Lindsay promoted the use of       the updated 2007       version when asked to deliver workshops and keynote addresses at Annual       Meyer's Oration at the       Australian and New Zealand Association of Psychiatry, Psychology and Law       in 2007 and when       advising the Office of the Senior Practitioner on Criminal Justice Policy       for Victoria, Australia in       March 2011.
The audience at these events consists of clinicians and       potential users of the tool who       tend to be based in clinical and forensic services.
The tool and its       manual were made freely       available to suitably qualified individuals by contacting either Carson or       Lindsay.
The authors       receive regular requests for access to the tool from clinicians across the       world.
In the recent past       requests have come from practitioners based in the UK, Ireland, Canada,       Australia, Japan, Korea       and the USA (emails can be made available on request).
As a result, the tool is now widely used internationally.
In Australia,       clinicians in the Forensic       Disability Service in Queensland regularly use it in the assessment of sex       offenders with an       intellectual disability, the risk such individuals pose to society and the       evaluation of the services       offered by the service.
It is used in a similar fashion in the Department       of Human Services Victoria       and the State-wide Disability Service in New South Wales.
In Canada, it is       routinely used in       clinical, risk and court assessments in Developmental Disabilities       Consulting Program in Ontario.
The QACSO is used to assess individuals who have been identified as at       risk of offending       sexually and to reassess individuals attending treatment to identify risk       of recidivism.
In addition to       discriminating between groups, the tool in its 2007 form, and indeed       earlier in its pilot form, is used       to monitor treatment progress.
An example using the pilot version in this       way is described in       Murphy &amp; Sinclair (2009).
The QACSO has been used by clinicians in Norwich Primary Care Trust to       test the importance       of locus of control in the treatment programmes of their patients.
It is       regularly used to test the       efficacy of sex offender treatment programmes throughout the UK and       beyond.
It was used to       evaluate a treatment programme for a group of men with intellectual       disabilities based in a       community setting in the Black Country Partnership NHS Foundation Trust       (Rose, Rose, Hawkins       and Anderson, 2012).
The QACSO was employed by clinicians based in Oxleas       NHS Trust to       evaluate one of the first attempts to use cognitive behavioural therapy in       treatment programmes       designed for sex offenders with an intellectual disability (Murphy,       Powell, Guzman and Hays,       2007).
Similar evaluations of community-based cognitive behavioural       treatment programmes in       Northamptonshire (Craig, Stringer and Sanders, 2012); nursing led       treatment programmes based       in the Calderstones Partnership NHS Foundation Trust (MacNair, Woodward       and Mount, 2010);       and special needs community based programmes for convicted sexual       offenders in Birmingham       (Keeley, Rose and Beech, 2007) all used the QACSO as one of the core       evaluation tools.
The       QACSO was one of the core outcome measures in a large-scale review of       treatment programmes       across a number of services and NHS areas in the Sex Offender Treatment       Services Collaborative       &#8212; Intellectual Disabilities (SOTSEC-ID) that formed a major study funded       by the Department of       Health.
The QACSO is cited and described in three Handbooks written primarily for       clinicians and       practitioners working in this field.
The first "Assessment and Treatment       of Sex Offenders: A       Handbook" (Beech, Craig and Browne, 2009) focuses on the non       intellectually disabled offender       whereas "Assessment and Treament of Sexual Offenders with Intellectual       Disability: A Handbook"       (Craig, Lindsay and Browne, 2010) is written specifically for those       working in services for the       intellectually disabled offender.
The third handbook is the more general,       "Handbook for Forensic       Mental Health" (Soothill, Rogers &amp; Dolan (Eds.
), 2008).
The QACSO has       also been cited in a       review of the clinical tools available for the treatment of sex offenders       throughout the UK and the       wider world.
In 2011 UK experts (Professor Glynis Murphy, and Dr Neil Sinclair,       neither associated with       Abertay) visited Japan to train practitioners in this country in the       treatment of sex offenders with an       intellectual disability and recommended the QACSO as a validated tool for       working with this       population.
As a result, Protection and Advocacy &#8212; Japan (PandA-J), a       non-profit organisation who       were in the process of setting up a sex offender treatment program       requested at the time that they       be allowed to translate the QACSO into Japanese.
Permission was granted       and the tool is now in       use in the treatment programme.
Similarly in 2011, the QACSO was       translated into Korean in order       that it be used in the Sex Offender Treatment Center based in the National       Forensic Hospital,       Republic of Korea.
