     Context     Professor Malik is in demand from public-interest groups, the media,       diplomats, and British and European policy-makers, both as a commentator       and as an expert, adviser and trainer.
His significance and the reach of       his impact is reflected in the diversity of his activities, which extend       from media appearances and public and specialist lectures, through to       serving as a subject expert on asylum cases for the United Kingdom Border       Authority (2012) and training western diplomats, officials and election       monitors to work in South Asia and Pakistan.
As such, Professor Malik's       work has impacted on the UK's public discourse on Pakistan, and has shaped       diplomatic-level policy on Pakistan in the UK and across Europe.
Impact on the UK's public discourse on Pakistan     Professor Malik's carefully balanced, historically grounded insights and       expertise on political Islam and Pakistan made him an internationally       recognized academic expert before 9/11, but demand for his services as an       expert commentator and opinion-former grew exponentially thereafter.
Post-9/11 he gave 485 radio, media and community interviews/engagements       that were precipitated by the attack on the Twin Towers and the subsequent       developments in Iraq, Afghanistan and Pakistan (2001-8).
Since RAE08, he       has made more than 300 media appearances, giving interviews for, among       others, BBC local radio (e.g., Wiltshire, Oxfordshire), BBC Radio 4 and       the BBC World Service (Urdu and Hindi), BBC World TV, BBC News 24,       Aljazeera TV and Radio Pakistan.
His ability to work in multiple       languages, such as the two interviews in Urdu on the state of Minorities       in Pakistan, filmed for www.alislam.org       in 2011 and uploaded to YouTube, extend his reach beyond the Anglophone       world.
Modern media culture and the global news channels in particular       depend upon the contributions of experts such as Professor Malik.
Scholars       such as Malik provide the `substance', the knowledge and the informed       opinion, which shapes the thinking of programme-makers and interviewers,       and makes the programmes themselves possible.
Their research also serves       to frame the debates and issues, thus influencing societal assumptions and       informing wider public discourse.
Impact on Pakistan-related policy     In 2012, Professor Malik was invited by the European Institute for Public       Affairs (EIPA) to present two papers in Brussels, on Afghanistan and       Pakistan respectively to a select group of 28 EU policy-makers and       diplomats and officials.
As some of those present had already served in       the area and others were preparing to be posted to Southwest Asia,       Professor Malik's contributions sparked informed discussion on issues       around current policies and their implementation.
He was also subsequently invited by the British Embassy in Berlin to       participate in the second annual UK-Germany seminar on Pakistan (3 May       2013).
These `consultations will give senior British and German officials       and non-government participants the chance to look ahead to the Pakistani       parliamentary elections, and to assess what Pakistan's foreign policy       choices mean for the UK, Germany and the region.'
(Simon Macdonald,       British Ambassador, Berlin)     Impact on diplomatic training for posting to Pakistan     Professor Malik's invitation to provide specialized briefing sessions at       the Farnham Centre for International Briefing for British diplomats and       officials/trainers prior to postings to Pakistan was a direct result of       his media presence and extensive publication record, particularly Culture         and Customs of Pakistan (2005).
Over the course of this census       period he has conducted eight such briefings.
His connection with the EU, which has seen him undertake numerous       training appointments since 2007, resulted from a contact made when       speaking at the Annual Conference of Sociology and Anthropology, York       University, Toronto, 30 May-2 June 2006.
Recruited by the Scuola Superiore       Sant'Anna, at the University of Pisa, a prestigious school of       international relations which has been selected by the EU to train EU       personnel, including election monitors, Malik gave training sessions on       the history, politics, cultures and economy of Pakistan to c.100 election       monitors from EU and OECD countries in both 2007 and 2008.
In 2009 he was       invited back to Pisa, this time to train c.60 EU personnel       (doctors, nurses, firefighters, first-aid officials, earthquake rescue       teams, etc.)
to work across the Muslim countries in natural emergencies       and disasters.
In 2013, with elections in Pakistan looming, Malik was once again       approached by the Scuola Superiore Sant'Anna and asked to organize three       training workshops in Brussels (27 March; 8, 30 April).
At these workshops       Malik trained c.100 EU election monitors (representing all EU nations and       various other countries, such as Canada).
The feedback from these sessions       rated Malik's training highly, at 8.3-8.50/10; moreover, he was praised       specifically for his `huge knowledge' and his personal understanding of       Pakistani customs and culture.
As one anonymous attendee commented,       Malik's sessions provided, `Broad sweeping coverage like a Tsunami wave of       information.'
