     1.
Game studies and digital textualities Newman's work on       game studies has been key in focusing attention on games as complex       digital objects.
In 2006, he was invited to collaborate with A-Level Media       Studies tutors and the former Principal Examiner for A-Level Media Studies       on the first textbook on videogames for post-16 media studies.
Subsequently, Newman was invited to act as an advisor on the DfES       Nottingham eGames project and is currently working on developing materials       on videogames and digital literacies for Key Stage 3 in association with       the GameCity team and Autodesk.
Newman's expertise in game music and digital audio have led to       invitations to chair public events on writing and producing interactive       game music (e.g.
`Ear Candy' public lecture event Barbican, May 2011,       audience approx.
100) interviews (e.g.
New Statesman 2011 on the       cultural impact of videogame music); features (e.g.
360 magazine       on game audio); and gallery guides (e.g.
on game music technology for the       National Centre for Craft and Design's 2013 book accompanying the 2013-14       `Revolution in the Bedroom, War in the Playground' exhibition).
Newman has been part of the GameCity festival's steering group since its       inception and continues to work closely with the Director and team       programming events and strands, as well as convening and presenting       sessions on aspects of game studies, design and history for the festival's       general public audience (attendance over 45,000 in 2012).
2.
Gameplay as socially-situated activity Newman's work on       gaming fan cultures was supported by Capability Funding throughout       2004-07.
Among the deliverables of the project were a series of       industry-facing seminars that sought to establish and promote awareness of       amateur, grass-roots production.
Consequently, Newman was commissioned by       Publisher Eidos to provide consultancy on strategies for engagement with       fans of its Championship Manager franchise.
Newman was later invited to       provide consultancy for Sony Computer Entertainment Europe's PR agency,       and to speak about his published work on player subjectivities to JCPR and       Flamingo research as part of the development of the European PlayStation 2       launch strategy and the PlayStation `Mental Wealth' TV campaign.
Following a keynote presentation at the Games Marketing Forum (2007) and       public lecture at The National Archives (2009), Newman was invited by The       Wellcome Trust to chair a panel on gaming and science at Sheffield       Doc/Fest (2009).
Subsequently, Newman was commissioned by the Wellcome       Trust's Broadcast Team to provide a literature review and strategic       consultancy on ways of using videogames and gameplay to broaden the       Trust's public engagement with science agenda.
The internal report was       delivered in 2010 and a series of presentations to the Trust's Broadcast       team drew explicitly on Newman's work.
Newman's work has led to interviews and media appearances (e.g.
for The         Wall Street Journal on cultures of play and superplay) and       invitations to deliver public lectures (e.g.
at the British Library and       The National Archives.
Following these events, Newman was invited to       advise on the terms of reference for a Computer Games and Gaming Cultures       special collection of the British Library's UK Web Archive project (Paul       Whatley, project lead at the BL supplied Newman's 2011 IJDC article as the       `recommended reading' to participants prior to the first collections group       meeting).
Newman sits on the Collections Board with colleagues from       museums, libraries and the UK videogames industry (and was interviewed in       The Independent, Feb 2012 on the collection's launch).
As well as       interviews in the gaming press, Newman has made appearances on BBC Radio       4's Front Row discussing user-generated content in gaming, and the       influence of Nintendo's Super Mario series; BBC World Service on games       history, and BBC4 TV's 'Games Britannia' (first broadcast 2011) discussing       the emergence of videogames as a mainstream popular cultural form.
3.
Media preservation In 2007 Newman was invited by the       curatorial team for New Media Collections at the National Media Museum to       advise on a possible special collection of videogames.
Newman was       commissioned to conduct a feasibility study researching the extent of       current formal and grassroots videogame collecting activity across Europe       and the US.
Newman was subsequently invited to join the team in       establishing the National Videogame Archive.
The launch of the collection       was widely covered in the mainstream and specialist press in the UK,       Europe and US and Newman gave numerous print, online and radio interviews.
Working with the Curator of New Media and Head of Collections at the       National Media Museum, Newman co-authored the Special Acquisitions       Provisions for the collection.
Approved by the Museum's Board of Trustees       in 2008, this document and its six collecting themes, draws explicitly on       Newman's work.
Through his work on the GameCity festival, Newman has programmed a series       of public-facing events highlighting the vulnerability of digital media to       obsolescence and media decay.
He has convened and chaired public panel       sessions with scholars such as Henry Lowood of Stanford University and the       Preserving Virtual Worlds Project; Stella Wisdom, Digital Curator from the       British Library; as well as organising a series of 'Director's       Commentaries' events in which videogame developers critically reflect on       their professional practice.
These events allow audiences to interrogate       game design practice and form part of the archival documentation for the       games held by the NVA.
Newman was also commissioned by Guinness World       Records to write a feature on the history of videogames for the 2014       Guinness World Records Gamers Edition volume.
Throughout 2012-13, Newman embarked on a programme of public talks       supported by Electronic Arts and media partner Future Publishing.
Held at       arts and cultural venues throughout the UK, including the BFI Southbank,       Liverpool FACT, Midlands Arts Centre, and Bristol Arnolfini (audiences       average 75-100), the events focused specifically on aspects of Newman's       work as set out in his 'Best Before' book.
Positive feedback from       audiences and venues has led to a second national speaking tour and a       quarterly residency at the BFI Southbank to deliver public-facing events       on videogames (the 2012/13 BFI events sold out in advance).
Following a keynote presentation on game preservation at the Japan       Foundation in London, Newman was invited to Kyoto in January 2013 by the       Ritsumeikan Game Research Center.
Newman delivered a keynote presentation       on UK approaches to game preservation and, along with Henry Lowood of       Stanford University, was invited to consult with officials from the       Japanese Ministry for Cultural Affairs on strategies for establishing game       preservation projects.
In 2013, Newman was awarded a grant from the Daiwa       Foundation to support further research in Japan.
