     The impact of Graeber's work has grown over time, beginning with Towards         an Anthropological Theory of Value.
But with the publication of Debt,       produced whilst at Goldsmiths, his impact has assumed dimensions with few,       if any, precedents in anthropology.
It is perhaps unique in the breadth of       its international recognition and for the range of current debate over       which it is influential.
Sources to corroborate the impact are given in       parenthesis and detailed in section 5.
Graeber's arguments in Debt, and particularly the galvanizing       claim that the current economic crises might be usefully informed by       reflecting on the long historical record of debt cancellation, received       much initial attention because it was considered so radical.
As the       disarray of standard economic explanation and policy became more widely       acknowledged, debt cancellation came to be more seriously considered and       discussed in important public forums.
In Germany, Debt was number       2 in the best-seller lists for a week and drew the attention of both FAZ       and Der Spiegel.
It was also intensely discussed in Italy, where       the book was a number 10 best-seller.
These levels of sales and coverage       were achieved in Germany and Italy by the English-language edition.
First       published in English in 2011, Debt is scheduled to appear in translation       in: Chinese (both simplified and traditional characters), Italian,       Turkish, Greek, Korean, German, Japanese, Dutch, Spanish, Slovak, Swedish,       Czech, and French.
In The Chronicle of Higher Education (15 April 2013) Keith Hart       noted that: `An argument of Debt's scope hasn't been made by a       professional anthropologist for the best part of a century, certainly not       one with as much contemporary relevance' (3).
That relevance was indicated       in part by the breadth of mainstream publications that published articles       on or interviews with Graeber: Business Week, Harpers, Vanity Fair,         Rolling Stone, and the New Yorker, among others.
Coverage       was not confined to outlets that might be expected to sympathise with the       views Graeber espoused, but also included publications such as The         Economist and US News and World Report (in which Debt       was recommended as one of the `Best Summer Money Books for Adults' (4).
While Debt was the focal point for much of this print coverage, Graeber's       work on the relationship between activism and anthropology was also       prominent, especially at the height of the Occupy movement's       activities, for example in a New York Times Book Review piece by       Thomas Meaney (`Graeber's most important contribution to the movement may       owe less to his activism as an anarchist than to his background as an       anthropologist') (5).
Graeber has written for newspapers and other print       media including The Guardian (6) In These Times and the Commoner,       as a commentator whose combined anthropological and activist background       lends authority to his pronouncements on money, anarchism, Occupy       and the radical imagination (7).
Outside the mainstream, Debt has been the focus of a great deal       of political and technical discussion in well-established Left       publications (e.g.
New Left Review) and new publications and blogs       reflecting a post-New Left, web-enabled bridging of academic and political       commentary (e.g.
Jacobin, Crooked Timber (8).
Among academic       economists, especially those open to heterodoxy, and economics pundits, Debt       has opened up discussion drawing heavily on political economic, classical       and neo-classical debates, and has reintroduced economic anthropology as a       source of concepts of contemporary relevance.
In the domain of new and       online media, the impact of Debt has continued to expand long       beyond the typical life of a `best-seller' published in 2011.
There are       13,800 YouTube entries for interviews with Graeber (these include       many network broadcasts as well as interviews for more specialist       audiences) the most popular of which has been viewed almost 40,000 times       (9) and on REDDIT there are 520 entries ranging across Anthropology, the       History of Ideas and Anarchism.
Debt won the inaugural Bread and       Roses Award for radical literature in the UK in 2011.
The impact of Debt has a breadth and depth unique among modern       anthropological publications, in part because it addresses matters of       great public interest which are typically mediated by an academic       specialism, economics, which is broadly seen to be `relevant' in a way       denied to many other academic fields.
The impact of Graeber's work on       direct action and anarchism is enhanced by its association with his       commentary on the current economic crisis.
It reflects interest in a       discourse based in a `social movement' politics that has arisen in the       core Euro-American economies, most visibly revealed in Occupy.
Said to be       the coiner of the expression `we are the 99%' (10), Graeber is an activist       and author whose work has become a key reference point for a largely       generational politics of the franchised-become-disenfranchised (11).
