     Enhancement of public understanding and awareness of Muslim           perspectives     Tarlo has engaged different types of audience in a range of institutional       and public settings.
[6] The Fashioning Diasporas       Symposium and the Fashion Matters Public Forum (both held at the       V&amp;A in 2009) attracted audiences from the museum and design sectors.
Talks at the Royal Academy of Arts (2011) and The Costume Society       (Malvern, 2009) were addressed to a wider public of non-specialists       interested in the arts.
Public lectures given at The Centre for the Study       of Islam in the UK (Cardiff, 2010) and Islamic Societies at Oxford and       Cambridge, by contrast, attracted predominantly Muslim audiences with a       personal investment in Islamic fashion and social diversity.
A talk given       at the Middle East and Middle Eastern American Centre at CUNY (New York       2010) received coverage from journalist and fashion designer Elif Kavakci       in her blog Hijabitopia and in an article in the Turkish women's       news website Kadin Haberleri.
Tarlo raised awareness of the importance of socially inclusive design       through engagement with young people at the ESRC-funded secondary schools'       conference on Widening Women's Participation in Sports, held at the       Women's Library in London in 2011, at the London Anthropology Day (British       Museum, 2012), and at a Sociology Conference at Christ the King 6th Form       College in South East London (2013).
Interfaith dialogue and understanding:     Tarlo was invited to promote inter-faith understanding by sharing her       research with mixed faith audiences in the context of the V&amp;A round       table public forum on Fashion and Faith (2009)(7a) and       two international conferences at the London School of Fashion.
(7b,           7c) These events brought into dialogue speakers and       audiences from different faith groups with journalists, human rights       specialists, fashion designers and an interested public.
The event was       covered in the Jewish Chronicle.
(7d) Tarlo's       research concerning the importance of religiously sensitive socially       inclusive design for encouraging wider participation in sports gained       widespread coverage and appreciation in inter-faith and other minority       blogs in the run-up to the London Olympics 2012 (including Diseret         News, OBV (Operation Black Vote), and AsiaLife Magazine(8b)).
Stimulation of debate in British and International Media:     More generally Tarlo's findings have featured in mainstream media in the       UK, France, Turkey, India, Pakistan, Canada, and the USA.
Interviews with       Tarlo have been quoted in Voice of America,(9a)       Express Tribune(9b) (Pakistan's leading       English-language newspaper), FASHION magazine (Canada's biggest       fashion magazine), The Guardian(8d) and Muslim         Media Watch (featured on Patheos.com, the biggest online forum for       global dialogue on religion and spirituality)[10c] and       on Radio 4's Women's Hour.
[9c]     In 2012 Tarlo's discussion of sports design and social inclusion in       relation to the London Olympics was published in the Huffington Post(8a)       and gained widespread international media coverage through Reuters,(8c)       stimulating online debate internationally.
An interview with Tarlo, on       socially inclusive sports design, also features prominently in a short       documentary, Sporting Sisters,(8e) made by ten       young Muslim women in London as part of an IARS (Independent Academic       Research Studies) project,(8f) funded by the Heritage       Lottery Fund through the Young Roots programme and accessible to young       audiences through Youtube.
Impact in Education:     Tarlo's book Visibly Muslim is listed as a resource for teachers       on the Anthropology A-level syllabus which is part of the national       curriculum framework.
The Open University's new level 3 module entitled,       'Why is Religion Controversial?'
features 3 short interviews with Tarlo       about her research.
Five hundred students a year are taking the module       from September 2013.
The interviews with Tarlo were selected as being of       particular interest and social relevance and have been made accessible as       an itune-U app for iPod and iPhone.
(11)     Impact on Religious Communities:     Tarlo's work has resonated widely with Muslim and other religious       communities.
Several blogs and articles testify to this impact.
[10]       Visibly Muslim has been reviewed or discussed in Hijab Style, The       Hijabi Fashion Blog, Hijabitopia, Muslimah Media Watch, Emel, and The       Middle East in London.
The Muslim blogger behind the Malaysian Love to         Dress blog cites Tarlo's book as one of the inspirations for her       blog and the Mennonite blogger of Third Way Style and Mormon       blogger of Deseret News both use Tarlo's findings to promote       inter-faith understanding.
Impact on Fashion and Design:     Tarlo's research has inspired new design interventions from artists and       designers interested in combatting stereotypes and creating practical       design solutions for Muslim women.
Suzanne Kirkpatrick, a New York based       designer and creative technologist, cites Visibly Muslim as a key       influence on her 2011 project, `retroflective' burkas which focused on       improving the Afghan burkha by using breathable light-sensitive and       affordable fabrics.
(12a)     Textile artist, Denise Maroney, also cites Tarlo's book as a key       inspiration for her art installation, Burkha, at the Textile Arts       Centre in Brooklyn, New York (2011) where she explored ideas of public and       private and the potential aesthetic appeal of covering.
(12b,c)
