 The impact of our research since 2008 has been to highlight the hazards built on the substantial impact that had become apparent from 2006 and the effect of using the emergent technology of nano-ecotoxicology in agricultural systems.
Prior to 2006 there was no cohesive international effort on the environmental hazards of nanomaterials.
Our impact has been to help establish a new scientific community on nano-ecotoxicology/chemistry involving government, industry, consultancy and academia; building and developing a consensus view on hazard, fate, and effects.
An early consensus report was deliberately published independently, i.e., not from any one governmental regulatory agency or industry, as an unbiased view from the grass-roots scientific community.
Through our invitation by the Office of the President of the United States to act as an external advisor to the US National Nanoscience (NNI) funding initiative, we were able to influence the European Commission in establishing the NanoSafety Cluster, and Handy was instrumental in setting up the US-EU ``cores of research' aimed at international data sharing.
A further consensus report involving the SETAC Nano-advisory group was published in 2012.
As a result of these seminal reports and the emergence of the new scientific discipline of nano-ecotoxicology, we were invited to prepare a report for DEFRA on test methods for nanomaterials that set out the validation problems around testing nanomaterials.
This showed that the UK/EU hazard assessment strategy urgently needed modification, and was subsequently used by DEFRA to argue the case for testing strategies with the EU Working Party on Manufactured Nanomaterials (WPMN).
As a result, the international community has agreed that there is a problem with testing methods and an international sponsorship programme of testing by the OECD was commissioned involving members of the International Organisation for Standardization (ISO).Our impact has included OECD guidance documents.
This reported in 2012.
In the UK, this work and a paper by Owen and Handy (2007) raised nanoscience as a priority research funding issue; leading to a National Nanoscience call from NERC led by Owen, and with Handy on the UK task force.
Subsequently, the testing method issues were included in the Framework 7 call in Europe.
Our research and consensus-building report was used in a 2010 Report by the Australian Department of the Environment, Water, Heritage and the Arts;.
and in Reports from the Royal Commission on Environmental Pollution (2008),) and the House of Lords Science and Technology Committee (2010).
The regulatory testing activities that have emerged from this work are directed at Governments across the EU and North America who are required to implement the regulatory process enabling the registration of new products, and industry now has official guidance on how to collect data to support their product registrations.
This is an absolute requirement as registration of new products (such as nano crop protection products) cannot proceed without the appropriate testing dossier.
Specifically, our research and testing methods have been used in a Report by the Dutch Food and Environmental Safety Agency (2009) and in official guidance documents on test methods from the OECD, and our expertise has led to our direct involvement in writing regulatory guidelines (OECD, 2010; 2012).
These documents are shared in the US by ISO, and so the impact of our knowledge is global across both government and industry.
This application of our technical knowledge is on-going at the OECD, and we are providing technical advice to several sub-committees (SG3, SG7) and on specific materials (OECD programme for TiO2).
The above regulatory activities disseminate information to industry through WPMN documents from the OECD, and from our reports to DEFRA locally in the UK.
One concern identified by us was a UK/EU skills shortage to support industrial growth of the agri-food/chemicals nanotechnology sectors and we were commissioned by DEFRA to write a report on the skills gap (Handy et al., 2009).
This has had a wide impact on training policy in the UK.
Our findings were presented to the Science Minister (David Willets MP) at the Department of Business, Innovation and Skills (BIS) meeting on 11th May 2011, and then in a closed meeting with the Chief Scientist's Committee.
Evidence on hazards has also been presented to the UK Government, House of Commons, Science and Technology Committee with respect to food safety (via Prof Stephen Holgate).
This further informed discussions with DEFRA on training and the Life Science Action Plan in the UK, so that training in nanoscience is now included (ACHS, 2011).
Our research also had impact with DEFRA's Advisory Committee on Hazardous Substances, where we contributed evidence to decisions on allowing the granting of authorisation for the first commercial use of nano products for aquaculture in the UK.
Our research also continues to be used more widely in providing advice relevant to the fishing industry's use of nutrients.
