     Grayson's research has had three main types of impact, both in the UK and       internationally, because       it breaks new ground in the way local narratives are researched, while       also challenging deeply held       (and divisively sectarian) myths about the First World War.
The first is       the large amount of media       attention his work has garnered, reflecting the contemporary relevance of       this issue to communities       in both Northern Ireland and the Republic.
The second is his outreach to       Nationalist, Unionist and       other community groups in and beyond Northern Ireland; and the third is       outreach which he has       conducted to schools to help teachers develop effective curricula for       discussing local history with       respect to the First World War.
i.
Media attention and public interest in Belfast Boys     The research's primary output, the book Belfast Boys, has been       widely discussed in the media in       Ireland on both sides of the border.
It was serialised over three days in       the Belfast Telegraph.
[5] The       Belfast News Letter ran a full-page article on the book and it was       reviewed in the Irish Times.
[6]       Grayson was interviewed on BBC Radio Ulster's Talkback programme,       on UTV News, on RT&#201;'s       flagship Today radio show and on Newstalk radio.
[7]       He has accepted an invitation to speak about it       at the Cheltenham Literature Festival in October 2013 as part of a       four-person AHRC-organised       panel on the First World War.
To the end of June 2013, the book had sold       2,379 copies of which 840       are international sales.
ii.
Outreach to groups in Northern Ireland and beyond     The interest generated by the methods being used to write Belfast         Boys led to Grayson being invited       to serve on the steering committee of the 6th Connaught Rangers       Research Project, a group funded       by the Community Relations Council to tell the story of the battalion       which recruited most noticeably       from the Falls area of West Belfast.
[8] This has       involved engagement with members of the Nationalist       community, including former paramilitaries.
Grayson has contributed       writing and data to the       Research Project's publications.
He has also provided data to the `Belfast       Book of Honour' project,[9]       a publication supported by Belfast City Council and three local       newspapers, listing Belfast residents       who died in the First World War.
On 6th August 2010, Grayson was an invited participant in an event for       the West Belfast Festival       (F&#233;ile an Phobail) called "Remembering/Forgetting the First World War",       where he spoke on the First       World War remembrance.
He was invited because his research, both the       methods he developed       and the conclusions he reached, are directly relevant to local people, and       offer a significant new       angle on politically contentious debates on remembrance of the war.
After       a talk on his conclusions,       he ran a research workshop, drawing on his research, for an audience that       included ex-paramilitaries       from both sides of the conflict in Northern Ireland.
The session marked       the first time the F&#233;ile, which       is closely associated with Republicanism, had held an event in the       Loyalist Shankill area of Belfast.
He has been invited to speak at the F&#233;ile again on 4th August       2014, on the centenary of the war's       outbreak.
In the spring of 2012 Grayson was approached by the Ulster Historical       Foundation to provide advice       for a project, initiated by the Police Service of Northern Ireland (PSNI),       to reach out to disaffected       young people in parts of Northern Ireland, and has provided materials for       use in this initiative.
His       community outreach activity stems from the extensive contacts in the       Nationalist and Unionist       communities that he has developed in the course of conducting his       research.
On a national UK scale, Grayson's expertise has led to his chairing the       expert panel for the Imperial       War Museums' [IWM] digital projects relating to the First World War's       centenary.
[10] The IWM       commented `We invited Richard Grayson to chair the group because his         book Belfast Boys       pioneered using large quantities of digital and other sources to         analyse the war experience of one         area.'
He has also been advising Dr Alastair Massie, the Head of       Academic Access at the National       Army Museum, on the digitisation of the NAM's archives on disbanded Irish       infantry regiments.
Grayson's research findings have been drawn on by the media in relation       to the forthcoming       centenary of the war, where he has been consulted as an advisor.
The       insights from his research       also led to him winning an AHRC competition to be one of twelve academics       advising the BBC in       the early stages of its First World War centenary programming.
[11]       In this capacity during 2012 and       2013 he took part in workshops which led to a number of interactions with       Mike Connolly (Executive       Producer, Commissioning and Development, BBC Northern Ireland) and to his       involvement in       developing and being a contributor to a commissioned programme for the BBC       (a two-parter,       Ireland's Great War, made by 360 Productions and being filmed in       late 2013).
He is currently in       discussion with UTV (the ITV channel in Northern Ireland) over       contributing to a programme on the       16th and 36th Divisions.
Grayson co-edits www.irelandww1.org       which acts as a hub for academics and the public, spreading       the latest research on Irish history in the `Decade of Commemoration',       publicising projects run by       non-academics, and encouraging academics to work with members of the       public.
Launched in       November 2012, it had by the end of August 2013 received over 3,500 visits       from over 2,500 different       users in 48 different countries.
iii.
Outreach to schools     Grayson has used his research to improve teaching about the history of       the First World War.
In       March 2012 he gave a keynote lecture at a major north-south education       symposium in Dublin,       `Commemorating 1916, the Battle of the Somme and World War I: Questions       for Education'.
The       event was organised by St Patrick's College, Dublin, and the University of       Ulster, and co-funded by       the Standing Conference on Teacher Education, North and South.
He       discussed how to address       the upcoming First World War centenaries in the classroom, and following       from this was asked by       the Northern Ireland Community Relations Council to provide written       guidance on methodology       which is now publicly available on the CRC website.
[12]       He is currently working with Rathmore       Grammar School in Belfast to design downloadable resources for schools       based on his research,       which can be used in conjunction with the A-level module Ireland:         1900-1925.
Drawing further on his West Belfast research, he was a co-founder of the       `Hemel at War' project,       relating to Hemel Hempstead in England.
The project has produced booklets       for educators interested       in developing classroom exercises on discovering their local community's       history during the First and       Second World Wars.
That project has been written up in the       widely-circulated specialist magazine       Teaching History [12], which has a circulation of over 3,000, and a       research guide was also produced       for a family history publication [13].
Most recently, Grayson has accepted       an invitation to serve on       the academic advisory group for the Institute of Education's `The First       World War Centenary       Battlefields Project' being run on behalf of the Department for Education       and the Department for       Communities and Local Government to allocate the &#163;5.3m for school visits       to battlefields which was       announced by the Prime Minister earlier in 2013.
