     Lee co-organised two international conferences &#8212; 5/6 May 2007 at the       University of Cambridge and       8-10 April 2010 at the University of the Witwatersrand, South Africa &#8212;       that brought together       researchers working in the field of 'death studies' with representatives       working on the 'front-line' of       death and its management in African society from the health care sector,       NGOs and religious       organisations.
Participating organisations included Educo Africa,       Children's Institute, Children's       HIV/AIDS Network, African Mental Health Foundation, Masakhane Muslim       Community, and       Muizenberg Community Church.
[7] These events generated       engagement between academia and       civil society, which fostered the transfer of ideas on how Africans have       understood and coped with       the dying process.
Both conferences provided a useful historical       perspective on the current AIDS       crisis by situating the AIDS epidemic in a much longer history of African       responses to death and       dying.
[8][9][10]     Lee's sustained relationships with some of these cross-sector colleagues       has enhanced their       professional development as well as improved their organisations'       programme delivery.
Lee's       focused research on South African NGO Educo Africa's Living and Dying       Workshop (a programme       which aims to facilitate an understanding and acceptance of death and the       dying process, and to       support carers and volunteers who work in the HIV/AIDS sector) &#8212; and in       particular the collection       of interviews of former participants of this workshop&#8212; have been fed back       to Educo to improve this       programme's provision and reach.
[10] The Death in Africa       project has aided the professional       development of NGO staff such as the Sisonke Programme Manager of Educo       Africa and the Leader       of Church Partnerships at The Warehouse (a faith based organisation),       through exposure to and       participation in the project's academic research and conferences, and       through dialogue with the       project's investigators on the management of death, grief and loss in       South Africa.
[9][10]     Lee's research on the commoditization of death and the funeral industry       in South Africa was       presented in a public talk at Goldsmiths in February 2013, which was       followed by a question and       answer session led by Henry Bonsu, a noted broadcast journalist and       co-founder of the radio station       Colourful Radio.
In March 2013 she was invited to discuss her documentary       film on the funeral       business in South Africa with Henry Bonsu on the television programme       `Shoot the Messenger' (Vox       Africa station, part of Sky television).
[11] Goldsmiths hosted       an online screening of her documentary       film and a webchat with the director in May 2013.
Rebekah Lee's blog on       the Huffington Post is       another media outlet through which her research on death in South Africa       is conveyed to the general       public.
[12]     Lee's documentary film `The Price of Death' has received the Richard       Werbner Prize for Visual       Ethnography at the Royal Anthropological Institute's International       Festival of Ethnographic Film       (June 2013).
The film was screened in South Africa, at the University of       Cape Town and Stellenbosch       University, in June 2013.
The film was the main feature at a community       event in Khayelitsha       township, Cape Town, in June 2013 and members of the local community were       invited to attend.
The screening was organised alongside a panel discussion which included a       local pastor, the       programme director of a local HIV/AIDS advocacy organisation (Yabonga),       and two African       undertakers.
The film generated heated debate and discussion between       members of the public and       the undertakers, largely around how best to manage the unscrupulous       practices of some township       funeral parlours, which were seen as taking advantage of widespread       mortality and increased       consumerism.
Both audience members and panellists agreed that the film       deserved further       community screenings, as the issue of the spiralling cost of funerals is a       pressing concern for most       township residents.
[9]     The film has been shown to NGOs such as Educo Africa and The Warehouse,       and has become part       of their outreach activities, in particular to augment staff training and       facilitation around issues such       as grief and loss.
[9][10] The co-founder of the       US-based organisation The School of Lost Borders,       has brought a copy of the film back with her to the United States to       increase awareness of the South       African context of death and dying, and as preparation for the       organisation's workshops and courses       on death and the dying process.
[13]     Lee is the coordinator and curator of an online public archive of       photographic images and video       content related to death and loss in Africa.
[7] The       website includes several photo-essays and short       videos on various themes related to funerals, death practices and mourning       rites in the regions       covered by the Death in Africa project.
This site has enabled the       public and research community to       engage visually with issues of death, loss, mourning, memory and heritage.
