     Over the last three years, Dr Buchan's research involving HIT has       resulted in a number of media outlets publicising his work which has       contributed to the debate and highlighted awareness of the importance of       physical activity for health and well-being.
Findings of the research were       aired on the BBC 1 show The One Show in January 2011 which provided an       excellent opportunity to raise awareness of the general public to the       benefits of short duration HIT for enhancing health and well- being.
The       findings have also been featured in more than 385 distinct mainstream       media outlets, ranging from well-known outlets such as ScienceDaily and       the Daily Telegraph to smaller newspapers, International fitness magazines       such as Shape and Viz as well as blogs on sports and medicine.
The       research findings were also highlighted in several foreign-language       outlets, including Russian, Greek and Norwegian local websites.
As a direct consequence of this media exposure, Dr Buchan has been       approached by other organizations and individuals who share the same       passion for the improvement of health and well-being in youth through       physical activity.
Two collaborative investigations currently underway       with key stakeholders are detailed below:     4.1 The development and implementation of a planned and progressive         curriculum based Physical Education programme for pre-school and P1         pupils.
This programme has been implemented in collaboration with a number of key       stakeholders that include; NHS Lanarkshire, South Lanarkshire Council,       Glasgow University and South Lanarkshire Education.
This collaborative       project, which involves Dr Buchan as the Lead Investigator, will       investigate the effects of a Physical Education intervention upon measures       of health and well-being in youth.
Eight primary schools have accepted our invitation for involvement in the       project which is currently underway.
During the participant recruitment       sessions responses from parents have been extremely positive with nearly       all parents in agreement of the importance of programmes to enhance their       child's health and well-being.
The programme also involves up-skilling       teaching staff across South Lanarkshire, with a view to improving physical       activity levels and cardiometabolic health in Scottish youth.
Teacher       training events have been undertaken with a number of practitioners, and       initial feedback of the Physical Education intervention has been extremely       positive.
Building upon the well-established evidence that has demonstrated that       children who have well developed fundamental movement skills are more       likely to participate in physical activity and are more likely to become       active adolescents, this project has the unique ability to develop these       key fundamental movement skills at the onset of primary education.
Increasing physical activity levels are often cited by the Scottish       Government as a key pledge in recent policy documents as a means of       preventing overweight, obesity and associated health implications.
This       project can therefore become a catalyst for initiating national level       change within the PE curriculum so that children develop key fundamental       skills to assist them in becoming active adolescents and adults through       continued physical activity participation.
4.2 Collaborative research partnership with the Scottish Ethnic         Minority Sports Association.
Directly resulting from the media exposure of the HIT research, Dr       Buchan's research group was invited to discuss its findings and       implications with members of the Scottish Ethnic Minority Sports       Association (SEMSA).
The subsequent meeting and discussion of findings led       to the commencement of a study early in 2012 to examine the prevalence of       cardiovascular disease risk factors among Scottish South Asians.
Findings       of this research have been disseminated to members of SEMSA.
Early life exposures of South Asians have been implicated in the       aetiology of disease with a higher risk of type 2 diabetes being evident       in early adult life and adolescence both in the USA and in the UK.
Studies       from the UK have consistently demonstrated that South Asian ethnicity is a       consistent correlate of childhood obesity with South Asians generally       having a higher level of fat per unit of BMI compared with Caucasians.
Unsurprisingly studies have also demonstrated that at low BMI levels,       English youth of South Asian ethnicity demonstrate poorer risk profiles       and have a greater predisposition to Type 2 diabetes than whites with       South Asians tending to have elevated levels of fasting insulin and       glucose in comparison to whites.
Approximately 70% of the total ethnic       minority population in Scotland is of South Asian ancestry but little is       known of their risk profiles since most of the evidence is taken from       English cohorts.
From the findings of our initial study and the lack of evidence currently       available looking at the health and well-being profiles of South Asians,       we have expanded our work in this area to an international scale and are       undertaking a larger investigation with collaborators in India.
Dr Buchan's previous HIT research and current involvement in these two       new collaborative endeavours, has the potential to stimulate meaningful       change in the health profiles of youth populations both nationally and       internationally as well as bearing additional economic, psychological and       social benefits.
Growing national recognition of the importance of       physical activity has led to important recommendations in promoting youth       health and well-being.
Through Dr Buchan's work, these recommendations are       being disseminated to a number of key stakeholders that are in a position       to make meaningful changes to a large number of individuals at the early       stages of their development.
