     The impact of Griffiths' research is found in current policies.
It has       fed into think tank reports and       policy discussions, and helped set the agenda for policymakers.
The main       impact was on individuals       and groups associated with the Labour Government of 1997-2010.
These       reports express in       normative terms, both the implications of his evaluation of the main       political parties' views of public       service reform set out above and try to answer questions set out in the       work on the relation between       markets and the state in contemporary social democracy.
This normative       work on public policy was       part of an important debate in policy circles around the role of choice in       public service reform, the       autonomy of professional groups, the co-production of services between       citizens and the state, and       the use of behavioural change (or `nudge') theory to improve outcomes for       citizens in their use of       public services.
Griffiths has given many invited presentations in this area to various       non-academic and policy       audiences, which have included the Cabinet Office and major think tanks,       and has written about the       policy-implications of his research in a wide variety of non-academic       publications.
Three reports in       particular grew directly out of his research and had policy impacts:     1.
The 2009 report Assertive Citizens: New Relations in the Public         Services,[1] published by The       Social Market Foundation, and co-authored by Griffiths with Beth Foley and       Jessica Prendergast,       was influential.
It examined the rise of the 'assertive citizen' and       argued that this change creates       profound challenges for public services, particularly for the       relationships between users and       providers.
The report looked at how the public services, and those who       work in them, can adapt       to fit these changing expectations.
The report's recommendations focused       on the appropriate       direction of choice-based reforms; the future role of professionals; and       the concept of co-production,       which seeks to promote greater cooperation between citizens and       professionals in       the production of public services.
It argued that strengthening the       personal relationships between       professionals and service users is vital to meeting the challenges posed       by assertive citizenship.
The report was launched at a Price Waterhouse Cooper-sponsored event       attended by David       Willetts (now Minister of State for Universities and Science) and Julian       Le Grand (Tony Blair's       special advisor on health policy).
It generated significant media       attention for its claim that we are       now more `assertive' in our dealings with public bodies.
In particular, it       led to op ed pieces in The         Times and an extended interview with Griffiths in Community Care       magazine.
It has been widely       cited since in think tank publications &#8212; for example, in work by the Royal       Society for the Arts 2020       Public Services Trust, the Institute of Public Policy Research, Involve,       and the Health Foundation.
It was also cited in PriceWaterhouse Cooper's recommendations for reform       of Australian       government administration in 2009.
All these pieces are available       electronically.
[1a]     Several of the ideas expressed in the report (professional autonomy,       nuanced choice in public       service provision; and coproduction between citizen and producer)       influenced policy thinking at       that period.
The report was discussed at steering group meetings during       its preparation by,       amongst others, John Dunford (Association of School and college Leaders);       Karen Reay (Unite-Amicus);       Baroness Pauline Perry (Conservatives' Public Service improvement Group);       David       Walker (formerly of Public Magazine); Martin Ward (of the Association of       School and college       Leaders) and Tony Wright (former Labour MP), as well as being circulated       to ministers in       government.
The report also led to an invitation to talk at several policy       organisations, including       trade unions, think tanks and a keynote address at the Independent Living       Organisation.
[1b]     2.
A 2010 report Collective co-production: working together to         improve public services[2] was co-authored       by Griffiths and Foley, and commissioned by Research Councils UK and the       Local       Authority Research Council Initiative (which was established in 1997 to       bring Local Authorities       and the Research Councils closer together, under the tagline `Excellence       with Impact').
This       report grew out of the success of Assertive Citizens, which argued       that individual citizens and the       state must work better to share responsibility for health, educational and       other outcomes.
Collective co-production was thus written to advise local councils       on this new area of policy.
It       examined ways in which citizens could work collectively with the state to       ensure better outcomes,       and sought to share best practices adopted by local councils for various       forms of collective co-production,       including time banks, participatory budgeting, and peer support groups.
It       also helped       councils to understand this policy term: thus the report was cited as       evidence by the Scottish       Government's `Commission on the Future Delivery of Public Services.
'[2a]     3.
Finally Engaging Behaviour (2010),[3]       co-authored by Griffiths and Foley and published by the       Department for Communities and Local Government [DCLG] and The Social       Market Foundation,       dealt with behavioural change and civic engagement.
It was commissioned by       DCLG on the basis       of Griffiths' earlier research to advise Ministers on new techniques in       public policy, and was written       in close collaboration with civil servants in the department.
It examined       the way in which the       insights of behavioural change theory could promote citizen involvement in       public services and       elsewhere.
It led to Griffiths giving evidence on behavioural change to       the House of Lords Science       &amp; Technology Committee in May 2010.
Many of these ideas have been brought together in an edited collection on       public services,[1] which       has generated significant debate       and attracted funding from the ESRC, who supported four events       at the Royal Society of Arts, held in conjunction with the 2020 Public       Services Hub and the       Collaborate Institute, to discuss questions raised by the book.
The       debates were attended by       ministers and senior policy makers.
In summary, this work, and the associated media articles and       presentations, have contributed to the       debate on how to create more `citizen-focused' public services and have       had an impact on       government's thinking about public service provision.
They have fed into       discussions with senior       policymakers; have provided a framework for some of policies pursued by       government in this area       in recent years; and have stimulated and informed on-going debates and       discussions about the       reform of public services in the twenty-first century.
