     The uniqueness and significance of the Artraker Prize have to do       with the opportunities that it creates       for change to occur, even in conflict-ridden communities and locations.
The first Artraker Prize,       presented on International Peace Day, 21 September 2013, but awarded       during the Impact       assessment period, was won by Alexia Webster, a South African photographer       who will use her prize       fund to set up temporary Street Studios in Tanzania and Chad, where       hundreds of thousands of       Sudanese refugees from Darfur are living in camps.
Webster, who previously       worked with the       Blikkiesdorp and Chiawelo peoples (two South African communities affected       by structural violence),       was awarded the prize money for her ability to create images that are       deeply significant for the       individuals caught up in violence, rather than for western consumers of       `conflict photography' or `art'.
Such photographs are made, not for the western art market, but for those       who are separated from       family members, have few possessions and little money to print images of       themselves.
By creating       and freely distributing family photographs, Webster helps people reassure       distant friends and family       as to their safety and survival, and in so doing, they are able also to       affirm their identities and resist       their own categorisation as `displaced persons' or `refugees'.
This work       (which Buckley calls "neither       art nor politics") seeks to affirm identity and self-worth, rather than to       be valued as aesthetically       interesting or as documentary evidence: it has huge significance for       ordinary people, who through       no fault of their own, have been thrust into highly traumatic       circumstances.
For this reason, Buckley's       influence on Artraker had the effect of turning it from being a prize into       an `anti-prize', a turn which is       explicitly acknowledged on the website.
It rewards not the achievement of       the artist, but the potential       for change that the artist creates.
Buckley's research on the potential of art as a change-maker was the key       influence on Manali Jagtap,       founder of Inca Consulting (16) and Buckley's former MA Art and Politics       student, in her decision to       set up the Artraker Fund and Prize.
Her teaching and institutional       expertise profoundly impacted on       the nature of the award and helped to situate it as the only one of its       kind in the world today.
The Fund and Prize exist to "help shape and inspire through the medium of       art how people and       organisations understand, engage and respond to conflicts, and to become       the recognised home for       powerful conflict art and artists."
It uses a three-pronged approach to realize this vision:            Showcasing conflict art as a profound communicative tool to understand         the complex issues of         conflict       Influencing stakeholders &#8212; decision makers, NGOs, the public, art         critics       Building relationships and communities with artists and organisations          Buckley's impact on Jagtap can also be seen in her exhibition work.
In       her Deptford X show of 2012       Jagtap used footage filmed in 2011 to bring visitors face to face with a       life-size projection of Asari       Dokubo, the first warlord of the Niger Delta, whose attacks on oil       installations sent petrol prices       soaring around the world.
In her work, Dokubo speaks about his decision to       take up arms, his choice       of violence over non-violence, life in the creeks, his childhood, identity       and conversion to Islam, and       his insurgency before being incarcerated seven floors below the State       intelligence headquarters in       Abuja.
This and other examples demonstrate the correlation between       Buckley's research on art and       conflict, Jagtap's practice, and the establishment of Artraker.
She is now       Academic Advisor to the       Fund.
She was invited to act as one of the jurors for the first year of       the prize (2013), and to sit on       the Advisory Committee for the Award.
In its first year the Award attracted over 300 entries from artists and       practitioners across the world.
They included some high-profile artists with highly established       international reputations (e.g.
David       Cotterrell amd Vong Phaophanit, who have exhibited in institutions from       Tate Modern to Venice       Biennale), but also from little-known groups and workshop organisers in       conflict areas from       Zimbabwe, Korea, Congo, Pakistan, Afghanistan, Georgia, Syria, Iraqi       Kurdistan, Cameroon, former       Yugoslavia, Israel, Palestine, Ukraine and many other regions.
The jurors       included experts from both       the art and peace-making and peace-building disciplines to assess the       submissions to the Artraker       Fund.
This is a unique situation in terms of art awards, and is the only       one of its kind in the world.
By       bringing together these diverse communities of practitioners, the Fund       opened up ground for       exchange between peace-makers and peace-builders, and artists operating in       this environment       while using very different kinds of methodologies.
In this way, its impact       is already a significant one,       offering challenges to existing conventions on how to judge art.
