     The research described above has impacted directly on policy and       practice.
The Scottish Government's Hepatitis C Action Plan Phase 1 states       that its understanding of what needs to be done to prevent the       transmission of hepatitis C among PWID "has largely been informed by the       findings of several key Scottish Executive funded research studies" (p9)       among which are Taylor et al, 2004 and Taylor et al, 2005, both cited in       the previous section.
It also states that another of Taylor's studies (Roy       et al, 2007, cited above) has informed the Action Plan.
The aim of the       first phase of the Action Plan was to gather evidence for a set of       specified of actions aimed at preventing infection and developing specific       proposals for improvements in services.
One of the Prevention Actions       (Action 2) arose directly from the findings of Taylor's ethnographic work       cited above.
It stated "these interventions should       include.....distributing a wide range of paraphernalia in addition to       needles and syringes in needle exchanges; and labelling or colour coding       of injecting equipment to help drug users identify their own" (P10).
Based       on her expertise, Professor Taylor was asked to chair the Prevention       Working Group of the Action Plan, Phase 1.
The second phase of the Scottish Government's Hepatitis C Action Plan       aimed at implementing the proposals arising from Phase 1.
The Government       invested &#163;43 million over the three years of the Action Plan, &#163;8 million       of which was dedicated to prevention.
Two Actions were influence by       Taylor's ethnographic work, "Examining the Injecting Practices of Drug       Injectors" cited above (ref 4 above).
Action 14 proposed the       development of national guidelines for services providing injecting       equipment to PWID to ensure consistency across services in Scotland.
Action 15 stated that improvements to services should be made in       accordance with the Guidelines and these had to include increasing       provision and uptake of injecting paraphernalia as well as provision of       colour coded equipment.
Professor Taylor was asked to chair the Guidelines       Development Group and the Guidelines for Services Providing Injecting       Equipment were published in 2010 but Health Boards had access to them from       2009.
The Guidelines recommended that all items of injecting paraphernalia       should be provided for each injection, free of charge.
This has coincided       with a significant increase in the provision of paraphernalia from       Scotland's injecting equipment provision services: 350,000 filters and       500,000 spoons were provided between April 2009 and March 2009, prior to       the publication of the Guidelines and this had risen to 2,534,289 filters       and 2,527,480 spoons between April 2011 and March 2012.
Professor Taylor was also commissioned to lead on and undertake the       Scottish Government funded "Needle Exchange Surveillance Initiative" to       monitor the impact of the prevention actions of the Hepatitis C Action       Plan, Phase II (Action 22 of the Action Plan Phase II).
This includes       monitoring on an annual basis the prevalence, incidence, risk behaviours       and uptake of services for hepatitis C among PWID attending injecting       equipment provision services in all mainland health boards in Scotland.
Three sweeps of the study have been undertaken.
Papers arising from this       have indicated i) that the expansion of injecting equipment recommended by       the Guidelines has coincided with greater uptake of injecting       paraphernalia and this, in turn, is associated with safer injecting       practices1 and ii) that high coverage of needle and syringe       programmes can substantially reduce the risk of hepatitis C transmission       among people who inject drugs(ref 6 above).
The study "Examining the Injecting Practices of Drug Injectors" has also       led to the commercial development of coloured syringes to reduce the       occurrence of syringe sharing and also to the development of a training       DVD ("The Injecting Process: Viral Transmission"), in which Professor       Taylor and her team demonstrate the multiple risks for infection during       the injecting process.
The DVD has been distributed widely to healthcare       workers and service providers, both in the UK and internationally.
The       study also resulted in numerous invitations to present the study in the UK       and other countries, often to drug service and healthcare workers.
The       invitations included presenting at the UK Advisory Committee on the Misuse       of Drugs (ACMD) in 2004, the National Advisory Committee on Drugs in       Ireland in 2004, and organising and presenting at a symposium at the       International Conference on the Reduction of Drug Related Harm in 2005.
