     Throughout the 1990s Hobbs &amp; McKechnie's research raised awareness of       child employment in Britain in that it challenged existing stereotypes of       `children's' jobs' and questioned policy makers views on the nature and       extent of this type of employment experience.
However, the primary impact       emerged from a series of studies in 2005-07.
These studies focused on       policy issues relating to the regulation of child employment.
Two collaborative projects were carried out with Cumbria County Council       and the NSPCC from 2004-2007.
The first project focused on children's       understanding of their exposure to risk in the workplace while the second       project consisted of an intervention study targeted at improving the       effectiveness of the regulatory framework (McKechnie et al, 2007; 2009).
This work raised awareness for the County Council and resulted in the       NSPCC placing child employment on its agenda.
The publication of the       findings (McKechnie et al, 2007) resulted in the NSPCC organising a       conference on child employment (18th July 2008), involving       policy makers and practitioners to discuss the findings from these       studies.
This was followed by an NSPCC conference/event for young people       on the issue of child employment (5.2 ; 5.5).
Hobbs &amp; McKechnie's work in Cumbria (Hobbs and McKechnie, 1997) has       influenced the approach to the regulation of child employment.
The 2005       and 2007 reports affected the way the authority saw the child employment       officer's role in regulating child employment in the region.
This was at a       time when the children's services were being reorganised, and the findings       identified the contribution of this service within the local authority       (5.3).
The intervention study (McKechnie et al, 2007; 2009) and the national       study of young people's employment (Howieson et al, 2006) were used by       non-governmental organisations in their programme of awareness raising and       lobbying (5.2).
The National Network of Child Employment and Entertainment       Officers (NNCEE) drew on this work and other research outputs from Hobbs       and McKechnie to lobby government on the need to review policy and       regulation in this area.
This lobbying was a contributory factor to the       then Department for Children, Schools and Families (DCSF) establishing an       evaluation study of the regulatory framework in England (5.2).
This       project initially set up by the DCSF, was continued after the last       election by the Department of Education (DfE).
Hobbs and McKechnie's work has also contributed to training days for the       NNCEE and presentations at their national conferences (5.2).
Hobbs and McKechnie's work has also raised awareness of child employment       for government bodies.
The presentation of the 2007 intervention study       findings led representatives from the Isle of Man's Department of       Education and Children (DfEC) to investigate the nature and extent of       child employment and the effectiveness of its regulatory system, which       differs from that used in Britain.
This resulted in the DfEC supporting a       study of child employment and its regulation on the island, 2010-13 (5.1).
This study carried out by McKechnie and Hobbs's PhD student, Emma Littler,       reported in July 2013.
The findings provided the DfEC with the first data       on the nature and extent of child employment, and identified weaknesses in       the island's regulatory system.
McKechnie, Hobbs and Littler were invited to present the findings to the       Minister for Education, the DfEC's Chief Executive Officer and senior DfEC       staff in July 2013.
As a result of this, the Department is currently       reviewing its policy and practice (5.1).
The review of policy is at the heart of the most recent research output.
In 2009-10 the DCSF initiated a project to evaluate the current regulatory       system in England and to consider alternative approaches to regulation       (5.2 ; 5.4).
McKechnie and Hobbs, along with colleagues from Edinburgh       University (Cathy Howieson and Sheila Semple), were awarded the contract.
McKechnie was the principal investigator.
Post-2010 election the DfE (the       re-named DCSF) continued with this review.
The report (McKechnie et al,       2011; 2013) drew attention to the major issues concerning current practice       in this area and contributed to the Department's review of child       employment (5.4).
The review process ended in 2012 with the decision not       to proceed with changes in the current regulations.
In the period under review Hobbs and McKechnie's research output has       raised awareness of a common, yet neglected, experience for young people       in Britain.
In doing so they have provided an evidence base which has       underpinned the debate of policy and practice in this area.
