     Back's research for the EUMARGINS project has been presented on a number       of occasions to high-level policy-making audiences.
He presented his       research in a policy report to 70 politicians, advisors and policy makers       in Westminster.
This was at a ESRC Centre on Migration, Policy and Society       (COMPAS) Briefing session he co-organised at the Houses of Parliament.
[10]     To launch their policy report `A Door to the Future', Back and Sinha held       a policy workshop in September 2011, attended by 50 policy-makers, stake       holders and activists at Europe House.
[11] These activities and       the reactions of policy-makers are documented in Simon Rowe's (2013) film       Institutional Marginalisation: Young Migrants in Europe.
[12]       It covers the key findings of the research and is freely available on the       COMPAS website.
Sinha wrote a play derived in part from the EUMARGINS       project.
Khadija is 18 ran from October-November 2012 at the       Finborough Theatre receiving wide critical acclaim in The Times, Daily         Telegraph and The Guardian newspapers.
Back and others from EUMARGINS also presented the project's research       findings to the European Commission at an evidence-based policy conference       `Youth and Social Inclusion' held in November 2011.
Over eighty EU       government officials, and representatives from over seventy-five major       think tanks, centres for policy, NGOs and consultancies across Europe       attended.
[13] Further presentations of the EUMARGINS research       findings have been made across Europe by the project's other national       teams, including a workshop held by the Spanish team for senior policy       makers, and a presentation by the Norwegian team of research at the       Norwegian Institute for Social Research.
[14] The EUMARGINS       project was featured in the February 2012 edition of the Socio-economic       and Humanities Research for Policy (SCOOP) news alert service which went       out to 9500 recipients in international organizations such as NGOs and       trade unions (37%), EU institutions (34%), national government departments       (26%) and the media (3%).
[15]     Back's work has contributed to a growing public pressure for reform in       how border regulation is conducted most notably contributing to a change       in UK government policy.
The enquiry into the provision for migrants at       what was the IND Croydon, led directly to a large-scale (&#163;800,000)       improvement of facilities at Lunar House.
The research was presented to       Lin Homer (Director General of IND) and Tony Smith, UK Border Agency       Regional Director and was considered at Ministerial level.
On 21 December       2009 a plaque was unveiled to Mary Apragas at the opening of the new       `Welcome Centre.'
It was her story that sparked the enquiry and she sadly       died in 2004.
Welcome Centre now provides heating, seating, a reception,       clear signage, and shelter where once users had to queue outdoors in all       weather conditions.
[16]     As a result of the enquiry, a special commission formed by the SLC in       2006 produced over 180 recommendations to safeguard asylum seekers.
In       order to campaign for these recommendations, a group was formed, Citizens       for Sanctuary.
So far the campaign has had a number success stories,       including persuading the government to end Child Detention for immigration       purposes.
[17]     The Lunar House enquiry opened up space for discussion among users of the       service and immigration officers who testify to feeling trapped and       distressed by what they have to do.
At one meeting held by Back and SLC,       an immigration officer stood up in the crowded room and apologized to the       users present for the misery caused to them at Lunar House.
More       generally, Back has helped shape a public narrative in favour of migration       and diversity in Europe, through widely read publications, mainstream       radio, and public events.
He has, for example, written an article       questioning the social costs of European border controls for Eurozine,       a netmagazine which has an international readership of around 200,000.
[18]       Two of his articles were published by The Guardian, a national       newspaper with an international reach.
[19]     Back was a guest on BBC Radio 1's `Sunday Surgery debate on Nationality'       phone-in show on 30 November 2008.
In 2009, he participated in one of Tate       Britain's themed public symposia, giving a talk on how cities benefit from       cultural diversity.
[20] In 2010, at a public symposium on the       subject of `Living in Diversity' held by Barcelona's Centre de Cultura       Contempor&#224;nia', Back's talk was attended by 125 people.
[21] He       was also asked to join nine others to form the Concerned Citizens of       Europe and to co-author a manifesto published in Eurozine, and a version       in The Guardian.
[22]     Back's most recent writings on the `Go Home' texts were covered in The         Guardian and Independent newspapers precipitating a wide       public debate including BBC Radio 4's Today Programme.
The media and       public response culminated in a statement from Prime Minister David       Cameron and a call for an investigation by the Labour Party.
[23]
