     Rosengarten's Australian-based research provided the HIV field with an       awareness of how the       introduction of antiretroviral drugs changed conceptions of risk and risk       minimisation practices.
It has       directly informed policy and prevention education by the Australian       Federation of AIDS       Organisations[7] and has gone on to influence understandings of       HIV prevention including       randomised trials for HIV prevention in a number of other countries       including Canada, Peru, South       Africa, Thailand, the United Kingdom and the United States.
Rosengarten's more recent research is now providing the international HIV       field with insights into       devising more ethical and effective prevention interventions.
[8][9]       Her work on PrEP provides a radical       rethinking of this drug, showing that new forms of interdisciplinary       collaboration are needed for more       user-friendly and effective interventions.
[10][11] It has       provided new ways of thinking and working that       allow scientists, clinicians, policy makers, implementers and social       researchers to develop new ways       of conducting effective randomised control trials, demonstration studies,       and prevention policies.
She has responded to many invitations to address clinical trialists,       epidemiologists, clinicians, policy       makers, implementers and user advocates;[12][13][14][15] to act       as co-principal investigator on       randomized control trials;[7] and she has attracted the       participation of those advising on medical       guidelines and policy in international forums.
[9][15]     Rosengarten has led actors within the HIV field to devise new approaches       to user interventions such       as condoms, pills and needles.
It is this activity from which the       Association for the Social Sciences       and Humanities in HIV (ASSHH) emerged in 2009.
ASSHH (Rosengarten founder       and Chair 2011-2013)       has attracted the interest of biomedical researchers, policy analysts,       implementers and       advocacy organisations.
[16] Non-academic participants which       represent people living with HIV       include the International AIDS Society (IAS), The Global Fund to Fight       AIDS and Tuberculosis and       Malaria, International HIV/AIDS Alliance; Australian Federation of AIDS       Organisations (AFAO); The       Zambia AIDS Related Tuberculosis (ZAMBART), Zambia; British HIV       Association (BHIVA); Joint       United Nations Programme on AIDS (UNAIDS); World Health Organisation       (WHO); and AIDS       Vaccine Advocacy Coalition (AVAC).
Through her publications and all of these activities and direct       engagements with clinicians, policy       makers, scientists and advocacy groups, at a global level and at a number       of national levels including       the United Kingdom, the following groups of people have benefited from her       work: people living with       HIV; people at risk of contracting HIV; people targeted as `experimental       subjects' in `offshore       biomedical trials;' HIV specialist clinicians; HIV scientists; HIV       international policy analysts and       programmers; HIV advocacy organisations; and, HIV prevention educators.
How have they benefited?
People living with HIV, people at risk of       contracting HIV, advocacy groups,       clinicians, scientists, public health policy analysts and programmers and       prevention educators have       benefitted as a consequence of Rosengarten's attention to the dynamic       processual and increasingly       heterogeneous area of HIV prevention.
She has reconceptualised and       extended understandings of       antiretroviral drugs as agents affecting risk perceptions and practices,       thereby explaining and       offering new ways of intercepting modes of HIV transmission.
HIV international policy analysts and programmers, HIV activist       organisations, and HIV social       scientists have benefited through the rethinking of Pre-Exposure       Prophylaxis as a multiple entity,       contingent on the context of its use and immensely complex in its       generative effects.
This has       enabled the HIV field to reassess intervention, moving beyond arguments       for or against particular       drugs in order to attend more closely to how context informs       effectiveness and that context is itself       open to transformation.
For example, HIV policy and programming has       benefited from acceptability       studies conducted with Holt et al., which has been cited in scientific       journals that promote the uptake       of research findings into routine healthcare in clinical, organisational       or policy contexts.
[17]     People targeted as `experimental subjects' in `offshore biomedical       trials' in Africa, South America       and South East Asia have benefitted by inviting the attention of       trialists, ethicists and social scientists       to the performative and exclusionary effects of bioethics, thereby making       possible broader       consideration of the complex ways in which `experimental subjects' are       affected by trial participation       and, in turn, affect trial enrolment, trial retention and trial outcomes.
This has also been important to       explaining why costly randomised controlled trials may achieve unexpected       results.
[7][9][11][14]     HIV specialist clinicians in the UK have benefitted through the       articulation of how their concerns and       experiences altered from a focus on palliative care to a biotechnology       informed practice (e.g., viral       RNA testing) with the introduction of antiretroviral drugs, reflecting an       entirely different medical       practice.
[12] Furthermore, the doctoral research group that she       established links Goldsmiths       researchers with medical professionals at the Homerton, Middlesex and       Royal Free hospitals in       London and in 2013 will extend to clinics in Poland.
