     A key objective of Simone's research is to make visible the urbanization       processes, residential histories and social compositions that are usually       left out of policy deliberations and the collective imaginary of the city.
Through his collaborative project with institutional partners, [8][9]       he has made concerted efforts to insert his research findings into a wide       range of deliberative settings, including informal deliberations with the       Governor of Jakarta.
This has been achieved through the project's       two-pronged strategy of public workshops, media dissemination and       advocacy, combined with informal, unofficial discussions with various       ministries and municipal departments with Jakarta management       responsibilities.
The strategy is an attempt to access more expanded       opportunities for knowledge production but also to affect life in the       districts being studied for the better.
One example of the public engagement strategy is the project's role in       public forums on issues of governance.
The present structure of Jakarta       urban governance is untenable in the long run.
Excessive power and       competencies are located at the largest and smallest scales, with diffuse       functions and responsibilities in between.
New local government       legislation has been identified as a necessity in order to reconfigure       powers and scales along with new formal mechanisms of accountability and       decision-making.
Through their participation in a city-wide citizen's       forum Koalisi Warga untuk Jakarta 2030, the project has       incorporated research findings into deliberations on governance issues and       contributed to popularising the processes and politics of restructuring.
[10]       Through the consistent engagement of the local press the project's       textured understanding of existing local political dynamics has been       widely disseminated.
[11] Visibility and attention to these       dynamics and political relationships at the local level are significant       because of their economic implications.
Political relationships give       residents varying opportunities to accumulate per diem payments, small       cash grants, tenders, contracts, and equipment and have a direct bearing       on how different economic activities are connected and where they are       situated spatially.
Another example of public engagement is the project's use of a range of       social media sites to engage a wider citizen audience in the       identification of places, networks, and facilities that are underutilized,       and those that have excess capacity that goes to waste simply because       resources tend to accumulate in specific `basins' formed through a dense       nexus of advantageous political connections and distributions.
[12]       The project has been especially concerned with creating mechanisms to       enhance productive relationships amongst different spheres of influence       and resource use in response to a trend for local associations to be       formed explicitly to capture development funds.
These funds are then used       to capture particular territories, loyalties, or business sectors.
For       that purpose, workshops were conducted with the kelurahan       (district level governments) in each of the 14 research districts,       including Kebong Kesong, Penjaringan, Warakas, Kampung Raya, Tanah Tinggi,       Utan Panjang, Serdang, Sumar Baru, Serdang, Cempaka Baru, Harapan Mulya,       and Padamanagan Timur during September-November 2010.
[13]     The project was also the subject of deliberations amongst a cross-section       of journalists, activists, and academics organized through Komunitas       Salihara, one of the city's primary public affairs centres, in November       2010.
[14] Project findings have been incorporated into       deliberations on the part of the national ministry of housing in       preparation for new legislation on housing and human settlements.
[15]       It has been used to elaborate a platform of policy proposals from a       coalition of civic organizations for the gubernatorial elections of 2011,       as well as efforts to contribute to consultative processes organized       around the development of the Spatial Plan for Jakarta during 2009-2010.
Impact has also been achieved through working group activities.
Between       August 2009 and September 2010, the University of Tarumanagara and the       International Urban Development Association (INTA) organized a framework       of consultations between researchers, planners, municipal officials and       developers.
This is now the basis for ongoing working group discussions       between a network of public architects and the planning staff of Bappeda       di Jakarta (the regional body for planning and development).
The project       was also the basis for a public city wide forum, Warga Masih Miskin, for       municipal officials and civil society organizations held at the Taman       Ismail Marzuki in July 2008, as well as the international forum organized       by Erasmus House, Open City Jakarta in September 2010.
[16]     Finally, a critical dimension of the project in North Jakarta has been       its affiliation with the Urban Poor Consortium (UPC) - an umbrella of       community-based organizations - to popularize the research work in areas       experiencing marked contestation and change.
Through UPC, residential       activist groups have been integrated into the research process, for       example by leading discussion groups and gathering information.
[17]     It is through these many activities and engagements involving the       co-construction of knowledge and as part of a multidisciplinary       collaborative project that Simone's research has and continues to have an       impact on urban redevelopment and restructuring in Jakarta.
