     NATS, the UK's main air traffic provider responsible for providing safe       air traffic control for millions       of flights each year, recognised the importance of this research by the       uptake in 2008-2009 of a       KTP with Everson and Fieldsend.
With many thousands of aircraft in UK       airspace per day and true       positive alert rates of only about 70%, it is crucial to extract the       optimum performance from STCA       systems, which are a component of the NATS "safety net" ensuring safe air       traffic management.
As STCA is one of several barriers in the safety net, it is impossible to       directly assess the impact of       its optimisation in terms of lives saved or crashes averted, but it is       worth noting that the &#220;berlingen       mid-air crash in 2002 would have been averted if the STCA system had been       operational &#8212; it was       switched off for software maintenance [A].
The effectiveness of the STCA is achieved by striking the right balance       of true alerts to false       alarms.
Too many false alarms make the tool unusable, distracting and       unsafe; too few true       positives mean that controllers do not get the warning they need of       possible losses of separation       between aircraft &#8212; this is a delicate balance.
Historically the       optimisation of the STCA has been       based on best engineering judgement about the 1500 or so parameters, which       define its       performance.
The Exeter research provides an algorithm for automatically       locating the optimal       trade-off.
The KTP with NATS produced a properly software-engineered suite of tools       to perform the       optimisation on any STCA system, including the new ESTCA system being       introduced in the UK       (which has approximately 3000 parameters and thus presents an even greater       challenge to       manual tuning) and other STCA systems in Europe.
The tools were used by       NATS for operational       planning and tuning STCA across the UK airspace; this is a continual       process in response to       changing air-traffic patterns and airspace regulations.
Importantly, in       addition to finding optimal       parameters, the Pareto front shows NATS personnel the range of available       trade-offs, information       that was hitherto unknown, allowing them to make a more reasoned choice of       operating point.
The       optimiser was used during the period 2007-2010, but due to re-organisation       and changes in       practise at NATS the optimiser is no longer in current use.
Work jointly written with NATS staff was presented at an international       Eurocontrol conference,       which is primarily a meeting of representatives of air-traffic control       organisations (Eurocontrol,       www.eurocontrol.int, is responsible for       overseeing European air traffic).
The joint work generated       interest from Europe and the USA both for the operational advantages       described but also for the       possibility of assessing airspace reconfigurations and comparing airspaces       [B].
Internationally, the       optimisation-adaptation capabilities of the optimiser are being explored       in Europe through the       Single European Sky Air Traffic Management Research (SESAR) programme (www.sesarju.eu),       where it has "enhanced NATS' innovation profile" [C, D].
The NATS       representative writes in the       KTP final report: "This KTP has delivered to NATS an automatic optimiser       which is quicker, more       rigorous and has shown to provide more optimum configurations (up to 10%       better) than       judgement alone.
It is a tremendous contribution to NATS and to the         safety of air traffic         services in UK."
[C]
