     The exhibitions, together with the publications, public events,       educational activities and outreach programmes they generated,       collectively enhanced public access to the work of a major artist by       bringing hitherto unknown artwork to display in several international       contexts.
They enhanced public understanding of the role of making and       material processes in art, and reached a wide variety of audiences through       educational activities.
They also increased specialist knowledge of       materials essential for care and conservation; and attracted a diverse       range of professional partners and participants such as artists, curators       and other art professionals.
Eva Hesse: Studiowork first opened in 2009 at the Edinburgh Art       Festival (5 Aug-25 Oct 2009, 52,966 visitors [1]) and then travelled, over       two years, to venues in Europe, Canada and the United States: Camden Arts       Centre, London (11 Dec-7 Mar 2010, 19,897 visitors), Tapies Foundation,       Barcelona (13 May-1 Aug 2010, 18,900 visitors), Art Gallery of Ontario,       Toronto, Canada (10 Sep 2010-2 Jan 2011, 72,000 visitors), Berkeley Art       Museum, Berkeley, California (26 Jan-24 Apr 2011, 8,664 visitors), ICA       Boston (19 Jul-10 Oct 2011, 44,388 visitors) [2].
Thus the exhibition was       seen by about 217,415 visitors worldwide, demonstrating the global reach       of these exhibitions, and generating impacts in each venue.
This       international tour also demonstrates the work's significance:       despite the fragility of the materials, museums and galleries in four       countries were keen to host the exhibition and arrange events for a wide       audience.
Challenging conventional ideas of finished `work': Through       exhibitions and associated educational events, the underpinning research       enhanced public understanding of Hesse's studio production methods, the       provisional nature of her work, and her use of innovative but fragile       materials such as latex, fibreglass and paper.
Visitors appreciated the       opportunity `to consider the studio process (such an integral part of any       artist's practice) and look at pieces that are so rarely shown'; `I loved       the fragile studio pieces and her adventurous use of paper, latex and       enamel.
So much more interesting than I imagine!'
(p. 12-13, [1]).
As part of the landmark Studiowork exhibition, the Fruitmarket       Gallery Edinburgh arranged a series of events intended to engage a wide       variety of audiences who might otherwise not come into contact with       Hesse's work and thus enhance public access.
These included previews for       secondary school teachers, school visits, a gallery tour for visitors aged       60 and over, and a tour designed specially for visitors with visual       impairments (2 September 2009).
Feedback on a two-day Youth Sculpture       Workshop for 13-17 year olds on 20-21 October 2009 included: `The young       people benefited from using materials not widely used in school art       classes... (and got) a feel as to what art school practice is like and the       way in which some artists use the studio' (delivering artist) and `I felt       (Eva Hesse) was brave to try out new materials and play with different       things and see what the outcome was' (participant).
Overall, during the       Fruitmarket run, 813 people participated in learning activities through 3       school visits (33 young people) 25 student groups (325 people), and 6       adult groups (62 people) [2].
As well as a DVD of an interview with Briony       Fer, a web-film featuring her talking about the exhibition was made, shown       and marketed by the Fruitmarket Gallery (2009), and has been viewed on       YouTube 9,044 times.
We tend to think of artists' works as either unfinished or finished       products but this exhibition suggested we look at the space in between.
Critical press coverage showed a keen response to Fer's questioning how we       decide when work becomes a work, and an understanding of why this       is important.
Reviews appeared in all major UK broadsheets (including the         Independent, Daily Telegraph, Observer, Sunday         Times, Guardian, Scotsman), the international press       (e.g.
the largest circulation paper in the US, The Wall Street         Journal, and the San Francisco Chronicle) as well as in the       international and specialist art press (e.g.
Artforum, Art         Monthly) [1, 2].
Frequent press and online references to Fer as the       author of the research foregrounded the show's original concept (e.g.
on       artdaily.org, an article headlined: `New research by renowned Eva Hesse       scholar results in Exhibition at the Fruitmarket Gallery' 6 August 2009;       see also below).
Press previews and reviews picked up on Fer's innovative       approach: `Neither merely monographic nor thematic, the show is a art       event: an exhibition generated by an idea' (James Meyer, Artforum);       Kenneth Baker, in the San Francisco Chronicle, wrote `In titling Eva         Hesse: Studiowork at the Berkeley Museum, guest co- curator Briony       Fer coined a new term to indicate the grey zone between avowed artworks       and inchoate or abandoned efforts' [4].
The quality of the research and       the exhibition's ambition was recognised: `The Fruitmarket Gallery's Eva         Hesse: Studiowork is a show that is exemplary in its dedicated       scholarship, ambitious loans and confident sense of how art history might       be made to live in the present' (Scotland on Sunday 10 Aug 2009)       [1].
Eva Hesse: Studiowork at the Fruitmarket Gallery was curated as       one of the key exhibitions and was strongly promoted in the 2009 Edinburgh       Art Festival, thus expanding the cultural offerings of the festival       (250,000 visitors attend the Edinburgh Art Festival each year).
The       reception of this exhibition led to an ongoing relationship with the       Fruitmarket Gallery to explore the nature of artists' `work' culminating       in a major exhibition of Gabriel Orozco's works (from 1 Aug 2013, but       previewed on 26 May 2013 by Adrian Searle in the Guardian as one       to watch), also curated by Fer [1].
Fer thus helped to bring major international art to Scotland, and raise       the public profile of the Fruitmarket Gallery as a leading modern and       contemporary art venue for a global audience, helping to support its       mission statement `to make contemporary art accessible without       compromising art or underestimating its audience'.
This was acknowledged       in the press coverage: as the critic Laura Cummings wrote in the Observer,       `Of the many shows that make this a golden year for contemporary art at       the Edinburgh Festival, one stands out as momentous: 50 sculptures, some       never shown in public before, by American artist Eva Hesse,' adding, `That       this show originates in Scotland is a coup for Fiona Bradley's Fruitmarket       Gallery' (9 Aug 2009) [1].
The Studiowork exhibition led to an increased recognition of a       large group of previously unknown or neglected works by Hesse.
The newly       discovered works brought into the public domain by Fer and Rosen were       shown in three further exhibitions curated by others, expanding the       audience of the original exhibitions: (i) a select show of paper       test-pieces at Hauser and Wirth, New York (Jul- Aug 2011), (ii) the       second-only showing of the work of Eva Hesse in Asia, at the Kukje Gallery       in Seoul, Korea, where paper studioworks were exhibited alongside Hesse's       early paintings [4].
The catalogue included an essay by Fer and (iii) a       third exhibition, Eva Hesse: 1965 at Hauser and Wirth Piccadilly,       contained two pieces presented for the first time in the 2009 Eva         Hesse: Studiowork show, making previously unknown works available to       public view (exhibition seen by over 60,000 visitors).
Learning events for art professionals: The Hesse exhibitions were       accompanied by events that attracted a large public audience including art       professionals such as artists, curators and conservators.
The Edinburgh       conference (22-23 Oct 2009) included a special strand on artists'       conversations (with Polish artist Monika Grzymala and Scottish artist       Clare Barclay) (100 attendees).
The critic Jonathan Jones remarked on the       significance of Hesse's experimental work for artists today: `Any young       artists could get an education just by coming to this show a few times'       [1].
Indeed, at the Fruitmarket Gallery, of visitors involved in art, 31%       were practising artists [1].
Similarly, the London symposium at the Camden       Arts Centre, entitled `Sub-Objects and Studioworks' (February 2010, 140 in       attendance) was specifically designed to draw attention to the global       implications of Hesse's work in the light of the new geographies of art       history and to bridge to the next exhibition at the venue, of the       Brazilian artist Ana Maria Maiolino - enabling the centre to fulfil its       own aim of an integrated curatorial, outreach and learning programme [2].
Informing professional practice in curation and conservation: The       Studiowork project both enlarged the recognised oeuvre of Eva Hesse and       promoted new ways of thinking about studioworks and how to care for and       display the work of artists using unstable materials.
For instance, at the       Fruitmarket, the curatorial decision to place the studioworks on a series       of tables differed from the way Hesse's `test-pieces' were shown in early       exhibitions; `piled together', under or in vitrines.
One very large table       of the papier mach&#233; studioworks was shown in every venue without a       vitrine, a rare chance to see work of this type not protected by glass.
In       turn this has influenced the way the Fruitmarket curated subsequent       exhibitions, with similar tables to display the works of other artists       [3].
Following the Berkeley leg of the exhibition, the San Francisco Museum of       Modern Art's Deputy Head of Conservation and Conservator of Modern       Sculpture described the `profound impact' on SFMOMA's own strategy on       giving the public access to an artist's studio holdings: `Recognizing the       importance of making artists' studiowork and other studio holdings       available to the public &#8212; as was done in the Studiowork exhibition       &#8212; we made the choice to physically place this collection in the center of       our new conservation studio, making it available through a rotating       display to staff, scholars, conservators, and museum visitors' [5].
Through his involvement with each installation, the official conservator       for the Hesse Estate built up a dossier of Condition Reports that have       advanced understanding of conservation problems in Hesse's oeuvre but for       perishable materials generally.
The Studiowork exhibition thus       enabled him to better carry out conservation on latex pieces shown at the       major exhibition When Attitudes Become Form, curated by Germano       Celant at Fondazione Prada, Venice, June-November 2013 [6].
The Chief       Curator at the Berkeley University Art Museum, which holds a significant       collection of the `test-pieces' and are thus important stewards of Hesse's       work, commented on the way this `game-changing' exhibition altered their       understanding of the artist [7].
An indicator of the significance of the contribution made to professional       practice by research on Hesse's studiowork and test-pieces, Fer was       invited to join the Panza Steering Committee at the Guggenheim Museum in       New York.
This was a major project funded by the Mellon Foundation       bringing together leading international museum directors, conservators,       curators and academics to set the direction for the ethics of conservation       and the care of modern materials (2011-2013) [8].
