     1.
Histories of drinking culture and policy in the UK       Nicholls' book The Politics of Alcohol received positive reviews,       including selection as a Choice       `Outstanding Academic Title' in 2010.
Nicholls was invited to present key       findings from the book in       both oral (Evidence: 23rd April 2009) and written form to the       Health Select Committee in 2009.
He       is cited in the final report of the committee, January 2010(1), which       contains an introductory       chapter dedicated to putting alcohol policy in historical context.
Nicholls' evidence on the impact of       policy on drinking culture was key to the Committee concluding that       Government had a clear       capacity to influence drinking behaviours.
His contribution to the Alcohol       Focus Scotland expert       group on licensing provided historical support for the assertion that       drinking behaviours could be       influenced by policy.
His evidence on the downturn in consumption in the       1930s and 1940s has       been used extensively by Alcohol Focus Scotland in their work with the       Scottish Government, and       Rethinking Alcohol Licensing has directly shaped proposed       amendments to Scottish licensing       legislation (2).
The published version of his report to Alcohol Focus       Scotland is currently the only       single-article overview of Scottish licensing history available (3).
Nicholls' 2009 Knowledge Transfer Fellowship was designed to explore the       relevance of historical       knowledge to frontline alcohol service providers.
Four day-long workshops       (Plymouth 14/2/11;       Bristol 28/2/11; Taunton 7/3/11; and Poole 17/2/11) brought together a       total of over 100       participants from across the South West of England, including senior NHS       commissioners, heads       of local authority licensing teams, police officers, service providers,       trade representatives and       academics.
The final report of the project has been downloaded from the       South West Public       Health observatory over 500 times and is also available on the Public       Health England Alcohol       Learning Centre website.
In addition to four day-long workshops, Nicholls       ran shorter workshops at       the Dartington Hall public health residential school in October 2009 and       September 2011, each       attended by around thirty senior health commissioners.
Nicholls' work on the history of alcohol has attracted widespread public       attention beyond policy       forums.
He was commissioned to write an article which formed the cover       story for the January       2010 edition of History Today.
His book provided a key source for       the 2010 Radio 4 ten-part series       Britain on the Bottle, for which Nicholls was also interviewed July       2010 (3).
He has given public       lectures on alcohol history at the Wellcome Institute (20/4/12) and he has       discussed alcohol history       on Thinking Allowed (Radio 4) twice (19/10/09 and 6/2/12).
2.
Alcohol and the media       Nicholls' research and publications on social media marketing and his       involvement in the early       stages (March 2011) of revisions for the fifth edition Portman         Group Code of Practice on Alcohol Standards       (November 2012) helped ensure that social media activity was captured by       the revised       regulations:     3.
Alcohol licensing policy       Nicholls involvement in the Rethinking Alcohol Licensing project       with Alcohol Focus Scotland has       had a demonstrable and significant impact on Scottish licensing policy at       a national and local level.
The key recommendations from the report formed the basis of proposed       amendments to the 2005       Licensing Act which were released for consultation in 2012 (2).
As part of       this and the follow-up       project `Licensing and Public Health: From Principles to Practice',       Nicholls established (June 2011)       a UK-wide stakeholder network on licensing and public health.
This led       directly to the co-production       of a Local Government Association/Alcohol Research UK guidance paper on       licensing       and public health which has been very widely accessed by local health       commissioners and       licensing teams in England and Wales (5).
The network activities have       informed the work of the       Safe, Sociable London partnership including the development of a licensing       and public health       toolkit for all London authorities; they have also informed the activities       of two major alcohol       advocacy organisations: DrinkWise North West and Balance North East, both       of whom are strongly       supporting the development of links between health and licensing in their       regions.
Nicholls has       spoken at events organised by both groups.
Nicholls was directly involved in discussions (July-September 2012) with       the Department of Health       prior to the launch (in November) of the consultation on the 2012 Alcohol       Strategy, specifically       regarding the role of public health in licensing practice.
He took part in       two invited technical groups       (at the Department of Health and the Home Office) which guided Government       thinking on key       aspects of the Alcohol Strategy.
He has had numerous meeting with alcohol       policy leads at the       Department of Health and Home Office outside of these forums and, and he       was also asked (July       2012) to provide a historical overview for an initial symposium on alcohol       harm chaired by the       Chief Medical Officer as part of her work towards revising national       guidelines on alcohol.
Since       leaving Bath Spa University, Nicholls continues to contribute to the       development of national and       regional policy initiatives in his work at Alcohol Research UK.
