     The curators were successful in bringing together major Picasso loans       including 50 oil paintings, 10 sculptures, 70 drawings and prints, 150       archival documents, photographs and posters.
Highlights included 'The       Charnel House' 1945 (Museum of Modern Art, New York) and the bronze       'Skull' 1943.
Loans were negotiated with museums worldwide, the Picasso       family, the Paul &#201;luard collection and the G&#233;rard Gosselin collection.
Picasso's politics were reflected in the discovery, curation and display       of a broad correspondence with world leaders of countries in North Africa,       the Middle East, Mexico, the Caribbean, Zimbabwe and South Africa.
The       exhibition aimed to demonstrate that Picasso's political paintings are       consistent images of the death and destruction not of soldiers, but of       civilians, women and children in their homes in cities all over the world.
Picasso's lifetime was defined by political violence; the twentieth       century began for Picasso with the 1898 Spanish American War against Cuba       and ended with the Vietnam War at the time of his death in 1973.
95,424 people visited the exhibition in Liverpool.
The visitor analysis       included in Tate Liverpool's Exhibition Report, conducted by England's       Northwest Research Service (ENWRS), identifies that "74% of visitors to       Picasso: Peace &amp; Freedom were from outside the Liverpool city region,       including 8% of international visitors (equating to 7,634 international       visitors)".
The ENWRS evaluation also notes that "Picasso: Peace and       Freedom drew at least 71,300 visitors to Liverpool who would not otherwise       have visited", and that "visitors to Tate Liverpool during the summer       contributed &#163;11.2m into Liverpool city region's economy".
1,512 people       attended the exhibition openings, dinners and events, at which the Spanish       Ambassador and Sir Nicholas Serota gave formal presentations.
364,365       people visited the exhibition in Vienna.
The opening ceremony was held in       the Spanish Riding School for over 1,000 seated guests including the       Austrian Minister of Education and Culture, and the British and Spanish       Ambassadors.
252,116 people visited the exhibition at the Louisiana Museum       of Modern Art in Denmark.
Professor Morris spoke at the opening dinner for       200 guests, which included members of the Danish Government, funders of       the Louisiana Museum and Scandinavian museum directors.
Each of the       museums have sophisticated education departments, which organised       workshops for primary and secondary schools, further increasing the impact       of the research and exhibition by encouraging structured engagement with       students.
In Liverpool children from local primary schools looked at       themes of peace and freedom in the visual arts, followed by practical       workshops making doves.
Education activities and exhibition tours were       organised for young people.
In Liverpool the painter David Jacques led       painting classes based on Picasso's political murals.
Over 10,000       education packs were downloaded from the Tate website.
`Picasso Peace and Freedom' is described as "Tate Liverpool's second most       popular exhibition since the Gallery opened in 1988" in the Tate Liverpool       Exhibition Report.
Tate Liverpool attracted additional investment to       support the exhibition from the European Regional Development Fund, the       Spanish Embassy Cultural Office, the Spanish and Andalucia Tourist       Offices, Fundaci&#243;n Almine Y Bernard Ruiz-Picasso Para El Arte.
The       Albertina exhibition budget equalled that of Tate Liverpool.
The Albertina       attracted additional funding from the Dumont Publishing House K&#246;ln,       Superfund, Signa Holdings, Agrana, Cerha Hempel Spiegelfeld Hlawati and       Deloitte.
The Louisiana Museum of Modern Art attracted additional funding       from Bodum.
The exhibition (and its underlying research) aroused interest, discussion       and controversy in reviews across the world in newspapers and journals       such as the New York Review of Books (25 November 2010) and all       the major UK newspapers.
A substantial press book from the exhibition is       available to view on request to the University.
The exhibition was the       subject of Alexei Sayle's five-page article in the Sunday Times       (16 May 2010), which described his parents' attendance at the postponed       1950 Sheffield Peace Congress at which Picasso spoke.
TV and radio       coverage included `Night Waves' on BBC Radio 3, `Front Row' and `Today' on       Radio 4, and `The Art Show' on BBC2.
The project was featured in a case       study `Supporting the cultural sector' in the Arts and Humanities Research       Council's Annual Report 2010-11 and is one of the UK Research Council's       `Productive Economy' case studies.
In June 2011 Professor Morris was supported in presenting the research at       the `Picasso in Palestine' exhibition by the Outset contemporary art fund.
As there are no formal art museums in Palestine the Van Abbemuseum       (Eindhoven) lent Picasso's 'Buste de Femme' 1943 to the International       Academy of Art Palestine in Ramallah at which the event was based.
The       former Prime Minister of the Palestinian Authority addressed the       exhibition as a remarkable occasion for the Palestinians.
The response to       Professor Morris's lecture and the global reporting of the event       demonstrate the extent to which Picasso's politics maintain a serious       importance forty years after his death.
