     The January 2012 issue of ArtForum included 22 artists who       received early exposure at `EASTinternational' and through related       exhibitions.
The coverage includes full-page adverts, reviews and articles       featuring their work.
Created to support artists and curators whether from       the UK or overseas, `Eastinternational' has demonstrable       significance not only for London based artists but also for those in the       UK regions, in continental Europe and as far afield as Japan, Canada,       Argentina, Mexico and the USA.
During this timeframe the artists, curators       and selectors associated with `EASTinternational' have been       concerned with diverging expressions and viewpoints that have resulted       from differing histories, generations and ideologies as paradigms of the       intellectual issues confronting the international practice of contemporary       art.
Alongside stories, films and performances representing ideas of play,       artists have explored ideas based on minimalism, personal mythologies and       the body, the examination of the individual, and stories between the       visual and the theoretical.
Through the development of new works selected       artists have expressed ideas about language and the narration of presences       in histories as varied as modernism, terrorism and progressive education.
`EASTinternational' has also led to the launch of new ventures,       including the Outpost Gallery (norwichoutpost.org/), which formed in 2006       in response to `EASTinternational' discourses around the       relationship between artistic practice and curation.
Integral to the structure and impact of `EASTinternational'       exhibitions are the early career artists who are employed to work on all       aspects of the administration, transportation and installation of the       exhibitions, commissions and offsite projects.
The training opportunities       provided to these artists have supported the acquisition of creative,       critical and curatorial skills and experience through working directly       with artists selected for exhibitions.
Between 2009-11 links between these       groups of artists were developed through a &#8364;103,000 EU Culture programme       and Arts Council England co-financed project `EASTgoesEast', which       focused on the development of multi-national, cross- boarder networks and       exhibitions informed by research undertaken for `EASTinternational'.
Building       on the East European focus of `EASTinternational 2009' and       organised in partnership with Bunkier Sztuki Contemporary Art Gallery       (Krakow, Poland) and Trafo House of Contemporary Arts (Budapest, Hungary)       the project provided opportunities for artists' groups in Norwich, Krakow       and Budapest to establish new communities of practice, and to develop new       infrastructures for creative and critical practice.
Alongside the       development of links between curators in the UK, Poland and Hungary, and       the curation of exhibitions of artworks created for `EASTinternational       2009' at Bunkier Sztuki and Trafo Gallery, `EASTgoesEast' supported       touring exhibitions featuring the work of early career artists in each of       these cities, providing opportunities for artists to present their work to       new audiences in pan-European contexts.
Many of the world's leading contemporary art galleries and dealers have       participated in `EASTinternational' as selectors and/or       representatives for artists featured in exhibitions.
Nicholas Logsdail       (Lisson Gallery, London) has supported the project as selector and dealer       since 1997 and Rene Gimpel (Gimpel Fils, London and Paris), Matthew Higgs       (White Columns, New York), Andrew Wheatley (Cabinet Gallery, London) and       Charles Saatchi have all supported the work of artists associated with       `EASTinternational'.
Work produced by artists for `EASTinternational'       has also been purchased by public organisations for national archives and       collections.
The Arts Council Collection includes a substantial number of       works created by artists associated with the project.
`EASTinternational'       has also had an important role as a training framework and source for       gallery curators, who continue to work with artists selected for `EASTinternational'.
Kirsty Ogg (Curator, Whitechapel Gallery London), Michelle Cotton       (Curator, FirstSite Colchester), Nav Haq (Curator, Arnolfini Bristol) and       Andrew Hunt (Director, Focal Point Southend) were all trainee curators       between 1993-2009, working alongside student interns from the Royal       College of Art to develop skills and experience in curation, research and       public engagement.
Several artists, curators, collectors and dealers       affiliated with `EASTinternational' including Andrew Hunt (2012),       Jack Wendler (1997), Marjorie Allthorpe-Guyton (1994) and Rudi Fuchs       (1984) have served as Turner Prize judges.
Notable `EASTinternational' artists include Hurvin Anderson, BANK,       Phyllida Barlow, Tilo Baumg&#228;rtel, Zarina Bhimji, Karla Black, Karsten       Bott, Mark Boulos, Pavel Buchler, Marc Camille Chaimowicz, Common Culture,       Cornford and Cross, Martin Creed, Kate Davis, Jeremy Deller, Haris       Epaminonda, Patricia Esquivias, Ruth Ewen, Luke Fowler, Free, Matthew       Higgs, Hubbard and Birchler, Richard Hughes, Runa Islam, Peter Kennard,       Janice Kerbel, Beat Klein, Martin Kobe, Suzanne Kuhn, Hugh Locke, Rosa       Loy, Lucie McKenzie, FrenchMottershead, Tazro Niscino, Bik van der Pol,       Clunie Read, Christoph Ruckh&#228;berle, Hiraki Sawa, Steven Shearer, Lara       Schnitger, Tomoko Takahashi, Dre Wapenaar, Keith Wilson, Rose Wylie and       Joseph Zehrer to name but a few.
Since 2008 three artists who gained early       exposure through `EASTinternational' have been shortlisted for the       Turner Prize.
Martin Creed, who exhibited in 1996 won the prize in 2001;       Luke Fowler, who exhibited in 2007, was nominated in 2012; Karla Black,       who exhibited in 2003, George Shaw, who exhibited in 1999, and Laure       Prouvost, who exhibited in 2009, were nominated in 2011 and 2013.
In this       period artists participating in `EASTinternational' have also been       associated with a range of other major awards.
For example, Luke Fowler       won the Jarman Award for UK artist- filmmakers in 2008 and Matt Stokes,       Laure Prouvost and Corin Sworn were shortlisted in 2011 and 2012.
These       recognitions add to an established history of artists receiving their       first major commissions through `EASTinternational' being nominated       for the prize.
Of other artists featured in previous incarnations of `EASTinternational',       Zarina Bhimji was a Turner Prize nominee in 2007, Jeremy Deller a winner       in 2004, and Tomoko Takahashi and Creed nominees in 2004 and 2001.
