     Edwards was approached by the Director of the National Portrait Gallery       in 2006 to curate       jointly with Richard Humphreys (of Tate Britain) an exhibition of Lewis's       Portraits.
The       exhibition comprised 55 works and a display of about 40 books.
A       catalogue, (Wyndham         Lewis Portraits) was written principally by Edwards.
Curating       involved selecting works,       devising a rationale based on the research in Edwards's monograph and       translating this into       an arrangement of the works with accompanying wallboards and captions.
Briefly, the thesis of       the exhibition was that Lewis's portraiture revealed a modernist idea of       identity as multiple and       strategic &#8212; in relation both to the artist's depictions and to sitters       themselves.
A day school       aimed at a generally educated public was also held (12 July) at which       Edwards spoke, and       Edwards also delivered a public lecture on 10 July.
The impact of the exhibition and its publication was primarily cultural,       but there was also an       economic dimension.
The National Portrait Gallery expected a public       attendance of 20,000       visitors, but the final attendance was almost 40,000.
The exhibition       catalogue (approximately       90% of which was written by Edwards) also went into an unexpected second       printing.
The       catalogue remains as a resource for future cultural impact.
A microsite       for the exhibition       remains online at http://www.npg.org.uk/wyndhamlewis/.
During the exhibition the site received       over 43,000 page views.
In assessing the benefits of the exhibition to them in an evaluation       report submitted to the       AHRC at the conclusion of the Knowledge Transfer Fellowship held by       Edwards for his work       on the exhibition, the National Portrait Gallery listed the following:            increased visitor numbers,       new markets/audiences,       new networks/relationships,       new collaborations.
Cultural benefits are not in themselves quantifiable, but the exhibition,       directly and indirectly,       reached a large section of the public.
What was most noticeable about the       reception in the       press (and numerous blogs) was the degree to which the exhibition       confounded critical       expectations and enlarged understanding of the work of the painter Wyndham       Lewis.
Known       mainly as a pioneer abstractionist, a virulent satirist, and with a       reputation for offensive political       views, Lewis showed through his portraits a sensitivity and humanity that       many reviewers       could not easily reconcile with their presuppositions.
In this sense, the       exhibition had a       `revisionist' effect, not only on Lewis's reputation, but also on the       profile of English art in the       twentieth century.
The exhibition received over 175 press acknowledgements (excluding       listings):            National Press 106       Regional Press 46       Art Specialist Press 18       International Press and Websites 5.
In addition it was discussed on 3 Radio programmes:            Front Row       Night Waves       Saturday Review.
The exhibition was covered by all major national newspapers and more       specialist papers like       The London Review of Books and the Times Literary Supplement,       as well as The Burlington         Magazine and Modernism/Modernity.
The second exhibition, `Wyndham Lewis 1882-1957' was held at the       Fundaci&#243;n Juan March       (Madrid) 2 February to 16 May 2010.
Paul Edwards was visiting curator,       having been       approached by the director of the gallery following the 10 July 2008       lecture at the NPG.
This       exhibition was the largest and most comprehensive ever held of Lewis's       work, with over 150       paintings and drawings.
Over 50 books, magazines and exhibition catalogues       were also       displayed.
The objective was to present to an international audience the       work of a major but       neglected avant-gardist in all its phases.
The rationale, and the       interpretative material were       founded in Edwards's research as published in his monograph, but other       scholars from       Spanish universities, from Richard Humphreys of the Tate (again) and from       the Universities of       Birmingham and Plymouth contributed to the catalogue (the principal author       again being       Edwards).
Edwards was chiefly responsible for the choice of works and the       organisation of the exhibition       into sections.
Design was by the Fundacion itself, but Edwards gave       significant input to the       final hang.
The project involved writing about 70,000 words aimed at a       non-specialist       audience.
Both of these exhibitions were a direct result of Edwards's research.
His       monograph and other       activities led to the contacts from the respective galleries, and his       curatorial and authorial role       in both cases meant that the interpretation given to the exhibits (as well       as their selection) was       in large part a direct result of the account of the contours of Lewis's       achievement worked out in       that primary research.
Attendance by the public to this free exhibition was approximately       150,000.
There was       extensive coverage in the Spanish press.
