     Impact on Literary Culture     In addition to her books, Hadley has been invited to write fiction and       non-fiction for the radio, newspapers, and journal and magazine       publication.
It is clear from testimonials that the positive reception of       the primary research, the novels, led directly to these further       commissions.
For several years during the census period she has held a       standing-contract for short stories with The New Yorker, and is       one of very few writers who have been given this privileged contract.
She       reviews other contemporary fiction writers regularly both for The         Guardian and The London Review of Books, as well as       contributing non-review articles on literature, for example in the       `Author' column in The Guardian's Saturday review, where she has       written about writing about the contemporary (`In Praise of the Present       Day Novel', 6 November 2010), and about a position of self-doubt as a       preparation for writing (5 June 2010).
She was invited to write a long essay on Love in Literature for Guardian         Review (7th May 2011) as well as being featured in the       double page spread `A Life in Writing', 28th Feb 2011.
She       wrote a Diary for The Spectator (17th March 2012).
She       was also invited to choose her Private Passions for Radio 3 (May 20th,       2012), and has made numerous contributions to radio programmes for Radio 3       and 4: e.g.
an Essay on Dickens's fictional technique and how it       influences a contemporary writer (19th December 2011), and a       story as part of BBC's Earth Music Festival December 2011.
She has in the       last year appeared on The Verb (reading commissioned story), Open         Book (discussing short story form), and Night Waves       (discussing Elizabeth Bowen), on Radios 3 &amp; 4.
Five of her       stories from Married Love were broadcast on Radio 4 Xtra (March       2012).
The London Train was chosen for the Waterstones book club       (January 2012).
Married Love was an Amazon Book of the Month in       the US December 2012.
She contributed an essay on judging the short story       magazine in Mslexia, with guidance for short story writers (June 2012).
Hadley's impact on the writing and publishing of contemporary literary       fiction has been described by Sophie Scard of United Agents Ltd as       follows.
"She has, in a very short amount of time, gained a reputation as       one of the finest British novelists writing today.
Her quietly powerful       scenes of domesticity and personal relationships have helped redefine the       genre and restore its validity.
She has demonstrated that it's possible to       be a woman writing about men and women, marriage and motherhood, in a way       that retains all of the hallmarks of excellent literary fiction whilst       also proving a commercially sound proposition for publishers.
This is a       great achievement, one with longstanding benefits for writers, thinkers       and all those concerned with matters of women, family and the human       condition in the 21st century."
In the summer of the London riots, 2011, she was asked by The New         Yorker to write a comment piece for their online version of the       magazine.
In 2012 she was invited to contribute a long paper of       reflections on contemporary Wales for a collection to be published by the       Institute of Welsh Affairs (Wales 20:20).
She was a guest speaker in April       at the National Museum, Cardiff, launching a new programme of Literary       Tourism; the only other invited speaker was the Archbishop of Canterbury.
She ran a master class on short story writing for the Royal Society of       Literature (November 2012).
Her books have been chosen by numerous book       clubs: most recently by Topping's Bookshop reading club in Bath (May 13th       2013).
The reach of Hadley's contributions to the New Yorker is       demonstrated by data provided by Deborah Triesman, Fiction Editor of The New         Yorker: "Circulation for the magazine is over 1.2 million.
The       numbers double if you count everyone who visits the website.
The New       Yorker Fiction Podcast averages 200,000 to 250,000 downloads a month.
The       readings of your own work that you do go out with our digital editions,       and unfortunately we don't have a way to track how many people listen to       them, but anecdotally that number is high.
It seems fair to say that your       stories (combined with the web Q&amp;As) are shared/linked to via social       media somewhere between 300 and 400 times each.
That number doesn't       include re-tweets and re-shares&#8212;so the real number could be exponentially       higher.
With 17 stories published here since the start of 2003, you win       the prize for most frequently published fiction writer in the magazine."
Hadley has frequently been invited to judge prominent literary prizes,       including the Rhys Davies Prize in 2007, the V S Pritchett Prize in 2008,       the IMPAC Novel Prize in 2011, the BBC National Short Story Award in 2011       and the Mslexia Short Story Prize in 2012.
Prizes such as these       are an essential part of the contemporary literary publishing industry,       bringing recognition and financial backing for authors and publicity to       novels.
In judging these prizes, Hadley was playing a vital role in the       discovery and promotion of new literary talent.
As the comments of the       organisers indicate, she was invited to judge these awards because of the       high esteem in which her research was held, and because of its perceived       relevance to contemporary family concerns.
Hadley's engagement with and impact on creative practitioners is evident       from the high praise she has been given by the organisers of literary       prizes with whom she has worked:     "Finalisation of the judging team is based in the first instance on the       undoubted high calibre of the team members in the literary world in their       own countries.
It also has regard to practical considerations related to       individual availability in particular years, to geographic location and       gender representation.
We decided to ask Tessa if she would consider       becoming a judge for the 2011 award because of her impressive CV!
She had       published a number of novels at that time that had been very well       received, she was an experienced reviewer of fiction, and because of her       position as senior lecturer in English and Creative Studies at Bath Spa       University.
Tessa was also involved with the Arts Council in Ireland at       that time and came highly recommended.
Tessa was very pleasant to deal       throughout the process and she performed her part as a member of the       judging panel conscientiously.
We were delighted to have the benefit of       her experience and insight on the 2011 Judging Panel."
Di Speirs, Editor-       Readings, BBC Radio.
"Tessa was indeed a member of the judging panel in 2011, alongside Geoff       Dyer and Joe Dunthorne.
We choose our judges for their literary skills and       in the belief that they will support and champion the aim of the award,       which is to celebrate and foster what has been an undervalued genre.
Tessa, like the vast majority of our judges, comes with an impeccable       pedigree as a writer &#8212; and with an impressive canon of her own work,       including in the short story field.
Tessa brought to the 2011 table not       only forensic knowledge of the wider picture but also incisive critiques       of the sixty plus stories we were considering.
As we had expected she had       read them all carefully, chosen her particular favourites which she       defended with passion and intelligence and then debated with great good       humour and sensitivity so that we could come to a cohesive final list.
I       can say that this particular panel was one of the most interesting,       gracious and acute of all those I've served on (I judge this award       annually so have done 8 and have also chaired other literary       prizes).Tessa's contribution was a huge part of that.
In practical terms       she had to attend three meetings in London plus reading the stories.
We       run the award on very little money and the judges get only the smallest       remuneration.
We were very grateful to her for all the time she put in and       also for the extra press and publicity work that she did.
For the BBC,       someone of her academic rigour and artistic ability, coming from an       institution that teaches creative writing and is fostering the next       generation of writers, is an absolute boon.
She was also great fun to work       with."
Cathy McKenna, Senior Librarian / Award Administrator,       International IMPAC DUBLIN Literary Award.
Commercial Impact (indicative)     Sales figures for The London Train:                                Hardback:           3,810           Paperback: 28,133                                        E-Book:           3,043           EB (Kindle): 433           Total sales: 35,419
