     Our research has led to a greater inclusion of siblings and grandparents       in family literacy programmes, both in the UK and world-wide.
This is       evidenced through key-notes at the National Foundation of Family Literacy       Conference (Edmonton, Canada, 2010); the conference on Facing Social       Inequality and Poverty (Sao Paulo, Brazil, 2012) and a podcast to       practitioners in the US (2013)[1] as well as       presentations in New Zealand, Luxembourg, Spain, Ireland and France.
Nationally, our work has influenced practitioners through professional       development conferences in Lambeth, Tower Hamlets, Hackney, Brent,       Birmingham, Leeds and Glasgow.
The research on siblings as mediators of literacy reached the wider       public through a Radio 4 series called Brother Mine, in 2008, 2009       and 2010[2] and we were invited to advise the Basic       Skills Agency and charity Grandparents Plus on a `Learning with       Grandparents' project (2005-2006), resulting in a DVD, an advice booklet       and Good Practice Cards for schools and grandparents.
[3]       We were also commissioned to produce resources for teachers and teacher       educators on Learning with Grandparents for the TDA-funded Multiverse       website.
Our Bilingual Learning project led to advising on Tower Hamlets Language       Policy, emphasising the value of mother tongue to children's educational       achievement.
[4] The innovative pedagogies resulting from       the Paul Hamlyn-funded study on mainstream-complementary teacher       partnerships led to training sessions for 100 primary and community       teachers in spring 2010 and conferences for 120 educators in July 2010 and       100 teachers in Luton in March 2011, with ideas for practice discussed       through our publication `Teacher Partnerships for Bilingual Learning.
'[5]       An article was commissioned for Nursery Education Plus with       website resources.
Channel S Bengali TV company produced a programme on       the research, shown to 70,000 viewers in Tower Hamlets and a global       satellite and internet audience.
The research fed into public debate on       the importance of supporting minority languages in schools via a BBC Asian       Network Special Report and a BBC News Article.
[6]     Teaching resources for educators[7] were produced from       the Nuffield project on curriculum frameworks for community languages       through a series of Curriculum Guides[8] with CILT (the       National Centre for Languages)for the teaching of Arabic, Chinese,       Panjabi, Tamil, Urdu, Cantonese, Gujarati, Somali and Yoruba.
Ofsted's Every         Language Matters report (2008) said these were "an invaluable         resource for trainees and teachers ... ".
The second Nuffield       project produced a guide on fostering language learning through arts-based       creativity disseminated at national conferences including ALL (Association       for Language Learning), CILT, the UK Federation of Chinese Schools and the       UK Association of Arabic Teachers.
[9] The Paul Hamlyn       teacher partnership project produced teaching resources for MFL (modern       foreign languages), community languages and across the mainstream       curriculum.
All resources are publicly         available (1700 pageviews Jan-June 2013).
Members of CLCL sat on the Advisory Group for the Our Languages       project (DCSF), which encouraged partnerships between supplementary       and mainstream schools.
We presented our research at the Investing in         Our Languages seminar at the House of Lords (2009).
Together with       the National Resource Centre for Supplementary Education and ContinYou, we       produced a report for Our Languages in 2009 entitled Share Our         Languages: Family Learning, showing how parents can support       curriculum topics through home languages.
Our research on children's learning in faith settings resulted in a major       interfaith event attended by faith leaders, teachers and families at       Goldsmiths (June, 2012).
Stephen Timms (MP for East Ham) attended and       described the work as a `great project' (Visitors' Book available).
Findings       (2500 visits March-Sept 2013) were reported in the London Polish press and       presented at a keynote for the 2013 National Conference for the Year of       Faith to Head Teachers of the Diocese of Southwark.
Our CLCL team presented work on developing creativity in multilingual       classrooms at an intergovernmental policy forum for the Council of       Europe's Language Policy Division, held in Geneva in November 2010, making       recommendations for professional development of staff in schools across       Europe.
This was well received by over 200 high-profile participants from       37 Council of Europe member states and Canada, the European Commission,       OECD and ALECSO.
[10] Most recently, our `Critical       Connections' project is influencing the practice of teachers,       policy-makers and researchers following a student-produced Film Festival       in summer 2013.
This was attended by some 200 guests including: His       Excellency, Ambassador Shen, Taipei Representative Office in the UK; The       Counsellor Minister Mr Meriem Noureddine, Algerian Embassy; Baroness       Estelle Morris (Chair of Council at Goldsmiths, Trustee of Paul Hamlyn       Foundation); Abigail Knipe and Nora Loewenberg (Paul Hamlyn Foundation);       Pascale Vassie (National Resource Centre).
