     Paechter's work has attracted widespread interest over a long period,       among both education       practitioners and the wider public.
Her research shapes public       understanding and debate about       gender and schooling, in the UK and internationally, through her       participation in broadcast and online       media and media reports of her findings.
She has had a specific influence       on European policy.
Policy makers     In Paris on 5 December 2008, Paechter gave an invited talk to the       Committee on Equal Opportunities       for Women and Men of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe,       entitled `Teachers'       behaviour towards girls and boys'.
[1] The research was       used as evidence in an enquiry conducted       by this committee into teachers' behaviour towards girls and boys.
It       features substantially in the       resulting report, `The rights of today's girls &#8212; the rights of tomorrow's       women', used by the Committee       to convince the Parliamentary Assembly of the need to address the       widespread problem of       unconscious gender discrimination in schools.
[2]     Teachers and other education practitioners     Paechter's work has reached education practitioners in various ways.
In       2008 it was the focus of an       article in the Times Educational Supplement, `Ladettes Lose Out', which       discussed her observations       of classroom gender discrimination unwittingly proliferated by teachers,       warning teachers of the       dangers of failing to be carefully objective.
The TES is the largest       publication for teaching       professionals which is read in print by 408,000 (and online by 5.9       million).
[3] This article led to       Paechter being invited to give a keynote speech to the Girls' Schools       Association Annual conference       for headteachers, in November 2012.
Several headteachers subsequently       discussed her speech in       their school newsletters and blogs.
[4] Paechter's       research on primary school playgrounds was the       subject of a Teachers' TV programme first broadcast on 8th       January 2006.
She was interviewed for       a subsequent item on bullying on 22nd September 2006.
[5]     She was invited to develop a video about "ladettes" for TrueTube,       an award-winning education       website for schools with videos for teachers to use in PSHE teaching,       which currently receives more       than 1 million hits per month from 130 countries.
Paechter's video is on       the True Tube website and       has been disseminated across the internet on MySpace and YouTube, where it       has received nearly       2000 views.
[6]     She has talked to teachers and other educational practitioners (including       childminders and teaching       assistants) at INSET days and workshops.
She gave an invited keynote       lecture on children and       gender at a day conference for Wokingham Borough Council Children's       Services on 17th March       2012, attended by 94 delegates from local childcare services, including       registered childminders.
As       a result, Wokingham purchased 100 copies of a book by Paechter's PhD       student Barbara Martin,       Children at Play (2011), which has an introduction by Paechter, one       for each childcare provider in       the Local Authority.
As a result of her book Being Boys, Being Girls (2007) being       published in Portuguese, she has twice       been invited to contribute articles to the publication for education       practitioners in Brazil, P&#226;tio -         Educa&#231;&#227;o Infantil.
This journal has been adopted by the Ministry of       Culture Education for distribution       to all Brazilian public schools, giving it a circulation of over 181,000       copies, and broad influence in       this large country.
[7]     Paechter has also contributed to dialogue among teachers about the       gendered politics of staffrooms       and how it can affect learning in the classroom.
In 2008, she wrote a       piece `Opening up the staffroom       as a site for professional learning' for Curriculum Briefing, an       education resource for teachers       delivered to around 500 staffrooms.
Paechter's observations have formed       the centre of three TES       articles on the topic, in 2004, 2009 and 2010.
[8]     Public debate     Paechter has spoken on the BBC Radio 4 show Woman's Hour four       times since 2008 on the subject       of gender, identity and schooling.
The 27th June 2008 programme       led to a subsequent Woman's         Hour listener discussion on 30th June.
[9] Her       work on tomboy identities and related issues concerned       with girls' friendship groups and physical activity has been widely taken       up in the mainstream media.
Extensive press reporting of her findings in 2006 and 2007 led to readers'       letters and comment items.
In 2012, newspaper articles and radio appearances prompted by the       publicity surrounding her       speech to the Girls' School Association again led to international public       debate about issues arising       from her research.
Online versions of a Daily Mail article about       her work were syndicated around the       globe, attracting numerous public comments.
A BBC World Service       interview gained 58 `likes' and       27 comments on the BBC website in a few hours after broadcast.
An article       featuring Paechter's       research in the Times was discussed on the ITV programme Loose         Women on 16th November 2012,       garnering 23 comments on the programme's Facebook page.
[10]
