     Garrard and Kerridge have written most of the textbook material on       ecocriticism published in Britain.
Ecocriticism appeared in 2004;       a revised edition in 2012.
Writing the Environment appeared in       1998; Kerridge's ecocriticism chapter in Literary Theory and         Criticism: an Oxford Guide (ed.
Waugh) in 2006.
These works have       been widely used in university courses.
Ecocriticism has been a required resource on 29 courses at       institutions in the UK, US, South Africa, Canada, Australia, India and       Taiwan.
One of Rigby's PhD students is using Garrard's chapter headings to       organise his research on the representation of masculinity and landscape       in Australian young adult fiction - an example of the usefulness of       Garrard's identification of key tropes in ecocriticism.
The 2005 report on       ecocriticism in the UK, produced by Garrard and Kerridge as part of the       HEA report on education for sustainable development (Dawe, Jucker and       Martin, HEA), has continued to influence development in the field.
Dr       Arran Stibbe of University of Gloucestershire writes that the report "was       influential for me in expanding from a pure ecolinguistics focus to       greater inclusion of ecocriticism", leading to a new module.
Neale's book persuaded senior union officials and academics to launch a       campaign for one million climate jobs.
For this campaign, in 2009 and       2011, a team led by Neale (lised in the report) produced two editions of a       highly influential report calculating numbers of jobs would needed in       renewable energy, transport, and construction over twenty years, what       reductions in emissions they would produce, and how they could be funded.
Neale rewrote these for accessibility to union members.
A group of South       African unions and environmental organisations adapted the methodology to       produce a similar report in 2011.
Neale contributed, and was also asked to       write a report for the ETF, the federation of transport unions in Europe,       dealing with possibilities of public transport using renewable energy.
On       request, in 2011-12, he wrote materials on climate change for transport       unions all over the world to use in educating their members.
Since 2011,       Neale has been working with the Alternative Information &amp; Development       Centre in facilitating the development of a Climate Jobs Campaign in South       Africa.
He has made several visits to South Africa, written papers and       reviewed research undertaken by the South African Million Climate Jobs       Campaign.
With the AIDC, he organised three seminars at the Rio + 20       Summit in Rio in June 2012, leading to the development of a global network       of organisations promoting advocacy for climate jobs.
Brian Ashley,       Director of the AIDC, states that Neale's support and contribution "has       been invaluable for our work".
In 2013, Neale signed a contract with the       Campaign against the Arms Trade, a long established NGO, to write them a       15,000 word report by 1 October on the prospects for jobs in renewable       energy as a policy alternative to jobs in the arms trade.
Paul Evans is one of the most influential radio broadcasters in this       field, setting new directions for Natural History Unit output.
Owls       won the Audio and Music Drama of the Year Award for 2007, and each of the       five documentary-dramas (see above) was a Radio Times Pick of the       Day.
Sarah Blunt of the BBC Natural History Unit points out that each       production involved the employment of a substantial team - an instance of       how the research produced by writers is indispensable to the employment of       professionals of various kinds in broadcasting, publishing and other       related industries.
Positive reviews of these works from The Times,       The Daily Telegraph, The Guardian, The Glasgow Herald       and The Scotsman are available, as is a letter of praise from BBC       Radio 4 Commissioning Editor Jeremy Howe.
Evans was a member of the panel       of judges for the BBC Wildlife Award for Nature Writing (the       leading British literary prize in this genre) in 2010, 2011 and 2013.
Indicative BBC Wildlife sales: 40,963 in July - December 2012.
Celia Locks, Guardian Country Diary editor for ten years, and       John Vidal, environment editor, attests that Evans is consistently one of       the most popular contributors, judging by readers' responses.
An       indication of Evans's status and influence is that in 2010 when the new       government was proposing to sell publicly-owned forests, Evans was       called-upon to give an on-the-spot broadcast from the Forest of Dean,       taking up five minutes on Radio 4's primetime current affairs programme The         World Tonight.
It is impossible to quantify the influence of such an       intervention, but the controversy was an intense national news story that       resulted in a change of government policy.
