     The impact takes three forms:            Impact on listeners &#8212; International artistic and commercial success of         the compositions.
Impact on songwriters &#8212; Experiential collaborative projects between         university staff and non-academic musicians; dissemination of new         theoretical frameworks for constrained or collaborative songwriting         through international print and web media, and creation of         publicly-available songwriting curricula.
Impact on music industry &#8212; Confidential musicology reports for music         industry clients.
Since 2004 the researcher-practitioners (Bennett, Parfitt, Moor) have       been researching strategies for the analysis (and also teaching) of       creative processes in songwriting, with the aim of identifying and       describing creatively effective methods for writing songs collaboratively.
These findings have been influential outside academia, and have led to       collaborative songs and compositions whose creative processes were       informed by the emerging research.
How the research led to the impact       Throughout the nine-year timescale (2004-13) the researchers developed       strategies for the analysis and teaching of collaborative songwriting (and       collaborative creativity generally).
Findings were regularly fed back into       teaching (public and undergraduate) for further development.
Researchers       also used these identified creative strategies in their own commercial       work.
Finally, the academic research findings were rewritten as a series       of 18 Total Guitar Magazine articles for worldwide distribution in       order to disseminate the theoretical frameworks to a wide mainstream       audience of songwriters.
Bennett's work as a forensic musicologist builds on extant recent       research in this area from the fields of law and popular musicology, and       this music industry work informs academic papers.
Bennett compares case       law and creative practice in different countries, and this academic work       further informs work on future professional authorship disputes.
Beneficiaries of the impact       Emergent songwriters worldwide (articles and events); music purchasers       (creative work); other songwriting events providers (events); teachers       (the UK Songwriting Festival event attracted over 500 songwriters from       2004-2012, some of whom were teachers of songwriting themselves, enabling       them to disseminate the teaching methods to their own students); magazine       publishers (articles); record labels and music publishers (creative work).
Confidential forensic musicology work benefits music publishers and law       professionals, who have used Bennett's song analyses as evidence to       resolve copyright disputes between the parties.
This eventually benefits       songwriters, whose Intellectual Property is safeguarded as a result of the       evidence provided in Bennett's reports.
Music industry professionals also       benefit from Bennett's research &#8212; he has appeared as an expert panellist       for PRS for Music (Soundalikes and Plagiarism event, PRS House, London,       March 2011) and for the international Audio Engineering Society annual       conference (`The timeline never lies', AES 135, New York, October 2013).
Evidence of extent and nature of impact       The impact of creative work (Parfitt and Moor) can be measured in part by       its commercial success and international distribution through mainstream       media channels.
The artists with whom Parfitt and Moor were working       performed the collaboratively written songs on worldwide tours, achieving       radio broadcasts in more than 50 countries each.
Bar&#226;t and Moor's songs       have resulted in sales of over 100,000 copies and significant press       coverage, including Album of the Week in the Independent.
Three of Moor's       songs for Bar&#226;t were BBC playlisted.
Performances of works include major       international music festivals and two sell-out world tours, and Bar&#226;t       headlined the Leftfield Stage at Glastonbury Festival in 2010 performing       songs by Moor.
Bennett's compositions were commissioned and selected by Rockschool for       worldwide publication, and now sell around more than 50,000 copies per       year worldwide, supporting the technical development of training       musicians.
Bennett's magazine articles (published worldwide with an international       monthly circulation of c.48,000 print copies per month over an 18 month       period &#8212; total approx.
850,000) provide evidence that the findings of the       research have reached a very significant number of songwriters over an       extended period, enhancing their understanding of the songwriting process.
From 2007 Bennett has collaborated with an external public-facing       songwriting organisation www.burnsong.org,       leading to performances at BBC Glasgow (2007) and the Scottish Parliament       (2009).
In 2012 these successful collaborations led to the UK Songwriting       Festival 2012 being delivered in partnership with Burnsong with additional       support from Creative Scotland.
Bennett's forensic musicology work is       named in court transcripts (see references for sample) where his expert       opinion has been used successfully to resolve music copyright disputes.
Dates of impacts: 2004-2013 (UK Songwriting Festival); 2010-2013       (magazine articles); 2008-2013 (creative work); 2007-2013 (confidential       reports).
