     Improving services for people with mental illness     Estimates of the prevalence of mental illness are affected by definition       and measurement, but certainly the lifetime risk of a diagnosis of       schizophrenia is &gt;0.5% and the risk of any type of psychosis is about       3%.
The lifetime risk of childhood eating disorders is estimated between       0.3% and 3%.
These conditions are associated with enduring disability, a       high risk of suicide and massive societal costs (&gt;&#163;11b pa for       schizophrenia alone; Andrew et al.
2012).
Globally, depression is the       second leading cause of disability, with major depression accounting for       8.2% of years lost to disability (Ferrari, et al.
2013).
UoL researchers have played a leading role addressing these burdens       through the UK's pioneering research into and implementation of       psychological treatment for severe psychiatric conditions, showing that,       for example, cognitive-behaviour therapy (CBT) delivered early in illness       can result in reduced positive symptoms at 18 month follow-up.
Recent UK       NICE guidelines for the treatment of schizophrenia published in 2009       recommending CBT, included a meta-analysis including trials carried out by       Liverpool researchers [7].
UoL work also influenced the current NICE       guidelines on bipolar disorder, published in 2006, which guides current       practice and recommends CBT for bipolar patients but not those who have       recently experienced a manic episode [8].
UoL researchers have since shown       that training nursing staff in relapse prevention delays relapse in       bipolar patients [9], thus expanding the role of the psychiatric nurse.
Gowers chaired the panel responsible for the most recent NICE guideline on       the treatment of eating disorders, published in 2004, which also guides       current practice in the NHS, and has been asked to chair the impending       revision.
Current NHS advice on the commissioning of eating disorder       services [10] are based on these guidelines emphasizing the importance of       providing treatment on an outpatient basis, consistent with Gowers'       findings.
Psychological therapies for psychosis pioneered by UoL researchers and       collaborators elsewhere, unavailable to patients before the mid-1990s, are       now being implemented within NHS services throughout the UK via, for       example, clinical psychology services and early intervention teams.
However, Rethink's 2012 Schizophrenia Commission estimated that, despite       recommendations, only 10% of psychotic patients currently receive CBT,       although other estimates are higher.
The next phase of the Department of       Health's Increased Access to Psychological Therapies Programme, outlined       in the 2011 &#163;400m four-year plan [11] is extending CBT services to people       with eating disorders and psychosis.
Kinderman was twice chair of the BPS Division of Clinical Psychology and       was a member of the Department of Health ministerial advisory group during       the development of the last two strategies for mental health (New       Horizons, 2009; No Health Without Mental Health [12]).
In these capacities       he was involved with drafting the 2008 Mental Health Act, as well as with       the adoption of practitioner psychologists under the aegis of the Health       Professions Council.
He also served as a member of the Fundamental Rights       Platform Advisory Panel for the European Union's Fundamental Rights       Agency.
International Impact     CBT has been recommended in guidance issued in other countries, e.g.
the       2010 updated Schizophrenia Patient Outcomes Research Team Treatment       Recommendations published by the US Department of Health and Human       Services [13] (the original 1998 guidelines made no such recommendation)       based on an expert review of the trial evidence, mostly published in the       UK including by the UoL.
UoL research has also led to a new interest in       the role of social cognition in psychosis abroad.
Bentall advised the US       National Institute of Mental Health development of guidelines on measuring       social cognition in schizophrenia [14].
In the developing world, Rahman's work on the delivery of psychological       interventions through non-specialists has impacted on global strategies to       reduce the treatment gap for psychiatric disorders.
He is a member of the       Guidelines Development Group for the WHO's Mental Health Gap Action       Programme (http://www.who.int/mental_health/mhGAP/en),       which has produced guidelines for addressing mental health inequalities in       the developing world [15-16].
He is working with the WHO to develop       training materials for the management of perinatal depression in low and       middle-income settings.
In 2008 and 2011, he was invited to the WHO       Eastern Mediterranean Regional Office to assist with the formulation of       the maternal and child mental health policy for the region, now ratified       by all 22 member states.
Rahman is also an advisor to the Ministry of       Health, Government of Pakistan, on maternal health policy and programmes       and was invited to author three Lancet commissioned `global health' series       updates: a) Global Mental Health series, b) Early Child Development       series, and c) special series on Pakistan.
