     Smith's research reports, along with three successive Highlight       reports he has been commissioned       to write for the National Children's Bureau [NCB], have been disseminated       widely as expert       resources for organisations and public bodies that have an interest in       education and child well-being.
Smith's co-authored DfE Research Report on anti-bullying interventions in       schools [1] is on the DFE       website, and on the NSPCC's list of resources recommended for anyone       working in schools [2].
It is       also in the publications list of the I Am Not Scared project, a       European Commission project intended       to identify the best European strategies to prevent and tackle the       bullying phenomenon.
Hundreds       of organisations and communities have engaged with the report as a       resource for working with       children, and it has featured in the newsletters and websites of       organisations across the country       such as local Anti-Bullying steering groups, Regional Education       Partnerships, Regional Equality and       Diversity Partnerships, the PSHE Association, and the Restorative Justice       council.
[3]     The research report for the Equality and Human Rights Commission (EHRC)[4]       was launched in April       2011, and gained a high profile among educational and child-related       organisations.
The launch was       opened by the then Minister for Schools, Nick Gibb, and attended by the       EHRC's deputy chair       Baroness Margaret Prosser, and Richard Piggin from Beatbullying (the UK's       leading bullying       prevention charity) [5].
Wiredgov, the UK's top       government and public sector news alerting service,       featured the report on 2nd March 2011.
[6] The       Parliamentary Grand Committee used the research       report in its discussion of Amendment 63A of the Education Bill about       identity-based bullying; in       particular Lord Collins argued that the government could do more to tackle       this in and out of schools,       acknowledging Smith's EHRC report as one of two main sources of       information.
[7]     Smith's 2010 Highlight report [8], the third       he was commissioned to write for the NCB, surveyed recent       developments in the state of bullying, cyberbullying, and anti-bullying       strategies in UK schools.
NCB       Highlights are highly regarded research summaries and expert guides, and       around 12,000 printed       copies are issued free to all NCB membership organisations and local       authorities, as well as to the       Association of Educational Psychologists which passes on around 3000       copies to its members.
Finally, the Cooperation in Science and Technology (COST) Action on       Cyberbullying [9], of which       Smith was Chair, aimed to raise awareness of the proliferation and       potential harm involved in       cyberbullying.
This has been achieved through conferences and workshop       which have disseminated       research information to highly influential politicians and policymakers.
Thus for example, attendees       at conferences held in Paris and Vienna in 2012 [10]       included the Austrian Federal Minister for       Education, representatives from the Austrian Federal Education Ministry       and other Federal       Ministries, from local governments, and the union of teachers, parents,       and students.
A set of       Guidelines for preventing cyber-bullying in the school environment is       available on the website in       several languages, with a preface co-written by Smith.
[9]     The societal significance of these impacts is attested to by the fact       that the work undertaken by Smith       and Goldsmiths' Unit for School and Family Studies featured prominently in       a 2009 brochure       produced by Research Councils UK to exemplify how academic research has       informed policy-making.
[11]
