     The principal beneficiaries of the research outlined above are British       African entrepreneurs and UK policy-making bodies concerned with black       entrepreneurship, although the reach of its impacts is increasingly       extending to national and even international beneficiaries.
These groups       have benefited primarily from our transfer of expert knowledge and advice,       particularly in supporting business start-ups, the development of teaching       and learning resources, and the provision of new resources and space for       the effective delivery of support for black entrepreneurship.
Supporting black business start-ups in East London and beyond through         the provision of training, resources and expertise       The BBO's delivery of benefits directly to entrepreneurs themselves is       evidenced particularly through its provision of training workshops.
These       sessions have been tailored in line with key research findings identifying       specific learning needs and gaps in existing programmes of entrepreneurial       support.
We have delivered 17 such workshops, providing a combined total       of some 550 participants with information about and direct support in       starting and growing their businesses, as well as creating reusable       teaching and learning resources to sustain their business development       activities.
These have included factsheets and practical business support,       such as `how to do' toolkits, and a range of web-based information       resources.
The workshops have provided further support for participants by       facilitating the sharing of best practice examples to inculcate and       enhance their existing business skills.
In addition to allowing participants access to specialist knowledge and       information resources, seminars and stakeholder workshops organised by the       BBO have created a local network of black SME owners and managers, in line       with Nwankwo's finding that social capital and network perspective       (embedded social relations) is an important factor influencing black       entrepreneurship and its outcomes.
Major black business-focused agencies       that have consistently collaborated with the BBO in knowledge transfer       activities such as assisting business start-ups and securing       self-employment among the UK black population include The Reform       Corporation, Black Economics, and Haringey Business Development Agency       [a].
Those activities have generated financial benefits by helping to       create new companies and increase self-employment among black       entrepreneurs.
Five London-based universities have agreed to collaborate       to better resource and extend the scope of BBO activities in London,       marking a significant departure in local/community engagement strategies.
Although many of its most significant impacts have been realised within       local black business communities, moreover, the reach of the impacts of       BBO research has been expanded through collaborations with international       HEIs and other organisations.
These have included a collaboration with       Diaspora Link, a Swedish-based Micro Finance consortium promoting diaspora       cross-border entrepreneurship and remittances.
Here, Nwankwo has drawn on       his research with the BBO to contribute to discussion about and action to       support skill development and capacity building for cross-border       enterprises [e].
In 2010 the British Council identified the BBO as a `best       practice' model.
The Council subsequently awarded &#163;100k of funding to       support its replication at the University of Ghana as part of the WorkBank       project [f].
Supporting the creation of new companies and jobs by building links         with stakeholders.
Workshops and other events run by the BBO have also provided a forum for       the institution and maintenance of productive relationships between the       local network of black SME owners and managers and a wide range of       potential stakeholders, and helped to ensure awareness of emerging trends       and opportunities.
Thus, for example, quarterly workshops run between       2007-2011 (each attracting an average of 35 attendees) on Public         Procurement, Supplier Diversity, Compete-For, and Access         to Finances not only increased awareness among local black SMEs of       Olympics procurement opportunities, but also enhanced their capacity to       capitalise on those opportunities.
Indeed, the facilitation of contact and       collaboration between black entrepreneurs and local stakeholders has       constituted an important pathway for the BBO's delivery of benefit to both       those parties.
As well as inviting stakeholders to its business       development events, the BBO has produced updatable `live' databases of       business support providers operating in specific sectors and clusters.
This new resource, first developed in 2008, is now used frequently by       organisations including the African Caribbean Business Network (ACBN),       British African Business Alliance, and Haringey Business Development       Agency (HBDA) to promote networking events and specialist       knowledge-exchange activities.
These have included a series of successful       monthly Tender Readiness workshops co-delivered by the BBO in the run-up       to the 2012 Olympics.
The database therefore not only provides a new       resource for entrepreneurs seeking business development support, but also       extends our impact to include the provision of more effectively targeted       support for black entrepreneurs &#8212; a traditionally hard-to-reach business       community &#8212; from governmental, quasi-governmental, and local community       bodies.
Since 2008, organisations such as the London Business Development       Corporation, Reform Corporation, DiasporaLink have all used BBO resources       to deliver practice-enhancing programmes to over 1000 black-owned SMEs,       enhancing access to the resources offered by the organisations [a, e].
Contributions to local and regional policy discussion, debate and         formulation.
Beyond its impacts on entrepreneurs and other stakeholders within (and       increasingly beyond) East London, the research has informed and influenced       local and regional policy debate and formulation, including through the       researchers' invited provision of expert advice at Breakfast Meetings at       City Hall [b].
The meetings, which were used by the then-Mayor Ken       Livingstone as a sounding board for policy on Minority Business support       under Ken Livingston, afforded the research team an opportunity to       communicate major research findings to local policy-makers and thereby to       expose &#8212; and subsequently redress &#8212; existing gaps in their understanding       of how best to engage black entrepreneurs.
This has included their       provision of recommendations made in [2] that business advisory services       be considered as an aspect of market intervention with the overarching aim       of helping to secure the growth and sustainability of an otherwise       fledgling sector, and that black entrepreneurs be accorded a more vital       role in the advisory process.
The same research has also been used to       support recommendations for longer term funding arrangements, and core       funding for both projects and concomitant support mechanisms.
These sorts of recommendations have helped frame policy positions used,       for instance by the London Development Agency (LDA), particularly through       the researchers' delivery of quarterly briefings (2006-2010) to       policy-makers at the LDA.
Those briefings contributed to and helped shape       the development of more focused policy interventions such as the LDA       Action Plan for BAME, which referred directly to our findings; the       subsequent Action Plan also reflects our recommendation [g].
By       contributing to changes in ways of thinking at policy level, the research       has also enhanced policy-makers' capacities to develop and deliver more       effective support for black entrepreneurs.
For example, Prof Nwankwo       recommended a bespoke Support Network at a breakfast meeting with The       Mayor of London (06/02/2006), which resulted in the delivery of &#163;1.2m of       public funding to support the development of the African Caribbean       Business Network.
That Network now acts as an umbrella organisation       representing black enterprise interests in policy forums [a].
Contributions to public engagement with and awareness of black         entrepreneurship.
Key research findings have been shared with non-academic audiences through       invitations to speak on Black Entrepreneurship at events such as the Mayor       of London's Black History Month [c].
In addition, the BBO and its       activities have featured in both print and electronic media for local and       national public and professional readerships [d].
