     The impacts described below result from the research investigation       started in Mumbai in the 1990s and a subsequent series of capacity       building sessions for women managers, politicians and local community       activists.
These were: the "Master Trainer's Training Programme" for Women       in Panchayati Raj system of Governance, financed and delivered through the       British Council, Mumabai and held in Pune, India, in January 1997.
Two       one-day sessions for the "Women in Management" Training Programme were       developed and delivered in 2002 and 2003 through CENTEK in co-operation       with Lule&#229; University, Sweden, financed by the Swedish development aid       organisation (Sida).
Finally, a further three, two-day sessions were       delivered in the same programme in 2004, 2005 and 2006 with Professor       Elisabeth Berg (Visiting Professor at UEL), who had undertaken research on       capacity building for women managers in Sweden.
Key findings of the research outlined above included the identification       of both training and networking as important factors in endeavours to       support women in positions of responsibility [e.g.
4].
In attempting to       move beyond the recording of unequal gender representation in middle and       senior levels of responsibility and decision-making in the public and       third sectors, Professor Barry, in consultation with Dr John Chandler       (UEL) and Professor Berg, developed two sessions focused on capacity       building for women in middle and senior positions of responsibility and       decision-making in the public and third sectors in a number of developing       countries at the invitation of University College, London's Development       Planning Unit in February 2008 and February 2009; the invitation was       unsolicited and was based on the reputation of the earlier work.
The sessions introduced a range of strategies and systems regarding       equality of opportunity and gender equity more generally, including gender       quotas and their implications in bringing about organizational change in       public and third sector organisations.
They promoted participants' greater       awareness of, and sensitivity towards, gender issues in the workplaces.
The countries represented were Albania, Bahrain, Brazil, Burma, Cambodia,       Cameroon, Ecuador, Egypt, Ethiopia, Jordan, Kenya, Malaysia, Mexico, Oman,       Pakistan, Philippines, Tunisia, Turkey, and Uzbekistan.
Organisations       represented included women's charities, NGOs, a Constituent Assembly, a       Women's Affairs Department Ministry of Capacity, a Gender Violence       Recovery Centre, a Youth Initiative, Commission of Human Rights, a       Ministry of Social development, a Gender Studies Department, a Public       Defenders Office, Legal Support for Women and Children, International       Human Rights Training, UN Relief and Works Agency, Ministry of Women,       Youth Commission, SEDAW, and UNP.
The job titles of those involved       included Director, Head, Activist, Gender Specialist, Area Officer, Lawyer       and Ministerial Advisor [a].
The sessions involved Professor Barry outlining varying approaches to       issues of leadership that had been developed historically.
In so doing, he       drew particularly on the findings the Mumbai research investigation [4,       5], along with comparable research material on local women representatives       in London [1, 3, 6].
Participants were then encouraged to discuss the       findings in relation to their own experiences and both organisational and       country contexts within which they worked.
They did this initially in       small groups of three or four and then engaged in plenary interaction.
In initial verbal feedback from the sessions, participants indicated that       they gained knowledge of gender and public leadership initiatives and       strategies in the context in which they were working.
Given the diverse geographical origins of the participants it has been       difficult to obtain evidence of how it the sessions have affected their       work in the longer term.
However, one participant (Country Director of the       Association Francois-Xavier Bagnoud International, NGO, Bahrain) did       comment that the course:     "... help[ed] me and our people to change our existing gender         perspective at different levels from policy to practice, and vice versa"       [b].
Taken as a representative indication of the impacts of the sessions on       participants, this suggests their enhanced awareness and understanding of       gender equity issues.
Furthermore it suggests, in turn, subsequent       beneficial effects on their working lives, with attempts being made to       enhance gender equity wherever possible in an area of work still largely       closed to women.
