     This research has led to improved eyewitness identification.
In addition,       these simpler and cheaper procedures have allowed it to become an       accessible and cost-effective tool to investigate volume crime, not just       more serious crime.
Prior to 2003, the police were required to set up a       live identity parade for every suspect who requested one.
These identity       parades were difficult to organise.
A minimum of eight volunteers       resembling the suspect had to be found and paid, procedures were subject       to long delays, and half of the parades were cancelled because a bailed       suspect or the witness did not keep the appointment [1].
In       the 1990s a sharp increase in the number of identity parades, partly due       to changes in the law, led to a sharp increase in costs.
It is estimated       that the total cost of lineups held in the UK in 1994 was &#163;14 million to       hold approximately 14,000 parades [2].
Valentine's research strongly influenced the Home Office to make       incremental changes to the Police and Criminal Evidence Act code of       practice for eyewitness identification (Code D) between 2003 and 2008.
The       code of practice that came into force in January 2008 made video the       default method of identification for the first time [3].
As a       result of the move to video, the number of identification procedures held       has increased by 6-7 times, to over 110,000 per year [4].
In further research, Valentine tested whether any advantage could be       gained by applying recommended procedures from US research to the video       identification procedure used in the UK.
This research found that the       recommended changes did not improve the reliability of identification       evidence in the UK operational context.
This research was featured in a       news article in Nature in 2008 [5], and disseminated       through two workshops held in London, funded by the Nuffield Foundation.
These workshops were attended by representatives of the Police, Home       Office and Crown Prosecution Service as well as barristers, solicitors and       the Miscarriages of Justice Organisation [6].
Valentine       was an invited guest on a Guardian Science Weekly Podcast `Memory         on Trial' in 2010 [7].
Research on the       effect of stress on eyewitness identification was featured on BBC Radio 4       in 2008 [8].
Valentine's research feeds directly into consultancy and expert witness       services for criminal cases.
Valentine has contributed to four training       events since 2008 run by ID Law (a private company).
These events       are typically attended by around 100 delegates from the police and the       Crown Prosecution Service.
In addition he has contributed keynote       addresses or training for:            European Network of Forensic Science Institutes Digital Imaging         Working Group, New Scotland Yard (2009).
The FBI Facial Imagery Scientific Working Group (2010).
The National Policing Improvement Agency (2010).
The Criminal Bar Association (2008).
Devon and Cornwall Police (2009, 2011).
23 Essex Street Chambers (Barrister's chambers, 2011).
McKay Law Solicitors (2008).
IEEE Biometrics: Theory Applications and Systems (BTAS), Washington         DC, September 2010.
Valentine was instructed by the Scottish Criminal Cases Review Commission       (SCCRC) to provide an expert report on eyewitness testimony in the case of       the Lockerbie bomber, Abdul Baset al- Megrahi.
The SCCRC concluded that a       second appeal against conviction should be heard.
In 2008 Valentine was       instructed by al-Megrahi's defence solicitor to provide a report for the       second appeal, which was served on the Crown prior to the appeal being       abandoned due to al-Megrahi's release from prison on compassionate grounds       in 2009 [9].
Valentine provided advice to both the defence and subsequently the       Criminal Cases Review Commission in the case of Barry George's conviction       for the murder of Jill Dando.
In 2008, George's conviction was overturned       by the Court of Appeal.
Valentine provided analysis of the video imagery       used in evidence against Omar Deghayes, a UK resident detained at       Guant&#225;namo Bay, and concluded it was a case of mistaken identity.
Deghayes       was released in 2008 and has not faced any charges since.
As part of the Campaign for Social Science, the Academy for Social       Sciences has produced a series of publications called `Making the Case         for the Social Sciences" , which describe a selection of social       science research projects that have had an impact on public policy or       social behaviour.
Valentine's research on video identification parades is       featured in the fourth publication, on `Crime' [10].
