     This research has had significant impact on policy advice provided by the       international financial institutions.
It has influenced the policy debate       within a range of countries (through advice offered to ministers and       engagement in debates within civil society and NGOs) and hence shaped       policy.
1) International financial institutions and the development policy           community:     A key point of influence has been the International Monetary Fund (IMF),       in particular the Fiscal Affairs Department and also the Low-Income       Countries Strategy Unit and the IMF Research Department.
The IMF undertook       a thorough review of its policy advice on revenue management leading to a       2012 policy paper for the IMF Executive Board setting out a new       macro-fiscal framework and policy advice for resource-rich developing       countries [C1].
This draws heavily on Oxford research (citing 9       research papers including [R1], [R5] and [R6], and       consulting Van der Ploeg and Venables in preparation of the paper).
Accompanying the Executive Board paper, the IMF published a background       paper [C2] and Staff Discussion Note [C3] drawing on the       research and designed to ensure policy reaches IMF staff and country       offices.
The Deputy Director of the Fiscal Affairs department at the IMF       has confirmed that the IMF Board paper has had a major impact on the       Fund's policy advice to resource-rich countries, particularly in the       context of the scaling of public spending [C4].
Van der Ploeg       subsequently taught a course at the IMF Institute attended by 50+       professional economists from within the IMF (The Economics of Natural       Resources, IMF Institute, 2010).
OxCARRE research [R1, R7] has also been used by the World Trade       Organisation in their flagship 2010 World Trade Report [C5], which       focused on trade in natural resources.
The World Bank (WB) has used the       research in their policy dialogue with the government of Iraq (a model       based on their research [R2] and provided by Venables and Van der       Ploeg forms chapter 2 of the Iraq Country Economic Memorandum [C6]);       and in their Governance of Extractive Industries Initiative (GOXI), and       their Extractive Industries Sourcebook designed to provide senior       government officials and policymakers with a guide to good practice [C7].
2) Policy in Country:      Impact on the policy within countries has been achieved through two main       mechanisms.
The first is interaction with policy makers through high-level       conferences and meetings.
Examples include government conferences in       Ghana, Uganda, South Sudan, Sierra Leone, Tanzania, D. R. Congo; IMF       conferences including a joint IMF &#8212; WB conference in March 2012; the       annual conference of the Extractive Industries Initiative (2011); and the       Global Development Network (`Natural Resources and development' 2009).
These events, attracting ministerial and in some cases presidential       audiences, have contributed to a greater awareness of the policy       alternatives and the dissemination of good practice (for example see [C8]).
Extractive industries legislation (or draft legislation) in newly resource       rich countries in Africa now generally contains explicit clauses on the       use of resource revenues, including investment in the domestic economy and       limited use of off-shore funds (in line with the policy recommendations       from [R1, R5]).
For example: Ghana's Petroleum Revenue Management       Act (2011) and associated Stabilization and Heritage funds [C9].
The second mechanism by which the research has informed and influenced       policy is the Natural Resource Charter (NRC),       established in 2009 by an independent team of experts to provide a guide       to the management of natural resources.
The NRC is "a set of economic       principles for governments and societies on how to best manage the       opportunities created by natural resources for development."
It is       organized around twelve core precepts that offer guidance on key       decisions; beginning with whether to extract natural resources, and ending       with decisions that determine how resource revenue can produce maximum       good for a country's citizens.
Collier and Venables were members of the       team that launched the initiative and continue as members of the Technical       Advisory Group, with Oxford providing the intellectual base for the NRC.
Oxford research on revenue management (including [R1], [R4], [R5])       directly informs precepts 7, 8, 9 and 10 of the charter [C10].
The       NRC has been adopted or otherwise endorsed by a broad range of       organizations/governments/NGOs: the World Bank, the IMF, Norway,       Australia, Zimbabwe, African Development Bank, and the African Progress       Panel.
The UK government gave its support to the the NRC in the 2009       Department For International Development white paper Eliminating World       Poverty: Building Our Common Future [C11].
In 2012, Nigeria was the       first country to benchmark its performance against the 12 precepts of good       practice set out in the Charter [C12].
