     The research described above yielded a unique optimisation technique for       the design of permanent magnet synchronous motors (PMSMs), using genetic       algorithms to handle multiple design parameter constraints and achieve       global optimisation.
Since 2008, that improved technique has been         adopted and put into use by Control Techniques Dynamics (CTD), where       it has dramatically transformed the design process and construction of         PMSMs, with significant and sustained benefits to the company.
These       developments have supported efficient design methodology for PMSMs, as       well a reduction in the materials usage during the manufacturing process.
As a result, the company has been able to provide improved products in         a reduced manufacturing time and at a reduced cost.
Furthermore,       these manufacturing efficiencies have delivered environmental, as well as       commercial, benefits.
More specifically, the software tool developed by the research team in       2009 has decreased the lead time to manufacture PMSMs by 30-40%; reduced       materials usage by some 15%, enabling a new range of servo motors to be       developed; and enhanced CTD's company sales by 20% since 2009 [a].
The second phase of the research has resulted in improved thermal       management and thus enhanced stall torque per unit cost ratio by about 7%       [a]; in combination with phase one of the research, this allowed       CTD to develop its High Dynamic servo motor range, Unimotor hd.
First       brought to market in March 2009, Unimotor hd is a range of high dynamic,       low inertia brushless AC servo motors (0.72-85 Nm, rated speed       2000,3000,4000,6000 rpm), designed to enhance the production efficiency       and throughput of automation applications requiring hard acceleration and       deceleration, such as flying shear, pick and place and cut to length.
The       range provides high torque servo drives, providing up to 300% peak       overload for maximum dynamic performance [b].
At the same time, it       is exceptionally compact and uses less material than equivalent power       servomotors made by CTD's competitors.
The changes introduced in this new       range in response to the findings of the research outlined above have       resulted in a 10% improvement in CTD's commercial performance between       2009-2013 [a].
These changes and improvements in both the manufacturing processes and       the quality of their eventual products have allowed CTD to maintain and       even grow its share in a difficult market and to maintain higher       profitability than most of its competitors who, over the same period, have       typically made well below 10% operational profits.
As such, our research       has supported the commercial activity and profitability of a UK-based       company during a difficult economic period and so contributed to the       recovery of the UK economy as a whole.
Control Techniques Dynamics is a global player, with manufacturing,       engineering and design facilities in Europe, USA and Asia.
It has 94       subsidiary Drive Centres in 70 countries offering customers local       technical sales, service and design expertise, many offering comprehensive       system design and build services.
The parent company Emerson has       approximately 127,700 employees and 240 manufacturing locations worldwide       with revenues amounting to over $21 billion.
It should be emphasised that       the development of these new and improved products has not only delivered       commercial benefits to CTD itself but has also provided significant       benefits to the company's many international clients and customers.
In       particular, it has supported the development of enhanced and improved       automation applications from the manufacture of precision machines to high       performance elevators, cranes and fans.
In all such products, the research       has contributed to enhancing motors stall torque per unit cost       (particularly using the innovative thermal management technique developed       in the second phase of the research) and increased productivity, whilst       reducing energy consumption and material usage.
By supporting reductions in both material waste and energy consumption       among CTD and its many clients, the research has also contributed to a       more widespread reduction of energy consumption in the UK for automation       applications and thereby contributed to the reduction of environmental       pollution from this particular manufacturing sector.
