     Red Plenty elicited great interest across the world, including in       former Eastern-bloc countries.
In the UK it has sold over 10,000 hardback       and around 10,000 paperback copies; it has had a print-run of 5,500 in the       USA and is now on its second print run in the Netherlands.
[1]       Translations and editions have also been published in the USA, Russia,       Poland, Estonia, Spain, Turkey, and Germany.
It has attracted favourable       reviews and online commentary in America and Europe, including a feature       in Russian on the international radio station Radio Liberty/Radio Free       Europe (09/04/10), and has received particularly widespread coverage in       the Netherlands, including a review by the leading left- centre Dutch       newspaper, De Volkskrant.
It has also been the subject of       commentary on the Russian blog Ruconomics.
[2]     Its literary impact is evidenced through its shortlisting for the British       Science Fiction Association's non-fiction award,[3] and       the Royal Society of Literature's Ondaatje Prize for books communicating       `the spirit of place'.
[4] It was also long-listed for       the Orwell Prize, Britain's most prestigious prize for political writing.
[5]     It has received numerous positive reviews.
[6] For       example, Policy Review, the journal of the public policy Hoover       Institution of Stanford University, said "Whether you are interested         in the history of the Soviet Union or not, I am certain you will enjoy         this marvelous book.
It reminded me of Orwell at his best.
But if you         are interested in Soviet history, as I am, the book will have special         significance."
The Financial Times has described it       as `eccentric in construction, audacious in conception' and `one         of the strangest books ever written on the Soviet Union...an eccentric         delight'; there have been similar comments in The Independent,       The Observer, and the London Review of Books.
Following its       release in the USA in February 2012, it was reviewed in The Dallas         News and twice in the New York Times, which described it as       `a genre-bender &#8212; part novel, part history... the result is a marvel.'
The publication of Red Plenty in the aftermath of the 2007-9       financial crisis played into a public conversation in the national media       and online about alternative economic models.
In a context of scepticism       about economic institutions, it was read by many as containing lessons for       contemporary self-understanding.
Spufford spoke on BBC Radio 4's `Start the Week' and `Today' programmes       in August 2010.
[7] Subsequently, Radio 4 commissioned       Spufford to write and present Lenin in Letchworth, an ironic look       at the contacts between the Russian Bolsheviks and the British garden city       movement.
A programme on the arts station Resonance FM was devoted to the       book.
[8]     Beyond the UK, he was interviewed twice by Radio Liberty/Radio Free       Europe in connection with the Russian translation of the book, the second       time speaking alongside Abel Aganbegyan, principal economic adviser to       Mikhail Gorbachev and the original for one of the book's characters.
He       was also the subject of a programme on the English language service of       Voice of Russia.
In the Netherlands, he has been interviewed for both       radio and television.
[9]     Spufford has appeared in live discussion events in cities across the UK.
As part of the Russia-themed 2011 London Book Fair he joined a South Bank       Centre discussion on `The Soviet Dream' with Orlando Figes.
[10]       At the 2010 Edinburgh Book Festival he spoke alongside the Soviet       historian Rachel Polonsky, and on the Edinburgh Fringe debated with Paul       Cockshott, a computer scientist and advocate of cybernetic socialist       planning.
[11] This later sparked a technical discussion       among computer scientists about the underlying computational viability of       Soviet-style `optimal planning', given the information technology of the       present rather than of the 1960s.
Cockshott eventually published his       review of Red Plenty in his 2012 book, Arguments for Socialism.
However, the book's many-sided irony and its careful concealment of the       author's own politics meant it was praised across almost the entire       political spectrum, by libertarians, conservatives, neo-liberals and       liberals as well as socialists and Marxists.
In the United States, for       example, it was applauded simultaneously in the New Left Review and in the       journals of the centre-right Brookings Institution and of the libertarian       Cato Institute.
More recently, Spufford's title has passed into the       language, floating free from the book and instead signifying any       non-market form of prosperity.
Thus a soup kitchen organized by       leftwingers in Philadelphia operates under the name `Red Plenty',[12]       whilst an essay in the cultural studies journal Culture Machine       examines `the computing platforms that would be necessary for a       contemporary "red plenty"'[13].
His insights have stimulated a lively public reaction, as evidenced in       several political and literary blogs and online commentaries including Crooked         Timber, the Yorkshire Ranter, The Enlightened Economist,       Tonsk79, Open Letters Monthly, and economist Brad DeLong's       Grasping Reality.
[14] His publication of a piece,       `Lessons from the Soviet Dream', on The Guardian's Comment is         Free website in 2010 elicited a 125-comment public discussion       thread.
[15]
