     The Leveson Inquiry and media reform     To increase the impact of its work, the Spaces of the News team founded       the Coordinating Committee for Media Reform (CCMR), later renamed the       Media Reform Coalition (MRC), which consists of 30+ pressure groups and       numerous academics.
Each section has an elected chair, all of whom are       members of the Spaces of News Research team, to campaign on a specific       issue.
Fenton was asked to join Hacked Off's Board in July 2012 and later       became Vice-Chair.
The proposals for media reform developed from this research were adopted       by the TUC as policy, with the full endorsement of the NUJ and BECTU.
Five       written submissions were made to Leveson, one requested by Leveson       himself, and Curran and Phillips each gave evidence to the Leveson       inquiry.
The Leveson report refers to the work of the CCMR in volumes 1       and 4 [1].
It has been presented at meetings around the country       co-organized by the NUJ and associated pressure groups, and at a special       TUC conference and numerous other public meetings in London.
In       association with NUJ and Hacked Off, fringe meetings were held along with       private dinners for MPs at all the party conferences in 2012 as well as a       fringe meeting at the TUC congress in the same year.
MRC also organized a       public lecture by Baroness O'Neill on media regulation; a conference on       internet and the law with the NUJ; an Early Day Motion on the issues; two       well-attended public rallies addressed by politicians and civil society       representatives; plus a lobby of Parliament on the recommendations of the       Leveson report.
This work has brought the team into regular contact with many       parliamentarians.
Fenton has presented the work of the MRC to Harriet       Harman, the Shadow Cabinet Minister for Culture Media and Sport, and       Fenton and Curran presented the work to the Shadow Minister Helen Goodman.
The work is feeding Labour policy on media ownership for the Party's next       election manifesto.
Goodman used the research on local news for a speech       referring to Goldsmiths [2].
Harman referred to the research in a speech       she gave to the Westminster Media Forum [3].
The researchers took part in a stakeholder discussion at the DCMS       concerning amendments to the Crime and Courts Bill that affect online       journalists and small publishers.
MRC held a public consultation and       recommended that cost benefits available to those who sign to any new       recognized self-regulatory body should be extended to small-scale news       bloggers, and that micro-businesses should be exempt from the Crime and       Courts Bill which defines penalties and exemplary damages for those who       refuse to join a regulator.
The government adopted and enacted these       recommendations.
In her role as Vice-Chair of Hacked Off's Board, Fenton has played a       major role in trying to ensure that any media reform relating to press       regulation complies with the recommendations in the Leveson report and is       independent and effective.
Unprecedented and historic progress has been       made towards the achievement of these objectives, and Hacked Off has been       instrumental in this.
In March every party in parliament gave its backing       to a Royal Charter with underpinning legislation that will implement the       Leveson recommendations &#8212; providing for effective press self-regulation       that is independent both of government and of editors and proprietors.
In       October 2013 this Royal Charter was sealed.
In seven decades of       controversy on this issue no parliament has ever gone nearly so far (and       this without impinging in any way on freedom of expression).
Hacked Off drove this process, both in the public sphere by articulating       the case for Leveson implementation, mobilising and focusing opinion, and       in the political sphere by ensuring that key politicians understood the       issues, were aware of strong public feeling, and had the means and tools       to implement Leveson.
Hacked Off lobbied, rebutted, drafted, persuaded,       analysed, reported, denounced, advocated, briefed, argued and manoeuvred       at a high level of intensity working closely throughout with victims of       press abuses and with other reform-minded groups.
It also operated in the       teeth of relentless and often bitterly hostile resistance from leading       national newspaper groups, making Hacked Off the most successful media       campaign in history.
The state of news in the digital age     This research was cited extensively in the Parliamentary Select Committee       Report on Media Ownership in 2008, in the Ofcom report on the proposed       complete purchase of BSkyB by News Corporation, and in Ofcom's advice to       the Secretary of State for Culture, Olympics, Media and Sport [4].
It       contributed to NUJ strategy, and the NUJ's then General Secretary, Jeremy       Dear, quoted it in a speech to the European Parliament [5].
The Chartered       Institute of Journalists has also used the work in its lobbying [6].
Fenton and Freedman have held regular meetings on the state of the news       in the digital age with key personnel at Ofcom and DCMS.
The work has also       informed news organisations' own internal reviews and discussions.
This       has involved engagement with prominent journalists from the Guardian and       Radio 4, as well as ITN's own research into the future of news.
The       Principal of ITN Consulting commented that the meeting held between Fenton       and himself was `extremely useful' [7].
Local media and citizen journalism     This research led to the launch of the Media Trust's Newsnet, an online       project giving people the unique opportunity to connect, share and learn       to tell their local story.
Newsnet is a UK-wide community of citizen       journalists, community reporters and local storytellers, which gives them       the tools, skills and connections to get more from their local news.
The       marketing director of Media Trust has said that `if Goldsmiths hadn't       identified citizen journalism as having such potential, we may never have       taken this approach' [8].
The work also triggered the development of the East London Lines, a       successful local news website run out of the department.
[9]
