     A Diversity         and Progression Toolkit was developed for use by academics and       practice educators to assist them in addressing common challenges.
The       material provided in the Toolkit consists of exercises, literature,       guidance, and video excepts that can be used by HEIs, placement providers       and employers to develop good practice in working with diverse groups of       students to address common challenges in the curriculum and learning       environment.
In 2011 the research team began actively disseminating the research       through various media,(1,2,3) and created a web resource in the       form of a virtual advisory group made up of academics, practice educators,       trainers, users of services and students to contribute to the development       of the Toolkit and offer reflections on its resources.
It also commenced       its engagement with the social work academic community by presenting the       findings at the Joint University Council's Social Work Education Committee       Conference.
This is the key forum at which the international social work       academic community debate teaching and learning.
As a direct consequence,       a number of HEIs registered an interest in using the Toolkit and the       activities it suggests.
(4)     The Toolkit has been rolled out in two workshops hosted at Goldsmiths       during 2012 and 2013.
These workshops brought together a range of       stakeholders including academics from the USA, Canada, Spain and the UK       who are interested in social pedagogy for transformative practice.
The       workshops created a space to get the research messages into practice, and       to communicate the benefits of the research.
They have stimulated       motivation and new ideas amongst social work educators.
It became evident       at the workshop in 2013 that an incidental outcome of the Toolkit has been       to create communities of practice formed of social work educators,       practice educators, practitioners, students and users of services to       engage in development and change.
(5) One participant had this       to say:     "the development of the virtual Toolkit is invaluable in helping to         identify small and larger steps which can be taken at different levels         within social work programmes and HEIs".
[Lecturer, Royal Holloway,         University of London]     In terms of reach and significance, the research messages are getting       into both policy and practice.
In 2012 the research team participated in a       Higher Education Academy-sponsored debate on Race in Social Work, at       Salford University.
The purpose of this event was to bring together social       work academics from HEIs across the UK who have a commitment to developing       inclusive learning and teaching to engage diverse student groups.
These       debates are part of wider discussion about race and the learning       environment, intended to develop pedagogic approaches that might       contribute to good outcomes for students.
(2,5,6)     The findings from the research underpinning the Toolkit have been       presented at major national and international conferences and published in       reputable peer-reviewed journals.
They have therefore informed an       international research, teaching and learning network.
The Toolkit is       being used by a number of universities, including Middlesex University,       Royal Holloway, University of London, Bedfordshire, and Buckinghamshire       New University.
In terms of reach, the Toolkit material is having       influence beyond HEIs in social care agencies that provide work-based       learning opportunities for social work students.
For example, the London       Boroughs of Ealing, Southwark, and Lewisham, and third sector       organisations such as St Mungos, Homeless Services and Equinox, a provider       of support services for people with mental health problems, are all using       the Toolkit material to support students' learning.
(3,5)
