     Through his research, writings, websites (www.commercialwatch.co.uk;       www.cpbf.org.uk) and policy       submissions, Hardy is recognised as a leading authority and critic of       product placement and related media-advertising integration.
Hardy's       research has influenced the development of policies and regulatory       proposals relating to product placement, cross-media promotion, and media       ownership and pluralism.
Impact has arisen from its use as the basis for       political discussion and debate, and from Hardy's contribution of expert       advice to the UK government, the Leveson Inquiry, politicians, regulators       and supranational organisations such as the European Commission.
The main       beneficiaries of this work have been trade unions, the Labour Party and       Shadow Ministers for Communication, civil society organisations and media       reform networks.
The research impacts have been realised in part through Hardy's expert         contribution to discussion and debate.
Throughout the period of       assessment he has worked as National Secretary of the Council of the       Campaign for Press and Broadcasting Freedom (CPBF), an independent media       reform organisation supported by trade unions and civil society       organisations that campaigns for a more democratic, accountable and       pluralistic media.
In this role, he has drawn upon his research to make       significant contributions as lead author for submissions on governmental       and regulatory policy reviews, in public advocacy and journalism, and in       advising and co-ordinating with other civil society organisations on media       reform [a].
Since 2008 Hardy has provided 11 such submissions, including       for the European Commission Consultation on Audiovisual Media Services       Directive (2008); Department for Culture, Media and Sport (DCMS)       consultations on Product Placement (2010) and the Proposed News       Corporation Takeover of BSkyB (2011); Ofcom's investigation of public       interest considerations in the proposed acquisition of BSkyB by News       Corporation (2010) and Media Pluralism Review (November 2011); the Leveson       Inquiry on media regulation, ownership and pluralism (June 2012); and the       House of Lords Communications Committee's consultations on convergence       (September 2012) and media pluralism (April 2013).
Hardy has also addressed audiences of policymakers and regulators, trade       unions, civil society organisations, media professionals and public       audiences at CPBF and other meetings, conferences and public events in the       UK and internationally.
He was an invited panel speaker on media ownership       reform alongside Helen Goodman MP, David Elstein, and Damian Tambini (LSE)       at the 2012 Oxford Media Convention, widely recognised as the       agenda-setting event for all those concerned with the future of Britain's       media industry [b], and has made invited contributions to seminars       organised by the DCMS, Ofcom, the Voice of the Listener and Viewer, and at       industry conferences such as the Westminster Media Forum event on the       Future of Advertising (2008).
Hardy has also presented research findings       at meetings with politicians including Helen Goodman MP, Neil Gerrard MP       and Si&#244;n Simon MP, then Parliamentary Under-Secretary for Creative       Industries.
These presentations have influenced Labour policy formation on       communications, including the Audiovisual Media Services (Product       Placement) Regulations (2010) [c].
Through these and other avenues, his       research has supported his role as a leading actor in policy debates about       the regulation of media ownership and product placement and       media-advertising integration in the UK.
The follow-on impacts of these contributions to discussion and debate       among policy-makers, media professionals and media regulators include       Hardy's influence upon the development of media regulations and         communications policy.
Most recently, Hardy gave oral evidence       alongside Chris Goodall of Enders Analysis to the House of Lords       Communications Committee on media plurality in June 2013 [d], a       contribution described by the Media Reform Coalition as providing `the       real meat of the session' [e].
Hardy has also been the lead author for policies on media ownership       reform that have been adopted by the CPBF, Media Reform Coalition (of       which Hardy is a founding member) and the TUC, and influenced the       development of policies in other organisations, including the Labour Party       [f].
At his invited meeting in April 2012 with Helen Goodman MP, Shadow       Minister of State for Culture, Media and Sport, Hardy discussed       proposals&#8212;supported by his research&#8212;that would establish ownership caps on       media entities and impose public service obligations on large media       organisations operating below that cap.
These proposals have subsequently       influenced the development of policies on media ownership within the       Labour Party [c] and media reform networks.
As the Director of the       Goldsmiths Leverhulme Media Research Centre notes, Hardy's research on       media ownership regulation `has greatly influenced policy debate.
He has       confronted the failure of past media monopoly regulation, and come up with       a solution...This approach has been enormously influential on civil       society organisations &#8212; shaping the policy of the Campaign for Press and       Broadcasting Freedom, Media Reform Coalition, and TUC, among other       organisations.
I hope it is not a breach of confidence to say that the       Hardy approach (though it was not formally identified as such) was on the       agenda of a meeting convened by a shadow cabinet minister to discuss the       future policy of the Labour Party in this area, during the summer [of       2013] and continues to be in the frame' [g].
The same proposals have also influenced the development of policies on       media ownership for the National Union of Journalists (NUJ), especially       via CPBF analysis of the UK media and proposals for regulatory reform.
Discussing Hardy's contribution, the Union's Senior Campaigns and       Communications Officer attests: `Jonathan Hardy's research on       communications policies and media regulation has been beneficial in       informing the work of the NUJ.
He has been invited to contribute to NUJ       submissions to government and other consultations.
Submissions he has       written for the CPBF have also been influential and helpful to the NUJ in       the preparation of its own submissions or comments on regulatory issues.
In particular, his research and proposals on reforming media ownership       regulation have had an important impact on the formulation of NUJ policies       in this area.
The NUJ has benefited from Dr Hardy's research on       communications law and policy, media concentration and media issues in       developing its policies and in providing evidence-based recommendations on       regulation to parliament, government and regulators.
The NUJ has also       benefited from research informing articles and other communications with       our members on media regulation issues and in building support and       awareness of media reform agendas' [h].
In April 2012, policies on media plurality and reform of the public         interest test were adopted by the Trades Union Congress Executive         Committee.
The Committee's Head of Secretariat has recognised the       `important contribution' of Hardy's media ownership regulation research to       this.
In particular, he cites the influence of Hardy's proposals for a 15%       public interest threshold and 30% market cap, as well as public interest       obligations on large media groups, on the Committee's approach to tackling       media concentration.
Thus, he explicitly acknowledged that Hardy's work on       media concentration and the public interest `has informed the policies       adopted by the TUC Executive in April 2012.
The policy document Media       Ownership and Regulation, endorsed by the TUC executive, includes a       summary of the CPBF proposals on media ownership and control, which       Jonathan developed, and quotes from a CPBF document he wrote...
Unions       responded positively to the paper, which therefore formed the basis for       the TUC submission to the Leveson Inquiry...Jonathan's work has therefore       made an important contribution to the development of policies for reform       of media ownership that have been endorsed and promoted widely across the       trade union movement' [f].
The reach of these impacts on policy have been extended internationally       via the use of Hardy's research on product placement to inform policy       submissions made to the European Commission consultation on the       Audiovisual Media Services Directive, as well as to Ofcom and DCMS in the       UK.
Written submissions include a CPBF response to Ofcom's Consultation       Broadcasting Code Review, `Commercial References in Television' (September       2010).
These submissions were acknowledged by DCMS and Ofcom as       contributing to arguments against the liberalisation of product placement       and, whilst unsuccessful in preventing its introduction, have influenced       the manner of implementation and safeguards established [i].
In addition to its impacts on policy discussion and formulation, Hardy's       research has enhanced public and practitioner awareness of and         engagement with media policy issues.
These impacts on practitioner       awareness have been achieved particularly via Hardy's regular       contributions to the CPBF journal, Free Press, which reaches an       audience of c. 3,000 readers, including 19 affiliated trade unions.
Notable examples of popular media coverage of his research and its       findings since 2008 include an article on Hardy's co-authored report to       Ofcom about Rupert Murdoch's 'corrosive role', published in the Guardian       in 2010 [j], and a media interview for BBC Business Scotland on the impact       of product placement (BBC Scotland 2012).
Both through these sorts of       contribution to popular media discourse and through his presentation of       research insights at public events, Hardy has contributed to wider public       engagement with and understanding of issues relating to his research on       the governance and regulation of communications.
