     The research outlined above has had wide-ranging impacts on beneficiaries       in London, across the UK and internationally.
Benefits resulting from the       work conducted at UEL include the following.
Development and popularization of new forms of musical expression     Working under the moniker Kode9, Goodman has played a pioneering role in       the creation and international popularisation of dubstep as an original,       London-based electronic dance music genre.
The widespread national and       international engagement with and awareness of its existence as a form of       musical expression &#8212; among the general public as well as practitioner and       consumer audiences &#8212; was achieved in part by extensive coverage in both       the trade and popular media of Goodman's work as a dubstep producer and       DJ.
Much of this coverage included critical acknowledgment of the       significance of his work, its contribution to dance music broadly and its       basis in the underpinning research outlined above [a].
Goodman's second album, Black Sun, was released in 2009 and sold       12,816 copies.
In its review of the album, BBC Music described Kode9 as       occupying `the very scalpel-sharp edge of its [dubstep's]       boundary-slashing evolution' [b].
Goodman has also taken dubstep to a       global audience via dozens of DJ appearances, including the 2008 Mutek       Festival (Montreal, 2,000 attendees), 2011 Sonar Festival (Tokyo, 4,000),       2012 Electraglide Festival (Tokyo, 4,000) and the 2012 Sonar Festival       (Barcelona, 8,000).
In addition, he has curated and marketed original work       by numerous artists on his label, Hyperdub, releasing 12 albums and 64       singles since 2008.
The catalogue includes Burial's Untrue, which       was nominated for the UK Mercury Prize in 2008 and has sold more than       100,000 copies.
Contribution to the cultural life of East London, including through         the preservation and renewal of social dance traditions     In 2003, Gilbert and Lawrence co-founded Lucky Cloud Ltd. to preserve and       renew the distinctive social dance tradition analysed in their research.
Since 2008, Lucky Cloud has organised 24 dance music events at the Light,       Shoreditch, attracting 320 paying guests per party.
Co-founded in 2005 by       Gilbert, and growing out of Lucky Cloud, Beauty and the Beat holds       bi-monthly dance events at the New Empowering Church, Hackney, attracting       a younger crowd of c.350 per party.
Goodman has continued to DJ regularly       at Plastic People and has also worked as a resident at Smithfield's       Fabric, playing to crowds of c. 2,000.
In 2011-12 Lawrence worked with       Wire editor Tony Herrington to stage the four-part symposium series       Critical Beats: Electronic Dance Music, Club Culture and the East London       Connection at performing arts venue Stratford Circus, which attracted a       total audience of 313 and was subsequently broadcast on NTS [c].
These events have contributed to East London's soaring international       reputation for artistic and musical diversity and excellence.
`Known for       its cutting-edge bars, offbeat galleries and ethnic restaurants, East       London is by far the city's trendiest area,' the New York Times reported       in April 2012.
`Wear comfortable walking (and dancing) shoes to discover       its neighbourhoods east of the Tower of London, namely, Shoreditch,       Bethnal Green, Hackney Wick and Dalson' [d].
Informing and influencing practice among international music, arts and         museums professionals     Research and expertise has been shared through formal and informal       consultancy and advisory activities with a range of practitioners and       professionals in the music, art and museum sectors.
As a result, it has       informed professional practice, supported the development of major public       exhibitions, and contributed to important trends such as the recent public       convergence between dance music culture and the art world.
The researchers have propagated DJ/dance culture within the arts and       museum sectors particularly through their contribution of original       artworks, cultural resources and specialist knowledge to partners in those       sectors.
Gilbert introduced the Tape Crackers film at the 2010 ICA       and curated the conference at the NetAudio digital arts festival (2011).
Goodman's `Dead Record Office' installation, which explores the       weaponisation of sound from World War Two to the present, as analysed in       [5], showed at galleries and festivals including Art in General/New York       (2011), CTM festival/Berlin (2012), New Forms Festival/Vancouver (2012)       and Site Gallery/Sheffield (2013).
He also screened his remix-inspired       remake of La Jet&#233;e, Her Ghost, at the BFI (2012), Mutek       Festival/Montreal (2012) and Pompidou/Paris (2013).
Lawrence co-curated       the Arthur Russell tribute night held at the ICA (2010), co-produced the       `Artefacts of Arthur Russell' display at the Modern Institute, Glasgow       (2011), and spoke about Russell at Modern Art Oxford (2010) and remix       culture at the Cole Gallery (2013).
The researchers have also drawn on       their work to deliver talks on the value of dance culture in eight       national and 17 international art, museum and cultural centre settings,       including Basso/Berlin (2010); Festival Arte Contemporanea/Faenza (2010);       Gray Area Foundation/San Francisco (2010); Modern Institute (2010); Museo       della Musica/Bologna (2010); Palais de Tokyo/Paris (2008); Southbank       Centre (2010, 2013); and TrouwAmsterdam/Amsterdam (2013) [e].
Audiences       typically range from 50 to 100 and feature artists, arts administrators,       critics, musicians and members of the public.
In 2013 the owner/curator of the Deitch Projects Gallery/New York       employed Lawrence as the principal consultant for his forthcoming exhibit       on disco, acknowledging his core contribution to the `intellectual       foundation of the project' while describing Love Saves the Day as       `one of the best books on the history of music and contemporary culture'.
The Curatorial Co-Director of the first iteration of the exhibition,       developed at the Museum of Contemporary Art, Los Angeles, likewise       acknowledged the contribution made by Lawrence's work to its development,       writing: `Your book and many articles have been enormously helpful and       important to us as we have been organizing what we hope will be a       comprehensive exploration of Disco' [f].
Enhancing public engagement with and understanding of dance music         culture through contributions to media discourse and the development of         reusable information resources     The research team has contributed authoritative commentary on dance music       (including 25 single-authored articles/album liner notes and 60       interviews) to opinion-leading national and international media outlets,       including the Globe and Mail/Canada (average daily readership of 291,571),       Guardian (average daily readership of 193,780 and the UK's most widely       read quality daily newspaper website, with over 8 million visitors),       History Channel/USA, Le Monde/France, Los Angeles Times/USA, South Bank       Show and Sunday Times, plus specialist publications such as De:       Bug/Germany, Mixmag, Pitchfork/USA and Red Bull Music Academy       Magazine/Germany-US, with Groove/Germany and Wire running covers stories       on Goodman during 2009 [g].
Gilbert, Goodman and Lawrence have influenced       a new generation of bloggers and critics, as exemplified by leading voice       Simon Reynolds' reference to Discographies as `the best academic       treatment of techno and culture' [h].
Lawrence provided director Matt Wolf with information and contacts that       shaped the making of Wild Combination, the acclaimed 2008 Arthur       Russell documentary, which screened at more than 65 film festivals and       independent cinemas, and the publication of Hold On to Your Dreams       inspired a Guardian leader about Russell, introducing a new public       audience to this relatively unknown musician [i].
Lawrence's contextual       essays in the art book and CD Voguing and the Gay Ballroom Scene of         New York City (Soul Jazz, 2011) contributed to combined sales of       c.11, 000 and informed Jenn Nkiru's Channel 4 voguing film (2013).
His       research-led website www.timlawrence.info       receives over 1,000 unique visitors per month.
