     Achcar's book has sold over 10,000 copies in five languages (French,       German, Arabic, English and Spanish), a remarkably high figure for a       scholarly work, and illustrative of its potentially incendiary subject       matter and continued impact.
The book has been widely reviewed in leading       national and international newspapers, with many reviewers praising       Achcar's impartiality, and his necessary call for a more balanced approach       to the tragedies experienced on both sides.
Indeed, a Booklist       review contended that the text `may show the path out of a seemingly       intractable dispute.'
Reviews and comments appeared in The Washington         Post, The Guardian (1, below), The Economist (2), Times         Literary Supplement, Independent (x2) (3), BBC History         Magazine, New Republic, The National (UAE), Al-Ittihad       (UAE), Reuters (whose review in Arabic was disseminated throughout the       Middle East), L'Express, Le Monde, Frankfurter         Allgemeine, S&#252;ddeutsche Zeitung, Asharq Al-Awsat and       Al-Quds al-Arabi (leading pan-Arab dailies), and Qantara.de (a       German Foreign Office-funded project promoting dialogue with the Islamic       world), among numerous other publications.
Even titles/reviewers differing       with Achcar's point of view on some issues have highlighted its       significant contribution to continued debates; the Jewish Review of         Books, for example, stated that it is `an important work, even &#8212;       perhaps especially &#8212; for those who will not agree with it (4).
Its       exploration of Arab sensibilities is thoughtful and illuminating, its       condemnation of Holocaust denial humane and principled.'
Much debate has,       however, been elicited by Achcar's point of view, further evidence of its       impact on current thinking around this issue.
Commentators on       IsraelForum.com have accused Achcar of being anti-Israeli and       anti-Zionist, while his work has also been discussed in the Jewish         Chronicle and on blogspots.
Symmetrically, some Arab reviewers       attacked Achcar for being too soft on Israel and Zionism and too empathic       towards Holocaust victims.
Achcar himself has actively engaged with the media, disseminating his       work to a wider audience.
In April 2010, Yedioth Ahronoth, the       leading Israeli newspaper, published a 2-page interview with him about his       book, subsequently published in English in The Jerusalem Report       (7).
In 2011, he participated in the History Channel's documentary series,       Nazi Collaborators, in an episode entitled `The Grand Mufti.'
(8)       In addition to television viewers, the programme has received almost 4,000       views on YouTube alone.
In July 2010, Achcar contributed to the BBC Radio       4 programme `Hitler's Muslim Legions', which examined the participation of       Muslims in Hitler's most brutal campaigns of WWII.
Achcar also appeared in       the four-part documentary series Jews and Muslims: So Far, So Close,       commissioned by the Franco-German television network Arte.
Arte screened       the series, as did the worldwide francophone channel TV5, in autumn 2013,       and it is expected to be shown on Norwegian and Swiss networks.
Achcar has written articles on the issues explored in his book in the Guardian,       Le Monde diplomatique (to which he frequently contributes) (5) and       on Open Democracy, an independent, not-for-profit site dedicated       to inspiring debate (6); extracts from the books were also published on       the latter.
Achcar was interviewed about his work by Lib&#233;ration (a leading       national newspaper in France) (9), The Electronic Intifada       website, an independent news publication focusing on Palestinian politics       and culture, and truth-out.org, a non-profit organisation dedicated to       providing independent news and commentary.
Additionally, Achcar has participated in several public engagements.
In       August 2010, he presented The Arabs and the Holocaust at the       Edinburgh Book Fair, sharing the panel with well- known Israeli Haaretz       journalist, Gideon Levy.
He attended Jewish Book Week in London in March       2011, where a special panel was organised around the book with well-known       Israeli historian Tom Segev as discussant; approximately 600 people       attended (10).
More recently (May 2013), Achcar was invited to discuss the       book's themes at the Bruno Kreisky Forum for International Dialogue in       Vienna, a permanent centre of dialogue which encourages exchanges of ideas       and opinions between academics, politicians and critical minds.
Impact is further evidenced by the email correspondence Achcar regularly       receives.
Numerous individuals have expressed their gratitude at his       timely and sensitive treatment of the issue of Holocaust denial and       anti-Semitism in the Arab world.
One such individual commented that       Achcar's book had finally enabled her to gain a greater understanding of       the roots of her Palestinian father's denial of the Holocaust, allowing       her, in turn, to gently challenge his assertions.
Achcar's questioning of the supposed universal nature of Arab and Muslim       anti-Semitism has contributed enormously to on-going debates around this       emotive issue, opening up new avenues of discussion and reflection that       transcend prevailing stereotypes and myths on both sides of the       Arab-Israeli conflict.
Achcar's work instead promotes the need for a       deeper understanding of the historical contexts out of which these       opposing narratives arose if an end to the conflict is ever to be       envisaged.
