     The research undertaken by Collier and other members of the CSAE team has       played a major role in bringing the economic and political problems of       `fragile' developing economies to the forefront of the public policy       debate around aid and development policies.
It has been influential in       shaping the policies of donor countries and intergovernmental       organisations to support these fragile nations.
A key driver in influencing the public policy debate and securing impact       from this work has been a number of best-selling books, written by       Collier, summarizing the technical research by the CSAE, and thereby       bringing it more directly to the attention of a broad array of       policymakers, civil society organizations, and other commentators.
Most       notably The Bottom Billion (2007) summarized the body of research       relating to distinctive problems facing small, poor countries (including [R2]).
This book won the Lionel Gelber prize in 2008, the Arthur Ross Book award       in 2008, the Corinne Prize for Economics in 2008, and the Estoril Global       Issues Distinguished Book prize in 2009.
It has been described by DFID as       the `seminal work' in the field [C7, p.6].
Wars Guns and Votes       (2009) summarized a broad range of CSAE research on the economic drivers       of conflict, the costs of conflict, and policies to reduce the risks       (including [R2, R3, R6, R8]).
Both books have become major       bestsellers - The Bottom Billion has been translated into 20       languages and has 45 million citations on Google.
The CSAE team's research on the costs of conflict (including [R4])       was influential in helping to focus greater attention on fragile states.
Successive British Governments increased the proportion of the UK's aid       programme that is devoted to fragile states and to cases of conflict and       insecurity.
The policy objectives and commitments to making development       more effective in fragile states are set out in a 2005 DFID policy paper [C1],       drawing on CSAE research throughout (including [R5]).
The       Coalition Government's Strategic Defence and Security Review (SDSR)       committed to spend at least 30 per cent of aid in fragile and       conflict-affected states [C2].
CSAE's work on the cost of conflict       [R2, R3, R7] has also been influential in creating greater       attention to fragile states and The Bottom Billion and associated       CSAE research are identified as key references in the current (2011)       Guidance Note produced by the Governance and Social Development Resource       Centre, under contract from DFID [C3].
The research has also been highly influential in encouraging the       international donor community to address with greater energy the problems       of fragile and failing states.
In 2011, the World Bank devoted its       flagship economic report to the issues of conflict, security and       development [C4].
No fewer than nine papers and books authored or       co-authored by CSAE members are referenced in the bibliography (including       [R1, R2]).
Professor Collier served on the Advisory Council, and       Anke Hoeffler led research for a key background paper on Post-Conflict       Recovery [C5].
The high cost of conflict and state failure was       given a high profile, referencing CSAE work [R4].
As a follow-up       to the World Development Report (WDR) 2011, World Bank management       presented a strategy paper operationalizing the 2011 WDR, that was       discussed by the Development Committee in Spring 2011 (the Development       Committee is a forum of the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund       that facilitates intergovernmental consensus-building on development       issues) [C6].
At the 2013 World Bank/IMF Spring Meetings, conflict       was a prominent topic because of the recent collapse of Mali and the       Central African Republic, and Collier's work was heavily cited [C7].
Similarly, bilateral donors, meeting in the OECD-hosted International       Network on Conflict and Fragility (INCAF), produced Policy Guidance in       2011 on Supporting Statebuilding in Situations of Conflict and Fragility [C8]       that drew on CSAE research findings and concepts, referencing The         Bottom Billion and the research directly [R3].
This document       provides a point of reference for the OECD Development Assistance       Committee, an international forum of major donor countries (including US,       Canada, Japan, Australia and all the significant donor members of the EU)       and the World Bank, IMF and UNDP.
Through his research and his role as advisor to governments and       policymakers, Collier has substantially influenced current thinking on       development policy.
In 2009, the IMF created a Low Income Unit within the       Strategy and Review Department and appointed Collier as Senior Advisor [C9];       Collier is a member of DFID Policy Advisory Group; Advisor to the Vice       President of the Africa Region of the World Bank (2003-); and a member of       the European Commission's Scientific Advisory Board for EU Development       Policy (2012-).
