     In July 2009, Cullet was invited by the Indian Government to participate       in a meeting convened to debate a discussion paper on Integrated Water       Management &#8212; Policy and Actions.
Following this meeting, Dr Mihir Shah,       member of the Indian Government's Planning Commission with responsibility       for water, requested that Cullet contribute a law section to the       discussion paper in question.
Dr Shah also subsequently read Cullet's Water         Law, Poverty and Development &#8212; Water Law Reforms in India, as       evidenced by the direct (and indirect) references to the text in the       Planning Commission's Mid Term Appraisal for the Eleventh Five Year Plan,       2007-2012.
Cullet then attended informal meetings with the Commission       throughout 2010, being formally included in the working group on water       governance for the preparation of the twelfth five-year plan set up in       October 2010 (5 to 8, below).
During the initial meetings of the working group, it was decided that       three sub-groups would be formed, each tasked with the preparation of       three new draft laws.
Cullet was asked to chair the sub-group working to       draft a new groundwater model bill, and to become a member of the sub-       group dealing with national framework legislation (1, 2).
The latter group       prepared a draft National Water Framework Act with the aim of ensuring       that the country has one set of overall principles guiding the water       sector at the union level (3, 4).
This Act constituted a reaction to the       fact that none of the states in India has ever adopted legislation that       outlines the basic parameters and principles governing the water sector.
The task of the sub-group on groundwater, however, was more challenging,       since it required an updating of the Indian Government's existing model       bill on groundwater, previously modified in 2005, but which reflected       substantially an earlier draft from 1970.
The group was highly critical of       the inadequacies of the existing legal framework for groundwater, pointing       to its failure to reflect the fundamental right to water, and to address       the direct links between rights to groundwater and land ownership that       exclude a vast number of landless people.
Its members agreed that an       entirely different approach to groundwater legislation was needed and, in       particular, a re-thinking of the rules governing access to and control       over groundwater that had been in force since the late nineteenth century.
The group thus drafted alternative legislation, along with a reasoned       explanation for their decisions, a task which was made more challenging by       the recommendation of a previous expert group on groundwater that no       substantial changes to the legal framework were necessary.
Informed by Cullet's research, the central objectives of the new model       bill include the need to regulate and control iniquitous groundwater use       and distribution; to ensure safe drinking water for all; to regulate       groundwater extraction to ensure its sustainability; and to prevent the       contamination of groundwater resources.
Such changes to the legal       framework are intended to aid in guaranteeing that the use of groundwater       in India becomes both more socially equitable and environmentally       sustainable.
While it is too early to judge the eventual impact of the model bill, the       two broader consultations conducted during 2011 indicated that experts and       central and state government representatives were largely in agreement       with the general scheme proposed in the draft model bill.
Moreover, in       April 2012, the Indian Prime Minister Manmohan Singh called for a new       legal framework to govern groundwater extraction and use and naming       groundwater conservation as an `urgent priority' (9, 10).
Impact will take       time to materialise since, under the Indian Constitution, a bill adopted       by the central government must then be legislated by each state       individually; there is thus a time lag from adoption to implementation.
In       this case, however, the process may be shortened because the Planning       Commission aims to use financial conditionality as a means of imposing the       adoption of the new model bill by state governments.
The future of India and its neighbours is very much dependent on       decisions taken now to protect and provide equitable access to water for       the region's growing population, particularly in light of consistently       falling water tables and the fact that 80% of India's population rely on       groundwater to meet their drinking water needs.
Philippe Cullet's research       and provision of expert advice directly to Indian senior policy makers has       had a notable impact on the conceptual framework informing water law and       governance, shifting patterns of ownership from individual landowners to       the state, and thereby rendering water use both more socially equitable       and environmentally sustainable.
