     The research was conducted on-site at University Hospital Aintree in       collaborations with members of the surgical and multi-disciplinary team.
That physical fitness had an impact on survival in this group of patients       was therefore rapidly disseminated to all members of the surgical and       inter-disciplinary team at University Hospital Aintree.
As a consequence of this research, a business case was presented by the       surgical and multidisciplinary team to the local NHS Trust to expand the       pre-operative service of CPET to incorporate such testing pre- and       post-chemotherapy.
The business case noted that:     "It is now clear that although chemotherapy may reduce tumour size and       improve operability, this may actually worsen cardiorespiratory fitness.
It is therefore necessary to perform pre-operative CPX testing twice on       these patients.
Once before the chemotherapy to ensure they are suitable       candidates for surgery and chemotherapy, and then again after chemotherapy       to ensure they are still fit for surgery."
This would result in a doubling of the volume of such testing completed       during each year.
Based upon the research, the objectives of the proposal       were     "To identify those patients undergoing major elective colorectal surgery       at highest risk of post-operative complications and to plan elective       post-operative admission to the critical care unit     To identify lower risk patients that can be transferred directly to the       ward post-operatively     To identify patients who are at particularly high risk, and for whom       non-surgical treatment options may be more appropriate     To provide capacity for referral of patients from other surgical       specialties considered to be at high risk for CPX testing in order to aid       assessment of peri-operative risk"     The benefits (impact) of the proposal were considered to be:     "...predominantly clinical quality benefits, but there may be some cost       benefits associated with reductions in morbidity and overall length of       stay (critical care and hospital stay) and reductions in unplanned       critical care admissions in this group of patients."
The business case was successful; as a result all patients now undergoing       chemotherapy for UGI cancer will undertake pre- and post- chemotherapy       exercise testing for the determination of lactate threshold and maximal       oxygen uptake.
This represents a change from previous policy at this       hospital where patients were tested for physical fitness (though not       routinely) only after chemotherapy.
This change has been introduced as the       underpinning research has indicated that those with low physical fitness       prior to chemotherapy have significantly reduced survival in the       post-surgery period.
Hence, if pre-chemotherapy exercise testing indicates       low physical fitness then such patients will not undergo chemotherapy, but       will still undergo surgery unless physical fitness is severely impaired.
All patients now undergo exercise testing prior to surgery, whereas       previously only those perceived "at risk" (normally based on age) were       tested.
This provides an objective indicator of outcome such that the       surgical team can both choose whether or not to operate, but also can       consider potential alternative methods of operation.
The beneficiaries of the impact of this research are therefore the       patients and the NHS trust within which University Hospital Aintree       resides.
Patients are benefitted as they may be placed at a lower risk of       death following surgery by not undergoing chemotherapy if physical fitness       is low.
Alternatively, unnecessarily risky operations may not be       undertaken.
The NHS trust is benefitted as by identifying those       individuals most at risk, and thus avoiding unnecessarily risky       operations, this policy should bring about a reduction in mortality and       morbidity.
Furthermore, an understanding of the risk to each individual       patient should bring about an improvement in the planning of the       post-operative period (i.e.
critical care bed or to the ward).
Each of       these factors bring about significant reductions in costs due to fewer       bed-days in intensive care.
