     The research tackled a topic with mass popular appeal and was the subject       of press reviews in local and national newspapers.
Much of this discussion       was centred on the book's focus on revising commonly held myths about       rugby in Munster and tangibly influenced public discourse in that regard.
The research for the book on Munster Rugby featured heavily on online       discussion fora and in email correspondence from fans of the Munster Rugby       sports team.
There was also a feature length article in the Limerick         Leader newspaper when the book was published.
The book revised and       challenged many popular assumptions about the history of rugby in Munster,       particularly the popularly promoted idea that the game is `classless' in       the province.
Indeed, class formed the subject matter of press reviews,       particularly one written by the playwright John Breen in the Irish         Examiner.
This was followed by a review in Cork's Evening Echo       (readership 76,000) in which it was stated that: `Rugby in Munster: A       Social and Cultural History is a compelling read.
Its narrative unravels       many of the highly complex mysteries of rugby in Munster.
It puts into       context the opinions, grudges, loyalties and traditions that have evolved       since the game was first played here in the 1870s.'
The research also succeeded in reaching people in the Irish peripheries       as a `hard to reach' sub- group.
In this case, the book provoked dozens of       comments on the popular `People's Republic of Cork' blog &#8212; a very active       discussion forum patronised by people living in this county of South West       Ireland.
Debate about the findings of the book also dominated the       Cork-based newspaper The Irish Examiner's (circulation 43,000 JNLR figure)       internet discussion forum in November 2011.
Rugby in Munster       formed the basis of media interviews on RTE Radio's Sport at Seven, The         Irish Times, and The Wall Street Journal and Dublin's       98fm.The WSJ (circulation 2,118,315, American Audit Bureau of       Circulations) featured the research, where it underpinned a discussion on       the business and marketing model used by Munster rugby (April 30, 2010).
This interview also drew upon O'Callaghan's research into the professional       evolution of Munster rugby and the contrived nature of the modern       provincial unity enjoyed by the Munster team and fans: `Nobody foresaw       this when rugby union went professional in 1995.
Liam O'Callaghan, a       historian at Liverpool Hope University whose doctoral thesis examines       Munster rugby, said that "they were playing three times a year in the       Irish inter-provincial championship, often in front of three-figure       crowds, and the occasional match against a touring team.
They had been       playing since the 1870s, but any identity was pretty dormant&#8212;loyalties       related to your street, your parish and your club rather than the       province."
(WSJ, 30 April 2010)     The twelve-minute interview on RTE's flagship weekday sports programme       was an in-depth conversation on key findings of the book.
The interviewer,       Greg Allen probed O'Callaghan on three issues: the modern Munster rugby       phenomenon and his argument that this is based on an egalitarian myth, the       relationship between the team and its home ground, something that he has       again attributed to myth and the manner in which the game has historically       given rise to parochial identities.
These issues were of particular       interest to the rugby-following public as, again, they involved the       revision of key aspects of the Munster team's historical self-perception.
More pervasive has been the impact of the research in influencing public       discourse surrounding an institution of popular cultural acclaim in       Ireland (the Munster rugby team) through fan internet forums and message       boards.
For example one blogger (thetrueball.com) has commented that: `it       has become quite the fashion in Irish rugby circles to champion the cause       of the game in Limerick as proof that in Ireland at least, the game is       classless, or rather cross-class.
For antidote to this prevailing idiot       wind ...I implore you to seek out Liam O'Callaghan's recent work Rugby in       Munster: A Social and Cultural History.
Or even his article The Red Thread       of History which appeared in the learned journal Media History last year'
