     Through her research into Guernesiais and wider approaches to endangered       language protection,       Sallabank has for many years been actively involved with officials and       endangered language       community members in Guernsey, providing advice and practical support to       their attempts to       revitalise this almost extinct language.
In 2009 and 2010, she led groups of SOAS MA students to Guernsey, working       with the Language       Officer, Yan Marquis, to `kick-start' documentation and raise awareness of       language shift; both       trips attracted considerable attention from local media.
In 2012,       Sallabank was also the recipient of       a small grant from the British Academy for a project on the "Development       of Electronic Language       Corpus and Pedagogical Support Materials: Guernsey, Channel Islands,"       allowing her to continue       documenting Guernesiais, in association with Guernsey Museums Service and       Mr Marquis (now a       freelance researcher and teacher).
As part of this research they are       collaborating to investigate the       needs and motivations of learners of Guernesiais; the findings will be       used to develop appropriate       learning materials.
Often schools are the focus of revitalisation efforts,       but for many small       languages there are few fluent teachers or materials.
Effective adult       language learning is thus a       vital step in re-establishing speaker communities.
Research into this area       is of great significance       since standard models/frameworks for teaching major languages are not       applicable.
Her research into language attitudes has both reflected and fostered       greater awareness of       language issues in the Channel Islands and elsewhere.
As well as       interviewing government       officials, she has collaborated with NGOs such as L&#233; Comit&#233; d'la Culture       Guern&#233;siaise (an       umbrella body for language support groups) and La Soci&#233;t&#233; Guern&#233;siaise, a       scientific/cultural       association (1 and 2, below).
Data from her research is used by officials       in language planning and       she was commissioned to write a paper (based on her doctoral research) for       the Guernsey Ministry       of Culture and Leisure in 2007, whose recommendations were implemented in       the appointment of       a Language Officer.
From 2007 to 2011 she advised the Language Office and       was a member of       the Language Advisory Panel.
Since early 2013, she has been advising the new Guernsey Language       Commission (GLC) on       language planning (3).
In July 2013 Sallabank was invited to attend a       meeting with the GLC's       members; in the invitation email, it was stated that Sallabank's input was       requested based on the       need for `high level advice on strategy.'
Sallabank's recommendations and       findings were       distributed to all members following the meeting.
These included: a need       for collaboration at       strategic level; the lack of younger speakers is a major concern (she       knows of only 5-6 under 60,       the youngest aged 45), thus a core of proficient younger adult speakers       needs to be developed to       take the language into the future; she recommends a mentor system to go       with adult education;       and the development of integrated, usage-based materials &#8212; Sallabank is       currently compiling a       corpus of audio language samples to create a multimedia dictionary of       Guernesiais.
Sallabank is       listed as a partner in the GLC's `Business Plan' with particular respect       to plans to research and       record the language, to raise awareness of it, and to develop effective       teaching of Guernesiais.
Sallabank's publications are also listed on the GLC website.
Sallabank is also in frequent contact with the Language Offices in the       Isle of Man and Jersey.
Research conducted on the teaching of Jersey's indigenous language,       J&#232;rriais, in 2012 was sent to       L'Office du J&#232;rriais in Jersey's Department for Sport, Language and       Culture (4).
In their response,       the Office described her research as excellent and has invited Sallabank       to run a short course on       how J&#232;rriais lessons can be improved.
Her research has been shared with       multiple people involved       in the preservation and promotion of J&#232;rriais throughout the island.
Sallabank's wider expertise on endangered languages more broadly has also       resulted in demand       for her expertise by organisations unrelated to the Channel Islands.
In       June 2011 she was invited       to join a Panel of Experts on language diversity at UNESCO in Paris (5).
Additionally, on 7th Nov       2013, she addressed a ministerial meeting of the British-Irish Council       (intergovernmental agency       set up to further collaboration and best practice in regional affairs) on       legislation in support of small       languages.
Moreover, in March 2013, Sallabank visited New Caledonia to conduct       research into language       attitudes following an invitation to attend a meeting of L'Acad&#233;mie des       Langues Kanak (which       oversees language planning) (6).
She is currently planning surveys into       language attitudes and       shift in New Caledonia and the Cook Islands, collaborating with local       researchers.
Finally, in 2010 Sallabank participated in BBC Radio 4's "Word of Mouth"       programme about       endangered languages (7), heard by a 6th-form pupil in the UK       who then researched Sallabank and       came across an interview with a BBC News report from 2010 (8).
Her       interest sparked by these       interviews, the pupil invited Sallabank to participate in a language       conference at her school and       has expressed interest in attending SOAS' Endangered Languages Week in       2014 (9).
