     Jacob Zuma's election in 2007 signalled a new openness towards economic       policies.
Fine's MEC       work was acknowledged in government and beyond amongst those seeking       alternatives to neo-liberal       approaches that had failed to improve the majority's situation.
Consequently, Fine has had a       profound impact on government and trade union policymaking, shaping       approaches of other       organisations, including the Competition Commission of South Africa.
It       has informed development       training programmes including the APORDE (African Programme on Rethinking       Development       Economics) programme financed by the South African Department of Trade and       Industry, and       attended by over 200 public sector and civil society representatives.
The centrality of the MEC to current government policy is corroborated by       the ANC's policy       discussion paper, "Maximising the Developmental Impact of the People's       Mineral Assets: State       Intervention in the Minerals Sector" of March 2012 (1, below).
It       discusses the MEC at length,       describing it as "the core of our economy" and a common denominator in       virtually all aspects of life       in South Africa with the potential radically to improve the lives of many:     "The MEC has had a great influence on all aspects of our society: social,       political and economic.
It       has to some extent shaped where we live, what we do, whether or not we       have jobs and what kind       of jobs.
However, if governed and directed within the context of a       Democratic Development State,       as proposed by the ANC's Polokwane National Conference resolution, it can       also be the basis for       the industrialisation of our country, job creation, poverty eradication,       and a significant improvement       in the lives of all of our people."
Minister of Public Enterprises, Malusi Gigaba, refers to "The       minerals-energy complex on which       our economy has historically been built."
(2) Deputy Minister of Public       Works, Jeremy Cronin, also       confirms the fundamental importance and utility of Fine and Rustomjee's       1997 book to current       government thinking (3):     "It remains the standard reference for understanding how the mining       revolution in the       late-19th century in South Africa shaped (and continues to       shape) a structurally distorted       growth path.
The key thesis is now generally accepted in public       policy-making in SA, as can be       attested to by the local currency of the acronym "MEC", coined by the       authors to refer to South       Africa's "Minerals-Energy Complex"....
I have found ... Fine's papers and       research central to       understanding our current challenges."
The National Union of Metalworkers of South Africa (NUMSA) and the       Congress of South African       Trade Unions (COSATU) acknowledge Fine's research on the MEC as crucial to       their       understanding of the dynamics of the South African economy and their       approaches to       policymaking.
Irvin Jim, the Numsa General Secretary confirms (4):     "Many agree with ...Fine's characterization of South Africa's system of       accumulation and economy       as dominated and conditioned by the 'Minerals/Energy/Complex'.
This       characterisation has had a       profound impact on NUMSA in its work of understanding South Africa and       formulating policies."
Neil Coleman, Strategies Co-ordinator in the COSATU Secretariat says he       and his colleagues       deeply value Fine's work on the MEC as well as his continual assistance       with that organisation's       progressive panel of economists (5).
Direct engagement with labour unions       in South Africa extends       to Fine's provision of articles and other content to the websites,       bulletins and magazines of both       NUMSA and COSATU.
For example, in 2011 he contributed "New Growth Path for       Old?"
to The         Shopsteward, the bi-monthly produced by COSATU, with a circulation       of 23,000, discussing the       evolution of the MEC and its relationship to post-Apartheid       financialisation (6).
Simon Roberts of the Competition Commission of South Africa said that his       organisation's success       in uncovering multi-layer cartels in industries such as the steel industry       at work in the South African       Economy since 2007, "drew heavily on work done by ...
Fine."
(7)     The Minister of Trade and Industry confirmed the importance of Fine's       regular contributions to its       research and capacity building programmes and particularly its annual       APORDE (8).
Established in       2007, this two-week event explores alternatives to mainstream thinking on       development issues,       combining training and high-level seminars attended by policy-makers, NGO       and civil society       representatives and trade unionists.
Fine's distinctive contributions rely       to a significant extent on       his integration of the MEC into discussions and themes of various kinds,       eg presenting in 2010 on       "Changing Perspectives on Development Economics" and "Industrial Policy,"       which together both       drew upon general principles and their application to the South African       MEC.
And, unsurprisingly, the centrality of the MEC has been increasingly       prominent in South African       discussion of the environment so that The South African Civil Society       Information Service finds it       necessary to explain it as a "keyword".
(9)
