     Over the last five years, Stears' research on the democratic ideas and       practice of previous eras       has informed a process of political change on the left of UK politics.
His       emphasis on the       importance of grass-roots involvement, participatory democratic       organisation, and communitarian       ideals has helped to define a new democratic agenda for the British Left,       shaped proposals to       introduce more participatory policy processes in a range of policy areas,       and influenced the       debates about political orientation and organisation within the Labour       Party.
(1) Shaping a democratic agenda for the British Left       On the basis of the research presented in Demanding Democracy [R1]       and related works, Stears       was invited in 2010 by the think tank Demos to participate in a research       project on the ways in       which British politics might benefit from developments in democratic       research.
Stears wrote a       paper entitled Active Equality [C1]; drawing extensively       on Demanding Democracy, he argued that       the centre-left would benefit from a return to the more decentralised and       participative approaches       to policymaking and implementation that had marked earlier historical       moments in Britain and       America [R1 &amp; R4].
Stears was then asked by Maurice Glasman       and others to help convene a       series of seminars on new directions for policymaking and party       organisation (hosted by University       College, Oxford and London Metropolitan University).
These seminars were       attended by heads of       major think tanks, Labour politicians, senior journalists and       representatives of civil society bodies.
Stears produced one of three major papers for the seminars, entitled Democracy,         Leadership and         Organising.
The collected papers were published electronically       (simultaneously by the Christian       Socialist Movement, Compass, the Fabian Society, and Progress and       Soundings) as The Labour         Tradition and the Politics of Paradox (downloaded over 100,000 times       in the first month after       publication) and became popularly known as the Blue Labour Book [C2].
The book provided the       foundation for the subsequent impact of Stears' research within the       Institute for Public Policy       Research (IPPR) and then within the Labour Party.
(2) Shaping the agenda of the Institute for Public Policy Research       On the basis of his research and contributions to the Blue Labour       debate Stears was invited by the       IPPR to help re-direct its research agenda (2010-13).
He produced a short       book, Everyday         Democracy (2011) that presented the major findings of his previous       research in an accessible       format.
The book argued that democracy can be enhanced by empowering       people and       communities to influence policymaking and implementation, through       decentralization and everyday       forms of participation [C3].These ideas challenged the traditional       Westminster model of top-down       policymaking, and helped to refocus IPPR's approach so as to take account       of the importance of       democratic participation in decision-making.
Stears applied his insights       in structuring IPPR       projects, including work on housing policy, cultural integration, the       living wage, responsible       business practices, and social security policy [C4].
He also       convened a series of internal and       external seminars introducing IPPR researchers to major new ideas in       political theory, especially       ideas related to the "new realism" [R3].
These resulted in changes       in the intellectual direction of       IPPR which are described in detail by the Director Nick Pearce in a recent       article for the IPPR       journal Juncture [C10].
(3) Reviving communitarian and democratic ideals in Labour Party           ideology: One Nation Labour       On the basis of his contributions in re-shaping the broader agenda for the       British Left, Stears was       invited to work for the Labour Party itself.
In 2012 he was asked by Ed       Miliband to assist in the       production of his annual conference speech on the idea of `One Nation' [C5].
In working on the       speech Stears drew extensively on his research concerning the relationship       between       communitarian and democratic politics [R1].
The speech contributed       significantly to Miliband's       wider efforts to reshape the Party's identity - the One Nation Project       - in which Stears has       remained closely involved.
The Project emphasizes ideas of power sharing,       and of reforming the       state and market to enable a politics that is bottom-up not top-down, that       is organised rather than       managed - objectives that reflect the research based ideas advocated by       Stears.
The One Nation Project has had a significant impact within the party     and beyond.
It promoted     public debate [C6] and triggered a new electronic publication, the One       Nation Register, viewed by     many younger Labour MPs as a campaigning tool and ideological guide for the     Party [C7].
It also     resulted in a major academic conference at Queen Mary (University of London,     April 2013), and a     series of public lectures at the London School of Economics, hosted by the     Director Craig Calhoun.
(4) Working towards a greater emphasis on participatory democracy           in Labour Party           organisation: The Collins Review       Stears also contributed to initiatives to reform Labour Party       organisation, in which he drew on his       work on democratic organisational practices.
He was invited to work with       the leading community       organiser Arnie Graf, who had been recruited by the Party to re-energise       democratic practices at       the grass-roots level.
Graf and Stears worked closely together to pursue       the party's aspiration to       become a more democratic, community based organisation [C8].
Stears also influenced the       establishment of the Collins Review into the structure of Labour       Party membership [C8].
The       Collins Review: Building a One Nation Labour Party was announced by       Ed Miliband in a speech in       July 2013.
Stears was involved extensively in the preparation of       Miliband's speech and influenced       the terms of reference for the Review, which reflect many of his       research-based ideas for       participatory democracy [R1, R5].
For instance, Collins has a       mandate to review the automatic       affiliation of trade union members to the Labour Party and to consider new       ways for members to       participate in Party decision-making [C9].
These terms of       reference give the Collins Review the       scope to recommend the most radical and extensive reforms to the Party's       internal organisation       since it adopted its constitution in 1918.
In short, Stears' research has contributed to a renewed focus of the       Labour Party and the wider       policy community on participation, community based organisation, and       grass-roots based       approaches to policymaking and implementation.
Since 2010, his work has       had significant impact       in shaping Labour's One Nation Project and the organisational       choices of the party.
Its reach and       significance is evidenced by Stears' appointment by Ed Miliband as Chief       Speechwriter to the       Leader of the Opposition until the next general election.
With the support       of the Department, Stears       took up that role on secondment in May 2013.
