     Since 2008 this UoL research has made a major contribution in the UK and       internationally to the       diagnosis and treatment of pancreatitis.
Within the UK alone, this       benefits over 20,000 patients       annually and improves the cost-effectiveness of over &#163;250m of annual       healthcare provision.
Dissemination       The UoL has actively disseminated its research findings to both the       clinical community and the       general public including patients, carers and charities.
It has drawn out       for both lay and       professional audiences the implications of the identification, clinical       and genetic characterisation of       patients and their families as well as their appropriate medical       management.
For example, several       groups have since studied pancreatic juice markers to predict the presence       of pancreatic cancer,       now used in algorithms to determine whether pancreatic resection should be       recommended.
The UoL has played a major role in promoting informed health care for       hereditary and chronic       pancreatitis incorporating its research findings at many international       conferences including the       International Association of Pancreatology (JPN Past President), American       Pancreatic Association,       European Pancreatic Club (JPN Past Secretary), Pancreatic Society of GB       and Ireland (RS       President) and workshops on hereditary and sporadic chronic pancreatitis.
Increasing engagement       of specialist clinicians through commitment to EUROPAC and the initiation       since 2007 of       secondary screening using endoscopic ultrasound, CT and MRI scanning as       well as molecular       analysis of pancreatic juice has extended the imperative for patients and       their relatives to be       appropriately counselled and offered genotyping.
Such characterisation       includes PRSS1, SPINK1       and cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR) mutational       analysis, for which       the Liverpool Regional Molecular Genetics Laboratory is now the national       reference centre.
RS and JPN have worked with all the national pancreatic charities       including the Pancreatitis       Supporters Network, Pancreatic Cancer Action, Pancreatic Cancer UK and       CORE, contributing to       forums (e.g.
Liverpool National Pancreas Diseases Patient and Public Forum       2013) and       encouraging patient, carer and public involvement.
The UoL has promoted       evaluation of cancer       risk in high-risk groups through the media (multiple broadcasts since 2008       including on the BBC       Today Programme, BBC North West, Jeremy Kyle Show, BBC Radio 4 Case Notes       and Radio       Merseyside) and the internet (including EUROPAC and NIHR Pancreas BRU       websites [12]).
Application       Patients and their relatives are the beneficiaries of the work described,       with development of       increasingly prominent specialist pancreatic services globally from 2008       [1-12].
With the availability       and use of internet information on hereditary and sporadic chronic       pancreatitis as well on the risks       of pancreatic cancer, patients and their families are increasingly       prepared to seek help and advice.
Thus patients are (i) referred to tertiary and quaternary specialists at       an earlier stage of hereditary       and chronic pancreatitis; (ii) provided with clinical and genetic       counselling predicated on greater       understanding of natural history and risk; (iii) offered genetic       characterisation to identify individual       risk and encourage, through affected individuals, that family members come       forward for       assessment; (iv) receive evaluation of the impact of pancreatitis and       pancreatic insufficiency with       provision of optimal treatment; (v) offered entry into secondary       surveillance programmes with the       primary objective of early cancer identification and prompt definitive       treatment, and secondary       objective of further evaluation of such programmes in management; (vi)       given the option of long-       term specialist follow up, stratified on the basis of genetic and clinical       characterisation.
This       progress is reflected in guidelines for the management of chronic       pancreatitis published in multiple       countries during this time, including Italy [3], South Africa [4], Germany       [7] and Spain [8,9].
Evidence       Guidelines published during the last five years and independent expert       reviews (section 5)       corroborate the applications of our discoveries including those made with       others.
Multiple websites       of governments, HEIs, health services and charities confirm the central       importance of genetic and       clinical characterisation of hereditary and idiopathic chronic       pancreatitis, the role of secondary       screening as well as optimisation of medical and surgical management [12].
