     The modelling made possible by CHINAGRO-I and II has resulted in a       cascade of novel findings       and well-substantiated predictions of direct relevance to Chinese national       agricultural policy,       planning and approaches to foreign trade.
Presented by Sun on at least 20       occasions since 2008,       at events involving the direct participation of government policy makers,       the research findings have       informed understanding of the future of Chinese agriculture and its       challenges at the highest level       (3, 4, below).
In some cases, presentations have resulted in invitations       from Chinese government       ministries to draft briefing and policy papers on specific topics.
For example, output a, which highlights the risks of China's heavy       reliance on imported soya,       mainly from South America, to feed its growing population of livestock,       was presented at policy       forums in Beijing in 2010 and in Shanghai in 2011.
The article and       presentations elicited the       interest of the China National Science Foundation (CNSF), representatives       of which asked Sun to       draft a policy brief with the same title for the State Council, the       highest executive body of       government power and administration in China (1, below).
The policy brief       was submitted to the       State Council in October 2011 where it received great attention from the       Vice-Premier in charge of       food security and was circulated and discussed across several ministries.
State policy on       promoting domestic animal feed production and further facilitating of the       import of Dried Distillers       Grains with Solubles (DDGS), a by-product of bio-ethanol production from       maize and a high-nutrient,       high-protein animal feed were then announced and implemented in 2012 and       early 2013,       as a part of the implementation of China's 12th 5-year Plan (2011-2015)       for the Feed Industry.
Other elements of the research that were subsequently drawn into       government policy since 2008       include: (a) a policy briefing submitted to China Meteorological       Administration in August 2011 on       "The Status of Nationwide Excessive Fertilizers Application and its       Implications to Environment and       Climate Change", and (b) a policy briefing submitted to Shanghai Municipal       Government in May       2011 on "Assessment of the Status of Excessive Fertilizer Application and       its Impact on the       Environment of Shanghai" (2, 9).
Important to understanding Sun's impact on Chinese national policy making       is recognition of the       ways high-ranking research institutes and think tanks operate in China.
Their creation was       modelled in the 20th century on Soviet research institutes and most remain       today closely affiliated       to the State Council, individual government ministries or the Communist       Party.
They are       government-funded and since the 1980s have been primary conduits for the       commissioning and       delivery of focussed research with direct applications to policy-making.
As a Research Professor at two government-sponsored public policy       research institutes, the       Institute of Geographic Sciences and Natural Resources Research (IGSNRR)       and the Centre for       Chinese Agricultural Policy (CCAP) within the Chinese Academy of Sciences       (CAS), which refers       to itself on its website as, "the top think tank for central government,"       Sun's work informed by       CHINAGRO II regularly receives the attention of key policy makers.
Notably and somewhat unusually, articles featuring the work of Sun and       his collaborators are       available directly from the websites of China's Central Government and       several government       ministries and organisations.
An article of February 2013, examining the       potential long-term harm       to the environment resulting from excess nitrogen from fertilizer in       China's soil as demonstrated by       the research of Sun and his colleagues, has featured on the websites of       the Central Government       (3), the Ministry of Agriculture (4) and the China Meteorological       Administration (5).
It quotes Sun       and another team member on the project's prediction of increased       agro-climatic resources and the       need for policy responses to (a) provide incentives for farmers to extend       multi-cropping practice to       increase total output and (b) address the consequent strain on water       resources.
The website of China's National Science Foundation published an article       the following month, in       March 2013, detailing the research findings of the same project, as well       as those published in       output a, and highlighted the attention both projects have received from       China's leadership       including the Vice Prime Minister (6).
An article produced in both Chinese and English in September 2012, "What       Are the Ecological       Costs of China's Future Food Imports?
", is posted on the website of the       Department of Science       and Technology of the Guangdong Provincial Government (7) as well as on       the bilingual website of       China Dialogue, an independent, non-profit organisation based in London       and Beijing, "devoted to       the publication of high quality, bilingual information, direct dialogue       and the search for solutions to       our shared environmental challenges."
(8)     *Please note that translations used to produce this case study were made       by a neutral translator,       not by Professor Sun.
