     Research capacity in Iraq is extremely weak.
During sanctions of the       1990s, academics were denied new books, access to journals and       opportunities to attend conferences or collaborate internationally.
Since       2003, the situation for academics dramatically declined further with       destruction of infrastructure, brain-drain, targeted assassinations,       increasing sectarianism and a lack of training opportunities.
In parallel,       the situation of women in Iraq has also worsened, as Al-Ali's own research       demonstrates.
There have been increases in gender-based violence, women's       poverty, unemployment, legal discrimination, inadequate healthcare and       education and restrictions on movement and behaviour.
Within academe,       female academics are systematically excluded from decision-making,       research training and professional advancement.
Paradoxically, the       country's reconstruction requires &#8212; perhaps now more than ever &#8212; a robust       research base to inform policy and legislation; the lack thereof is       holding back advocacy and policy-making around women's education,       political and workforce participation and legal rights, frustrating the       country's potential to rebuild equitably and democratically.
Al-Ali has been working closely with female academics and women's rights       activists in Iraq for more than five years to improve the research       capacity of both individuals and institutions in ways that promote the       creation of an evidence base to better inform advocacy, lobbying, decision       and policy-making at local, national and international levels in relation       to women's rights.
Al-Ali has spearheaded several initiatives to fulfil       these objectives, including Middle East Regional Roundtables on Gender       (RRTs) and a Research Fellowship Programme with the collaboration and       support of UK-based Council for Assisting Refugee Academics (CARA) and the       Konrad Adenauer Foundation in Amman (1, 2 and 6, below).
Since 2010 Al-Ali has co-organised and participated in six Regional       Roundtables in Amman, Beirut and Erbil, Iraqi Kurdistan (4).
Each involves       20-35 participants of varied ethnic and religious backgrounds and       generations drawn from Iraqi academe and civil society organisations, and       academics and other stakeholders from across the Middle East.
In November       2011, for example, a two-day RRT in Beirut involved six academics from       departments at the University of Baghdad, the Head of Political Science at       the University of Salahadeen in Erbil, and representatives from the       Baghdad Women Association (5), the Jordanian Women's Union and the       Beirut-based ABAAD Resource Centre for Gender Equality amongst others.
The       events also provide an important networking opportunity and facilitate the       sharing of experiences of those in the wider region with their Iraqi       counterparts.
Al-Ali chairs the roundtables, which focus on gender and specific themes       drawn directly from her research such as "Women Empowerment through       Research" and "Linking Civil Society and Academia: The Relevance of Women       and Gender Studies".
In June 2012, a highly-pragmatic RRT in Erbil       resulted in the creation of a working group tasked with preparing Iraq's       first ever Shadow Report responding to the Iraqi Government's 1998 CEDAW       (Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination Against       Women) Report to the UN.
In June 2013 the working group submitted a       preliminary List of Issues to the CEDAW Committee in Geneva and the       following month sent a delegation to Geneva to present oral evidence.
The       drafting of the Shadow Report is now underway.
Through the CARA-sponsored Iraq Research Fellowship Programme (IRFP),       with additional funding from DelPHe and UN Women, Al-Ali delivered       intensive, double-stranded training combining an introduction to the       concepts, theories and applications of gender studies, particularly with       reference to the specifics of the situation in Iraq and qualitative       research methods, such as interviewing techniques, participant       observations and life-story approaches (7, 8).
On two projects each       involving four Iraqi or Iraqi-exiled academics, Al-Ali mentored teams       researching the problems and needs of female academics in higher education       in Iraq and making recommendations to improve the situation.
Dissemination       of the resulting reports (outputs d and e) took place at the home       universities of the participants, attracting hundreds of audience members,       via online publication in English, Arabic and Kurdish, and, for one group,       the publication of an English-language book chapter, "We Don't Do Numbers"       in output f. Crucial to the projects' success was familiarising team       members with international research standards and ensuring participants       could employ qualitative research methods confidently and effectively in       the hundreds of interviews with Iraqi female academics that underpinned       the research.
The RRTs and IRFPs have developed strong, sustainable networks of       researchers and activists working on women's issues in Iraq and the       region.
Both have also had very positive, unanticipated impacts: The       success of the RRTs on Gender have provided a model for new RRTs on social       sciences; IRPF participants have since successfully lobbied for a Gender       Unit at the University of Baghdad and been commissioned to undertake       further research by the Minister for Women.
The success of the projects       also supported further successful fundraising initiatives including       garnering funds from the UN for more gender training and network building.
