     ELAR was established through a &#163;20-million sponsorship of the Endangered       Languages Project by Arcadia in 2002.
This enabled research and practice       in documentary linguistics to provide direct benefit to a range of users       through the various activities of the archive.
ELAR is not only part of       the forefront project to document and support endangered languages       worldwide, but is also an acknowledged leader in applying new media       technologies in support of the goals of language documentation (1, below).
ELAR's catalogue serves an average of over 400 unique visitors per day       with 1.4 million page-views per year.
ELAR has a registered membership of       1,040 people from 85 countries, with membership increasing by about 5% per       month (2, 3).
Along with linguists, professional members include a number       of anthropologists, archivists, and language teachers.
In addition, a       growing number of language and culture enthusiasts use the archive.
A       prominent example is the well-known New York-based poet Bob Holman who has       used ELAR in 2012 and 2013 to create Lost Wor(l)ds: an Endangered         Cento, a collage poem in which each line reproduces a single line of       poetry from one of the world's endangered languages (4, 5).
Holman learned of ELAR as a visitor to "Endangered Languages Week" (ELW)       at SOAS.
Initiated by ELAR and the Endangered Languages Academic Programme       in 2007, the annual week-long series of outreach events &#8212; which includes       demonstrations, talks, performances and films &#8212; attracts hundreds of       participants and audience members (6).
Of ELAR's membership, endangered language community members       comprise 10%; for ELAR, such engagement of members of endangered language       communities is vital, both as documenters of their own languages and as       users of the archive.
Eli Timan, a native speaker of the highly endangered       and now globally dispersed Jewish Iraqi dialect of Arabic, provides an       excellent example (7).
Jews lived in Baghdad for more than 2,500 years and       by the early 20th century they comprised one-third of the city's       population.
Of 137,000 Jews in Iraq in the 1940s, 124,000 had fled by 1952       as victims of persecution following the 1948 Arab-Israeli war.
When Timan       began documenting his native language in 2005, it was virtually a language       of the diaspora alone, with only 10 Jews remaining in Baghdad.
The last       seven Jews in Iraq were named by Wikileaks in 2011, applying further       pressure on them to flee.
Having learned of the Endangered Languages Project from a newspaper       article, Timan visited SOAS in 2005, motivated to preserve his spoken       language and create oral documentation of the recent history of Iraqi       Jews.
He took early retirement from a career in accountancy to visit       diaspora communities in the UK, Canada and Israel to record his language       and culture.
Having successfully applied for funding, Peter Austin, David       Nathan and others provided training in historical linguistics, phonetics,       phonology, morphology, language revival, database management, and the use       of recording equipment and linguistic documentation software.
Timan writes: "My life has been transformed since then as I embarked on       my most important and interesting project."
He has completed much of his       project, and has deposited 34 fully-documented stories and interviews in       the language with ELAR.
He confirms the importance of this archived       material to his community and beyond:     "Other members of the community have commented favourably on the material       I deposited.
They do not see it as a language project, but rather as a       "Living history project".
Recently there has been a great interest in       "Iraqi Jews" from fellow Muslim Iraqis challenging the taboos of 35 years       of Saddam's reign where nothing about us was allowed to be published as we       were branded "Zionist spies".
It may be that the archive will prove more       valuable to those Iraqi Muslims anxious to discover a vital element of       Iraq past history."
Crucial to Timan is the knowledge that his work is properly archived at       ELAR and will remain accessible regardless of changes in technology.
He       has deposited materials with other Jewish Iraqi centres in the diaspora,       but because they lack technical expertise, that work remains inaccessible.
Endangered language community members who wish to reconnect with and       learn more about the languages their parents and older family members       spoke are also users of the archive.
A poignant example of a request to       access materials documenting the language of the Wasco Native American       Indian tribe of Oregon state, who now number approximately 200, was       received in May 2013 (8):     "My name is G. My Uncles are N, H and J who are Wascos.
Their Uncle was       the last fullblood Chief.
As a young boy, I was taken fishing ... by a       tribal elder T who was (Wasco/Chinese) and he taught me Wasco ...
I have       been gone away from home for the past 22 years ... only coming home for       funerals and vacations.
I now live in Q and although I am closer to home,       I am not around anyone who speaks the language.
Speaker C is a close       friend and she is one of the keepers of the Language along with K. I would       like to be able to access the language so I can practice what I have       forgotten and keep the language alive."
