     Clark's expertise has been widely solicited by international governments       and organisations, enabling his significant contribution to international       judicial processes and debates.
Notably, Clark provided legal advice to an       ICC trial, at which he successfully challenged the Prosecution's weak       evidence base against Callixte Mbarushimana, the executive secretary of       the Forces D&#233;mocratiques de Lib&#233;ration du Rwanda (FDLR), a DRC-based rebel       group (1, below).
In 2010, Mbarushimana had been indicted by the ICC for       crimes against humanity and war crimes committed in the DRC.
In September       2011, Clark wrote an expert report for the Defence.
Drawing on the       publications discussed in Section 2, Clark's report noted the       Prosecution's heavy reliance on second-hand evidence published by human       rights observers, including HRW and the UN Group of Experts on the DRC,       and challenged the Prosecution's attribution of criminal responsibility to       the FDLR (and Mbarushimana) on the basis of witnesses' claims that their       attackers spoke Kinyarwanda, the national language of Rwanda, the FDLR's       alleged home.
The report was central to defence evidence in Mbarushimana's       pre-trial hearing in The Hague, and was debated at great length.
In       December 2011, the ICC dismissed charges against Mbarushimana on the       grounds of insufficient evidence.
Clark's support of the Defence was       motivated not by criticism of the ICC, but by the poor quality of the       evidence brought by the Prosecution, which Clark considered indicative of       a wider problem: the fallibility of evidence gathered without specific       understanding of the nature of conflict in the Great Lakes.
For Clark, the       use of such evidence in this case would have further undermined the       legitimacy of the ICC, thereby undermining post-conflict justice and       reconciliation in the region (2).
Clark is also an expert in an on-going case with the UK Crown Prosecution       Service (CPS), which seeks the extradition to Rwanda of five genocide       suspects living in the UK.
Using Clark's monograph as the primary source       for information on fair trial standards in Rwanda, senior CPS lawyers       agreed that there were sufficient grounds to pursue the extradition cases,       having lost similar cases on appeal in the High Court in 2009.
They were       particularly convinced by Clark's demonstration that genocide suspects       routinely receive fair trials in Rwanda's gacaca system, and that       significant shortcomings exist in the methodologies of organisations such       as HRW (upon whose testimony the 2009 High Court judgements hinged).
Clark       has since conducted further research and compiled an expert report for a       second set of extradition hearings in March 2014.
The CPS is now       considering actions against other genocide suspects in the UK on the basis       of Clark's publications and his report, the latter of which was shared       with prosecutors pursuing extraditions in Norway and the International       Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda in Tanzania.
These extraditions would mean       that genocide suspects will be prosecuted in Rwanda by Rwandans, the       outcome of which will have important implications for strengthening       domestic law in Rwanda, itself fundamental to maintaining stability in the       Great Lakes region.
Additionally, Clark has provided substantial expert advice to the UK       government.
In 2011, he submitted written and oral evidence to the House       of Commons Select Committee on International Development which was       re-evaluating donor policy to Rwanda, Burundi and the DRC.
Clark's       invitation arose from his publications and previous appointments to brief       the Foreign and Commonwealth Office, DFID and UK ambassadors and High       Commissioners to Rwanda, Uganda and the DRC.
Clark's evidence criticised       the government's proposed withdrawal of aid to Burundi, especially in       light of planned substantial aid increases to Rwanda and the DRC, and       advocated regional rather than state-based donor assistance in order to       advance post-conflict re-building and maintain stability in the Great       Lakes as a whole.
This stance was eventually adopted by the Select       Committee, whose report to Parliament called for a regional approach (as       proposed by Clark) and exercised pressure on senior FCO and DFID policy       makers (3, 4 and 5).
Similarly, in November 2012, Clark provided written evidence to the House       of Commons International Development Committee on aid to Rwanda (6).
Clark       questioned the decisions of the UK, US, Germany, the Netherlands and       Sweden to withdraw or partially withhold aid to Rwanda, decisions based       primarily on a UN Group of Experts on the DRC report accusing the Rwandan       government of supporting the M23 rebel group in eastern DRC.
Clark       highlighted the significant methodological problems with this and similar       reports, and questioned whether a single source should be relied upon so       extensively in determining policy.
Clark's work prompted questions from       two MPs to the Development Secretary, Justine Greening, during the       Committee meeting, and was further discussed in a May 2013 briefing paper       to the House of Commons on political and security developments in Rwanda.
Internationally, Clark has advised the US State Department, the Danish,       Australian, Norwegian, Sudanese, Swedish, and Ugandan governments, the       ICC, International Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda, UN Group of Experts on       the DRC, HRW and Crisis Group on conflict-related issues in Rwanda,       facilitating important policy and legal discussions with practitioners.
Clark has had a clear influence on international discussion and debate on       conflict and reconciliation in Africa.
This is corroborated by his       frequent engagement with the media: Since 2010, he has written nine op-eds       for the Guardian, New York Times (7), International Herald         Tribune, Huffington Post (10), The Australian and the BBC       (9) and CNN (8) websites, and has been quoted no fewer than 85 times in       broadcasts and articles by a wide range of international agencies (11,       12).
