     The measured, objective analysis of the Malawi programme disseminated       through the many publications, reports and briefing papers of Dorward and       his team have elicited widespread interest amongst a great range of       Malawian and international stakeholders, resulting in extensive policy       engagement at many levels.
In Malawi, Dorward and his team have provided annual monitoring reports       on FISP implementation and the estimated costs and returns to the       programme since 2007.
These have been received by policy makers at the       Malawi Ministry of Agriculture and Food Security, by DFID in Malawi, who       funds the reports' production, and by other international and national       agencies in Malawi.
These reports are complemented by frequent, regular       meetings, presentations and workshops involving senior agricultural and       economic policy makers, civil society representatives, development       partners, NGOs and private sector seed and fertilizer suppliers.
In       addition, papers and policy briefing papers on specific issues such as       improving targeting to potential subsidy recipients, gender impacts of the       programme, and private sector engagement have been provided to different       domestic stakeholders and international and bilateral donors.
Since       January 2008 Dorward has participated in no fewer than 8 review workshops       and a large number of informal meetings in Malawi and authored or       co-authored 11 briefing papers with a primarily in-country audience.
A number of changes recommended in and specific to these reports and       briefings have been made to the programme (1 and 2 below), including:            Changes to the allocation of subsidised inputs between and within         districts were recommended in 2008 (to improve programme effectiveness,         efficiency, and equity of programme impacts), and have been         progressively implemented in annual allocations since then;       The removal of cash crop subsidies for tobacco was recommended         repeatedly until it was implemented in 2009;       Improved targeting of subsidised inputs for efficiency and equity         reasons was recommended in 2008 and there is evidence of increased,         though still inadequate, access to subsidised inputs by women and         vulnerable and poorer households          Other changes have been recommended by the team alongside other       stakeholders and have been adopted to a greater or lesser extent over the       life of the programme.
These include earlier programming of all       activities, public listing of beneficiaries (adopted in 2012), lesson       learning from successful local innovations, improved coupon security       features, improved cost control, greater involvement of small scale       `agrodealers' in subsidised seed sales, and increased provision of       subsidised legume seeds.
Changes repeatedly recommended and not       implemented for a variety of (often political) reasons include some       aspects of targeting, increased farmer contributions for inputs, and       private sector engagement in subsidised fertiliser sales.
The team has also provided unique, consistent and comprehensive       information, performance indicators, and commentary on the changing       implementation and impacts of this unique and major programme from its       inception, drawing on a unique integration of empirical and theoretical       understanding of complex implementation and impact processes.
The success of Dorward's team in chronicling the successes and challenges       of the FISP and proffering sound and relevant policy advice is       corroborated by the citation of the research by programme funders.
DFID       has cited Dorward's findings extensively in internal programme documents       justifying continued FISP investments.
In November 2009 the Head DFID's       Malawi Office cited the work of Dorward and the team when testifying to       the UK Parliament Public Accounts Committee (3).
The same year, the UK       National Audit Office also referred to the research in its evaluation of       the Malawi DfID programme (4).
Outside Malawi, Dorward and his team members have presented papers on       input subsidies and the FISP programme at many wider African agricultural       policy meetings, including at events sponsored by AGRA (Alliance for a       Green Revolution in Africa), the Gates Foundation in Africa and the Future       Agricultures Consortium, on whose website Dorward and his colleagues have       made a number of published, working and policy papers freely available.
Since 2008, Dorward has presented his research on the FISP at five       regional agricultural development meetings in Africa, one occasion       involving the Kenyan Minister of Agriculture.
The World Bank (6, 10), OECD, FAO (5, 11) and other international       organisations have invited Dorward to present their research findings       and/or have commissioned them to write papers on specific topics related       to the implementation and development of the FISP (see for example output       e and f).
The research of Dorward and his collaborators has made a substantial       contribution to changes in attitudes towards agricultural input subsidies       - helping to provide sceptics with theoretical explanations of context       specific subsidy contributions and objective evidence of the Malawi       programme's performance, and moderating the support from subsidy       proponents with evidence of the subsidies' weaknesses, thereby providing       all stakeholders with theoretical and empirical ground for exploration.
