     Harris' body of research on developing economies has resulted in numerous       invitations to advise       the leading South African bodies responsible for the country's monetary       and fiscal policy and the       financial sector.
Instances since 2008 include advising the Governor and       Research Department of       South Africa's central bank (SARB), the Director General of the National       Treasury and the South       Africa Minister of Finance.
His advice has had a significant impact on       macroeconomic policy       making including interest rate policy, management of external capital       flows and the exchange rate       regime, fiscal policy and sovereign debt sustainability, and economic       growth planning.
He has also       regularly contributed to research-led training of policy analysis       economists from African banks,       governments, and policy institutions hosted by the African Economic       Research Consortium.
South African Reserve Bank (SARB)       In 2008 Harris was invited to present research on South Africa's real       exchange rate and its       implications for industrial sectors to the Governor and senior staff of       SARB (output c), and the       following year, in June 2009, he presented research results at the       Strategic Planning Session of       SARB's Monetary Policy Committee (MPC), (output d).
The Central Bank's       Governor has recently       highlighted the importance of Harris' advice and research on these       occasions:     "His research on the behaviour of South Africa's exchange rate and on         the emerging economies'         external capital movements were presented at the SARB and have         influenced the macroeconomic         analysis that underpins the central bank's policy.
Published as "Capital         Flows..." (output c) in 2009,         the research was influential in South Africa's policy debates on the         dangers and merits of capital         controls as an instrument for insulating the economy from global         shocks."
Gill Marcus, Governor,       South African Reserve Bank.
In November 2012 Harris was again asked to advise the SARB, on this       occasion in respect of his       then very recently published article, "From Financial Development to       Economic Growth" (output e).
Following this, In 2013 Harris was invited to advise on SARB's policy       research and how the work of       the SARB's Research Department comprising 150 economists could be best       structured and       communicated.
The Head of Research at SARB believes this benefitted his       organisation in two       key ways by enabling, "our research to be of greater value for policy...       both by serving better the       Monetary Policy Committee's decision-making and by enabling the       communication of SARB's       analyses to interact better with market opinion and expectations       (effective interaction with market       expectations being a requirement for effective interest rate policy)."
(Dr       Rashad Cassim, Head,       Research Department, SARB).
In May 2013 he was invited (as the only outsider) to address a special       meeting of the MPC of       SARB for a one-day session devoted to his recommendations including his       recommendations on       how the Committee should use research in making decisions on the policy       interest rate.
Two       weeks after Harris's presentation of recommendations on the SARB MPC's use       of research       results, the MPC held its regular interest policy decision-making meeting       of members only.
At its       close the central bank's Governor wrote to Harris (text message       23/05/2013) that at the meeting,       "the quality of discussion and presentation was vastly improved, so thanks       to you".
More broadly,       the draft official response (10/7/2013) of the SARB Head of Research to       Harris's Report on policy       research endorsed almost all of Harris's recommendations.
National Treasury and South African Minister of Finance       In 2006-8 Harris was appointed by the South African Minister of Finance as       a member of the       country's International Panel of Experts on Economic Growth.
The       Director-General of the National       Treasury has confirmed the importance of the contributions of the Panel:     "The National Treasury appointed Professor Harris to its International         Panel of Experts on the         government's Accelerated and Shared Growth Initiative, ASGISA, 2006-08.
Its recommendations,         published in May 2008 by the Centre for International Development at         Harvard University, have         influenced the subsequent policies of National Treasury.
Its analysis of         binding constraints on         growth in South Africa provided one foundation for the analysis behind         the government's 2012         National Development Plan."
Lungisa Fuzile, Director General of the       National Treasury, South       Africa     Further to this, Harris was appointed Economic Advisor to the South       African Minister of Finance       and to the Director General of the National Treasury, South Africa from       2010-12 as a direct       consequence of his research on the volatility in South Africa's exchange       rate under different policy       frameworks.
This had, according to Fuzile, "a direct impact on our         policy during that year's [2010]         period of exchange rate appreciation and large capital inflows (a period         of intense policy difficulty         for South Africa...)."
He has also highlighted the significant input       Harris has had on the South       African government's Medium Term Fiscal Framework particularly in relation       to debt sustainability       and financial markets.
In October 2013, the Minister of Finance asked Harris to arrange and lead       a private discussion at       SOAS of global issues in economic policy; it successfully contributed to       his knowledge in advance       of his attendance at the Washington meetings of G20 Finance Ministers.
African Economic Research Consortium       The reach and significance of Harris's research in Africa goes beyond       South Africa.
It includes his       research-led training of policy analysis economists from African banks,       governments, and policy       institutions in regular six-monthly visits to the African Economic       Research Consortium (AERC), a       Nairobi-based, non-HE sector training and capacity building institution       for African countries.
Funded and governed by the DFID, the EU, IMF, World Bank, and other       governmental and non-       government bodies, AERC promotes policy-relevant research within African       universities and       institutions.
(4 below) For example, at the June 2013 meetings of the AERC       Harris advised on       research projects including Finance, Infrastructure and Economic Growth in       sub-Saharan Africa;       The Bank Lending Channels of Monetary Policy Transmission in Tanzania;       Optimal Monetary       Policy Rules and Exchange Rate Volatility in Zambia; Financial Sector       Development and Economic       Growth in Botswana; Insider Ownership, Competition, Probability of       Failure, and Risk Taking       Behaviour of Banks in Ghana and Togo.
The policy analysts involved in the       research included       economic policy analysts from the Central Bank of Tanzania, the Reserve       Bank of Zambia,       Reserve Bank of Malawi, and other authorities.
In the 2008-13 assessment       period similar       examples can be drawn from Harris's participation in research training at       every six monthly       meeting of the AERC.
