     Since its publication in 2010, The Millennium Development Goals: A         Cross-sectoral Analysis and Principles for Goal Setting after 2015       has been widely cited and circulated internationally by the UN, global       charities, NGOs, think tanks and government ministries abroad.
In the UK       it has influenced government through the direct and extended engagement of       SOAS project members with DFID and participation in Select Committee       enquiries in 2012.
Just a week after its publication, the Guardian's "Poverty       Matters" blog, supported by the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, named       the report as one of the six most significant to be published in the       lead-up to the UN summit (1, below).
Such swift accolades coupled with the       status afforded by its publication in The Lancet ensured attention       from the UN itself.
This is corroborated by citation and multiple       quotations both in a UN Economic Commission on Africa (UNECA) position       paper for the regional workshop, "Towards an African Position on the       Post-2015 Development Agenda" (Accra, November 2011), and in a subsequent       formal UNECA report, MDG Report 2012: Assessing Progress in Africa         toward the Millennium Development Goals in a section entitled,       "Emerging perspectives from Africa on the post-2015 development agenda"       (2).
The World Family Organization (consultative status with the UN since       1948) has cited it in a background paper for its Social Protection Floor       Advisory Group entitled, Enhancing the Millennium Development Goals:         Reducing Inequalities and Improving Coherence by Eveline Herfkens.
Such citation by UN and UN-affiliated organisations with a strong stake       in development was particularly important in the lead up to the 2012-14       processes of deciding on new International and Sustainable Development       Goals.
In this the publication and ongoing team activity continue to       champion a cross-sectoral approach as well as improved targets and       indicators within sectors.
An indicative selection of other organisations that have cited the Report       includes:            Nestl&#233; Foundation: Annual Report (2010) (3, below);       Overseas Development Institute: Malawi's Story: Improved Economic           Conditions in Malawi: Progress from a Low Base (Vandemoortele with         Bird, 2011) (4, below);       Save the Children: After the Millennium Development Goals: Setting           out the Options and Must Haves for a New Development Framework in 2015         (2012) (5, below);       World Bank: MDGs That Nudge: The Millennium Development Goals,           Popular Mobilization, and the Post-2015 Development Framework         (2012) (6, below);       European Centre for Development Policy Management: Measuring           Policy Coherence for Development (report commissioned by The         Netherlands Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the German Federal Ministry         for Economic Cooperation and Development (2012) (7, below).
This last example cites the Lancet publication eight times,       highlights the positive consequences it has had subsequently on the       monitoring of the MDGs and directs readers especially to it for its ,       "more elaborate analysis of the challenges with the MDGs and a chapter on       the framing of future development goals".
DFID, like most bilateral aid organizations in OECD countries, has based       its development agenda and investment on the MDG targets.
Staff in DFID       tasked with progressing the post-2015 development agenda called on the       project team in formulating its plans for future goals.
Specifically,       Professor Jeff Waage was asked to present the publication to the DFID       Health Division and the post-2015 MDG team in May 2011.
More recently, the       team undertook for DFID a study on whether "stunting" (a measure of poor       growth early in life) was a good cross-sectoral indicator for future goal       setting.
DFID commented in email correspondence that this study was useful       and contributed to their post-2015 planning.
(8)     In August 2012, the UK Parliamentary International Development Committee       launched a Select Committee enquiry on the post 2015 development agenda.
The team prepared a submission based on the 2010 publication and members'       subsequent research.
This received a very positive response from the       Committee and Professor Andrew Dorward was invited on 4 October 2012 to       give oral evidence to the Committee.
The Committee report subsequently       drew quotations from the submission and oral evidence (see paras 69-71,       corroborating evidence), (9 and 10).
The above have been complemented by further face-to-face dissemination       activities involving SOAS team members and the Overseas Development       Institute, the Institute of Development Studies, Tearfund, CAFOD, BOND,       the HUNDEE Oromo Grassroots Development Initiative (Ethiopia)and       International Alert.
Dorward's work on sustainable development indicators in agriculture and       food security has drawn the recent attention of the UN Sustainable       Solutions Network (SDSN) Thematic Group 7 on Solutions for Sustainable       Agriculture and Food Systems, highlighting the continuing impact of the       research through and beyond the impact period.
The SDSN was launched by       the UN Secretary-General in August 2012.
Since July 2013, Dorward has been       in email correspondence with the chair of the SDSN Thematic Group 7 who       specifically recognised the value of his proposed indicators.
The final       report of thematic group 7 to the UN Secretary-General cites the output       several times (pages 2, 17, 30, 38-39) making fundamental points about the       importance of differentiated income related measures of food prices and       access, and of the productivity of labour and other resources in       considering sustainable agricultural development processes and indicators       (11).
