     Smith's research has produced outputs of direct relevance to       policy-makers and managers in the water industry, agricultural sector,       local authorities and NGOs.
It has influenced UK national policy and       gained recognition internationally.
Project 1 has had significant impact       on Defra, OFWAT, the Environment Agency (EA), water companies, rivers and       wildlife charities, and House of Lords contributions to EU policy (1, 2       and 3, below).
Similarly, Project 2 which has also been utilised by the       OECD.
Specifically, Project 2 findings on the legal basis for land       conservation agreements has been utilised in the Defra `Payments for         Ecosystem Services: A Best Practice Guide', 2013.
(6, 9)     In Project 1, catchment management was framed as a `wicked problem', and       this has been widely adopted and cited.
In November 2010, project outputs       were presented to the Defra Water Policy team and senior managers of the       EA and OFWAT.
Following this a discussion paper setting out detailed       prescriptions for catchment management in England and Wales was requested       by Defra (4).
An invited presentation was made at Defra's national Water       Stakeholder Forum in March 2011, where the then Parliamentary Under       Secretary for Natural Environment and Fisheries announced the adoption and       piloting of a `Catchment Based Approach' (CaBA) for renewed EU Water       Framework Directive implementation.
Soon after, the Environment Secretary       announced new funding for river restoration, including a Catchment       Restoration Fund to support local projects and trialling of the new CaBA.
In August 2011 Defra and the EA launched the CaBA with 25 pilot       catchments, a quarter of all catchments in England and Wales.
These were       innovative trials of a more decentralised and adaptive approach supported       by many of the research findings and recommendations made by Smith and his       team.
From 2011-12, Smith provided informal advice to Cascade Consulting,       who were evaluating the 25 trials for Defra.
In September 2012, Smith       became an invited member of the EA Catchment Planning System External User       Group.
In October 2012, he was invited by Defra to join its Water Quality       Professional Advisory Group, which advised both Defra and the EA on the       development of a policy framework for national implementation of the CaBA.
The new policy framework was published in May 2013.
In June 2013, new       funding and tendering for local catchment partnerships nationwide were       announced, with contracts subsequently awarded to establish CaBA       partnerships across the country.
Smith provided both written and oral evidence in 2011 to the House of       Lords Select Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and the Environment,       which addressed the UK's enactment of EU Water Policy.
In the Committee's       subsequent published report, Project 1 is cited 15 times in the main text,       and the project's management template is included in summary form as the       final annex.
The Committee concluded that freshwater should be managed at       a more local, catchment level than is currently the case, allowing local       rivers trusts, amenity groups, anglers and farmers to play a much greater       role in decisions about water management in order to reconnect people with       the value of water as a resource.
The Committee agreed that catchment       level management is a useful way to secure local involvement in water       management; conclusions that follow the research findings.
(7)     Endorsement and adoption of Smith's research is also evidenced       domestically by leading public, private and third sector agencies       concerned with water resource management.
Of particular note is the       project's impact on the business practices of South West Water Ltd: "The         project's twin track approach to water catchment management, combining         robust science with comprehensive stakeholder engagement, has had a         significant impact on South West Water and is instrumental in         contributing to the company's evolving approach to its business.
Martin         Ross, South West Water's Environmental Manager, explains: "Previously         there was no real connection between us and land managers, and the         project gave us a way of guiding some initial engagement work in a much         more comprehensive way ... now the whole of the company from the Chief         Executive down is aware of our complete dependency on the way third         parties treat land and water.
We have begun to build a new business that         is more outward focused and we are moving away from relying on expensive         water treatment upgrading to sort out water quality."
(Meagher,       2012) (5)     The management template and recommendations also informed the Somerset       Water Management Partnership's Review of Vision, Aims and Objectives       published in October 2010.
Under the CaBA, the Tamar catchment partnership       (pilot and now continuation) originates from the case study under Project       1, and has built on that Project's stakeholder engagement and approach.
The project's `Ecosystem Health Report Card' has been widely cited as a       model communications and management tool by the EA and rivers trusts.
The       ECM+ modelling approach has been applied in partnerships with the Broads       Authority, the Westcountry Rivers Trust and the Defra Strategic Evidence       and Partnership Project.
Nationally and internationally, impact has been achieved through       dissemination activities involving non-academic stakeholders and also been       evidenced through citation of project reports and related publications.
Smith has given over thirty oral presentations at national and       international conferences including Stockholm Water Week and the European       Geosciences Union.
In its Studies on Water series, the OECD has cited       Smith's work in its Water Quality and Agriculture: Meeting the Policy         Challenge of 2012 (8).
More recently, the OECD has `showcased'       relevant findings of Project 2 as a case study in its publication on Providing         Agri-Environmental Goods Through Collective Action (10).
A volume of       international catchment management case studies with synthesis chapters       that draw on the comparative and UK-based analyses completed during the       projects will be published by Earthscan in 2014.
The success and impacts of Projects 1 and 2 have led to further funding       to deepen and internationalise the agenda.
Research funded by Defra and       Ministry of Agriculture China, first as a scoping study and, from 2013, as       a new research award, addresses mitigation of diffuse water pollution in       China.
As part of the research, Smith and Chinese partners are       investigating the applicability of lessons from Projects 1 and 2 in three       catchments and farming systems in China.
The joint work with UEA on the       ECM+ participatory modelling approach led to award of a two-year NERC       Knowledge Exchange Fellowship for one of the project team at UEA.
