     Since 2011-12, Pakistan has catapulted to the top of DFID's global       funding priorities, and the lion's       share of DFID's increased funding for Pakistan will focus on education       (with particular reference to       the Punjab).
In January 2013, Nelson was invited to appear as a witness before the       parliamentary select       committee for international development to comment on DFID's planned       increase in investment in       Pakistan (1, below).
During his examination, Nelson raised a number of       points based on his       research, noting that: (a) there is no proven direct link between improved       primary-education-for-all       and counter-radicalisation, and (b) Punjab-focused funding (n.b.
Punjab is       Pakistan's richest       province and the provincial stronghold of Pakistan's Prime Minister, Nawaz       Sharif) may tie DFID       too closely to the provincial inequalities that have bedevilled Pakistani       politics for decades.
Nelson       also challenged the common misconception that religious education in       Pakistan is confined to       madrasas.
Nelson's testimony was referred to at length in the       International Development       Committee's Report on Pakistan of April 2013 (2).
After his appearance, Nelson was contacted to offer follow-up comments       for the committee.
This       led to the suggestion that, in the context his own research on Pakistan's       education sector, Nelson       might gather material concerning patterns of fraud in Pakistan's       public-sector examinations &#8212;       patterns that threatened to reduce the impact of DFID's overall investment       (expected to total well       over &#163;1 billion).
Nelson visited Pakistan to conduct this research,       following which he produced a       report that was submitted to the International Development Select       Committee in June 2013 (3).
Nelson's follow-up report was cited by Malcolm Bruce MP during the debate       (4).
Specifically, Bruce       commented on Nelson's finding that, while `appointing teachers on merit'       is a sound objective,       `merit' is `for sale' in Pakistan (via bogus exam scores) and is, in fact,       being bought on a large       scale.
Alan Duncan, Minister of State for International Development,       commented that he       appreciated Bruce's comments on merit and standards overall, and offered       assurance that DFID       would be working with Pakistani authorities to reduce corruption in       education.
Nelson's research also informed a FCO study on religious networks and       non-religious educational       institutions in Bangladesh in 2009.
This study expanded Nelson's       contribution (output d) to a 2009       National Bureau of Asian Research (NBR) report, `Islamic Education in       Bangladesh and Pakistan:       Trends in Tertiary Institutions', focusing on the student wings of       mainstream political parties like       Bangladesh's Jama'at-e-Islami as well as student ties to international       religious-cum-political       movements like Hizb-ut-Tahrir (5).
Nelson documented a trend towards the       political `domestication'       of international religious activism &#8212; a trend in which, over time,       political mobilisation focusing on       international issues (e.g.
criticism of India, the US or the UK) became       less important than political       mobilisation focused on pressing domestic issues (e.g.
unemployment and       corruption).
As noted above, this policy-relevant research [text removed for       publication], focusing on the       political activism of university students, grew out of earlier research on       religious education in       primary and secondary schools across both Bangladesh and Pakistan.
This       initial phase of       research was published in output e.     Nelson's findings regarding education in Pakistan, in particular, have       been widely disseminated       amongst [text removed for publication] policy makers and practitioners in       the US, most notably       through his engagement with the US-based National Bureau of Asian       Research.
NBR's       independent research is disseminated through briefings, conferences,       Congressional testimony,       email forums and international collaborations with other institutions.
[text removed for publication].
Nelson's research has featured prominently in private briefings on the       politics of Islam in Pakistan       for [text removed for publication] officials based in Britain, Ireland,       Germany, France, Sweden, and       Bangladesh.
In 2013, he presented on the relationship between Islam and       politics in Pakistan at a       `Pakistan Briefing' for the [text removed for publication] Swedish       Ambassador (hosted by SOAS).
In 2012, he conducted a similar briefing for the Irish Ambassador to       Pakistan, Iran, and Turkey       (also hosted by SOAS), and, every year since 2008, he has participated in       SOAS' `Political Islam'       programme attended by governmental, journalistic, corporate, NGO, and       diplomatic participants.
He also lectures for the `Afghanistan after 2014' programme that SOAS       provides for the British       Ministry of Defence.
Nelson's contribution to international discussion and debate concerning       religion and education in       Pakistan and Bangladesh is evidenced by frequent citations in official       reports, blogs and websites.
Output f, for example, was cited in Pakistan's independent Institute of       Social and Policy Sciences       report on private-sector education (2010) (6); in the Norwegian       Peacebuilding Institute Resource       Centre's (NOREF) report on madrasas (an independent foundation aimed at       strengthening       peacebuilding policy and practice) (2011) (7); and in a joint public       opinion study by the       WorldPublicOpinion.org and the United States Institute of Peace (USIP)       (2008) &#8212; in its opinion poll,       conducted in Pakistan, the study used questions originally posed by Nelson       in output f (8).
Nelson's work on madrasa education in Pakistan is also mentioned in a       blog on the Foreign Policy       Association website, a US non-profit organisation that aims to increase       global awareness and       understanding on foreign policy issues (9).
The post commented that       `[Nelson's] research [findings]       and the questions they raise should serve as a study syllabus for anyone       interested in the       development of pluralism in Pakistan'.
Nelson has also been cited regarding education and broader issues in       Pakistan in The Guardian       (10), Times Higher Education (11), Voice of America       website (12), Pakistan's English language       newspaper Daily Times (13), and Let Us Build Pakistan blog       (14).
