     Salisbury's work has achieved impact at national and international level       through his publications in numerous languages and his activities as a       commentator, International Jury member and invited speaker/broadcaster at       events and media outlets around the world.
Cultural and industrial impact       can be gauged or estimated, if not accurately measured, through book       sales, `footfall' and audience figures, for example.
Salisbury's authored books, for example Play Pen: New Children's Book         Illustration (referenced above), and Illustrating Children's         Books (A&amp;C Black, 2004), have been translated into at least nine       languages and reprinted frequently, the latter most recently in 2012,       having sold tens of thousands of copies worldwide and become a standard       text in Illustration programmes.
It has remained consistently in the top       20 Amazon bestseller lists for Illustration.
This trend has continued with       Children's Picturebooks, explored further below.
The international       success of these publications has led to Salisbury being in great demand       to write and speak about this highly specialised and increasingly       recognised art form.
His work has impacted on the children's publishing       industry, the Higher Education sector and the public at large, as outlined       below.
The three-part BBC television series, Picture Book (2008), on       which Salisbury appeared to discuss and illuminate the processes of making       picturebooks, has impacted upon public and industry consciousness of the       history and culture of the picturebook.
Salisbury has been closely involved with the Bologna Children's Book Fair       (the international trade fair for the children's publishing industry) for       a number of years.
Having been a member of the international jury for the       Ragazzi publishing award in 2007, he was invited as jury member for the       2010 Bologna Illustration Competition and Annual.
In 2009, he was an       invited member of the awards jury for the inaugural CJ Picturebook       Festival in Seoul, South Korea.
These awards impact significantly on sales       figures and foreign language co-editioning of picturebooks.
In 2011,       Salisbury was the keynote speaker at the Tools of Change in Publishing       (TOC) conference at the Fair, speaking to an audience of publishers on the       conference theme of digital publishing / picturebook `apps', thereby       directly impacting thinking within the industry.
Salisbury was invited as a special guest of the Fiftieth Bologna       Children's Book Fair in 2013 and, along with leading international       commentators and academics in the field of children's literature, invited       to contribute a chapter to the Anniversary Book, published in association       with the University of Bologna.
This book, comprehensively reviewing       trends in children's publishing over the last fifty years, is distributed       to all 1200 publishers at the fair as well as being on general sale.
Salisbury was also invited as a special guest of the Montreuil, Paris       Children's Book Fair in 2012 to join an international panel to design a       new competition titled `A Picturebook for Tomorrow'.
The competition aims       to encourage new talent and new ideas in a rapidly evolving children's       publishing arena, thereby impacting once again on trends in the field.
In       2009, he was invited keynote speaker and workshop leader at the Itabashi       Art Museum in Tokyo, accompanying the touring Bologna Illustration       Exhibition.
In 2011 he was the invited speaker at the annual conference of       the UK's largest independent children's book publisher, Walker Books.
Children's Picturebooks: The Art of Visual Storytelling, by       Salisbury and Styles, in the first year of publication had achieved       international sales of 11,000 copies in the UK, USA, Spanish speaking       countries and South Korea.
A September 2013 update on figures adds a       further 4,372 sales across USA, UK and now Portugal.
The book will be       published in mainland China later in 2013.
The book has been favourably       reviewed in numerous international publications including The New York         Times, Wall Street Journal and The San Diego Union         Tribune.
Salisbury was interviewed about the book on US National       Public Radio.
The international sales of, and attention on, this book can       be clearly seen to impact on public and industry understanding of the art       of the picturebook and to bring a new cross-border, cross-discipline       understanding of the subject.
The book received the biannual Academic         Book Award for 2013 from the UKLA (UK Literacy Association).
Selected from a final shortlist of nine, the book was described as       "unique, distinctive, stunning, inspirational" by the judging panel.
