     Impact has been achieved within four main areas: a) Public lectures; b)       Articles and reviews in       practitioners' journals that have influenced debate; c) Video as a medium       for cross-over within the       diverse audiences for art and music; d) Shaping repertoire and forming       concerts at major       international festivals.
Various requests and invitations for public lectures by organizations       have been received as result       of the research: a keynote speaker at Tate Britain's Contemporary Painting         and History (2009)       (200 attendees), as well as being featured at a high profile public event,       Sonic Illuminations (c300       people) exploring the relationship between sound, image and their       interrelationship at the British       Film Institute where Ryan gave a short talk and introduced three video       pieces, one with a live       soundtrack.
Both events sold out.
With the film Via di San Teodoro 8       (2010-11) invited talks have       been given at Rome, Brussels, Ghent, and London.
A substantial extract of Via di San Teodoro 8 was included at the       Berlin Konzerthaus in a public       lecture by Markus Fein, the then dramaturgist of the Berlin Philharmonie       who used it to illustrate       composer Italian composer Scelsi's aesthetic for the wider public.
Here       the film was contrasted       with an earlier one by director Fred Van De Kooij, Casa Scelsi       (1994) and with live performances       from the Pelligrini Quartet.
This illustrates the use of the research to       illluminate the aesthetic of the       music through visual media.
It was also featured at the Moscow Tchaikovsky       Conservatoire (2012)       at a festival dedicated to the composer.
Ryan's critical writing on art and music/sonic art have formed the basis       of his numerous reviews in       Art Monthly, one of the key monthly magazines for practitioners in the       fine art field with a circulation       of 6,000.
Ryan's reviews include exhibitions of Viennese short       experimental abstract films       (2011/12), Anri Sala at the Serpentine Gallery (2011), reviewed books       include Audio Rorschach       (2012), Cutting Across Media (2012), Cracked Media (2009),       as well as performances of Leafcutter         John (2008), and Luigi Nono's Prometeo (2008) at the       Southbank Centre.
These provide insights       across the boundaries of visual art, performance, media and music.
His       concerns with painting as       a discipline have been longstanding, and an extract from Talking         Painting (Routledge 2002) was       featured in the important Documents of Contemporary Art series       with the volume Painting       (Whitechapel Gallery/MIT Press 2011).
His more recent featured article `On       Painting' (2012) for Art       Monthly (AM 355) has developed debate amongst practitioners and curators,       (resulting in a talk at       the Zabludovicz Collection, London) and cited on blogs and essays as a       tool for discussing other       practitioners.
Ryan's international invitations to realize Christian Wolff's music have       shaped performance       practices and stem from his published research (2010), In particular his       two productions of       Changing the System at the Aperto Festival 2009, and Namusica,       Naples 2013 where he co-directed       and developed the music.
Ryan's co-directorship was as follows: David Ryan       and Gianni       Trovalusci (of CEMAT &#8212; Music, Art, Technology, Rome) introduced the work       (in English and Italian)       in workshop situations for the performers (2009 Ensemble Icarus/2013       Ensemble Dissonanzen).
This 2009 performance achieved a very good notice: with a four star review       in La Repubblica       (Italy's largest daily newspaper circulation: 438,500) musicologist Guido       Barbierei found "a work       which [...] fully solves the political antagonism of the American composer       [...] and in practice       `revolutionary', founded on the free creativity of interpreters.
From this       `listening point' Icarus       Ensemble directed by David Ryan and Gianni Trovalusci has offered, on the       occasion of the       `Aperto' Festival at Reggio Emilia, a musical vision of exuberant, and       precise, imagination for       sound."
On the basis of this Ryan and Trovalusci were invited to Naples to       work with another       ensemble, developing a similar but specific structure and timescale and       also accommodating the       very different space of the Basilica San Maggiore for the eight quartets       of musicians.
Both       performances used translated extracts by Ryan based on his 2010 Changing         the System text in       their programme notes.
The collaboration Knots and Fields (2010) with Dr. Andrew       Chesher, University of the Arts,       London, was a vehicle to explore sound through visual as well as sonic       narratives.
Chesher       directed, while Ryan co-researched, presented, wrote the interviews, and       co-edited.
This was       described by Christopher Fox in the Guardian newspaper (with a       daily circulation of 262,613) as "a       fascinating documentary that examines the history of the Darmstadt courses       and the ways in which       that history still shapes the courses today."
Issue project Space       a venue in New York which       screened it in 2011 acknowledged the amount of research in the film,       "Since 2008, British artists       Chesher and Ryan have intensely worked with interview and archive material       on their film about       the Darmstadt Summer Course.
"Knots and Fields" documents the history and       present activity of       this important institution."
Projects like Via di San Teodoro and       Knots and Fields are as much       visual essays as sound portraits and of interest to both music and art       audiences.
Beneficiaries       have included curators in forming public programmes (Aperto 2009, Namusica       2013, Tate Britain       2009, Zabludovicz Collection 2013, South Bank Centre, `The Rest is Noise'       series 2013).
