     In 2007, during the planning stage of the RAMM project, Lalic exhibited       12 Colour and Metal Paintings in the existing gallery there and       gave a public talk about her painting practice and these works in       particular, which commenced the process of achieving the cultural and       artistic impact of the commission.
The Museum closed for redevelopment       after this exhibition.
Lalic worked closely with the architects and the       staff at RAMM on the locations and placement of the 240cm long works in       specially constructed glazed `niches', set back in the wall.
This was her       first opportunity to site works in physical relation to the source of the       materials from which they were made.
The paintings were developed with the       techniques, methods and awareness derived from the very extensive Colour         and Metal group of paintings that comprise almost 100 works.
When RAMM re-opened in December 2011, the three new Colour and Metal       paintings were in situ and on 26 January 2012 Lalic gave an illustrated       public presentation and `walk and talk' about her practice and the making,       locations and orientations of the works.
The new pattern of circulation at       RAMM means that all visitors who use one of two possible routes through       the museum come into contact with the three Lalic works, positioned as       they are in corridors and long view spaces in the main circulatory spine       from the new (rear) entrance through to the original front (Queen Street)       entrance.
The works are well labelled with texts that explain the       significance of their placement in relation to the orientation of the       building and viewer.
In August 2012, RAMM (which has a strong natural history and minerals       section) established and publicised a `Lalic Trail' through the museum and       published a pamphlet `Maria Lalic artwork guide' which follows       this route and extends public engagement and awareness with interesting       connections between the paintings and parts of the Museum's collections.
At the same time as Lalic's works were first public the new gallery was       showing 'Into the Light, French and British painting from         Impressionism to the early 1920s' (December 2011-March 2012).
This       presented a more conventional view of landscape in contrast to that of       Lalic, and a different possibility for painting in relation to the       environment and painting's history.
Since its redevelopment RAMM has enjoyed increased visitor numbers and       associated economic impact.
During its first month after re-opening on 15       December 2011 RAMM had 50,000 visitors, and 375,000 visitors in the period       to 31 January 2013 (ref: annual report).
A half-term workshop for children       in February 2012 focused on Lalic's works.
The children subsequently       painted a multi-coloured panel on corrugated metal, c1.5m x 6m, now       installed in the Museum caf&#233;, joining other works by school groups       exploring the Museum's exhibits, developing their awareness of the range       of possibilities for art now.
The exhibition of Lalic's three installed       works was mentioned in the Guardian Guide on 17 December 2011 and       identified as `pick of the week' exhibition on 7 January 2012.
In June       2012, following the redevelopment by the architects Allies and Morrison,       in which Lalic's work plays a significant part, and the complete       reorganization of all displays, RAMM was named Museum of the Year and       awarded the prestigious Art Fund Prize of &#163;100,000.
Subsequently in August       2012, RAMM received the seal of approval from the Visitor Attraction       Quality Assurance Association service (VAQAS), Visit Britain's consumer -       focused quality assessment of visitor attractions.
The creative and cultural impact of Lalic's longstanding research can be       seen in the exhibition of other paintings from Colour and Metal group.
The       two Mirror Paintings: Chrome Mirror Painting &#8212; Cobalt Turquoise       and Chrome Mirror Painting &#8212; Oxide of Chromium (both 1995, oil       paint on canvas and chrome) were exhibited at Mead Carney, 45 Dover       Street, London (2011) along with works by Damian Hirst, John Hoyland,       Richard Long, Robert Longo, Richard Prince, Gerhardt Richter, Keith Tyson       and Andy Warhol; and the previously un-exhibited Stretched Lead         Squares (1992) was included in Lebendiges Grau 2 June to 18       August 2013 at Mies Van der Rohe Haus, Berlin &#8212; the second in a series of       four shows, Hauptsache Grau 3 March 2013 to 2 February 2014)       accompanied by a symposium held on 21 and 22 June 2013 and the subject of       a forthcoming book.
On 7 March 2013, Lalic lectured on her       work, including the RAMM commission, at the Munich Academy in its `Jour         Fixe' series, a lecture programme with the subject `Materiality         of Paint and Paintings' on the centenary of the first lectures Max       Doerner gave as Academy Professor.
These lecture series are open to both       the public and students, with previous lecturers including Daniel Buren,       Martin Creed, Hans Haacke, Tino Seghal and Wolfgang Tillmans.
Her works       are included in major collections such as Deutsche Bank, Museum fur       Koncrete Kunst, Germany, V&amp;A, Tate Gallery, and Arts Council England.
