     In terms of artistic impact, Harrison's radical performances and       live public experiments in the museum have extended the scope of ceramics       as a discipline.
By and through successive presentations of different       kinds, he has developed a new kind of engagement with its museum and       gallery public.
The cultural impact of the successive works undertaken by       Harrison at the V&amp;A and in other publicly funded museums and galleries       nationally and internationally led to his appointment as Resident in       Ceramics at the V&amp;A in 2012-13 after a successful sequence of works       produced for them in 2006 that interested the collection and museum       context (Last Supper in the Raphael Gallery and M25 London         Orbital in the Sculpture Galleries.
The residency resulted in the       development of four Disruptions (Lucie Rie vs Grindcore, Circulation,       Moon and Bustleholme),     each using his characteristic approach to the tools, materials and       processes of the ceramicist, to performance and to the audience.
These Disruptions       were scheduled at lunchtime, as a riposte to the `lunchtime recital' and       something of a short shock to the institution of the Museum.
Each piece       has subsequently been included in further outcomes.
In Lucie Rie vs Grindcore (2012), potters' wheels were turned       into record player turntables, and from May 2013 was included in the       Crafts Council Touring Exhibition "Sound Matters" curated by the musician       and writer David Toop.
Circulation (2012) in the Gorvey Lecture Theatre, a sound       installation and performance piece was later performed as part of the       series `On Performance' with Turner Prize Winner Mark Leckey at the       Royal College of Art, February 2013, together with `Lucie Rie vs         Grindcore'.
Moon (2013), made in the Hochhauser Auditorium, was a clay and       performance recreation of Keith Moon's `Exploding Drum Kit'; 100 people       saw the live event 'Moon: a public demonstration', which was       filmed and made available on the V&amp;A website for their on-line       audience.
`Bustleholme: Harrison and Napalm Death' was (to be) a       collaborative performance with the legendary grindcore band in the       European Galleries, to be live-streamed on the V&amp;A website and the       Napalm Death homepage.
All of the preparatory drawings and models were       shown in the V&amp;A Residency Studio.
However, as the Times' leader       article (20/03/2013) explained: in 'Music To Crack Pots By', "the       V&amp;A may have scrapped one of the great artistic performances of our       time'.
As marriages between music and art go, it had the potential to be       whispered in the same breath as Mussorgsky's Pictures At An Exhibition,       celebrating the art of Viktor Hartmann, and as David Hockney's       Glyndebourne stage set for The Rake's Progress.
Who dares say that it       might not, one day, have stood alongside Chagall's collaboration with the       Ballets Russes, or been compared with Picasso's costumes and sets for Parade,       the ballet Diaghilev staged in Paris in 1917, or with Sir Peter Blake's       album cover for The Beatles' Sgt Pepper's?
Now we will never know.
For a performance by the death metal band Napalm Death at London's       Victoria and Albert Museum, in which the grindcore musicians were to       collaborate with the in-house artist Keith Harrison, has been cancelled."
Rescheduled for the De la Warr Pavillion in Bexhill-on-Sea (November       2013), the 500 tickets sold out in six hours.
Prior to his V&amp;A Residency with its large visitor numbers (c1.6m),       Harrison's piece Brother was included in the exhibition Possibilities         and Losses: Transitions in Clay, 2009 at mima, Middlesbrough and       helped the gallery achieve its largest exhibition attendance to date of       34,791.
During the V&amp;A Residency, one of the Disruptions was       always on display in a preparatory or post-performance state and V&amp;A       visitors could see Harrison's work throughout the Residency.
There were       numerous secondary school and public visits during the weekly Open Studios       and a two-day Design-lab workshop was arranged with a school from Slough       and the Create Voice Youth Group at the V&amp;A.
Visits to Harrison's       studio talks included groups from the RCA MA Ceramics; Goldsmiths BA Fine       Art; Central St Martins BA Ceramic Design; Courtauld Institute MA       Curating; RCA/V&amp;A Curatorial Practice with Glenn Adamson; University       of Westminster Research Department; Kingston University MA Museum Studies;       Camberwell College of Art MA Designer Maker; and Galway College, BA       Ceramics.
Artistic and cultural impact is seen to take many forms and the       full impact of these projects on other practitioners, including students       and staff from the colleges listed above, is still to be fully determined.
