     Adcoms researchers' global impact has been through consultancy work,       publications and impact on businesses and DCMS policy on `Digital Giving       in the Arts' [2].
The crux of the activities centre on two       principles 1) digital formats require different approaches to commercial       communications; 2) gender makes a difference in design and communication       preferences for industry.
Consultancy     Dissemination has been through engagement with knowledge-share       opportunities &#8212; Havas Media Holdings (Senior Global Managers, Columbus       University, NY, 2008) and keynotes for The International Festival of       Promotion and Advertising Technologies ProMediaTech-2009, Crocus Expo.,       Moscow &#8212; invited by UK Trade and Industry/British Embassy, Moscow [1](Springer).
Consultancy engaged senior managers with research outcomes on gender and equalities       (Moss).
Examples include: consultancy provided to 02 Telecommunications on       ways of optimizing store design through an application of principles       developed in research on gender marketing (Moss); consultancy to the       `Magic Circle' Allen and Overy on the impact of conscious bias on the       firm's profitability and panel membership of the `Diversity Works for       London project, (Transport for London) examining diversity impact measures       (Moss).
Adcoms activities were profiled in Business Excellence magazine,       Russia [1]).
Ads to Icons (2007, 7,400 copies sold)       received more than 60 endorsements, including MIT Advertising Lab, Wu       Xiaobo (President, China Advertising Association) and Peter York in The         Independent.
It was Highly Commended by the 'Orange Choice Review       for Academic Libraries of the United States' (2007).
Invitations followed       from UKTI and the British European Design Group to present UK perspectives       on `Design, IP and the Ideas Economy', alongside Kegang Wu (Director,       UK-China Chamber of Commerce) during the China International industrial       Design Expo, Wuxi (2010).
This was followed by trend analysis for the       rebranding of retail chain Trendy International, Shenzhen (recommended by       sector leaders Cheung Kong Graduate School of Business, Beijing, 2011).
Springer was commissioned to research the problems of an emergent Saudi       digital culture and the need to promote indigenous designers who       understood the growing environment in the Arab world.
The resulting book,       Saudi Advertising.
Yesterday.
Today.
Tomorrow involved interviews       with over 30 leading practitioners, to identify a context for the region's       emerging digital communication `voice' and the challenges to successful       development.
Outcomes of the research were employed to design the       curriculum and structure for a private college of communications backed by       Saudi's largest national newspaper publishers Okaz and GCC media firms       including Tihama and the Jeddah Chamber of Commerce.
It launched with       Saudi's first international advertising colloquium on `Advertising in the       Digital Age' in 2013 (speakers from the China, USA, Europe and the Middle       East; 300 delegates from across the Arab region) [10].
Following major press coverage, Ford appointed Moss to advise on       optimised web design (2007) and in 2009 she was invited by Innovario       and Proctor &amp; Gamble to run a workshop for their design teams       attended by a range of companies including Nokia, to raise awareness of       gender bias in digital communication design.
She was subsequently invited       as a speaker to Bayer Healthcare, Germany (2013, E4k) as part of a       company-wide initiative on diversity, with her talk on gender marketing,       streamed throughout the group and viewed by over 600 employees.
Also       invited as Expert Speaker for global IT firm Atos in 2013 (a digital       company operating in 48 countries) attended by UK Cabinet Office and SME       representatives to improve the presentation of online tenders (email       evidence of workshops can be obtained from Bucks).
Further engagement with       industries and publics has been through radio interviews [8],       Google at Social Media Week, London 2012 and the Global Diversity &amp;       Inclusion Conference, London, 2012.
Publications     Pioneers of Digital, success stories from leaders in advertising,         marketing, search &amp; social (2012; over 8,000 hardcopy/Kindle       sales as of 09/13) was a collaboration between Springer and Mel Carson       (Microsoft, Seattle).
The objective was to profile and appraise the most       significant twenty worldwide commercial digital communicators and       successful campaigns.
As well as analysing key factors, the book also       identified new attitudes to creativity, originality and zeitgeists.
It led       to citations in the UK Government report on Digital Giving in the Arts       [2], democratising philanthropy.
The book has been profiled in USA       Today [4] leading to an invitation to offer expert commentary on       the `First Digital Election' for Forbes[5], on behalf of Blue State       Digital and Stray Dog Media (US).
The work is recommended reading to WPP       plc's network of world-wide communications companies.
It is publicly       recommended by Facebook's Vice-President of Global Marketing and Stephen       Fry.
The book has led to keynote invitations including Global       SocialMediaWeek@ Google Campus (for organisers LikeMinds, 2012 [7]).
The book is distributed in Europe, the USA, Australasia, China and South       Korea.
Moss's research on distinctions in male and female-produced web designs,       published in the Journal of Consumer Behaviour 2006, was syndicated       internationally and profiled in many global news outlets including The       Times, Wall St Journal and NY Times, prompting three book commissions on       diversity and design from Gower press &#8212; including Gender, Design &amp;         Marketing (2009), forward by the president of the Chartered Society       of Designers.
Subsequently, her research on digital preferences was       featured in the Huffington Post (2012) and the Independent, March 2013 [9].
Practice     Nationally, practical applications of research were developed through       knowledge transfer activities, including analysis of the brand identity       and design implications for a new product range for Pure H2O Company       (worth &#163;95k, KTP Associate Ceri Almrott 2010-12) and branding/web       development for the UK Creative Campus Initiative/Cultural Olympiad (&#163;20k,       2010-12).
In 2011 Adcoms broadened applied research activities through the       46-strong EU advertising educators network Edcoms.
In 2013 the Institute         of Practitioners in Advertising commissioned Adcoms to research the       value of subject centres in the age of digital networks (&#163;16k).
A digital       guide using principles based on Moss's research was created for an EU       Comenius project supporting social enterprise development for school       children in UK and Turkey.
Conferences     Bucks hosted Edcoms' first conference in the UK (2012 [6]).
Expert       presentation at the Global Diversity and Inclusion Conference, Barcelona,       2013 (Moss) was attended by Directors of Diversity and HR from FTSE 100       and Fortune 500 companies (e.g.
L'Oreal; Unilever; Bayer; HSBC).Springer       was selected as the European presenter, one of 6 global keynotes, at the       Sri Lankan Institute of Marketing conference 2013 http://www.ceylontoday.lk/22-23917-news-detail-imc-2013.html 	  attended by national business leaders.
