     Researchers at the CFPD have addressed the lack of awareness of       prosopagnosia through extensive dissemination of their research findings.
Significant impacts include developing diagnosis methods, cognitive       training and clinical treatment programmes to help prosopagnosia       sufferers.
More recently the research has led to policy changes within       health organisations and charities.
These interventions improve the lives       of sufferers, while demonstrating a proof of concept for a scalable       prosopagnosia diagnosis and a treatment approach.
Raising awareness     From the outset CFPD's research success depended on recruiting and       testing as many adults and children with prosopagnosia as possible.
The       team set about raising awareness of the condition and the research, whilst       directing people to the website for recruitment and preliminary testing       (R1).
They achieved this through media coverage, which significantly       increased public awareness of the condition.
This is evidenced by the       sharp increase in visitor numbers to the website following key media       activity.
This is shown in Figure 1, which also illustrates the       international reach of CFPD's work.
Specifically in the last three years       the CFPD's work has featured on BBC South, CBBC, The Guardian,         Independent, Telegraph, Daily Mail, Mirror, Sun and Metro       among others.
Figure 1: Page impressions and registrations on www.prosopagnosiaresearch.org       by month.
Media coverage of the CFPD is highlighted at relevant time points.
Source: Google keywords          Assessment and diagnosis     This strong, positive media interest, particularly following the formal       launch of CFPD in 2012, produced a step change in self-referral rate of       potential participants.
This is evidenced by the fact that more than 900       people with face processing difficulties have now registered on the       website, compared with only 50 (40 adults and 10 children) in the 2 years       prior to the launch.
All registrants are offered a cognitive screening       session that establishes whether they meet diagnostic criteria for       prosopagnosia.
Face processing impairments are evident in other disorders       such as Moebius syndrome and Autism so the CFPD team has developed       protocols for differential diagnosis and tested over 100 individuals to       date.
CFPD maintains research links with laboratories in the USA (Dartmouth       College) and Australia (Centre of Cognitive Disorders: Macquarie       University and University of Western Australia), and regularly puts       international registrants in touch with these facilities, which also       provide diagnostic services.
The provision of prosopagnosia assessment is currently unique to the UK       and the availability of this service&#8212;even on a limited scale&#8212;has been       highly beneficial to individuals and their families.
Frequently, they       report a sense of relief when long-standing difficulties in normal social       interaction are finally understood (R2).
Treatment     The significance of CFPD's work is in the development and evaluation of       research-based programmes for identifying and treating prosopagnosia.
These innovations can produce profound improvements in the quality of life       of people affected by the disorder.
The CFPD now has more than 30 adults and 10 children enrolled in       cognitive training programmes.
Participants are typically required to make       fine-grained discriminations between pairs of similar faces.
The task       becomes increasingly difficult as participants progress through levels in       a computer-game format, over a 12-week period.
Researchers are now investigating the effectiveness of combining these       programmes with oxytocin inhalation (P4) after demonstrating a temporary       improvement in face recognition skills following treatment with the       hormone.
This is the first example of clinical intervention in the       treatment of prosopagnosia.
This proof of concept for a scalable assessment and intervention       programme has considerable reach, capable of serving the needs of the       estimated 300,000 children with prosopagnosia in the UK alone.
Organisational policy change     The CFPD's research, extensive dissemination and lobbying activities have       led to significant policy changes within health organisations and       charities.
NHS: Following dialogue with Bate, NHS Choices have committed to       have prosopagnosia added to the A-Z of conditions (R3).
This was confirmed       in the House of Commons by Minister of State for Care and Support, Norman       Lamb MP on 02/07/2013, who said: "NHS Choices will be including       information about prosopagnosia in the A to Z of medical conditions on its       website later this year.
This will help to promote better understanding       among the wider general public and ensure that people with prosopagnosia       receive the recognition and support they need" (R4).
In addition, Annette Brookes MP assisted in the formulation of an Early       Day Motion in Parliament to increase understanding of prosopagnosia as a       significant cognitive disorder (R5).
The Encephalitis Society The society provides support, awareness and     research for the inflammation of the brain.
CFPD worked with the     organisation to produce a fact sheet about prosopagnosia.
BU's contribution     can be confirmed through their Development Manager (R6).
Headway: CFPD researchers have worked with the brain injury       association Headway, to produce a fact sheet about how to cope with       prosopagnosia.
This can be downloaded from Headway's site and BU's input       verified through their Information Officer (R7).
In addition Headway have       added Bate's book Face Recognition and its Disorders to its Amazon       shop (R8).
Future applications     CFPD is continuing to expand the range of applications of its work.
For       example, the techniques Bate has developed for improving face recognition       in prosopagnosia may also have value in extending the recognition skills       in unimpaired individuals.
CFPD are currently working with the Scientific       Investigation Unit of the Dorset Police Force (R9) and Dorset Search and       Rescue (R10) to investigate the potential of this approach to create       `super-recognisers.'
The Home Office has also asked CFPD to keep them       informed of their findings.
In summary, research by the CFPD has made significant strides in raising       awareness, assessing and treating individuals with face processing       disorders.
The cognitive training programmes, combined with clinical       treatment with oxytocin, improve the lives of sufferers.
The research has       led to important recognition of the disorder by the NHS and other       organisations.
It is hoped BU's proof of concept for a scalable       prosopagnosia diagnosis and a treatment approach will help many more       sufferers in the future.
