     The research has redefined best practice in visual contrast standards for       the regulation and design of urban environments and public transport       systems, thereby improving the way in which VIP interact with their       environment and making environments easier for VIP to navigate.
It has       helped guide those responsible for the design and management of these       environments in creating environments that are accessible, safe and       inclusive, and that adhere to the scope of the DDA 1995 and 2005 (as       embedded within the more recent Equality Act 2010).
The work described       here has led directly to new formal standards and design/test methods and,       crucially, to changes in national regulations.
While these standards and       regulations previously emphasised the need to maximise colour and       luminance contrast &#8212; and to ensure `adequate' colour contrast, between       surfaces with different functions (eg walls and doors) so that VIPs could       confidently identify them &#8212; it did not, prior to the Reading work, provide       any clear definition of what `adequacy' of contrast meant.
Nor did it       demonstrate how designers and others might achieve this (in terms, for       example, of what contrasting colours to use).
The Reading work developed a       measurable contrast difference between colours that can confidently be       identified by 80% of VIPs in the UK, and defined a new standard for how       this may be achieved.
These research findings are being used by a number of organisations,       including large manufacturing companies such as ICI Dulux, a variety of       charities, government departments, such as the Department for Transport,       and national and international bodies that set standards for buildings and       products.
This informs the design of products such as floor and wall       finishes (carpets, floor tiling, paints, etc), edgings (stair nosings,       carpet edge strips, etc), handrails, door and window `furniture' (handles,       locks, etc) and signage.
The Business Area R&amp;D Director at ICI Dulux, commented on the "Colour       and Contrast" guide published by ICI Dulux as a result of the Reading work       (correspondence, March 2013): ".. this guide forms the basis of         various offerings to specifiers and healthcare organisations...
It is         regularly presented around the country, and showing how the colour         palette notation makes it easy to specify in accordance with the         Equality Act guidelines is also good for sales volumes."
Manufacturer Gradus, which produces flooring and flooring accessories,       references the Reading findings in their product literature at: http://www.gradusworld.com/geoff-cook-expert-view-part-1.
The Thomas Pocklington Trust charity has used the findings of the Reading       work to produce a housing design guide for people with sight loss: http://bit.ly/I2Y9pC       .
The Director of Services and Public Affairs at Royal London Society for       the Blind, has noted (correspondence, March 2013) how the research       continues to be used to advise on the provision for vision-impaired       people, and concludes: "Project Rainbow [the Reading work] has,         in my view, had a significant impact on the regulation and design of         public transport and public infrastructure for the benefit of         vision-impaired people."
In the area of standards development, the Reading work is referenced in       the British code of practice for designing buildings to meet the needs of       disabled people (BS8300:2009 (Annex B)).
An associated Standard, BS       8493:2008, describes the method used to determine the LRV of different       material surfaces, which again draws on the Reading work.
The Building       Regulations 2010 Approved Document M, available at       http://www.planningportal.gov.uk/uploads/br/BR_PDF_AD_M_2010.pdf       , and a previous 2004 version, reference the Reading work in the context       of the need for adequate visual contrast to be provided in new buildings       (as appeared in the 2004 version).
The international standard ISO 23599       (related to assistive products for blind and vision-impaired persons, and       concerned with tactile surfaces) has adopted the Reading LRV approach.
At       the European level, standard CEN/BT/WG 207 on accessibility in built-up       environments is also drawing on the Reading work (Sections 33 and 35 and       more detailed comments in Annex B 9.2 of ISO21542).
The work continues to have an important impact on the transport sector.
Commenting on a new emerging pan-European access standard for mainline       trains and stations (PRM TSI, 2008) a spokesman for the UK Department for       Transport (DfT) has noted (correspondence, March 2013) that it initially       used a different measure from the Reading work for adequate contrast but:         "...
This has proved to be unworkable so British representatives [on the         EN drafting committee] have used Reading's work to develop a Euro-Norm         that combines both techniques... Once in force, it will guide the         interpretation of the PRM TSI across the European Union."
All new       regulated rail vehicles must now comply with the contrast requirements       defined at Reading.
The Reading researchers were consulted in the drafting       of the Rail Vehicle Accessibility Regulations (RVAR).
In 2008 the UK       government amended and updated the RVAR (S.I.1998/2456) so that it draws       directly on the Reading work.
A statement from DfT has commented that: "The         Department [for Transport] has used the findings of Project Rainbow to         set out for transport providers how their vehicles and facilities can         achieve the contrast requirements required by law," and that "Latest         statistics (November 2012) show that 71 per cent of buses in England now         fully meet accessibility requirements, including for contrast.
Meanwhile, 45 per cent of rail vehicles in Great Britain (over 7,600         carriages) meet their relevant standards".
The work has also been       used by DfT to craft requirements for train stations; see "DfT Accessible       Train Station Design for Disabled People" (2011), available at: http://bit.ly/18nnOmZ.
This is in addition to existing DfT documents that include the Reading       work, such as "Inclusive Mobility"       (www.dft.gov.uk/transportforyou/access/peti/inclusivemobility).
The reach of this project is very wide, covering urban planning as well       as major elements of the transport sector, in particular relating to       public transport provision.
Its impact is in the areas of quality of life       (including health and safety), as well as employment and manufacturing.
Whilst quality of life is difficult to measure, the Government's       Disability Equality Indicators cite ability to obtain employment as       important.
The RNIB estimates that the indirect costs of not realising       employment opportunities for VIP is around &#163;1.6 billion.
In addition,       employers are required to deal with current and potential employees       (including VIP) in a non-discriminatory way, and this Reading visual       contrast work is highly relevant for improving the employability of VIPs       as well as their safety in the workplace by providing the standards by       which this may be assessed.
Manufacturers such as ICI Dulux and Gradus       have used the Reading work to develop a unique market position, enhance       their activities and tailor their products to meet clear LRV criteria.
Further evidence of impact can also be found in many new buildings       completed since 2004, including Heathrow Terminal 5 and the London       Olympics 2012 facilities.
The Olympic Delivery Authority/London Organising       Committee of the Olympic and Paralympic Games Inclusive Design Standard       (http://www.london2012.com/documents/oda-publications/inclusive-design-standards.pdf)       goes further than BS8300:2001/9 and makes specific reference to the       concept of LRV developed by Reading.
