     An A.R.T.
user herself, Furse followed Your Infertility Companion       (`A useful and sensitively written reference on all aspects of human       fertility': Jane Coad, Anatomy and Physiology for Midwives (2nd       edn, Elsevier, 2005), 139) with creative outputs intended to counter media       sensationalism with enhanced public understanding of social/scientific       issues.
The impact of her research persists in the form of performances in       theatres, schools, cultural festivals, on BBC Radio, online screenings,       and in bookshops.
It continues to raise awareness of subfertility and       collateral issues such as adoption, the implications of imaging       technologies within obstetrics, and the rights of minority groups to       A.R.T.s.
This work has brought the arts into dialogue with medical       professionals via her research methodologies, performances and discourses.
Following the success of post-show discussions including LAHF's sponsored       special event for health workers, chaired by King's College Professor of       Arts and Medicine, Brian Hurwitz, Furse has contributed to several public       `sciart' conferences and debates, including in June 2011 participating in       the Science + Culture forum as part of Creative Scotland's Creative         Futures programme at the Glasgow Science Centre.
Her address       to an audience of artists, scientists and the public was followed by round       table debates with attendees.
This talk was subsequently published online       [7].
The Peach Child     Furse's play was selected by the National Theatre for its annual youth       theatre scheme New Connections 2008, alongside projects by       distinguished British playwrights including Abi Morgan, Mark Ravenhilll,       Nigel Williams and Timberlake Wertenbaker, reaching a very wide young       audience nationally and internationally.
The most popular play among the eight selected by the NT, sixteen       schools and inclusive theatre groups &#8212; with approximately 350 active       participants &#8212; chose to produce The Peach Child, including the       disabled theatre group Razed Roof [8].
Their productions performed to sell       out audiences at eleven regional theatres including the Theatre Royal Bath       and the Arcola Theatre, Hackney.
According to the Guardian       reviewer: `In the hands of five young actors from Skelmersdale College,       Anna Furse's play The Peach Child was a living Manga cartoon.
As       interpreted by a cast of 37 key stage 3 students in Sutton, it was a       triumph of shadow puppetry and chorus movement' [9].
The best were       selected by the NT for the New Connections Festival at the       Cottesloe Theatre [10].
The play has enjoyed national attention through NT sponsorship and the       anthology which the NT distributed to all secondary schools in the UK:         NT New Connections: Plays for Young People (Faber and Faber, 2008).
The NT bookshop alone has sold 782 copies since April 2009 [11].
It       continues to be produced within the UK and internationally, for example by       the City of London School for Girls, Cairo American College (both 2009),       the Garden International School, Kuala Lumpur (2010) and Ruamrudee       International School, Bangkok (2012) [12].
Yerma's Eggs and GlassBody     The Yerma's Eggs Education Pack has continued to be available to       schools [13], while ArtsArchives published a production DVD (2011)       as part of a collection of Furse's production archive [4].
GlassBody       was regarded as exemplary high quality `sciart' by Arts Council England's       Social Inclusion department, inviting Furse to present GlassBody       to interdepartmental arts officers (2008).The live, digital and recorded       work has reached an increasingly wide and international audience through       several routes.
ArtsArchives' digital publication of the production DVD       (2009) [5] was livestream broadcast to an international audience to       celebrate International Women's Day (8 March 2011).
It attracted online       viewers for a total of 267 hours, with screenings also at venues in       London, Croatia, Serbia and Slovenia [14].
The Education Pack has       continued to be available to schools [15], and the work has taken several       different forms as outlined in the next section.
GlassBody Fragments     The Bernie Grant Arts Centre, London, commissioned a digital installation       for their multicultural festival The Gathering: Bodies and Memories       (2008).
Furse reconstructed GlassBody's video, while       ongoing online resources include The Reproductive Toy that tests       awareness of the male and female reproductive system as a puzzle of parts       to assemble online; Furse was a panellist in the festival's public forum       [16].
A similar installation was exhibited at Goldsmiths' Making a         Difference event, February 2013.
My Glass Body was re-broadcast on BBC Radio 3's The Wire       in 2008 [17].
The production's artistic adventurousness led to Director of       Drama, Kate Rowland, using it in her in-house BBC dramaturgy sessions.
Your         Infertility Companion has been republished in 2011 as       print-on-demand by Thorsons HarperCollins.
Durable remains of The Art         of A.R.T., including video and the interactive Reproductive Toy,       remain accessible to the public on the Athletes of the Heart website [18].
