     The key findings of the research in the publication "The Impact of       offshoring in the IT Workforce       within the UK" identified an urgent need for business, government and HE       to work in parallel to       develop and support the industry, strengthening it against the threat of       increasing offshoring.
As a direct consequence of these findings, UWS, working with Glasgow       School of Art and Glasgow       University, designed and led an intervention &#8212; the Scottish Centre for       Enabling Technology &#8212; to       facilitate cooperation in R&amp;D and knowledge exchange related to       enabling technologies for content       and knowledge management.
In particular, it was designed to stimulate       contact with SMEs and       start-up companies that had the potential to benefit from productive       knowledge and technology       transfer, and were willing to innovate to help achieve a competitive edge.
The project was pitched to Scottish Government on the basis of the issues       emerging from the       research and also attracted support from Scottish Enterprise.
As noted by       Scottish Enterprise: "His         [Connolly's] paper on offshoring in the computing sector was also         pivotal in attracting support to a         sector that was in danger of being systematically weakened by low cost         programming sourced         outside the UK, and particularly Scotland."
This research focus was       strengthened by other       publications derived from projects working directly with industry,       principally on implementing web-       based component architectures in service-oriented commercial entities, as       evidenced by the       statement from CC Technology: "We were initially attracted to working         with UWS because of         underpinning research performed by Professor Connolly and his team at         the University on database         systems, component architectures and offshoring."
The project initially ran from 2008 to 2010, being the only SEEKIT       project to have an expansion of       funding and targets during the initial project period, and then going on       to receive a further project       time extension to the end of 2011.
During the funding period, over 150       companies were assisted       directly through the provision of University expertise to develop proof of       concept demonstrators,       and SCET's activities were evaluated as part of the final reporting       process.
The economic impact       has been shown to exceed &#163;80m.
Companies report increased       investment in innovation by &#163;4.6m,       200 new products or processes introduced, almost 500 new       jobs created, 940 jobs safeguarded       and 9 new companies formed.
Since the end of the external funding period, UWS has continued to invest       in SCET infrastructure       and staffing as the Centre continues to play a central role of its       Knowledge Exchange strategy.
Today SCET continues to employ 4 externally facing researchers on a       sustainable basis.
Since the       end of the formal funding period, SCET has continued to attract funding       directly from Scottish       Enterprise and the Scottish Funding Council to underpin company projects       and has completed a       further 50+ projects.
SCET provides an initial entry point to the HE sector, addressing the       first major gap in the links       between business, government and HEIs.
Following initial project delivery,       companies are       encouraged to maintain on-going relationships with the University and       these incremental       relationships have led to successful follow-on projects funded through       R&amp;D Tax Credits, direct       investment SFC or SE follow-on funds and/or KTP funds.
As an example, initial work with a local SME &#8212; Invec Technologies &#8212; led       from a SCORE funded       project to a KTP project and then to a direct investment of more than       &#163;0.5m for UWS to help       develop their web-enabled product and workflow tracking back-end systems.
As a direct result of       Invec's high-end systems, it was acquired during our collaboration by       US-based multinational       Celestica.
UWS was then quickly hired to help the underpinning R&amp;D to       redesign the Invec       systems for the US, Canada, Mexico, the Czech Republic and Thailand.
Figures supplied to UWS       by Celestica indicate that the UWS supported system development increased       turnover on a per       country basis to the tune of $40m.
In addition, the system also "had         a strategic impact on         Celestica, significantly changing the way the company operates its         worldwide service operations".
For CC Technology, a new platform was developed through a KTP project       that allowed the       company to expand and diversify its provision.
From an economic       perspective, the company       estimated that "annual sales turnover increased by about &#163;250,000 and         annual exporting sales         increased by about &#163;100,000 during the two-year project, and contributed         to our winning of a very         prestigious and valuable contract in India.
We have estimated that over         the next three years, the         KTP project will increase our pre-tax profits by &#163;750,000".
The       project has also had a strategic       impact on CC Technology, significantly changing the way the company       handles its software       development processes leading to a more efficient and effective software       products.
SCET is now a key part of the core UWS KE Strategy.
It has been praised       as a highly successful       SEEKIT project, and has had a significant impact during a major economic       downturn both in       economic terms (increased turnover and direct investment) and human terms       (jobs created and       protected).
Much of these inputs and many of the impacts have been       directed towards the       developing creative industries in Scotland.
