     WRC's work has achieved impact through valuable research-based       consultancy to a range of       organisations.
Through this work WRC researchers have trialled a number of       theoretically derived       interventions, providing a research-driven, evidence-based solution to       improve signage and       mapping.
This improves wayfinding amongst users of the facilities.
The following are a few examples of those organisations using WRC       services.
These illustrate the       reach of the work across a variety of domains and its significance in       terms of beneficiary groups.
Each presents different practical wayfinding challenges to a diverse       variety of users.
The       successful application of the approach is evidenced through field testing,       endorsements from       senior managers within the organisations, further demand for WRC services       and BSI research       commissioning.
Frankfurt Airport, Germany (FRAPORT)     FRAPORT is the second busiest hub in Europe and one of the 10 busiest       airports in the world (56       million passenger movements in 2011).
This massive facility requires       communication of both fixed       (e.g., duty-free concession) and frequently changing (e.g., gate) location       information.
FRAPORT       caters to transient users from all over the world, speaking different       languages and using different       writing systems.
However, wayfinding typically follows fixed cognitive       scripts, familiar to many       travellers (e.g.
departure; arrival; transfer.)
Having identified problems with the existing signage system at critical       transfer locations, Wiener, in       collaboration with his colleagues at the Centre for Cognitive Science,       Freiburg University,       conducted empirical eye-tracking studies to evaluate alternative       wayfinding signage designs (R1).
Research-led improvements to the signage system were made in 2011.
Although operational       constraints prevented a formal evaluation, airport staff reported       substantially reduced passenger       direction enquiries and FRAPORT management positively endorsed the       changes.
In a letter addressed to Wiener, dated 06/06/2012, Head of the Wayfinding       and Signage       Department at FRAPORT stated: "Based on the results from these studies,       the signage system at       these critical transfer situations has been modified and improved.
Reports       from FRAPORT       employees indicate that these modifications led to a substantial reduction       of the number of       passengers asking for directions" (R2).
This programme of work is on-going and WRC is currently investigating       general design principles       for complex wayfinding signs that will inform further modifications of the       existing signage system.
Old Royal Naval College, Greenwich (Greenwich)     Greenwich is a World Heritage Site with several entrance and exit points.
It seeks to provide a       better educational/leisure experience for its multi-national visitor       profile by improving pedestrian       flow and increasing visitor donations.
In 2013 the WRC team was contracted to gather navigational survey and       ambulatory eye-tracking       data relating to placement of signs encouraging visitors to donate (R4).
Analysis of the eye-tracking       data provided the management team at Greenwich with key information about       where to       place donation signs and insights into visitors' experience of the       attraction and the ease with which       they were able to find their way around.
The site's Commercial Director said: "The eye-tracking survey carried out       at the Old Royal Naval       College was a revelation as it exposed what visitors are really looking       at."
She continued, "It       highlighted some significant gaps in our wayfinding system, as well as       issues around the visibility       of our donation boxes, all of which are now being addressed to improve       both visitor experience and       fundraising opportunities" (R5).
Development of International Sign Standards     International Standards have been developed to assess comprehensibility       of signs and symbols       which reference work by McDougall as a basis for the methods used.
These       guidelines have also       been adopted as British Standards (R6).
McDougall is currently helping       with pilot work to develop       updated comprehensibility standards (i.e.
ISO 9186-3).
Recommendations       regarding US homeland       security safety symbols has also cited work by McDougall (R7) and       recommendations for revisions       to design guidelines for pictorial communication symbols in Japan is in       part based on work by       McDougall (R8).
In summary, the WRC's research-driven, evidence-based approach to       wayfinding problems has       provided a solution where previously only unreliable navigational       supports, typically based on       intuition and guesswork, existed.
The successful delivery of the WRC's       approach proves this       method is an effective, scalable, research-based solution with significant       potential for future       application and development.
Those using these facilities will continue to       benefit from significantly       improved wayfinding ability.
