     Duane Hopkins and Samm Haillay founded Third Films (2001) as a       vehicle for producing films that       are socially engaged, sometimes a re-evaluation of the British Social       Realist form, and are all set in       the contemporary moment.
Ryan Gilbey of the Guardian stated that their       first feature film `Better         Things' was at the forefront of "an unmistakable groundswell in       British cinema, heralded by a clutch       of directors who are chafing against the boundaries of narrative       filmmaking, and in some cases       dismantling them altogether" (2008)1.
`Better Things'       was nominated for the Camera d'Or at the       Cannes Film Festival (2010).
It went on to be exhibited at numerous film       festivals.
Amongst the       awards it received were the FIPRESCI Award, Best Film Stockholm,       International Film Festival       (2008), and the SIGNIS Award Best Film, Alba International Film Festival       (2009).
`Better Things' is       currently on the syllabus of twelve film schools.
Following `Better Things' Haillay and Hopkins made 'Sunday'       an installation for exhibition in gallery       spaces.
This was an investigation into how film might exist in the gallery       context.
'Sunday' is       indebted to a short film 'Field' (2001) that Third Films had       previously made and demonstrates that       material shot for one format can successfully be transferred to another.
The film installation was so       successful that 'Sunday' has exhibited in three different       continents and continues to be a point of       interest in its various configurations.
It has been shown at the Baltic       Centre of Contemporary Arts,       Gateshead 2009; Open Eye Gallery, Liverpool 2009; Bank Arts Studio,       Yokohama 2009; La       Quinzaine, Cannes 2011; Metropolis, Hamburg 2011; the Museum of       Contemporary Arts, Toronto       2011; The Magazine, Berwick 2012.
The British Council nominated Haillay to represent the UK at the       Producers on the Move initiative       in 2011 of which he said: "This was a brilliant networking opportunity and       spotlight for myself and       the projects I'm working on."
Third Films has continually expanded its activities over the years,       drawing more collaborators into       its orbit.
It was one of twenty UK film partnerships recently awarded a       BFI Vision Award (2013-15).
The &#163;50K per annum award will help Third Films develop a slate of films       over the coming two       years.
Haillay is the producer of Elliott's films.
Elliott       is the winner of over twenty-five international       awards and nominations.
His films include `The Making of Parts'       (2006), four short documentaries       made for Channel 4 and `Jade' (2009), winner of the Silver Bear at       the Berlinale Film Festival and       a BAFTA nomination for Best Short Film.
`Jade' has been exhibited       at over a hundred international       film biennales.
The British Council's film department assisted Elliott       to promote the film by       supporting him at film festivals.
`Jade' was accepted onto their       short film scheme which screens       films to festival programmers.
Since arriving at Teesside Elliott       has been engaged in preparing a       final script and shooting schedule for his first feature film `Frontier',       produced by Haillay.
This is       currently shortlisted for the 2012-13 TorinoFilmLab funding slate.
The University has been awarded &#163;20K (November, 2013) by Creative England       to create an online       training package called i-shorts aimed at helping new film-making talent,       in recognition of the       expertise of our film makers, led by Haillay.
Haillay is also producer of Young's `Blood Cells'       feature film.
The completed script was presented       for competition at this year's Biennale di Venezia.
The Biennale College &#8212;       Cinema is the brainchild       of a partnership with Gucci, aimed at promoting new talents and offering       them the opportunity to       work closely with well-known professionals in order to make micro-budget       films.
It is an       acknowledgement of the quality of Young's script that `Blood         Cells' was one of three films (out of       300 submitted) awarded &#8364;150,000 funding; and will be premiered at next       year's 71st Venice Film       Festival.
`Reptile' and `Common Descent' have also       attracted funding and professionals eager to       work with Young to realise his scripts as feature films.
Funding       from Nederlands Filmfonds,       Northern Film &amp; Media and Film4, amongst others, attest to the high       regard in which his scripts are       held.
Other collaborations that Third Films has enabled includes Turner       prizewinning artist Gillian       Wearing's first feature film `Self Made' (2010), co-producer Haillay.
(`...Others have made the leap       into `reality cinema' but nobody has taken it as far as Wearing has,'       Matilda Battersby, The       Independent.
`There has been a mixed reception since the film started       screening at festivals last       year; not surprising, since it is an emotionally wrenching,       uncompromising, sometimes horrifying       piece of work.
It is also incredibly powerful.'
Kira Cochrane, The       Guardian, 29 August, 2011).
Another highlight is the Peter Snowdon documentary, `The Uprising'       (2013), co-produced by       Haillay, compiled from citizen journalism to document the Arab       Spring.
It was awarded the Opus       Bonum &#8212; Best International Documentary Film Award at the Jihlava       International Documentary Film       Festival, the Czech Republic, 2013, by juror US director-curator Craig       Baldwin who described it as       "a film which, in turn, saddened me, frightened me, outraged me, inspired       me, and ultimately made       me truly proud to be a part of the democratic project and the struggle for       human dignity."
(Report       from ScreenDaily by Martin         Blaney, 29 October, 2013.)
