     Research at the University of Southampton formed spinout company Exosect       in 2001.
The company's success since 2008, through products entirely based       on Southampton's technology, has had a positive impact on global food       supply chains and contributed to efforts to meet two of the UN Millennium       Development Goals: eradicating extreme poverty and hunger, and ensuring       environmental sustainability.
Exosect has grown to employ 20 staff, the majority of whom were trained       or received postgraduate qualifications at the University, and has       attracted more than &#163;14.5m from investors (&#163;10m since 2008) [5.1].
Since 2008 it has made 53 patent applications with 24 granted, and 22       national product registrations [5.2].
Growing recognition of the       environmental benefits of Exosect's products resulted in them winning       `Best New Product' for Exosex SPTab at the Society for Food       Hygiene and Technology Awards in 2008 [5.3], and winning their       category in the Guardian Global Cleantech 100 awards (2009 and 2010) [5.3].
Philip Harris, Business Manager at Exosect, said: "Exosect simply         wouldn't exist if it weren't for Howse's original vision; to use         electrostatic powders in pest control management.
The work done at the         University through the 1990s to prove the viability of his concept was         critical, and University backing was vital to help Exosect win initial         investment funding.
Poppy's contribution in securing two BBSRC grants         was essential for designing better deployment strategies of our products         and provided peer-reviewed journal articles, which increased confidence         in Exosect's technology and products, helping us attract continued         investment" [5.4].
Exosect licenses the use of its products, all using the Entostat       formulation, to international distributors, benefitting governments and       peoples around the world.
It is estimated that 80% of EU crops currently       depend, in part, on insect pollinators which are under threat.
Bee       populations are declining yet they pollinate nearly US$200bn worth of       crops worldwide.
Exomite&#174; Pro, which treats       against varroa mite in bees and reduces chemical residues on crops, came       to market in 2004 when resistance to conventional pesticides was on the       rise.
In 2010, the rights to Exomite Pro were sold to Bayer       CropScience for several million pounds (sum commercially confidential).
Bayer said the acquisition would provide beekeepers with "sustainable         solutions to improve the health of their bees and beehives" [5.5].
The autoconfusion technology is employed in Exosex CM (codling       moth), which holds an estimated five per cent market share for codling       moth protection in apples and pears.
In 2010, Sainsbury's highlighted its       commitment to reducing pesticide residues in food by announcing that this       product would be used on their UK apples.
Sainsbury's sells one in four       apples in the UK and their `Concept Orchards' in Kent [5.6] have       helped it treble apple yields from 20 tonnes to 60 tonnes per hectare [5.7].
In Indian field trials the yellow stem borer product (YSBTab) improved       rice yields by 18%, compared to conventional pesticides.
The trials also       found an 80% increase in beneficial insects [5.8].
With 44m       hectares of rice grown annually in India, Exosect is in the process of       licensing the product to a commercial partner.
It will reduce the       country's high dependency on pesticides &#8212; research shows that in one       district in Andhra Pradesh there are more than 1,000 pesticide poisoning       cases each year causing hundreds of deaths.
Stored moth product Exosex SPTab is used by multinational food       manufacturers and retailers (names commercially confidential) to control       moth populations in food processing plants, thus avoiding the need for       harmful phosphine gas fumigation.
Exosect is in the process of licensing       the product to commercial partners in North America.
In 2013 Exosect       secured an exclusive license for a fungal isolate, from the Food,       Environment and Research Agency in the UK to control grain store insects,       and won a US$1m Gates Foundation grant to use the same technology to       reduce poverty of subsistence farmers in sub-Saharan Africa [5.9].
Exosect's clothes moth product, Exosex CLTab, is backed by English       Heritage, and is being used in public buildings around the country,       including the Houses of Parliament, Hampton Court Palace and the Royal       Opera House, to protect priceless collections from attack by clothes moths       [5.10].
The Exosect technology played a part in changing the legislative       procedure for biopesticides, reducing red tape for bringing new products       to market that are less harmful to the environment [5.11].
In       partnership with DEFRA, Exosect included Exosex CM in a pilot       Biopesticides Scheme that inspired legislative changes in the mid 2000s.
The impact is ongoing; the new legislation stimulated interest among the       dominant conventional pesticides manufacturers in the potential of       biological control techniques.
Exosect says that "within the last two         years, in light of reduced regulatory hurdles, over US$2bn has been         invested by leading agrochemical companies in buying up biological         specialists e.g.
Bayer's purchase of Exomite Pro" [5.4].
