     The CPRG has developed techniques and software for the extraction       of key parameters from coastal video images that are designed to help       effective monitoring, management and protection of the coastal environment.
These video-derived parameters are given the generic term Coastal State       Indicators or CSIs.
CSIs are designed to facilitate effective, efficient       and timely intervention in a diverse range of management areas including,       coastal protection, navigation and recreation.
As well as increasing       management efficiency and saving time and money, CSIs also ameliorate risks.
Examples include prevention of coastal erosion and flooding, warning       systems for the incidence and location of rip currents and avoiding the       grounding of ships on sandbanks.
Beneficiaries of this work include       coastal communities, businesses, managers, mariners and recreational       users.
Examples of the impact and beneficiaries include the national coastal       managers for the Netherlands, Rijkswaterstaat , who       benefited through the development of new methodologies for monitoring and       managing coastal erosion.
The Intertidal Momentary CoastLine (IMCL) is a       CSI that measures the shoreline position (R4).
Developed jointly between       the CPRG, WL Delft Hydraulics and the Rijkswaterstaat, the       IMCL can be used to assess shoreline erosion and accretion, and trigger       beach replenishment, protecting coastal communities from flooding.
The       unique advantage of this methodology is that a daily measurement of the       shoreline can be obtained using the video systems compared to only       bi-annual measurements that are practical with traditional survey methods;       providing far more reliable estimates of erosion and accretion trends in       the shoreline.
A meeting of the Rijkswaterstaat in 2004 concluded       that, "Argus (video) has a future in Rijkswaterstaat for coastline         management and obtaining knowledge of the nearshore - using CSIs         measured with Argus (video) for the evaluation of nourishment and         nourishment design" (see section 5, I5).
Rijkswaterstaat       benefited by having a more effective way of managing their coastline and WL         Delft benefited by having a more marketable and useful product.
Santander Port Authority, waterway managers for the international       port, benefited from new methods for monitoring and managing the dredging       operations in entrance to the Santander Harbour.
The University of       Cantabria and the CPRG developed a CSI that monitored the position of       dynamic navigation channels, which is now used to trigger the realignment       of channels via dredging, or repositioning navigational markers.
This       facilitates cost-effective dredging activities and safe navigational       access to ports, benefiting industry, by ensuring the safe passage of       commercial freight, boat crews, through ease of navigation and passengers,       through reduced risk of ships running aground.
The UK Environment Agency, national managers for UK coastlines,       benefited from new methodologies for monitoring and managing the coastal       environment.
As stated by the UK Environment Agency "Impacts of         this work (CPRG video research) are far ranging from aiding safe         navigational access of vessels into harbour entrances and managing         shipping channels to monitoring coastal erosion and management of         coastal defences for public safety and risk reduction."
Their direct involvement in CoastView led to the installation of coastal       video systems at Chiswell and West Bay in Dorset to monitor coastal       erosion and overtopping and to aid the timely intervention with beach       replenishment.
CPRG were consulted to assist with programming the system       to record data suitable for quantitatively monitoring the coastline and       protecting coastal residents and industry from flooding       (I6).
Working closely with CoastView partners (Deltares), Davidson and       Kingston (PU Lecturer 2000-present), developed user-friendly software for       the analysis of video images (The Argus Runtime Environment) and the       extraction of coastal state indicators (I4).
Stephen Aarninkhof (senior       scientist and engineer for Deltares) acknowledges the       contributions of the CPRG to the development of the Argus Runtime       Environment and their contribution to training coastal managers and       scientists.
He states "work completed within the CoastView project has         made coastal video systems more attractive in the global market place"       (I2).
The systems and software are now commercially available through Deltares       (I8) to scientists and coastal zone managers worldwide.
Uptake of the technology has increased greatly, from the installation of       the first UK system in 1996, to ten UK systems by 2010.
At least six of       these systems have been wholly or part-funded by local council       initiatives, e.g.
Teignbridge District Council, the Channel         Coastal Observatory (Slapton &amp; Perranporth), New Forest         District Council (Milford-on-sea), Bournemouth Borough Council       (Boscombe) and Wyre District Council (Cleveleys).
These systems       were implemented for the benefits of improved navigational safety and       management (Teignmouth), coastal protection from flooding (Slapton,       Cleavelys, Chiswell and West Bay), beach safety (a rip-current waning       system at Perranporth) and monitoring the coastal response to an       artificial surfing reef (Boscombe).
