     The UK is the first European country to pass legislation on caste       discrimination and much of the       specialist knowledge, information and argument on the legal regulation of       caste discrimination is       directly attributable to Waughray's research.
In an email to members       concerning the UN Human       Rights Council's examination of the UK on 24 May 2012, the Director of Dalit         Solidarity Network         UK said about Waughray: "Her expertise across the years has been       invaluable" [A].
The UN       Committee for the Elimination of Racial Discrimination referred to       research output [1] during the       oral examination of the UK regarding its 20th periodic report       to CERD.
Waughray has been called       upon to advise and to contribute to the debate on the legal regulation of       caste discrimination in the       UK by government, parliamentarians and by NGOs.
The significance of Waughray's contribution to the eradication of caste       discrimination worldwide       was acknowledged in the Dalit Solidarity Network-UK (DSN-UK) Annual Report       2007-8 [A].
Output       [1] has been credited by academics and non-academics alike as       radically altering legal thinking on       caste discrimination in the UK.
It provided the basis for the theoretical       and legal arguments in the       first government-commissioned study on caste discrimination and harassment       in Britain, written by       the National Institute for Economic and Social Research (NIESR) (2010).
Drawing on Waughray's       arguments, the NIESR study concluded that caste discrimination would not       be adequately covered       by existing anti-discrimination provisions relating to religion or race.
In December 2009, during the passage of the Equality Bill through       parliament, Waughray drafted       an amendment to the Bill at the request of Jeremy Corbyn MP and Rob Marris       MP allowing for       caste to be added to the list of protected characteristics in clause 4 of       the Bill.
This was the first       time an attempt had been made to define caste for legislative purposes in       the UK.
"The       subsequent defeat of the amendment was criticised in an article by Dr.       Priyamvada Gopal of the       University of Cambridge, who challenged the objections to the definition       of caste.
However the       amendment contributed to a climate in which the later amendment permitting       the addition of caste       to the definition of race became section 9(5)(a) of the Equality Act 2010       was accepted     In February 2010 Waughray was requested by the Minister then responsible       for the Equality Bill in       the Lords [B], to attend a meeting on caste and the Equality Bill       called in order for government to       consider whether to include caste in the Equality Act 2010.
Waughray's       role was to outline why       caste was not adequately covered by existing discrimination law and to       propose possible       legislative solutions, which involved providing an explanation of the       difference between &#8212; and the       legal, policy and political implications of &#8212; the usage in legislation of       the terms `caste', `descent' and       `race'.
Waughray was also requested by the Government Equalities Office to       assist with the       drafting of the Explanatory Notes on Caste to the Equality Act 2010.
In January 2011 and November 2012 Waughray was invited [C] to       speak in her capacity as a legal       expert on caste discrimination and British discrimination law at two House       of Lords conferences       attended by NGOs, government and shadow ministers, and other       parliamentarians, to put the legal       arguments for the exercise of the power in section 9(5)(a) to add caste to       the Equality Act 2010.
The second of these conferences led directly to an amendment to the       Enterprise and Regulatory       Reform Bill (ERRB) which mandated the addition of caste to the Equality       Act 2010.
On 24 April 2013 the government, after two Lords' defeats, conceded to       amend the ERRB by       converting into a duty the power in section 9(5)(a) of the       Equality Act 2010 making caste an aspect       of the protected characteristic of race.
As a result, the Secretary of       State is now required to bring       forward secondary legislation to include caste as an aspect of race.
In       order to inform the       regulations the Equality and Human Rights Commission has commissioned       research on `Caste in       Britain', which brings together a team of experts (including Waughray) to       report inter alia on socio-legal 	  definitions of caste.
The Minister responsible for the Equality Act       in the Lords [B] commented       in an email to Waughray: "Your skills and knowledge will be vital in       coming months with       negotiations about guidance."
On 30 April 2013, Waughray participated in a meeting to discuss some of       the legal implications of       the requirement to add caste as an aspect of race in the Equality Act at       the House of Lords.
At that       meeting it was decided to draft a document setting out how caste could be       approached within the       legislation.
This document was co-written by Waughray, Lord Lester and Dr.       David Keane of       Middlesex University Law School       http://www.odysseustrust.org/caste/Amending_the_Equality_Act_2010.pdf.
Keith Porteous Wood, executive director of the National Secular Society,       said he was delighted       that the government had committed itself to ensuring that caste would       enjoy the same statutory       protection as other protected characteristics: "Too many British citizens       have suffered caste-based       discrimination.
Our equality legislation will now send out a clear signal       that it will no longer be       tolerated, and offers hope to the tens of thousands of British Asians       whose lives are blighted by       such prejudice.
This is a victory for the Lords and their emphasis on       protecting human rights."
In August 2013, Waughray was commissioned by the Equality and Human Rights       Commission       (EHRC) as part of a multi-institution, multidisciplinary team of expert       academics to conduct       independent research on caste in Britain including a review of law and       caste.
The research will       inform the work of the EHRC and will feed into the consultation on caste       legislation that the       Government Equalities Office is due to undertake in spring 2014.
Waughray's work is listed in the       Equality and Human Rights Commission Key Readings on Race [D].
Waughray's work has had a direct impact on the behaviour and strategies       of NGOP and Advocacy       groups concerned with caste discrimination in Britain, such as Caste Watch       UK [E] and the Anti-Caste 	  Discrimination Alliance (ACDA) [F].
Dalit NGOs have cited       Waughray's work in shadow       reports submitted to the UN CERD [G].
Waughray was a key speaker       at the Caste Watch UK       conference at the Houses of Parliament in 2007 under the theme of Caste       and Discrimination Law.
The conference addressed the policy implications of caste-based       discrimination for British law and       was attended and supported by parliamentarians, human rights activists,       lawyers, academics and       community leaders.
Waughray was an advisor to ACDA on their 2009 study Hidden         Apartheid:         Caste in the Community, which influenced government and       parliamentarians' thinking on the need       for legal regulation of caste discrimination in British law.
She is also       named as a key consultant in       the National Institute for Social and Economic Research report on caste       discrimination [H].
Waughray's work has also been disseminated more broadly through media       invitations, including       invitations from the BBC World Service (2009) and BBC Radio 4 Woman's Hour       (January 2010) [I].
