     Unique simulation tools created at the University of Southampton have       allowed Ford to achieve       significant efficiency gains through changes to the design of its engine       assembly lines across its       European operation.
In effect every one of the engines produced by Ford       Europe each year has       benefitted from Currie and Cheng's modelling research, translating into       substantial cost savings       [5.1].
The academics' analysis of the machine breakdown data, and the subsequent       use of the       automated tool by the Process and Simulation Teams at Ford, has enabled       Ford engineers to       identify machines that are particularly vulnerable to failure.
The Process       Team works with suppliers       to reduce future machine failures on the production lines and reduce the       repair time, so limiting the       downtime of the production lines.
The main measure of throughput on a line       is the number of jobs       completed per hour (JPH).
Ford estimate that, as a result of a greater       understanding of machine       breakdowns, JPH has increased by 1-2%, which equates to a significant       amount of revenue [exact       figure removed].
On average, there are three production lines running       simultaneously, meaning       that there have been significant direct savings [exact figure removed]       generated by this tool since       2010 &#8212; a strong return on the original &#163;15,000 research grant over three       years [5.1].
John Ladbrook [5.1], head of the Simulation Team at Ford's       Technical Centre at Dunton, UK       confirms: "We have worked with the University of Southampton for more         than ten years on a         number of simulation projects.
Thanks to their expertise, this project         was particularly successful         and the tool developed has helped with making significant direct savings         [exact figure removed]         since 2010."
Ford engineers use Southampton's automated tool to read raw data       detailing the downtime       recorded for each of the machines on the production line; fit a       distribution to describe the downtime       of each of these machines; and generate the specification files that       describe the machine       downtime on the line, which can then be entered into the simulation model.
The tool has a user-friendly 	  interface, allowing the full analysis of the data required for a       simulation project to be       completed in only two hours.
Previously the engineers were unable to       distinguish between different       machines when recording the downtime of the production lines.
Furthermore,       they would have       spent around five days carrying out the individual analysis of each       machine along the production       line.
The resulting increase in staff productivity means that two       additional production line       simulations can be developed each year.
All current Ford Europe engine       production lines have       been designed using this tool.
For the cost of each simulation [exact       figure removed], Ford       confirms this has delivered a six-fold return [exact figure removed] since       its completion in 2010 and       continues to benefit Ford at a significant rate per year [exact amount       removed] [5.1].
The greater accuracy of the simulation models has contributed to further       economic benefit, albeit       one that is harder to quantify.
By automating the generation of machine       downtimes, thus delivering       a more standardised approach to model development, capacity for human       error is reduced.
Any       miscalculation can give rise to expensive consequences, as up to &#163;1m in       investment can ride on       the correct simulation of a new engine production line.
Southampton's       input has made these kinds       of costly errors less likely [5.1].
The implementation of a new simulation tool requires specialist training       and Southampton       researchers have been responsible for training Ford engineers in its use [5.1].
Much of the       computational work for the initial project was carried out by PhD student       Lanting Lu (under the       close direction of Currie and Cheng), who then went on to spend three       months working within       Ford's Simulation Team to train employees and embed the analytical tool in       their wider approach to       simulation.
Southampton has continued to work closely with the Ford team       in the development of       the tool through subsequent supervised MSc and PhD projects.
The techniques developed by Southampton to fit the data, including the       Arrows Classification       Method which is freely available for public download [5.2], have       applications beyond       manufacturing, particularly healthcare.
Currie's work influenced the       strategic thinking of healthcare       provider BUPA Hospitals (in 2009) as it trialled the simulation tool to       optimise the scheduling of       operations in order to maximise the use of hospital beds [5.3].
Due to a major restructuring within       BUPA, the methods were never implemented on a permanent basis.
