     Europe is one of the world's leading players in space engineering,       competing in the commercial       markets for telecommunications and launchers and forming a key partner for       the United States,       Russia and other countries.
The ESA employs more than 2,000 people and has       an annual budget       of &#8364;4 billion.
The European Space Research and Technology Centre (ESTEC)       which makes use of       the Southampton research is ESA's technical heart with a workforce of       around 2,700 and an       annual budget of &#8364;2.4 billion [5.C1].
ESTEC guarantees investors a       return rate of 96%; thus, the       annual value it adds to the European economy exceeds &#8364;2 billion, excluding       spin-off companies.
Each year, well over 100 payloads worth $100 billion are launched into       space [5.C2].
Arianespace,       the ESA's major launch provider and Europe's foremost commercial space       transportation company       with an annual revenue of &#8364;1 billion, accounts for about half the       commercial market.
Each of their       satellites contains at least one antenna system, several heat pumps and       various other items whose       efficiency and cost require careful optimisation.
Currently, the ESA has       20 spacecraft and missions       in the planning and design phases with launch dates between 2013 and 2022       and costs for each       mission ranging from several hundred million to one billion euros.
Each       contains various       subsystems with conflicting design objectives.
With costs of up to $40,000       to bring just one       kilogramme of payload into orbit, the design of efficient but lightweight       system components plays a       key role in spacecraft engineering.
Southampton's research has led to the development of a software tool       capable of efficiently solving       multi-objective optimisation problems that occur in space engineering and       spacecraft design.
The       toolbox has, since April 2011, been a standard part of the ESA's design       technology.
It has been       applied to the thermal design of spacecraft subsystems and in optimising       the shape of antenna       systems.
The use of these tools has halved the computational time for       optimising the thermal       design of spacecraft sub-systems and the shape of antennae systems,       leading to an increased       efficiency equivalent to savings of 20 person-years (approximately &#8364;1       million).
As the Head of the       ESA Guidance Navigation and Control Section will confirm, Southampton's       research has       significantly lowered the hurdles to new spacecraft designs and allowed       the ESA to maintain a       competitive edge in the manufacture of these products [5.1].
As a specific example, in the design of a heat pipe an engineer needs to       vary the design       parameters that specify the basic geometry and the properties of the       materials used in construction       to maximise the heat throughput, while minimising the weight and the cost.
These criteria are       combined to produce a trade-off curve, which reveals the optimum       performance.
Previously this       involved a large number of one-off calculations and there was no certainty       that the optimum       scenario was indeed achieved, often resulting in a large waste of       computational effort and       preventing a comprehensive exploration of the design space.
The new       process developed by       Southampton automatically generates the design curve along with the       associated parameters and       cost.
This enables designers to explore the parameter space in an       efficient and user-friendly way,       while the GUI interface allows them to develop an intuitive insight into       the problem.
In particular,       the toolbox has enabled designers to find previously undiscovered regions       of the design space and       rapidly find the limits to a particular design, which aids the development       of new and innovative       solutions to the problem [5.C3].
According to the official report of Dr G Ortega Head of the ESA Guidance,       Navigation, and Control       Section and responsible for evaluating the project `ESA has concluded         with high success the         development of a Nonlinear Programming Solver (NLP) for numerical         optimization.
The         Development Team has been deeming to be classified as fully outstanding.
The newly developed         NLP solver increases capacity and capability of European industry in the         area of numerical         optimization for applications such as launcher design optimization and         material optimization.'
In a       measure of the value the ESA places on our research, it gave &#8364;200,000 in       funding in 2010 to       enable the German software company Astos Solutions to develop the       Southampton co-designed       software tool further [5.2], as part of the ESA's own General       Support Technology Programme       (GSTP).
These GSTP activities, now in their fifth five-year cycle, are       designed `to ensure the right       technologies at the right maturity are available at the right time' [5.C4]       and to convert the best       concepts into mature products.
The success of the software tool inspired &#8364;480,000 in EU funding to       Southampton to adapt the tool       to meet design challenges in the avionics industry under the EUP FP7       project AWACS &#8212; Adaption         of WORHP to Avionics Constraints, coordinated by Thales, the world's       third-largest avionics       service provider [3.G3].
AWACS is funded under the EU Clean Sky       Initiative, which aims to       develop technologies that will achieve a 75% reduction in CO2       emissions per passenger kilometre,       a 90% reduction in nitrogen oxide emissions and a 65% reduction in       perceived aircraft noise.
These targets pose significant challenges for aircraft trajectory       optimisation and AWACs is one of       the first projects to attempt to develop a corresponding software solution       to optimise aircraft       trajectory.
