     According to the Helping to Shape Tomorrow White Paper [5.C1]:       `Government, local authorities,       the health service, the education and academic community, commercial       business, professional       organisations and the public at large all need reliable information on the       number and       characteristics of people and households if they are to conduct many of       their activities effectively.'
However, in order for all these end users to reap maximum benefit from the       Census, `the       information must be authoritative, accurate and comparable for all parts       of the country' and       `...should be in such a form, and at varying levels of statistical and       geographical detail, to meet the       changing requirements of users, subject to the overriding requirement to       protect statistical       confidentiality.'
Southampton's research into survey design, estimation and statistical       disclosure control (SDC) has       been integral to major improvements in the accuracy with which the Census       is able to estimate the       UK population's size and characteristics, and in allowing that information       to be released while       preserving the rights to privacy of all UK citizens.
The immediate       beneficiary of Southampton's       research was the ONS, who were able to improve the accuracy, reliability       and usefulness of the       2011 Census and also save money by limiting the need for extensive       additional surveys.
Dr Marie       Cruddas, Head of Census Methodology at the ONS, said: `Southampton's         research played a key         role in the statistical design, estimation and dissemination strategies         for the 2011 Census, enabling         the production of the high-quality data that the government needs to         develop policies, and to plan         and run public services.'
[5.1]     The application of Southampton's dual-system estimation allowed basic       demographic data of those       missed in the Census to be estimated and the adjustments made.
For the       2011 Census, the ONS       used the CCS in which Southampton's research was the key component of the       overall coverage       assessment and adjustment strategy.
Brown's involvement was cited       prominently in the summary       of the 2011 CCS [5.2], published on the ONS website.
The       objectives for the CCS sample design       were to select a robust sample that avoided bias, achieved maximum       precision and targeted       resources in the most important areas.
Brown was a central member of the       team working on (a) a       re-design of the CCS for the 2011 Census, (b) a development of the main       estimation strategy and       (c) a reassessment of the adjustment system [5.3, see also 3.1].
An independent review team of       the coverage assessment and adjustment methodology [5.4] stated:       `The methods give confidence       that the resulting final census population estimates will be better than       any other method and will be       suitable for use in resource allocation and planning.'
Further ONS quality       assurance work following       the 2011 census also used the CCS, and `added to ONS' confidence in the       2011 Census' [5.5].
Apart from the ONS, the main beneficiaries of Southampton's research are       the users of the       Census who now have access to data that is both more accurate and       available at narrower local       geographies than previously possible.
The Census drives the allocation of       local services such as       schools and transport systems, and thus accurate estimates ensure that       these services are placed       in the right locations.
The provision of local health services is also a       key factor; the NHS allocates       about &#163;120bn a year to trusts largely based on a range of census-derived       population estimates,       according to the White Paper [5.C1].
Public Health Wales NHS Trust       stated: `It is crucial that we         continue to access this gold standard information at small area level.'
Southampton's work on statistical disclosure control allowed the release       of fine-grained local data       while preventing the disclosure of sensitive information about individual       respondents.
This was of       particular importance to local authorities, who were relying on the       provision of social indicators right       down to neighbourhood level &#8212; to fulfil their obligations laid out in the       Localism Act 2011.
The       Localism Act marked the beginning of a shift in power from the central       government to local       authorities that required decisions on issues like planning and housing to       be taken locally.
Without       the local data provided by the 2011 Census, local authorities would have       less quantitative evidence       to support their decision-making.
Of equal significance is the pressure on       local authorities to       respond to the demands of the Equality Act 2010 for which they need       localised data to minimise       discrimination among local populations.
The importance to local       authorities of more localised       Census data was fully documented in the ONS 2012 Report: Beyond 2011         Public Consultation on         User Requirements [5.C2].
The release of microdata to a vast range of end users, including central       and local government       departments, and the health service, was facilitated by Southampton's SDC       research [5.6].
The       ONS assessed three SDC methods through a disclosure framework and software       package       developed by Southampton researchers, Shlomo and Ph.D. student Young.
The       dependence of       the ONS approach to disclosure risk assessment on Southampton's research       is described in their       2010 report on Statistical Disclosure [5.7, see page 6].
Based on this work, the ONS decided on       the pre-tabular method of record swapping for protecting the 2011 UK       Census tables.
According to       Jane Naylor of the ONS SDC team `the research undertaken by Natalie Shlomo       was central to the       final choice of Statistical Disclosure Control (SDC) method used for the       2011 Census.
Her       research and the software that she developed (Infoloss) around measuring       disclosure risk and       utility were used to produce quantitative evidence for the performance of       different SDC methods in       the Census context' [5.8].
Later development work at Southampton       further enhanced statistical       disclosure control.
This led to its use by the ONS for downstream       processing of census data,       enabling the release of more useful microdata to a range of end users       including central and local       government and the health service.
