     What works for whom?
is a standard reference and teaching text for       teaching in the area of psychological therapy, for postgraduate training       programmes and academic courses, and for a broad range of professional       groups both in the UK, North America, Australasia and increasingly in       Europe.
Beyond its direct teaching impact it has had a significant       influence on clinical practice.
In October 2008, the government launched a new programme, Improving       Access to Psychological Therapies (IAPT) [a].
This was designed to       ensure speedy access to evidence-based psychological therapies for       depression and anxiety in adults (presentations which, taken together,       represent the largest proportion of significant mental health problems in       the UK population).
The initiative to drive this project through       government was led by Lord Layard, who specifically employed the evidence       contained in WWFW to underpin his argument [b].
In order to deliver the IAPT programme, it was necessary to train a large       number of additional therapists capable of delivering evidence-based       interventions to the same standard as had been practised by the research       teams who had demonstrated their efficacy.
Roth and Pilling were       commissioned to develop a series of competence frameworks and National       Occupational Standards for psychological therapies which would enable the       workforce to be expanded in the necessary manner.
They developed a       methodology for anchoring the frameworks closely to the research base set       out in WWFW, linking it to clinical skills for seven modalities of       psychological therapy, as well as for psychological interventions in work       with children and adolescents:            CBT for depression and anxiety [c]        Psychoanalytic/Psychodynamic therapy [d]        Systemic therapy [e]        Humanistic psychological therapies [f]        Interpersonal Psychotherapy [g]        Child and adolescent mental health services [h]        Psychological interventions for people with psychosis and bipolar         disorder [i]        Psychological interventions for people with personality disorder [i]           These frameworks have been used to develop national training curricula,       making a critical contribution to closing the gap between the therapeutic       technologies employed in research contexts and those implemented in       `routine' NHS settings (`bench to bedside').
The National Occupational       Standards for psychological therapies were published in 2010.
These cover       four modalities (cognitive and behavioural therapy,       psychoanalytic/psychodynamic therapy, family and systemic therapy, and       humanistic therapy).
The competence frameworks constituted the `statements       of evidence' on which the standards rested [j].
By espousing and comprehensively explicating the principles of       evidence-based practice as applied to the psychological therapies, WWFW       acted as a driver of change, such that a commitment to evidence-based       practice is now accepted as an organising principle of almost all       professional training in psychological therapy in the UK.
In the UK, this       specifically includes training overseen by the British Psychological       Society, the Royal College of Psychiatrists, and that accredited by the       British Association of Counselling and Psychotherapy (BACP) and the United       Kingdom Council for Psychotherapy (UKCP) [k].
The IAPT programme represented a major strategic development within the       NHS, and resulted in an increase in funding for services, availability of       therapists, and the numbers of patients treated.
Funding for services: During the period 2008-13, NHS funding for       psychological therapies increased significantly, from &#163;161M in 2007/08 to       &#163;389M in 2011/12.
When expressed as a percentage of the total NHS adult       mental health spend, this is a rise from 4.0% to 6.6% [a, p.38].
Availability of therapists: Between 2008 and 2012 (the last date       for which reliable figures are available), the IAPT programme trained, or       was training, almost 4,000 therapists, the vast majority in specific       techniques for which there is clear evidence of efficacy, with further       expansion in training planned.
Since training packages were developed in       2010, more than 400 high-intensity therapists have been trained in the new       modalities of therapy that have been approved to treat depression.
A       further 400 trainees were expected to be trained over the course of the       present academic year (2012/13) [a, p17].
Number of patients treated: After its first three full years, more       than 1 million people used the new services, recovery rates were in excess       of 45% and 45,000 people had moved off benefits.
Norman Lamb, the minister       of state for care services, noted: "There are strong indications that         the IAPT initiative is beginning to not only make a difference to         individuals and their families but also to realise economic gains in         terms of anticipated savings to the NHS and welfare system alongside         increased tax contributions."
[a, p3]     In 2011, IAPT expanded its remit to include interventions for children       and adolescents with an &#163;8m/year investment for four years.
Fonagy is the       National Clinical Lead on this work.
In February 2012, ministers agreed       significant additional investment for 3 years [l].
The research       led to the decision in July 2013 to extend the programme to 24 new sites,       with services covering 54% of 0-19 year olds in England by the end of the       year [m].
