     Following the 1992 International Convention on Biological Diversity,       National and International       legislation has been put in place to improve sustainable management of the       marine environment.
Hall-Spencer and Howell conducted applied research that influenced       national and international       marine policy (Hall-Spencer, 2007) and directly informed and shaped       implementation of global,       European and national policies such as the Oslo-Paris Convention (OSPAR),       the European       Habitats and Species Directive, the European Marine Strategy Framework       Directive, as well as the       UK Marine Act, (Hall-Spencer et al., 2009; Howell, 2010).
It has had a       huge impact on public       policy and services.
Policy decisions or changes to legislation, regulations or guidelines         have been informed by         research evidence.
Howell and Hall-Spencer's research played a       pivotal role in supporting ICES       advice to NEAFC in recommending area closures to bottom-trawl fisheries on       Hatton and Rockall       banks.
Deep sea coral distribution maps developed from historical data       (Hall-Spencer et al., 2007),       supplemented with new data produced by Howell (Narayanaswamy et al., 2006;       Howell et al.,       2007; Howell et al., 2009, 2010) were subsequently integrated with       satellite tracking data (Davies       et al., 2007; Hall-Spencer et al., 2009), to inform recommendations of       suitable areas for closure to       bottom-trawl fishing for the protection of vulnerable coral ecosystems.
These recommendations       were subsequently adopted by NEAFC.
Howell and Hall-Spencer's research has       therefore directly       resulted in the establishment of fisheries closures on Rockall and Hatton       Banks, NE Atlantic, by the       North East Atlantic Fisheries Commission (NEAFC).
(Sources 2, 3, 4, 7).
The data on both community composition and distribution presented in       Howell et al., 2010 (and the       grey literature reports that preceded the paper) has been the key       information underpinning the       designation of 3 deep-sea MPAs (Special Areas for Conservation) by the UK       Government,       including the largest MPA in Europe Hatton Bank.
Through highlighting the       presence of listed       vulnerable marine ecosystems at these sites Howell's research has directly       informed the       designation of these areas as SACs by the UK Government.
(Source 5).
Research by Hall-Spencer highlighting the damage to cold water coral       reefs (Hall-Spencer et al.,       2002), implementation of Marine Protected Areas in the deep sea and       possible monitoring and       enforcement methods (Davies et al 2007; Hall-Spencer et al.
2009) have       been used by UK       Government to inform policy and to identify gaps in marine research       knowledge, develop the       monitoring programmes as required under the Marine Strategy Framework       Directive, and produce       an initial assessment for the Marine Strategy Framework Directive.
Hall-Spencer's research has       directly informed the assessment of the state of the UK's marine area.
(Source 8).
Howell's research on the NE Atlantic continental shelf break region       (Howell et al., 2010) and on       deep-sea ecology in general informed the case for support proposing Hatton       Bank, Rockall Bank       and the Hatton-Rockall Basin as an Ecologically and Biologically       Significant Area (EBSA).
Identification of such areas underpins implementation of Marine Protected       Areas under the       international Convention on Biological Diversity (CBD), to which the UK       Government is a       contracting party.
Through identifying this area as an EBSA the North East       Atlantic Fisheries       Commission (NEAFC) and contracting parties to OSPAR are now in the process       of considering the       area for protection.
Both Howell and Hall-Spencer's research directly       informed the process of       identifying this Ecologically and Biologically Significant Area (EBSA).
(Source 10).
The research has been adopted or an existing technology or process         improved: The importance of       seabed habitat mapping has been increasingly recognised in recent years.
Both the UK and EU       marine habitat maps developed using the methods proposed by Howell (for       the deep-sea region),       will be used by both UK Government and the European Commission's       Directorate-General for       Maritime Affairs and Fisheries, to support the implementation requirements       of the European Marine       Strategy Framework Directive (MSFD), specifically the Initial Assessments       which all Member       States must undertake in 2012.
Howell has developed a biologically       meaningful habitat       classification system for the NE Atlantic deep-sea which has been adopted       by the UK Government       and Europe in their development of both a revised single UK marine habitat       map and a unified       European marine habitat map.
(Sources 1, 6).
