     Our wider research impacts       Twenty years of influential research by the University of Southampton's       Work Futures Research Centre have informed international public and       practitioner understandings of managing and adapting to organisational       change.
The research has informed debate over the introduction of digital       technologies to health services, challenging practices of workspace design       management, providing the research evidence underpinning best-practice       equality policies in the NHS and other professional contexts.
Halford and       Leonard have produced a number of high quality research outputs which have       been widely cited in public and practitioner debates and influenced       conceptual debate on the nature of a fair and vibrant society.
Digitized technologies at Work       A series of projects (RCN (Research Council Norway) &amp; NIH) have       explored the impact of digitization on the organization and delivery of       healthcare.
The research, which has been significant for policy makers, IT       manufacturers, hospital managers and professional leaders, has revealed       unanticipated outcomes of digital innovation, and suggested strategies for       inclusive innovation, workforce training and management.
The RCN research       was conducted in close collaboration with those responsible for       technological innovation, who used our findings to improve the       implementation process.
For example, Ann Britt Neilsen, leader for       implementation of Electronic Patient Record (EPR) in nursing, University       Hospital North Norway ``Your research has been very helpful ... it was       `research in action' [and] it changed my understanding in the process,       which made implications for my decisions".
`The NIHR research evaluated       the organisational implications of a new Computer Decision Support System       - NHS Pathways (NHSP) - designed to enable clinical triage by       non-clinicians.
Southampton's research informed the Department of Health's       strategy for national roll-out of the new 111 service, set to replace NHS       Direct as a cheaper and more effective solution for `urgent but not       life-threatening' health issues', in two key ways: first, the research       contributed directly to revising existing training provision and is paving       the way for the establishment of a new national qualifications framework       for NHSP; second, by providing critical support to the on-going       performance improvement programme with 111 providers, strengthening the       case for clinical supervision and leading to improvements in both 111 and       999 call sorting.
The research has shaped Department of Health analysis of       the work and workforce implications of NHS Pathways and 111 roll-out.
Jackie Shears, Head of NHSP, Department of Health attributes the       improvements made to their processes as a direct output:  "Members of         the NHS Pathways team have ... benefitted directly from the findings of         the research, both from the published work and in the presentations that         the researchers have made to us and at workshops for our commissioners         and service providers ...
The first project ... has had a direct impact         on the design of our training programme ...
The second ... is providing         critical support to enable us to implement a performance improvement         programme with all 111 providers, and to support reinforced compliance         with conditions in the license that were being flouted by 111 providers         ... As a result we are seeing improvement in 111 call sorting and 999         call sorting".
Insights from this research were included in recent       WFRC evidence to the 2012 Parliamentary Health Committee report Education,       Training and Workforce planning.
Making workplaces work       Leonard's project `Making the Workplace Work' made recommendations to       practitioner members of BCO, including commercial property developers,       architects, property tenants, facilities managers and senior managers.
Studying the effects of workplace redesigns in organisations such as       PricewaterhouseCoopers, Hewlett Packard and the National Trust, Leonard       outlined a consultative model and guidelines that can be followed by       organisations planning significant redesign of workspaces.
The final       report currently forms part of the BCO's web-based research evidence base       for its members (in the BCO top ten most popular reports, with 172       downloads and 168 additional visits online).
Jenny MacDonnell, Head of       Research, BCO, received feedback from the BCO Members' Peer Review Panel.
The research was `" good, interesting and useful piece of research".
Leonard's research was `Editor's Pick' in `Government Today' and also       published in `Public Servant' and its key recommendations were adopted by       construction engineers, Mott MacDonald, in their management of effective       sustainable working practices and have been disseminated via their       corporation newsletter and website.
Mark Travis (Head of Workplace       Change, Mott McDonald) says "This brings a different and valuable         insight to all of us working in the area of workplace design".
He       continues, "As engineers, we tend to focus on the issues of physical         design and workplace efficiency when we do our work.
It is a valuable         perspective to be helped to see the issues through the eyes of those who         live and work in the offices we design".
Gender, race and ethnicity in the workplace       Halford and Leonard's 2003 research into the impact of race and racism on       the careers of medics, in collaboration with the British Medical       Association (BMA), continues to influence best practice for workplace       interventions in equality and diversity across professional and public       services.
The research was widely disseminated by the BMA and has framed       their good practice guidelines as well as those of NHS managers, health       care practitioners and other contexts such as the Judiciary and the       Scottish public sector.
Halford and Leonard's research into gender,       careers and organisation were recognised with plenaries at `think-tank'       discussions on `Gender and Equality- Where Next?'
at Cumberland Lodge       (2011) and the House of Commons (2013), attended by Members of Parliament,       the Judiciary and Police Force, senior Civil Servants, and practitioners http://publicpolicy.southampton.ac.uk/genderequality.
Our study conducted with the BMA, based on our previous academic research       on gender, race and careers is: cited as one of `several high profile       studies' used as key evidence in constructing the BMA's (2011).
Work futures and the Third Sector       In 2010 Halford and Leonard commenced research on Third Sector work and       organisations (as part of the ESRC funded Third Sector Research Centre),       providing important evidence on the working lives and careers of paid and       unpaid workers.
User-engagement activities include a one- day conference       organised by Halford and Leonard in 2011, ` Work futures in the third       sector' which was attended by 40 activists, staff and volunteers from the       third sector to inform and stimulate policy debate.
In addition an article       in The Association for Research in the Voluntary and Community Sector       Bulletin (2011) and discussions with Skills Third Sector and NCVO at the       TSRC's National Conference (2013) have informed policy debates on the       learning and skill needs of third sector workers.
