     As a direct result of their research, Matthews and Madise have advised       leading national and international policy makers throughout the impact       assessment period, with their findings informing policy development on       maternal and child health in developing countries.
In 2008, the WHO's World Health Report of which Matthews was one of four       main authors &#8212; and which remains the most comprehensive document of its       kind &#8212; was disseminated to the House of Commons International Development       Committee.
The findings from this report on maternal health skilled       providers, alongside several other research outputs by Matthews et al.
were cited as written evidence in the Committee's report on Maternal       Health in February 2008 [5.1, 5.7].
Both Matthews and Madise act as       advisors regularly for DFID and other international agencies.
For example,       in 2010 Madise and Matthews were invited to contribute to the development       of DFID's Strategy for Reproductive, Maternal, and Newborn Health (RMNH),       which is used in prioritising the nearly &#163;200 million funding in these       areas.
The strategy document `Choices for women: Planned Pregnancies, Safe       Births and Healthy Newborns' uses evidence from the Atlas of Birth (see       details below) and papers by Matthews and Madise on urban health in the       rationale for investment [5.2].
Also in 2008, Matthews was commissioned by the Norwegian Prime Minister,       Jens Stoltenberg, to report on the progress of MDGs 4 and 5 on child and       maternal health.
Her report was presented to the network of global       leaders, including Gordon Brown, Bill Gates, and the then World Bank       President Paul Zoellick, at a UN high level event in September 2008       leading to renewed focus on maternal and child health and a `Call to       Action' campaign led by Gordon Brown which asked for renewed global       commitments to accelerate progress of the two MDGs [5.3].
Matthews'       research input into the co-authored work, The State of the World's         Midwifery 2011: Delivering Health, Saving Lives [5.4], the       first global data collection of midwifery services from 68 resource-poor       countries, was presented in September 2011 at a UN special retreat on       women and children as part of the recommendations of UN Secretary-General       Ban Ki Moon's new Accountability Commission for the health of Women and       Children.
As a direct result of her research, Madise was invited to the United       Nations Expert Group organised by the UN Population Division in January       2008 to discuss lessons from her work on maternal and child health in       urban poor settings.
The proceedings from this meeting were published and       disseminated to member states by the United Nations [5.5].
Also,       since 2005, Madise has been contacted to advise the William and Flora       Hewlett Foundation and the Packard Foundations on priority areas for       funding in the African continent.
In 2012, she was approached by the Bill       and Melinda Gates Foundation to advise them on how to improve access to       reproductive health services among poor African women.
Melinda Gates used       some of Madise' s research findings in her speech at the TedX event in       Berlin on 5th April 2012, which was attended by more than 300       people and broadcast online to millions worldwide [5.10].
The research cited in Section 3 has also contributed to raising public       awareness.
In 2009 members of GHP3 were invited to collaborate with the       White Ribbon Alliance (an international coalition promoting health care       for women and newborns) to co-produce the global `Atlas of Birth', an       advocacy tool featuring powerfully communicated coloured maps.
The Atlas       was disseminated globally in 2009/10, including at the G8, Canadian       Parliamentarians' meeting, the African Union Summit, the International       Parliamentarians Annual meeting in Bangkok, and the `Women Deliver'       Conference.
The Atlas of Birth is cited repeatedly in DFID's RMNH strategy       [5.2].
Madise et al's research on maternal health in urban poor settings in       Nairobi has had a direct impact in influencing service provision in the       slum communities where it was undertaken.
Madise disseminated the results       of her research on maternal health among women in Nairobi slums to       District Medical Officers of Health (DMOH) in the Nairobi province and as       a direct result, the DMOH of Kasarani district in 2012 persuaded the       Government of Kenya to build two maternity facilities in one of the slums.
These facilities, expected to be opened in July 2013, will serve a       population of over 200,000 [5.8].
In addition, the DMOH's office       has reviewed the way they record the causes of maternal deaths as a direct       result of Madise et al's work.
Similarly, Matthews' framework for assessing the quality of care in       institutional settings in developing countries has been used in Nepal       where the Family Health Division in the Ministry of Health has developed       the `Monitoring of Quality of Care in Maternity Services' guidelines based       on the Southampton research and on the WHO Mother Baby Package.
The       guidelines, which have been implemented in 14 health facilities, have       resulted in changes in hospital working modalities in maternity care and       improved the care for millions of pregnant women [5.6].
The research by GHP3 on maternal health has had significant impact on       policies of governments and international agencies, and indirectly led to       millions of women's and children's lives saved.
With new funding, Matthews       and Madise are continuing to engage with research users to translate their       work into policies and actions (for example DFID funding mentioned in       Section 3 to work with governments in six African countries to improve       women's and children's health, and Wellcome Trust funding to engage with       Kenya Ministry of Health).
