     Research from Southampton has had an impact on practitioners and         professionals in the UK and internationally and thereby contributed       to the health and wellbeing of many thousands of children with learning       difficulties.
Within the UK, Nind's research has had an impact on the         practice of professionals who are responsible for the educational       and social development of more than 38,000 school-aged children in England       with severe/profound and multiple learning difficulties.
The 2009 General       Guidelines of the Qualifications and Curriculum Authority `Planning, which       oversees the curriculum for pupils with learning difficulties has endorsed       the Intensive Interaction approach [5.1].
The Department for       Education's online materials developed in response to the Salt Review       (2010) include 2 modules on Intensive Interaction and refer readers to the       2009 guidelines [5.1].
Adult services have similarly been       influenced by Nind's Intensive Interaction research.
For example, the       Leeds &amp;York NHS Foundation has a psychology service-wide commitment to       Intensive Interaction and their Intensive Interaction newsletter is       circulated to 1250 people across four continents.
Nind's Southampton       research is singled out for its relevance and influence in this material       and also in the Foundation's published research summaries for       practitioners.
Oxfordshire NHS Learning Disability Psychology Services,       for whom Nind has been a long-term training consultant, have also embedded       Intensive Interaction in their Good Practice Guidelines and online       resources [5.3].
Nind's work has also stimulated debate among       practitioners through newsletter discussions of the impact of       Intensive Interaction on the quality of people's lives [5.2, 5.3].
The UK Government's three-year national strategy document `Valuing       People Now' (Department of Health, 2009), in its outline of its       vision for people with learning disabilities, includes an exposition of       Intensive Interaction, its history and benefits, and cites Nind.
The Intensive Interaction Institute, founded by Nind's collaborator       Hewett, and applying the results of the original research, has 21 regional       networks and an annual conference of approximately 150 practitioners.
The       Institute has testified that "thousands of people (and often, their       families) are experiencing better and more fulfilled lives because of       their increased abilities to communicate and relate".
Nind has       presented her work through keynote addresses for the annual conference of       the Institute, the most recent one in 2011, where she disseminated her new       work on the importance of Intensive Interaction for emotional development,       new understanding of access, and positive risk-taking and its relevance       for sustainability in Intensive Interaction [5.4, 5.5, 5.6].
Nind       has also promoted her research findings in the voluntary sector, e.g.
giving a keynote in 2010 to the Us in a Bus organisation which uses       Intensive Interaction with people with profound impairment.
Nind is       enriching understanding and awareness of Intensive Interaction among       non-specialists by updating the factsheet on Intensive Interaction for the       British Institute of Learning Disabilities (BILD) in 2013, the original       one having had high usage.
She has also provided training and workshops       for education providers, speech/occupational therapist groups, and care       providers (e.g.
Suffolk Psychology service, Gwent NHS Trust, Oxfordshire       NHS Learning Disability Trust, Pentahact Housing, Ravenswood Community,       numerous special schools).
Stories of the ultimate impact of the research       and training are plentiful with beneficiaries broadening to include       individuals who are deaf-blind or have dementia (Platt testimonial).
Internationally, the research on the emotional well-being benefits       of Intensive Interaction has had an impact on practitioners and       professionals in Europe, Australia, and New Zealand.
In Eastern European       orphanages, e.g.
in Montenegro, positive results have been reported by a       UNICEF-funded project which has used the approach; in Romania, the use of       Intensive Interaction by young volunteers working with neglected children       has shown positive results; and in Greece, Nind and Hewett's core guidance       texts have been translated in Greek and disseminated to practitioners.
Intensive Interaction is being widely implemented in Australia and New       Zealand with the Intensive Interaction led by trainer Mark Barber who uses       Nind's research.
The Southampton research on Intensive Interaction is also having an       impact in Thailand where Nind has advised the lead implementer, Rungrat       Sri-amnuay.
Nind has also been approached to advise on international       developments in implementation by parents in France, who after finding       that Intensive Interaction improved the quality of life of their autistic       child sought to `share with the Education authorities, the Autism resource       unit ..., the Academic Inspectorate, and, from there, other parents,       teachers, schools, regional/national education authorities etc' (email       Jones).
At grassroots level, practitioners and families have created       Facebook groups/pages which between them have over 1,000 members in four       continents.
In Toronto Nind has supported the use of the Intensive Interaction       approach in psychiatric clinical and educational practice to enable a lead       practitioner to `engage emotionally with individuals manifesting ...       problem behaviours (and support others in doing the same) and this has       been associated with a reduction in the behaviours of concern as well as       being embraced as a positive experience by both individuals and their care       providers' (Bradley testimonial) [5.3, 5.4].
