     Fuller and Unwin have influenced UK VET policy at the highest       level through their research into       apprenticeships and wider workplace learning.
In 2008 the Labour       government introduced draft       legislation to put apprenticeships onto a statutory footing for the first       time since 1814.
Fuller was       Specialist Adviser to the Department for Innovation, Universities, Science       and Skills House of       Commons Select Committee's scrutiny of the Apprenticeship Bill [5.1].
She discussed with       members how to improve the quality of apprenticeships through the use of       the E/R continuum and       suggested questions that should be posed to witnesses.
This led directly       to a government       admission that conversions &#8212; where existing employees were given       apprenticeship status to meet       employer subsidy quotas &#8212; comprised 70% of all apprenticeships in the UK,       highlighting the need       for change.
In 2012 she was invited by the Department for Business,       Innovation and Skills (BIS) to       inform the Richard Review of Apprenticeship, attending a meeting with Doug       Richard and       government officials on 26 July 2012, and a further personal meeting with       Doug Richard on 6       September 2012, as well as by providing a written note outlining how       apprenticeship policy could       be taken forward and being invited to comment on the draft report.
The       final report refers to their       analysis of apprenticeship quality and references their papers [5.2].
Fuller's research arguing that the quality of the programme should be       prioritised over the quantity       has further stimulated policy debates on the expansion of       government-backed apprenticeships.
Written evidence submissions to the BIS Select Committee and the Public       Accounts committee       inquiries (2012) into Apprenticeship, drawing on the E/R concept, were       published in full [5.3, 5.4],       as was written evidence submitted to the Department for Education Select       Committee inquiry into       the `raising of the participation age' (2011) [5.5].
Fuller was       also a witness at the House of Lords       Economic Affairs Committee on Apprenticeship, whose 2007 report cited her       concerns over       quality.
The UOA has provided sustained support for Fuller's attendance       and involvement in these       high level policy inquiries.
A chapter on the content of apprenticeship (Fuller and Unwin, 2011)       contributes to Rethinking         Apprenticeships, published by the Institute for Public Policy       Research think-tank and including a       chapter by John Hayes MP, Minister for State for Further Education, Skills       and Lifelong Learning.
Fuller co-authored Working to Learn, Learning to Work, a Praxis       paper commissioned by the UK       Commission for Employment and Skills, detailing measures to support the       workplace as a more       expansive learning environment.
In 2011, she was invited to give evidence       to the Skills       Commission's inquiry on improving the quality of technician education in       the workplace.
This led to       the Gatsby Charitable Foundation commissioning Southampton to undertake a       project on       technician roles in the healthcare sector (August 2011 to July 2012) as       part of a drive to foster       improved public and social recognition of the oft-unnoticed technical       roles that underpin the       healthcare profession.
The research has also fed into diversity and       equality policies.
For example,       the E/R framework has been used by the TUC's UnionLearn to evaluate the       quality of employers'       apprenticeship programmes and also its own in-house scheme [5.6],       as well as by National       Institute of Adult of Continuing Education (NIACE) to inform the       development of its policy on       apprenticeship [5.7].
In 2010 Fuller was commissioned to review       the progress on equity and       diversity in apprenticeship as part of the Equality and Human Rights       Commission's (EHRC)       Triennial Review.
The review Equality Groups and Apprenticeship       (Fuller and Davey, May 2010)       identifying how awareness and understanding of equity and diversity issues       in apprenticeship       needs to be improved was published by the EHRC and cited in its final       report.
Fuller's research has also had an impact on practitioners' working         methods.
The development       of the E/R framework led to the Learning and Skills Council (LSC)       commissioning a free-to-download 	  employer guide on apprenticeships, Creating and Supporting         Expansive         Apprenticeships: A Guide for Employers, Training Providers and Colleges         of Further Education,       which was published on the `excellence gateway' in January 2011 and has       been promoted to       providers by the National Apprenticeship Service.
The guide had over 650       hits and more than 150       downloads by June 2012.
The Learning and Skills Improvement Service (LSIS)       guide (2012) links       `expansive apprenticeship' with preparation for skills competitions.
Fuller was invited (December       2012) by David Way, Chief Executive of the National Apprenticeship Service       to discuss how the       Framework can be further promoted to employers and providers as a way of       helping them to       improve the quality of their apprenticeships, and to judge the National       Apprenticeship Awards [5.8].
The Chartered Institute for Personnel and Development has promoted the use       of the expansive &#8212;       restrictive framework in its government endorsed Guide for Employers:       Apprenticeships that Work       (pp.
10-11).
The Framework's reach is being further extended: for example,       in the third sector [5.9]       it has been used by Fair Train and the Brathay Trust as a framework for       evaluating and enhancing       their provision, and by the Association of Teachers and Lecturers who       commissioned a workshop       for their members on application of the expansive &#8212; restrictive continuum       and are basing their       approach to CPD on the framework [5.10].
It has also been applied       to workplace learning, for       example, to provide the principles underpinning the development of the       apprenticeship training       centre at Siemens in the North East of England and research (2009-10) into       creating an expansive       learning environment in the portering department of Southampton University       Hospitals Trust.
According to Trust's Head of Wider Healthcare teams, it has helped develop       the Trust's       understanding of the contribution of hospital porters to patient care and       the importance of creating       an expansive workplace learning environment to support their role.
Southampton has also       supported Fuller to engage in the public debate on apprenticeship       quality, as expert contributor       to BBC Radio 4's The Real Apprentice, (2 May 2011) and the public       debate on Skills held by the       Institute of Ideas in London in October 2011.
