     Disseminated through the John Hansard Gallery's exhibitions and a       programme of learning activities, Winchester School of Art research has       reached thousands of members of the general public with specific benefits       for primary school children, teachers and `at risk' adolescents.
General public     JHG's core programme of six exhibitions per year has attracted 511,899       visitors since 2008 [5.1].
JHG's varied educational programme       (creative workshops, talks or conferences) based on exhibition contents       and supporting research have been attended by 470 members of the general       public since 2008 leading to greater public understanding and appreciation       of conceptual art.
For instance, in May 2013, 55 people attended a       symposium on the societal implications of work in the Smithson/Holt       exhibition as researched by Harris.
In feedback, one participant noted       that the event brought "the political context of land art in the UK" into       sharper focus and another commented that it had given them a "greater       historical understanding" and "greater appreciation" of land art [5.2].
A variety of educational workshops were organised to complement Crossings       (attendance - 159 people) and Dark Places (attendance - 174       people).
For example, after visiting Crossings, schoolchildren       participated in a supporting gallery workshop that echoed the exhibition's       concern with the return of the repressed.
Constructing a 3-dimensional       underwater scene of the wreckage of the Titanic, they discussed what they       might discover about a ship once thought unsinkable through this       practice-based journey.
Schoolchildren and teachers     During 2009/2010, Gowland-Pryde designed and facilitated educational       workshops for trainee teachers and 43 local primary school students as       part of the Arts Council England-funded Engage programme `Watch       This Space 6' (WTS6).
Designed to support the new primary curriculum,       sessions based on JHG exhibitions developed participants' visual analysis       and creative skills [5.3].
Ofsted said that the partnerships       "encouraged students who would not normally visit galleries to do so       regularly"; and "teachers, at all stages of their careers, saw the       opportunity to develop new teaching approaches in unfamiliar contexts as a       significant turning point in their work" [5.4].
A local teacher       said "it [made] me focus on [...] skills that allow children to respond to       and create art with more confidence" [5.5].
In 2011, JHG was selected by the Arts Award national agency to       coordinate and pilot two new educational programmes: `Discover' and       'Explore', through which participants can earn qualifications based on       arts activities completed in galleries [5.6].
An exhibition of       artworks created by schoolchildren during the pilot went on public show at       JHG (November 2011-March 2012; 1,767 people attended) and images from the       pilot feature in the Arts Award 2012 Guide (45,000 printed copies;       31,388 views online) [5.6] and in Arts Award training       toolkits (2,383 toolkits distributed to individuals and organisations,       largely working in education and the arts, attending Arts Award       training).
The pilot was featured in an article in Children and Young         People Now (29 May-11June 2012), a magazine for professionals       working in social care, health and education (readership 16,000), in which       a schoolchild commented that thinking about "the art I see and hear around       me makes every day feel special" (p.20).
Arts Award launched its       new 'Discover' and 'Explore' levels nationally in 2012 and one of the       teachers who participated in the pilot has trained to become an Arts         Award Advisor.
Over 9,000 students nationwide have received Arts       Award `Discover' or `Explore' Awards since the launch.
Young Offenders in Hampshire     Since 2008, 40 young offenders have participated in JHG Summer Arts       Colleges (SAC) run in partnership with Southampton Youth Offending Service       (SYOS) for a group that, generally, have disengaged from mainstream       education and training, and lack basic literacy and numeracy skills [5.7].
The Unitas Evaluation Report, which assessed all summer arts       colleges, concluded that SACs significantly reduced offending rates &#8212;       dropping from 8.9 (offences/100 weeks at risk) to 5.7 in the 13 weeks       following completion.
Post-assessments showed participants improved       literacy (69%) and numeracy (68%) scores [5.8].
One participant       reflected: "A lot of people said I wouldn't be able to change and I       changed.
All that has made me think about other things than getting into       trouble" [5.9].
JHG also offered a longer-term Arts Award programme from 2008 to       2010, specifically designed for young people in the youth justice system.
This provided 20 young people with the opportunity to develop their       educational, creative and social skills.
In 2009, SAC-participant Carl       Morgan continued through JHG's Arts Award programme to achieve       Hampshire's first Gold Arts Award (recognised UCAS Tariff 35       points) [5.7].
Subsequently Morgan was invited to meet the       Undersecretary of State for Schools, to represent Arts Council England at       a Parliamentary breakfast meeting for MPs and went on to study at Central       St Martins School of Art.
Discussing his experience at JHG, he said it,       "helped me to learn to be more focused and think about what I want to do       in the future" [5.10].
In 2008, JHG provided two animation workshops to young offenders in the       Southampton and Portsmouth area, each attended by a group of 7 young       people and in 2010, JHG worked with 8 NEET young people on the project Animating         the Cultural Quarter in collaboration with City Eye and the Wessex       Youth Offending Team.
In 2012, SYOS invited JHG to develop, pilot (4 young       people) and deliver 'Kri-8': a 12-month scheme where 7 `at risk' young       people worked with experienced JHG artist-educators to develop skills in a       wide range of media towards a range of qualifications [5.11].
One       Kri-8 participant with mental health issues said: "It's made me get in       with people more [and]... feel better as a person."
Her mum said: "Every       Friday [she] come[s] home with a big smile on [her] face [...] She tells       me she is really proud."
[5.9] In 2012, Kri-8 was included in the       Ministry of Justice's online `effective practice library' to provide       practitioners and commissioners in youth justice with easy access to       examples of effective practice from other services and providers [5.12].
Over the period of assessment, 69 of the young offenders who followed an       Arts Award course gained a qualification, varying from bronze, silver to       gold level.
This programme of impact activities &#8212; aimed at young children and       hard-to-reach, disadvantaged minorities as well as broader publics &#8212; has       enabled the submitting unit to achieve substantial impact from its       research into conceptual art and its social meanings.
While considerable       reach has sometimes been attained, impact has generally been targeted at       relatively small groups, and the focus has been on promoting deep       significant change and personal benefits for individuals in crisis.
