     The ICTE Research Centre has created a range of impacts through its       underpinning research in       the field of serious games and advanced educational technologies, mainly       stemming from clarifying       and harmonising the contribution to learning of games and Web2.0.
These       impacts can be broadly       categorised into headings of Policy, Economy and Societal Benefit.
Within Education Policy, our work on Web 2.0 provided a       foundation for many partners to       evaluate their educational policies.
For example, in Estonia over 8,000       teachers are being trained       in Web 2.0 using the framework that we have developed.
This framework       identifies Web 2.0 as       being of key benefit in education and provides educationists with examples       of best practice and       practical advice on how to adopt and implement these technologies.
The       School Inspectorate of       Education in Romania (ISJP) is applying our Web 2.0 framework to develop       an educational support       policy in their schools.
According to the Inspectorate, these frameworks       "... have led to a change in         policy for how the Inspectorate views the use of Web2.0 in schools".
Further, as noted by the       Director of Kindersite, an educational policy organisation, the ICTE group       have contributed through       its research to policy at a national and international level, including       the "...Departamento de         Educaci&#243;n del Gobierno de Navarra, Spain; Ministry of Education, Turkey;         Autonoom         Gemeentebedrijf Stedelijk Onderwijs Antwerpen, Belgium and outside of         Europe, Senior advisor to         the Minister of Education, Israel" and we have trained thousands of       teachers across Europe in the       use of Web2.0/games using our frameworks.
Public policy has been supported through the FP7 Gala Network of       Excellence, which exploits       games for education and training, providing practice and advice to       policymakers and to the games       industry.
Charged with harmonising research across Europe we have carried       out systematic meta-analysis       studies to identify the educational benefits of games, performed       experiments to extend the       knowledge of these benefits, and advised a wide range of stakeholders,       including       teachers/lecturers/trainers, school management, and decision and       policymakers across Europe.
In terms of the benefit to society, at an international level the       ICTE group has supported the       introduction of high technology entrepreneurship education through the       innovative use of serious       games as an educational tool.
More generally, the group has been involved       in developing       approaches to promote creativity, competitiveness, employability and the       growth of an       entrepreneurial spirit within young people, and helping them acquire the       basic life-skills and       competences necessary for their personal development, for future       employment and for active       European citizenship.
Within the UK, the group is developing a next       generation learning       environment based on gaming technology and emotional artificial       intelligence that the Scottish       Social Services Council will use to train over 190,000 social services       workers with professional       practice skills, simulating a range of scenarios that might arise in their       work.
As noted by the Chief       Executive of SSSC, "... we are working with UWS, one of the leaders in         the serious games field,         and I am excited about this partnership and the potential our joint         working has to shape learning         now and for the future."
A number of companies have also benefitted commercially from links with       the research group,       which sprang directly from its expertise and reputation within games       research in Scotland.
In the       UK, the group has supported a range of commercial training companies,       increasing their turnover       by over &#163;2million and creating over 50 jobs.
UWS competitively secured       projects with EKGTA (the       employer-led training provider for the engineering industry), business and       management       consultancy Kelvin Consulting, online communications leader TPLD, and       Crawford Scientific, a       commercial training provider in analytical chemistry, as a result of its       research.
EKGTA benefited       from the UWS framework in implementing its eLearning system and stated       that its turnover       increased by 26.2% following the project.
Similarly, Crawford Scientific benefited through the introduction of an       eLearning business activity to       an analytical chemistry equipment supplier, creating virtual labs and       advanced interactivity to       support their product sales and operation.
This project led to a 20%       increase in sales and an 80%       increase into new markets within 2 years.
It transformed the company from       a reseller of equipment,       providing a small amount of online learning, to a leading provider of high       quality online learning in       the chromatography field.
The company believes that "the work of         Professor Connolly and his team         has had a strategic impact on Crawford Scientific policies,         significantly changing the way the         company handles its corporate training operations transforming the         training from traditional face-to-face         provision into a worldwide training organisations high-quality,         interactive online learning         products with key global industry clients including Astra Zeneca,         Pfizer, Reckitt and Benckiser and         Glaxo SmithKline."
