     RNLI lifeboats attend over 15,000 incidents annually, with an average of       22 people rescued daily.
As time is of the essence in life-threatening       incidents in the sea, an immediate response with minimum reaction time is       imperative.
In 2008 BU prepared a slipway Guidance Design Documentation for the RNLI,       resulting from the EPSRC CASE award (R1).
The document was a good practice       design guide for implementation by RNLI technical staff.
The new       water-based slipway system identified has been implemented across 38% of       RNLI lifeboat stations since 2008.
The research has led to improvements in       crew safety and RNLI launch reliability, as well as reducing maintenance       down-time and machine failure.
An increased number of standby lifeboats       are now ready to interfere/engage, with the ultimate goal of ending the       preventable loss of life at sea.
All this has been achieved alongside the       considerable cost savings of ~&#163;200k per year as detailed below.
The RNLI's       head of engineering support (R2) is an author on publications P3-6, which       corroborate the impact claims.
Financial Impact     Once fully implemented across the slipway network, the combined effects       of the research allows the RNLI to save up to &#163;52k in lubricant costs and       a further &#163;143k in material replacement costs (P3).
This equates to a       saving of almost &#163;1 million over a 5 year term.
With a 2011 combined       budget of just &#163;140m (R3) across the entire UK lifeboat operations solely       provided by charitable donations, this systemic saving is crucial to the       RNLI.
These savings are used to contribute to the on-going process of       modernising the RNLI network as a whole.
The RNLI's head of engineering       support, Steve Austin, states: "The findings of the specific research are       extremely valuable to the RNLI as they outline improvements that can be       made to produce more efficient, durable and cost-effective slipways from       which to launch and recover the lifeboats" (P3, R4 &amp; R2).
Operational Impact     The research has also shown that the improved fitting criteria and a       modified panel design can reduce the high wear and friction effects.
This       philosophy is now codified in three related volumes of slipway panel       design and fitting guidelines.
These were published in 2008 and are used       by the RNLI (R1).
Slipway lining panels' lifespan increased by over 100%       through better panel fitting criteria and modified panel geometry (P4       &amp; P5).
The RNLI has adopted these panel redesigns and fitting criteria       on all their new slipways.
Since 2008 the new slipway lining material       identified in the research has been fitted to the new and newly       refurbished slipway stations.
This includes Tenby, Padstow and Sennen Cove       among others (R2).
The recommended slipway lining materials are being phased in across the       UK slipway station network over the next few years, coinciding with the       simultaneous roll-out of the new Tamar lifeboat.
Currently around 38% of       RNLI slipway stations use the new water lubrication system.
Durability of       the panels is increased while service and maintenance time is       significantly reduced.
Environmental Impact     In response to the research results the RNLI have stopped using grease to       lubricate the slipways.
Instead they have adopted the automated       water-based system BU advised.
Since 2010 the RNLI has applied this across       their slipway network, preventing the release of grease from the slipway       into the surrounding marine environment.
Once fully adopted this will       result in the removal of 500+ litres of marine grease per annum from the       local marine environment with a consequent saving in carbon emissions of       ~740kg CO2 p.a.
Further environmental benefits include the reduction of carbon emissions       from material wear by 45% alongside with other useful environmental       savings due to reduced maintenance costs (P3).
Crewman Safety Impact     The automated water-based system has removed the need for a crewman to       descend the slipway during lifeboat operations and has correspondingly       improved crew safety on lifeboat slipways.
The reliability of slipway       launches has also increased.
Additionally, testimonials from individual lifeboat personnel confirm       that the use of the automated water based system reduced the risk exposure       of the volunteer lifeboat crew at each slipway station.
This allows the       safe continuation the RNLI's crucial role in preserving life along the       coast of the UK and Ireland (R5).
Further societal benefits include the continued on-going reliability and       security of vital life-saving services through the reduction in       maintenance down-time and machine failure.
Wider Research Impact     The research was presented at a number of international conferences       including at the House of Commons as part of the `Reception for Younger       Engineers at the House of Commons' (R6) and was short-listed at the Times       Higher Education (THE) Awards 2010 in the category of `Outstanding       Contribution to Innovation and Technology'.
This award specifically       highlighted BU's role in reducing environmental impact and costs (R7).
The research methodology developed during this project has many potential       uses in other tribological contact situations, including oil rig rescue       craft, overseas slipway lifeboats and cradle-launched beach rescue craft.
The research is also relevant to applications involving sliding contacts       along any tiled or grooved surfaces, including tyre friction along paved       roads and spacecraft heat shields.
The application of the research within the RNLI has already had       significant economical, operational and environmental benefits, as well as       facilitating improvements to crewman safety.
The &#163;1 million saved over a       five year period frees up resources to be used in the 15,000 incidents and       rescues the charity attends each year.
