     Bladder cancer is a common disease with an estimated 12 cases per 100,000       people in the UK.
Despite surgery and chemotherapy, 80% of patients with       NMIBC will have recurrent disease within 5 years.
This high rate of       recurrence illustrates the need to develop novel treatments for NMIBC.
Our       underpinning research led to investment in further phase II trials in high       risk NMIBC, safety studies of Apaziquone administered directly after       surgery and Phase III clinical trials in low risk NMIBC where recurrence       rate was the primary endpoint.
Recurrence rates from follow-up of patients in the pilot phase I/II and       phase II studies were published in 2009 (a,b).
Both studies reported that       early recurrence was rare (a,b) and that recurrence rates after two years       of follow up was 49.5% (b).
In a systematic review of 23 studies of       treatment of low grade NMIBC involving 6 different cytotoxics and 6 immune       response modifiers, the highest complete response rate was obtained with       Apaziquone (c).
Furthermore, 49.5% of complete responders were recurrence       free two years after the start of treatment (b,c).
Only ThioTEPA gave a       higher recurrence free period but this was achieved at the expense of       significant systemic toxicity (leukopenia, (c)).
In summary, phase I/II       studies using a multiple dosing regimen demonstrated that Apaziquone is       clinically active against low risk NMIBC, had a favourable toxicity       profile and in those patients that experienced a complete response, the       disease free interval increased (a,b,c).
In July 2009, Apaziquone was       awarded `fast track' status by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) in       the USA, a process designed to facilitate the development and approval of       drugs used to treat serious diseases and fill an unmet medical need (d).
Two additional phase II clinical studies were conducted in The       Netherlands (e,f).
In the first of these studies (NCT00141531, started in       August 2005 and completed in December 2009 (e)), 53 patients with high       risk NMIBC were treated with multiple doses of Apaziquone administered       intravesically.
The recurrence rate after 12 months was 34.7% and these       results were considered encouraging compared to the 61% probability of       recurrence calculated by the EORTC for high risk NMIBC (e).
In the second       study (NCT01475266, started November 2011 and completed in 2012), a single       dose of Apaziquone was administered within 6 hours of surgery (f), a       protocol that is widely used in the treatment of low risk NMIBC.
Twenty       patients were treated using this protocol and the results demonstrated       that Apaziquone was again well tolerated with minimal local side effects       and no systemic side effects, a result that is consistent with the absence       of detectable levels of Apaziquone in the peripheral blood of patients       (f).
The successful phase I and II studies paved the way for two large,       multi-centre phase III trials (g).
The first, NCT00598806 (started in       September 2007 and completed in December 2009) was conducted across 77       clinical centres in the USA, Canada and Poland with 813 patients and the       second, NCT00461591 (started in April 2007 and completed in December 2009)       across 74 medical centres across the USA with 802 patients enrolled.
Both       trials were sponsored by Spectrum Pharmaceuticals in partnership with       Allergan Inc (Irvine California), an investment of more than $41.5m (h),       and involved a single dose of Apaziquone administered intravesically       within 6 hours of surgery.
The results were recently reported on public       domain websites (i) and the combined results of both studies reached       significance at both the primary (recurrence rate at 2 years) and       secondary (time to first recurrence) outcome measures (i).
Following a       meeting with the FDA (January 2013), Spectrum Pharmaceuticals announced       that they expect to file for a New Drug Application and have also       committed to conduct a further phase III trial (NCT01410565, (j)) using       the multiple dosing schedule that was efficacious in phase II clinical       trials.
To summarise, the original research from Bradford led to investment in       clinical trials of Apaziquone that demonstrated clinical benefit in       patients with low risk NMIBC, a disease for which no new therapies have       been approved for the past twenty years.
1,746 patients have been treated       with Apaziquone in medical centres across the UK, USA, Canada and Europe       and patients who responded well typically experienced longer periods of       remission compared to standard therapies for NMIBC.
Furthermore,       Apaziquone was well tolerated with low levels of drug-induced toxicity to       the bladder and no systemic side effects reported.
Further clinical trials       are underway and a New Drug Application to the FDA is expected.
