     The research results described above represent a significant shift in       understanding of a condition that for many years had been taught to       medical students as the prime example of a non-genetic disease.
As a       result of our research, a new genetic test is now available to patients       and their families.
It is provided at 17 laboratories, both in the UK and       internationally [a].
The practice is based on the data and methods       first used by the UCL group (references [2] and [4] above).
Therefore       these findings have had a direct impact on the practice and implementation       of this mutation test.
This is the first time in Parkinson's disease that       tests have been widely available and have been useful to a large number of       potential sufferers.
At our laboratory, affiliated with the National       Hospital for Neurology and Neuroscience, we have conducted 760 tests in       the period 2008-13 [b].
The UK Genetic Testing network approved an       evaluation of the test for LKKR2 as a genetic test for the NHS Service       Gene Dossier in 2011 [c].
The test gives patients a precise diagnosis, and understanding of the       risk of disease to relatives, with the possibility of pre-symptomatic       testing in those at risk.
Prenatal testing is also a possibility.
To a       lesser degree, an understanding of the mutation may help the prognosis of       the disease [d].
One patient, Genia Brin (see more below),       described the impact of the test results as follows:       "When I got the results I thought `that's why'.
There was some sense of         relief to know there was a reason behind the illness" [e].
Wood has been actively involved in raising public awareness of the       genetic basis of Parkinson's disease, and his videos on YouTube have       attracted hundreds of viewings [f].
Many other research groups have built on our early work, and one area of       particular interest is the identification of the specific relevance of the       mutation to particular ethnic groups, for example Ashkenazi Jewish and       North African Arab populations [g, h].
The link was highlighted in       the Jewish Chronicle, Pittsburgh [i].
The internet entrepreneur Sergey Brin blogged in 2008 about his       experience of the LKKR2 mutation being discovered in his family, through       his involvement with the genetic testing company 23andMe, saying "I         carry the G2019S mutation and when my mother checked her account, she         saw she carries it too...it is clear that I have a markedly higher         chance of developing Parkinson's in my lifetime than the average         person...research into LRRK2 looks intriguing (both for LRRK2 carriers         and potentially for others).
This leaves me in a rather unique position.
I know early in my life something I am substantially predisposed to.
I         now have the opportunity to adjust my life to reduce those odds (e.g.
there is evidence that exercise may be protective against Parkinson's).
I also have the opportunity to perform and support research into this         disease long before it may affect me.
And, regardless of my own health         it can help my family members as well as others."
[j] LRRK2       has become a priority area for the Michael J.
Fox Foundation for       Parkinson's research, which, together with the Brin Wojcicki Foundation,       has invested more than $44 million in research projects in this area to       June 2012 [k].
This high profile support has raised public       awareness of the area, evidenced by press coverage [j].
More broadly speaking, this work has had a wider impact on the rare       diseases agenda.
The identification of this mutation in a common disease       provides a strong motivation for the recently announced rare disease       initiative within the NIHR Rare Diseases Translational Research       Collaboration [l].
It is highly likely that similar mutations or       variants will be identified in other common diseases.
The pathway to       genetic implementation and diagnostics is now well established and will be       followed by many of these other conditions using the paradigm described       above.
As a common mutation within the LRRK2 gene, it has also formed the       mainstay of much of the biological exploration that has been carried out       of the functioning of this gene and has also been a focus for many major       pharmaceutical companies including GlaxoSmithKline (GSK) and Eisai.
GSK       and Eisai are well advanced in producing LRRK2 kinase inhibitors based on       biological investigations of this mutation [m].
GSK reported the       discovery and characterization of       2-arylmethyloxy-5-subtitutent-N-arylbenzamides with potent LRRK2       activities in 2012, and have been conducting an observational study to       fully characterise the neurocognitive phenotype of Parkinson Disease       patients with LRRK2 mutation since 2011 [n].
There is widespread expectation that these molecules will be trialled in       the at-risk population within the next 2-3 years.
If successful this would       provide the first disease-modifying treatments in Parkinson's disease and       would be based firmly on knowledge of the biology and as direct result of       the primary discoveries of the UCL group.
