     The primary impact delivered by this research is on commerce, through       establishment of a spin-out company, creation of jobs, and new products.
Since 2008 the impact measures have been:            further establishing, and improving the viability of, ANT Ltd in the         sector;       attracting considerable investment into research from industry and         other investors;       commercialising a new product for the adoption of new technology by         several manufacturing industries;       acquisition of other companies to improve the performance of all         businesses involved; and,       creation of jobs for highly skilled individuals taking specialised         roles.
The new technology impacts upon health and welfare by preventing damage       to the health of employees in the manufacturing industries, such as those       engaged in the manufacture of enzyme-containing household products.
Since 1994, nanotechnology has been developed at the University of       Sunderland using ELISA methods to detect and quantify specific biochemical       substances of relevance to the manufacture of pharmaceuticals, chemicals,       plastics, health care products, breweries, tanneries and bakeries; these       industries form over 5% of UK industry, employing over 500,000 staff,       contributing to global revenues of &#163;110.5b for the sector (2011 data:       ReportLinker.com).
The initial patent on the invention was filed in 1997       and Prof Rowell established Analytical Nano Technologies (ANT) Ltd as a       spin-out company in 2002 (initially as Sandco777 Ltd, becoming ANT Ltd in       2005), out-licensing the technology from the University.
The first       products were small portable systems, such as dipsticks and personal       monitors, which could measure airborne active ingredients in real time and       detect biochemical leaks in 15-20 minutes.
The economic argument was       strong: the galley test system took &gt;150 hours and &#163;64 per test, while       the ANT dipstick test took 4 hours per test and cost &#163;30.
The spin-out       company, ANT Ltd, employed 5-6 staff at this time, to continue the product       development; this initial impact was in the form of a new commercial       venture and new products, with inward investment and new jobs created.
In 2008, ANT continued to grow and contribute to the economy of the       region; the research results and intellectual property, underpinned by       further patents, improved the existing business and staff base.
In       response to the order from Unilever, the company further developed a real       time air analyser, a `sniffer' system, which drew air to be sampled into a       cyclone, through which fluid was passed; this removed any substance, such       as enzyme, from the sampled air and carried it into a bioreactor, where       the enzyme reacted with a specific substrate to release a fluorescent       marker.
Measurement of the fluorescence gave a quantifiable signal       proportional to the amount of enzyme present.
This new system further       decreased the test time to 0.1 hours at a cost of &#163;1.50 per test.
Acquisition of Newton Instruments followed early in 2008, adding to the       performance of both businesses.
Their galley sampling equipment was ideal       as a vehicle for delivering a new real time analyser or `sniffer' system       into the relevant manufacturing industries and resulted in world-leader       status in static airborne industrial enzyme monitoring.
In April 2008, now       with 18 employees and renamed, ANTNano acquired a specialist       electrochemical sensor company, Microarray Ltd, to develop specific       detectors for infectious diseases, such as MRSA and avian flu, and secured       approximately &#163;4m from Singapore industry to further develop the research       in collaboration with Nanyang Technological University in Singapore.
By       June 2008, ANTNano had established its viability by generating revenue       that gave it sufficient credibility to be launched as ANTNano (UK) Plc,       which bought the Limited company and was then listed on the PLUS markets       (open exchange) with tradeable shares.
The customer base had expanded to       include other manufacturers, such as Johnson Diversey Ltd and Novozymes.
In the period from June 2008 - Dec 2009, the technology developed at       Sunderland supported considerable commercial impact upon ANTNano (UK) Ltd,       providing the fundamental science upon which the existing dipstick and       personal monitors were based, and enabling the development of the new       `sniffer' detection system.
As a result, two sniffer systems were       commissioned for manufacture and evaluation by Proctor &amp; Gamble and       Unilever, where they provided evidence of their success and reliability in       detecting airborne particles and protecting employees from over-exposure       in the manufacturing environment.
Their excellent performance resulted in       orders for a further 4 systems targeted at detecting and quantifying       additional detergents.
Prof Rowell attracted about &#163;4m in investment for       ANTNano (UK) Plc and set up a consortium to deliver the components       required for the sniffer systems: dipstrip manufacture, nanotechnology,       direct air sampling, and miniaturisation.
However, issues from the       pipeline software providers caused a fatal financial blow to ANTNano (UK)       Plc and the company ceased trading in Dec 2009.
Since 2012, the patents underpinning the technology have again been       out-licensed from the University of Sunderland and are starting to show       evidence of impact, with the registration of a new company, Air Analytics       Ltd, in 2011 and 3 new employees, thus supporting the creation of new       business.
There remains no comparable industry or product in the European       air-monitoring market.
This research is again attracting interest from       industry for the development and production of new products to be adopted       by the household commodities industry: Air Analytics Ltd aims to re-launch       its innovative products to protect the health and welfare of manufacturing       industry employees.
