     The research described above has achieved impact through: i) Adoption of       the medicines       management toolkit as national policy and good practice guidance; ii)       Adoption of best practice in       identifying error causation and error reporting by individual hospices.
It       has had national reach,       being adopted across all children's hospices in England, Scotland and       Wales.
i) Adoption of the toolkit as policy and good practice guidance     In 2011, Together for Short Lives (TfSL) adopted the medicines management       toolkit as policy and       issued it to all its 49 member hospices across the UK.
TfSL recommended it       to be used to review       internal systems and processes and as a good practice guide to improve       medicines management       across the sector, advance multi-disciplinary/cross agency working, and       make medicines safety a       priority.
TfSL's then Director of Practice &amp; Service Development,       advised all hospices in 2011 to       implement a review of systems and processes and to consider changes based       on the toolkit       guidance (a).
The toolkit, referred to as the CHUK medicines management toolkit, is       cited as one of two key       medicines management resources in a regional strategy for children's       hospices across London       (University of Kent /CHAL 2011) (b).
At the time of this submission,       impact is continuing to build as       a University of Bradford team led by Armitage has been funded by TfSL to       evaluate the current       edition of the toolkit and prepare a second edition.
ii) Evidence of adoption of best practice     The Director of Care at TfSL has surveyed hospice leads to gather       evidence of the use and effects       of the medicines management toolkit and has reported that all hospices in       the network have       reviewed their approach to medicines management since the toolkit was       launched in 2011 (a)     Key changes made by hospices in response to the toolkit, and specifically       the guidance provided       for improving error management have resulted in better identification of       errors emanating both from       within the hospices and from local NHS Trusts.
There have also been       improvements in taking       action following errors, thus mitigating the future risk to patients.
A       number of examples, clearly       influenced by the Bradford research, are described below.
The East Anglia Children's Hospices (EACH) now routinely interrogate       medicines incidents every       quarter with clinical quality staff; they have instigated reflective       reviews of causation and action       taken at medicines management meetings three times per year and the       Director of Care at EACH       suggests that there are now systematic opportunities for learning (c).
Furthermore, their clinical       educators use the toolkit as a resource in their medicines management       training.
At the Rainbow's       Hospice in Leicestershire, the Director of Care has adopted a reporting       scheme based on the       toolkit; the contributory factors framework is used to audit medication       incidents, and there has been       a rise in the number of near miss incidents, seen as a reflection of an       open and just safety culture       (d).
The Director of Care has reported that, "I have used the form a         lot for auditing drug incidents and         it has been really helpful in changing some of our practice."
At the Welsh hospices (Hope House and Ty Gobaith) the reporting process       has similarly been       adopted and incidents are assessed by a quarterly, multi-disciplinary       medicines management       group; the number of reported incidents has increased, but not the number       of harm events.
The       number of discrepancies identified during medicines reconciliation has       also increased.
All reported       dispensing errors from referring NHS Trusts (the reporting rate of which       has also increased) are       shared with the Director of Pharmacy at the partnering NHS Trust.
The       Director of Care at Welsh       Hospices has explained how medicines management is now "more         pro-active and organise"', and       that there is increased staff vigilance which has "empowered parents         to take greater ownership of         their children's medicines management" (e).
The Children's Hospice Association of Scotland (CHAS) made further       changes in response to both       the toolkit and the supporting research papers.
Armitage was invited to       lead a study day for senior       staff (April 2012) which resulted in the implementation of a tailored       reporting tool as part of a new       `Medication Management Strategy' directly based on the principles       advocated in the Bradford       research (f).
Secondly, following advice from the Bradford team, the first       pharmacist post within       CHAS was planned and established in 2012 to strengthen medicines       governance.
The job       description and person specifications were written following consultation       with University of Bradford       staff (g), and the first of two pharmacists is now in post.
CHAS have       built their medication       management strategy on the central principles of a human factors approach       as advocated in the       toolkit, with a particular focus on learning from error through their       clinical incident reporting scheme       (h).
Evidence of impact on error reporting systems and on hospice staff       culture comes from the report       of the regulator's (Healthcare Improvement Scotland) unannounced visit to       CHAS (February 2013)       which explicitly acknowledged a "strong culture of reporting         medication incidents, with staff being         encouraged to report openly and honestly".
The report also commented       on how "management         was able to see the frequency and type of errors that were occurring and         that the new pharmacist         was involved in their review".
Importantly, the regulator       complimented the reporting scheme which       was seen to be gathering more detail and using a `more robust method         of assessing possible         harm'.
The regulator also noted the need for further improvement and       asked that staff continue to       audit medicines administration and related staff training (i).
In summary,       the toolkit has made a       positive, demonstrable impact on safety attitudes, safety policy and       routine medicines       management across the UK children's hospice service.
