     Superscript numbering refers to corroborative sources in Section 5     The most significant impacts, with consistent and broad reach are in       terms of policy1-3.
The first parliamentary discussions were       within days of Thompson's 2004 publication and policy interest has been       sustained resulting in the regulation of microplastics being incorporated       into European Union Policy during 2010.
The first two microplastics papers from the team prompted the United       States Department of Commerce, National Oceanic and Atmospheric       Administration (NOAA) to organise the first international meeting on       microplastics at the University of Washington (2008), Thompson gave the       opening presentation outlining his research.
The meeting resulted in a       White Paper summarising current understanding on microplastics as an       emerging contaminant and associated environmental concerns, Immediate       beneficiaries were NOAA and Defra (4Arthur et al.
2009,       published by NOAA).
In 2009 the Joint Group of Experts on the Scientific       Aspects of Marine Environmental Protection (an advisory body of the United       Nations) organised an international meeting dedicated to microplastics.
This resulted in a position statement for policy makers worldwide       outlining the potential concerns arising from microplastic contamination (5GESAMP       2010).
Within the EU, policy to reduce microplastic contamination was       implemented via the Marine Strategy Framework Directive (MSFD) in April       2010.
To achieve good environmental status in the EU waters member states       would need to achieve a `measurable and significant decrease' in       the abundance of microplastics by 2020 (7Galgani 2010).
To       inform implementation Thompson presented on his research at the European       Parliament (Brussels, June 2010) and EU Committee of the Regions       (Brussels, November, 2010).
These meetings were widely attended by MEPs       and the European Commission and Prof. Thompson was subsequently asked by       the EU to be a scientific expert in a Technical Subgroup to define       methodological standards for member states to implement MSFD policy with       respect to microplastic (8policy document, EC, 2011).
The importance of research by Thompson's Group, in influencing EU MSFD       Policy, is summarised in a testimonial from a 1DG Environment       Policy Officer `'Research at Plymouth directly led to the inclusion of         microplastics as part of the assessment of good environmental status.
In         2010, microplastics were identified in the Commission Decision on         criteria and methodological standards for determining GES (2010/477/EU)         as one of the key-indicators of the characteristics of litter in the         marine environment.''.
The research continues to be a key source of       information to EU policymakers, for example: 9Science for       Environment Policy DG Environment, February 2012 is entirely based on a       microplastics paper from Thompson's group (Browne et al.
2011)       which is also cited in the 2013 Green Paper `European Strategy on         Plastic Waste in the Environment.
As part of the UK contribution to achieving good environmental status       within MSFD the Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs (Defra)       awarded a competitively won tender (ME 5416, 2010 - 2014) to Thompson       together with colleagues Rowland at Plymouth University and Galloway (now       at University of Exeter), to establish the extent to which microplastics       might cause harm in the marine environment.
The importance of research by       Thompson's group in influencing policy is outlined in a testimonial from a       2Defra Policy Officer (2012) `'The inclusion of a         requirement to understand trends in the amount, distribution and         composition of microplastics in a legally binding European Directive was         only made possible by the compelling evidence put forward by the group''       Similarly, the importance in the US is outlined by a 3Programme       Director within Ocean Conservancy (2013).
).
`'His work has helped       re-shape how scientists and policymakers view the persistent problem of       marine debris and influenced a number of processes here in the United       States.
This includes the strategies employed by Ocean Conservancy and       other non-profit organizations to confront the threat of plastic pollution       in the ocean.
Thompson's insights have also influenced how the U.S.       Environmental Protection Agency approaches the issue of marine debris''.
In 2013 Thompson was invited to present evidence on microplastics to the 6House       of Commons Science and Technology Select Committee as part of their       consideration of water quality in the UK.
An outcome being a discussion on       banning microplastics in cosmetics.
Several global companies including       Unilever, Colgate Palmolive and L'Oreal have voluntarily withdrawn       microplastics (described by manufacturers as `microbeads') from       their products in 2013.
More generally, three of the publications in Section 4 were independently       acknowledged in the journal Environmental Science and Technology':       in 2008, Teuten et al.
(2007) and Browne et al.
(2008) were       highlighted as `two of the most influential papers in the field',       and in 2012 Browne et al.
(2011) was awarded `best paper of         the year'.
Following the discovery of microplastics, there have been       themed sessions at international conferences in Europe and the USA.
In       addition, there have been over 100 media articles and programmes on the       topic (including New York Times, Washington Post, Das Spiegel, El Pais,       Guardian, BBC).
The research has inspired artistic representations,       educational projects (e.g., El Viaje de Jurella y los Micropl&#225;sticos, a       national educational programme throughout Chile) and been incorporated       into popular science books (The World Without US, A. Weisman and Reporting         Live form the End of the World, D. Shukman).
In 2010 Thompson was       invited to participate in a public debate as part of the Plastics Europe       Annual Meeting (a trade organisation representing European plastics       industry).
Facilitated by a BBC journalist this took the form a discussion       between representatives from the plastics industry and international       marine pollution experts (Thompson, Galgani, van Franeker).
It was held in       front of an audience of 200 who indicated their opinions on marine litter       in real time using hand-held electronic voting tools and was broadcast       live as a pod-cast.
In terms of global solutions to the growing problem of marine debris, of       which microplastics are a part, Thompson was asked by the United Nations       Environment Programme to identify `Global and Regional Solutions to the         Marine Debris Problem (10STAP 2011).
