     BU's research has had a significant impact on protecting biodiversity,       with fewer birds dying through loss of food and habitat.
It also benefits       society by identifying human activities that do not negatively impact on       the birds.
Historically, the precautionary principle would be applied in       the absence of evidence, assuming any activity would adversely affect the       birds.
This has led to banning human activities that would not affect       wildlife.
This wastes conservation resources in opposing non-harming       activities instead of focusing efforts on damaging ones, and also       restricts human activities and development even if they would be       non-damaging.
The computer modelling technique has been applied to 35 sites in Europe       and one in Australia.
In England specifically it has been used on 812 km2       (29%) of Special Protection Areas identified by DEFRA (Humber Estuary,       Wash, North Norfolk, Chichester Harbour, Southampton Water, Poole Harbour,       Exe Estuary, Severn Estuary, Dee Estuary, Morecambe Bay and Solway Firth).
Since 2007, the computer modelling technique has been used in the       following conservation scenarios:     Barrages and bridges     Evidence was provided to the UK Government on the impact of proposed       tidal power barrages within the Severn Estuary in 2010 contributed to the       decision to abandon funding of the scheme on environmental grounds (R1).
Evidence was provided to the Danish government in 2011 on the effect a       proposed bridge over the Fehmarn Belt between Germany and Denmark would       have on sea ducks.
Housing     Evidence was provided to regulatory bodies and conservation and       industrial organisations on the potential impact of human disturbance       resulting from increased housing in the Solent region (2010-present; R2       and R3).
Harbour development     Evidence was provided for the assessment of the impact of harbour       development on a rare wading bird, the Pied Oystercatcher, in Tasmania       (2008; R4).
Sea level rise     Evidence has shown the impact of sea level rise on bird populations in       Poole Harbour (2008), Exe Estuary (2008) and Baie de Somme, France       (2008-present).
Manager of the Nature Syndicat Mixte Nature Reserve in       France said: "The results of the model gave the opportunity and the       arguments to change the opening of the cockle fishing season.
This now       starts one month earlier than before, in order to increase the cockle       harvest" (R5).
Nuclear power     The UK nuclear power industry was advised on the impact warm-water       outflow from a proposed nuclear power station on Bridgwater Bay would have       on birds and their food source (2010, R6).
Shellfishing     The BU model is applied to annual quotas in Baie de Somme, France       (2008-present; R5) and all shellfishing sites in Wales.
This is evidenced       in the minutes from the Welsh Government meeting, `Bird Food Model', which       took place in Aberystwyth on 3 October 2012 (R7).
In England, evidence of the effects of shellfishing has been provided to       coastal managers of 27% (881 km2) of coastal and brackish       waters classified as shellfish surface water by DEFRA.
This includes       Solway Firth (2008; R8); Morecambe Bay (2010; R9) and The Wash       (2007-present; R9).
Referring to a protected wading bird, Senior Advisor       for Natural England said: "The modelling work has determined the amount of       shellfish food required to ensure minimum mortality in the over-wintering       oystercatcher population" (R9).
Using financial information from the Marine Management Organisation, the       English shellfisheries regulated by BU research and modelling, produce       between 4,401 and 10,394 tonnes of shellfish per annum (2010 figures) with       an estimated annual value of between &#163;8.35 million and &#163;17.43 million.
This constitutes 53% of the total income generated by shellfishing in       English waters.
The Wash specifically produces between 1,100 and 2,298 tonnes of       shellfish per annum (2010 figures) with an estimated annual value between       &#163;1.7 and &#163;4.38 million.
This constitutes 13% of the total annual income       generated by shellfish farming in English waters.
A precautionary approach       of banning shellfishing in the Wash would result in an annual loss of       income of between &#163;1.7 and &#163;4.38 million.
In contrast, lack of evidence       may mean that use of the coast is unregulated.
The Wash shellfishery was       unregulated during the 1990s and extensive shellfishing reduced the food       supplies of a protected species, the oystercatcher, leading to up to 25%       overwinter mortality of these birds (5,000 birds), whereas only 1-2% died       when overfishing did not occur.
BU's modelling technique has allowed       shellfishing quotas to be set to maximise economic potential, while       ensuring adequate food supply is left for the birds.
The environmental conflicts that BU's models are designed to address       occur world-wide and are not restricted to coastal birds.
The modelling       technique allows coastal managers to weigh up the environmental damage of       human activity and, where this is minimal and the benefit to society is       significant, proceed with the activity.
The evidence quells environmental       arguments and allows informed decision making that strikes a balance       between protecting biodiversity and doing what is right for society.
Since 2010 these models have been used by 21 researchers (PhD students,       post-doctorate researchers and academics) around the world to further       conservation research, including 12 in the UK, 7 elsewhere in Europe, 1 in       the USA and 1 in South Korea.
This demonstrates the increasing reach of       the work.
