     The House of Commons' Backbench Business Committee, established in 2010,       is unique in       comparative terms.
With its eight-person membership restricted to       backbench MPs, who are       elected by their peers, and a chair elected in a secret ballot by all MPs       across parties, the       committee is responsible for scheduling `backbench business' (a new       category since 2010) in the       Commons for roughly half a day per week.
MPs can bid to the committee for       topics that they would       like to see debated, and there is no involvement in this process by party       leaders.
The committee       particularly encourages proposals that have cross-party support, and       chooses topics that are       topical, popular amongst MPs and unlikely to obtain a debate by other       means.
This process is       widely seen as having promoted a more vibrant and independent House of       Commons.
The reform       establishing the Committee stemmed from the research conducted by Dr       Russell and described in       section 2.
When the MPs' expenses crisis broke in May 2009, Tony Wright, then the       Chair of the Public       Administration Committee, wrote to Gordon Brown proposing that a new       committee should be       established to look at options for House of Commons reform.
His letter       drew particular attention to       the proposals in Russell's report [a], which had been published in 2007       [1].
Wright had been one of       the practitioner advisers to the research project, and had taken part in       the report's launch at       Westminster.
The report had also been circulated to key individuals,       including the Rt.
Hon.
Jack       Straw MP and future Commons Speaker John Bercow MP.
Consequently the       Select Committee on       Reform of the House of Commons was established, with Wright as chair.
When       it began its work, it       appointed Dr Russell as its specialist adviser [2].
In its final report       the committee endorsed the       central recommendations in The House Rules?.
One of the Wright Committee's key recommendations was to establish       `backbench time' and a       Backbench Business Committee.
At that time, Dr Russell's report was the       only one to make such a       recommendation, and the arrangements proposed existed in no other       parliament [3].
This was       acknowledged in a report from the Backbench Business Committee itself,       when describing its       establishment:     Drawing on research by the UCL Constitution Unit, the Wright Committee       noted that the       business committees which operated in other parliaments were often little       more than an       institutionalisation of the usual channels.
They tended to provide a forum       for the front       benches of each party to communicate and were largely exclusive of       backbenchers.
The       Wright Committee concluded that: Ministers should give up their role in       the scheduling of       any business except that which is exclusively Ministerial business,       comprising Ministerial-sponsored legislation and associated motions, substantive non-legislative       motions required       in support of their policies and Ministerial statements.
The rest of the       business currently       scheduled by Ministers&#8212;such as House domestic business, select committee       reports and       general and topical debates&#8212;is for backbenchers to propose and the House       to decide       (para.
3 in [3]).
The committee explicitly rejected an `all-purpose' business committee on       the basis of the evidence       supplied in House Rules?
[4], and the Backbench Business Committee       and new category of       backbench business &#8212; as outlined in the paragraph above &#8212; were closely       based on the       recommendations in the original report.
Other recommendations from the       Wright Committee were       also in tune with Russell's proposals, such as those regarding the process       for appointing members       to select committees, but had also been made by other groups, whereas the       proposal for the       Backbench Business Committee had not.
The creation of the new committee was controversial in some circles,       particularly with party whips,       who stood to lose control over part of the parliamentary agenda to       backbenchers.
But the reforms       were debated and agreed in principle at the end of the 2005-10 parliament.
They were then put in       place at the start of the 2010 parliament, guided by the new Conservative       Leader of the House of       Commons, Sir George Young (who had also been an adviser to Russell's       original project).
The Committee came into existence in June 2010, and now schedules debates       in the chamber       regularly.
Several of these have proved high profile, for example on       Afghanistan, loan sharking and       prisoners' voting rights.
Others have been important but low profile, for       example on parliamentary       reform.
None of these would have reached the parliamentary agenda under       the old system,       because whips could keep matters off the agenda that were uncomfortable       for party leaders.
The       highest profile backbench debate of all was that on EU membership, on 24       October 2011, when 81       Conservative MPs defied the whip to vote in favour of a referendum [5].
The existence of the Backbench Business Committee has been widely noted       to have boosted the       independence of the House of Commons, and been a healthy development for       British democracy.
The Wright Committee's report was described by the Times as `the       most significant change to the       way that the House operates in 30 years' [6].
Likewise, the House         Magazine described the work of       the new committee under the banner headline `parliament fights back',       suggesting that it was `at       the heart of the revitalisation of parliamentary democracy' [7].
Reviews       of the Committee's       operation by the House of Commons Procedure Committee [8] and Political       and Constitutional       Reform Committee have likewise judged it an important and positive       development.
For example,       the review by the House of Commons Political and Constitutional Reform       Committee reported on       the operation of the Backbench Business Committee in July 2013.
It quoted       the Labour Shadow       Leader of the House of Commons Angela Eagle's opinion that the new       committee had become `a       key avenue for Members wanting to give voice to public concern', and       Graham Brady MP, chair of       the Conservative 1922 committee, who noted that `there are debates that       have been held that the       Government would not have wished to hold, and that has opened up the       process and has opened       it up to public opinion far more' (p. 16 [9]).
