     The research has provided the evidence-base for the regulation and       management of invasive fish       species.
This has enabled regulatory and business organisations to make       informed conservation       management and policy decisions.
Ultimately this protects European       biodiversity from the adverse       ecological impacts of invasive fish species.
European impact: regulation and policy development     The technical definitions and criteria on the ecological impacts of       non-native fish (P1) have been       applied to an EU directive for the management of non-native species.
The       work was used to define       how to measure the impacts of introduced fish on the aquatic environment       and ecosystem       services.
This provides stringent definitions of the ecological impact of       a non-native fish (P1 &amp; R1).
This was communicated through policy meetings and reports (R1 &amp; R2) as       follows.
In 2008, in response to the Annexes of Regulation (EC) No 708/2007       (R3), Gozlan was invited as       a `technical expert' to attend a policy meeting in Brussels.
The purpose       of the meeting, held at DG       Fisheries, was to inform the risk assessment and quarantine policies for       non-native fish.
Gozlan       was invited in response to publication P1 (R4).
The EU commissioner has       since confirmed that       Gozlan's definition of what constitutes an ecological impact was used by       the European       Commission for the Regulation (R5).
The development of the risk assessment       and quarantine       processes to which the research contributed, was completed within the EU       FP6 project `IMPASSE'       (R1).
Specifically, the definitions on ecological impact from P1 and on       quarantine from R2 were used to       develop the application and risk assessment processes (Annexes I and II -       Articles 6, 9 and 11)       (R3) and informed the Regulation (Article 21, Annex III).
This ultimately       means that if any       organisation or business applies for permission to import and introduce a       new non-native       freshwater fish species into a European country, they must complete a risk       assessment - based on       BU's definitions of ecological impact.
The risk assessment then goes for       expert evaluation and, if       approved, the applicant must impose a period of quarantine on those fish       before their release -       again based on BU definitions.
These risk assessment and quarantine       measures are now in use       across the European Union and are a fundamental perspective of the import       rules governing non-       native fish in Member States.
This is an excellent case of how BU research       has informed public       policy at an international scale.
UK impact: eradication of a non-native species     Freshwater fisheries in England and Wales are worth approximately &#163;3       billion per annum.
BU       research is having a major impact on aspects of their management,       specifically relating to non-       native fishes involved in the angling and aquaculture industries such as Pseudorasbora         parva.
Research conducted at BU between 2008 and 2013 revealed the ecological       impacts       Pseudorasbora parva has on native fishes (P2, P3 &amp; G1),       quantified this impact (P4 &amp; G2) and       demonstrated the difficulty of their detection in the wild (G2).
The BU       research is currently being       used as the evidence base to support the Environment Agency's         Pseudorasbora parva eradication       programme (P4&amp;P5).
A small programme to eradicate specific Pseudorasbora         parva populations       commenced in 2005, targeting populations where their risk of dispersal was       high.
Only one       population was eradicated each year to 2008.
Since 2008 and following the       publication and       dissemination of BU's major research findings on the species (P2-P4), the       programme has       gathered substantial momentum nationwide and gained government funding.
Consequently a       further 11 populations have now been eradicated (Fig.
1; P4 &amp; P5).
This has resulted in a       substantial reduction in Pseudorasbora parva, protecting native       fish communities in over 500km of       river length from the harmful impacts of invasion (P4 &amp; P5).
Fig.
1.
The number of populations of Pseudorasbora parva       detected in the w ild in England and Wales over time (&#8226;) and the       actual number (&#8226;); the difference in number is due to Environment Agency Pseudorasbora         parva eradication operations that       were triggered by BU research findings.
The shaded box signifies the       2008-13 impact period.
Through discussions and decision-making in 2011 and 2012, the Department       for Environment,       Food and Rural Affairs (DEFRA) and the Welsh Assembly committed to       eradicating all known       populations of Pseudorasbora parva in their countries by 2017       (R6).
This is a major policy decision       as there are at least 19 populations still remaining (Fig.
1).
This is the       first non-native fish species       eradication attempt from UK freshwaters.
It represents a substantial shift       in public policy by       authorities that are, by tradition, extremely risk averse and rarely       manage non-native species in       this manner.
To emphasise this, the eradication of Pseudorasbora parva       is only the second ever       eradication attempt of a non-native vertebrate species in the UK after the       eradication of the coypu       Myocastor coypus in the 1980s.
The basis of this commitment is the       acknowledgement of the       severity of their impacts on native fishes, as indicated by BU research       (P2-P5) that demonstrates       the continued requirement to protect native biodiversity (R7 &amp; R8).
These impacts have been achieved through timely dissemination of research       outputs on       Pseudorasbora parva through popular media and briefing notes.
This       has ensured policy makers       and conservation managers have been made fully aware of the severity of       the impact of       Pseudorasbora parva to UK native biodiversity, enabling them to       take commensurate management       actions.
Indeed, publication P6 will be circulated in the next issue of Science         for Environment         Policy issued by The European Commission's Environment       Directorate-General.
This publication is       circulated to 16,000 policymakers, academics and business people across       Europe and assists       their development of effective, evidence-based policies.
The commitment by the Environment Agency and DEFRA to eradicate all known       populations of       Pseudorasbora parva from UK waters by 2017 (R6) is the commensurate       action to protect native       biodiversity from their negative impacts (P2-P5, R3 &amp; R9).
Furthermore, BU has revealed the       eradication operations to date have already been instrumental in       preventing their widespread       invasion of UK freshwaters (P4, P5 &amp; fig.
1).
BU research impact       between 2008 and 2013 goes       beyond just informing the management of Pseudorasbora parva but       has ensured the protection of       native biodiversity and an aquaculture and sport angling industry worth       over &#163;3 billion per annum.
