     The ecological restoration research by Newton and his BU colleagues has       led to significant       impacts on regeneration policy, planning and implementation on a global       scale.
Research fed into       the Convention of Biodiversity's (CBD) strategic plan for 2011-20 and the       target to restore 15% of       degraded ecosystems.
Planned delivery of this target employs the use of       FLR; an approach that       was developed, tested and refined through BU research.
Delivery using this       method is already       underway, with 50 million hectares now been committed by individual       countries.
Such restoration       efforts have wide reaching benefits to people and the environment,       including food provision and       increased biodiversity.
The meta-analysis of ecological restoration impacts (P1) influenced       global policy discourse relating       to the environment.
The publication formed a significant part of the       United Nations Environment       Programme (UNEP) report "Dead Planet, Living Planet" (R4), which       formed the basis of the UN's       campaign on World Environment Day in 2010.
It also featured in the Global       Biodiversity Outlook 3       (R7); a global environmental assessment produced by the CBD to inform       policy development and       implementation.
It was featured in the TEEB (R8), a major international       study launched by       Germany and the European Commission in response to a proposal by the G8+5       Environment       Ministers in Potsdam, Germany in 2007, to develop a global study on the       economics of biodiversity       loss.
The research was profiled in an Information Note submitted to the       CBD as part of Conference       of the Parties (COP) 9 (R9), prepared by the Society for Ecological       Restoration.
Most significantly the research has fed into Target 15 of the Convention       of Biodiversity's 2020       global targets for ecological restoration.
Specifically, the       cost-effectiveness research (P2) was       featured in Information Note XI/2 in the Convention's COP11 in October       2012 (R12).
This in turn       fed into the Aichi Biodiversity Targets.
Target 15 specifically commits       signatory countries to restore       at least 15% of degraded ecosystems worldwide, thereby contributing to       climate change mitigation       and adaptation to combating desertification.
BU research provided part of       the scientific evidence       base on which this new global policy target was agreed.
Evidence for this       is provided by detailed       reference to the research in the CBD papers (Information Notes) on which       the policy decisions       were based.
In addition the research is supporting the implementation of this policy       objective.
Publication P1 is       specifically referred to as an example of ways and means to support       ecosystem restoration (R11).
This document in turn directly informed Decision XI/16 of the CBD COP11 in       2012, which endorsed       the implementation of Target 15 (R12) to regenerate 15% of degraded       ecosystems.
One of the       approaches specifically endorsed by this intergovernmental policy decision       was the use of FLR,       the principles of which were developed by Newton through the ReForLan       project.
The project also       examined how these principles may be implemented in practice, and       evaluated the cost       effectiveness of this approach and its impact on human communities.
Specifically the work led to impacts on both policy and practice in the       countries of Mexico, Chile       and Argentina.
In each country, policy recommendations and guidelines for       forest restoration were       produced, which are now being implemented (R3).
As part of the delivery of Target 15, FLR is being employed as the       principal approach for a global       movement to restore 150 million hectares of degraded and deforested land       by 2020, known as the       "Bonn Challenge".
This was launched in September 2011 in Germany by the       GPFLR, and gained       further momentum at the UN Climate Talks in Doha in 2012.
Some 50 million       hectares have now       been committed by individual countries, representing one third of the       target, amid broad       acknowledgement that the largest restoration initiative in history is       underway.
This initiative directly       employs the FLR approach developed, tested and refined through this       research.
It is anticipated       this will deliver "a host of major benefits to humanity and the planet,       such as improving food       security, protecting biodiversity and benefiting people's livelihoods"       (R2).
This is a significant step       towards achieving the policy goals.
Such wide reaching benefits to people and the environment are the       motivation behind restoration       efforts.
BU's pioneering analytical method of mapping ecosystem services       and their associated       values has made significant contributions to these regeneration policies,       planning and       implementation, in a bid to realise this goal.
