     Research at Bradford has led to changes in healthcare guidelines and       healthcare training guidelines particularly regarding the prescribing of       bifocals and varifocals and the need to prescribe refractive correction       changes conservatively         to older people at risk of falling.
The Importance of Vision in Preventing Falls guidelines (a) were       produced by the College of Optometrists and the British Geriatrics Society       and endorsed by Age UK and the Royal College of General Practitioners in       2011.
They are provided on each of these organisation's websites plus       those for Vision2020, the Macular Disease Society, Visibility, the       Glaucoma Association, local NHS falls prevention teams, local optometric       committees and a variety of health-related consumer websites.
Elliott was       co-author and lead expert and the guidelines include reference to several       publications from the group (1,4,5).
The guidelines have been provided to       ~10,000 optometrists practicing in the UK.
(b).
The significance of the       research was also highlighted in a 2013 review of the literature by the       Thomas Pocklington Trust (c) which explains the scale of the problem of       falls in the elderly and the importance of the research at Bradford       (1,4,5) in the understanding of the role of vision in relation to falls.
Outcomes for older patients at risk of falls due to poor vision have       improved via input into the development of NICE guidelines for falls by       Elliott on behalf of the College of Optometrists (b).
In particular, the       new addition of "visual impairment" as a key part of multifactorial       assessments to the June 2013 NICE guidelines for the assessment and       prevention of falls for older people is a significant step forward (d).
In       May 2013 the College of Optometrists developed a "Watch your Step"       campaign, which created significant media interest and included College       members sending out 16,000 patient leaflets highlighting the link between       vision and falls (b).
A College of Optometrists "Falls Pathway Policy"       steering group (July 2013-present), of which Elliott is a member, is       currently contacting falls teams across the UK to develop links and       determine whether vision measurements, determination of multifocal wear       and optometric referral are part of their assessments (b).
Dissemination of the recommendations in the fall prevention guidelines       (a) to clinicians has occurred via continuing professional development       (CPD) articles in professional journals (e, f), a best-selling clinical       textbook (g) and in CPD lectures.
Feedback regarding the usefulness of       these articles was received from a large number of clinicians, who       reported that they were highly relevant to their daily work (e, f).
Invited CPD presentations about "how to help prevent falls in your older       patients" have been given in Hull &amp; East Riding (2008), North Midlands       (2009), Aintree (2010), Royal Society of Medicine, London (2010),       Manchester (2010), Sheffield (2011) and Phoenix USA (2012).
Attendance       levels were between 60-150, with very positive feedback regarding       relevance to clinical practice (76-86% either `good' or `excellent').
It       would be fair to say that the understanding of the link between vision and       falls by optometrists, dispensing opticians and orthoptists 10 and even 5       years ago was negligible (b).
The efforts described above have made a big       improvement in a short period of time.
Hospital optometrists and       clinicians helping visually impaired patients are using the       recommendations provided in the guidelines widely (h) and a recent       independent survey of high street optometrists has indicated a growing       number of optometrists in high street practice feeling able to       appropriately manage older people at risk of falls (i).
We have made considerable efforts to improve public understanding of the       risks of wearing bifocal and varifocal spectacles and the publicity our       work has received has stimulated public debate.
Magazine and online       articles in the Consumer Association Which?
in 2010 and 2012       highlighted the unsafe practice of buying varifocals and bifocals online       and the problems associated with higher-powered ready readers (j).
The Which?
reports led to 18 pieces of media coverage, including a Pugh cartoon in       the Daily Mail and articles discussing the issues in The Daily         Mirror, The Telegraph, the Express and a wide range       of websites (j).
The Which?
reports also led to two online       companies (Select Specs, Spec Superstore) changing the way that varifocals       and bifocals were ordered online to make provision safer and several       stores, including Poundland, launched their own audits of their ready       readers stock, while Which?
also reported some companies to       trading standards, who investigated (j).
