     The research carried out at the University of Sunderland has resulted in       the following impacts:            the adoption of two new processes through device and method         development;       a clinical intervention leading to much improved outcomes for two         groups of patients;       the informing of clinical guidelines for solid organ donation;       an increase in public awareness of method development in solid organ         transplantation;       the career development of highly skilled researcher/practitioners for         specialised medical roles.
The research resulted in the design and development of a device for rapid       peritoneal cooling, which was implemented alongside the standard in         situ perfusion method for clinical transplant procedures for       Category II donors.
The clinical use of this device allowed a larger pool       of potential donors to be accessed than with traditional methods.
The       process was approved by the Sunderland Hospitals Ethics Committee in 2007       and subsequently adopted into practice.
The research findings had       immediate impact on 10 retrieval procedures from Category II donors, as a       result of which 20 transplants were made during 2007-2010.
The retrieval       surgical work was carried out at Sunderland Royal Hospital by Prof Talbot       of the Liver, Renal and Pancreatic Transplant Unit at the Freeman Hospital       in Newcastle upon Tyne.
The outcome for the patients is enormous, besides       their improved quality of life, their survival has been made possible, as       it is unlikely that these patients would have received transplants if this       procedure had not been made available at that time.
During this original research there were several national and local news       reports on the improvements to transplant success using this procedure       (detailed in Section 5), which have improved public awareness of       transplantation and have also augmented recognition of Dr Carter's       contribution to transplant research.
Further research conducted by Dr Carter in Sunderland, in collaboration       with renal transplant specialist Prof Talbot, examined the post-transplant       regrowth of renal carcinoma tissue in an animal model and identified a       suitable treatment to suppress its growth, while also suppressing       rejection of the renal graft.
The dual action of sirolimus in this context       offers an improved outcome for the use of kidneys with carcinoma tissue       and enhances the possible donor pool for kidney transplant patients;       additionally, it has application to the transplant of other organs and the       related donor pools, which is of international relevance.
Dr Carter's       research also showed a better suppression of carcinoma regrowth alongside       the suppression of graft rejection was achieved when less well-matched       kidneys were used for transplant.
This interesting observation further       enhances the potential donor pool, by increasing the number of `matching'       kidneys for transplant.
These new results have already informed clinical intervention with four       cases of transplantation during 2013.
In three of these cases, small renal       carcinomas were confirmed in the donors' kidney following radical       nephrectomy; in the fourth case, the tumour was found to be benign after ex         vivo inspection.
After ex vivo resection, all four kidneys       were transplanted into four high-risk patients, who were either unlikely       to be placed on the waiting list due to other co-morbidities (and hence       unlikely to be given another opportunity for a transplant organ), or were       more likely to respond slower to organ transplant from a living donor.
These procedures were carried out at the Freeman Hospital in Newcastle by       Prof Talbot; three were reported to be good functional grafts, signalling       an improvement in the outcome for these patients.
This approach is being       adopted into practice at the Freeman Hospital in Newcastle and is being       promoted internationally at conferences.
The research carried out here will have a lasting impact on future       transplant procedures and clinical guidelines.
Already, the peritoneal       cooling procedure has informed EU policy through its inclusion in the       European guidelines for Donation after Circulatory Death (DCD) `ESOT       recommendations for DCD kidney transplantation', which were developed in       March 2013.
These guidelines are used to inform the UK guidelines; hence,       the work will also inform the latest HTA Code of Practice 2: Donation of       Solid Organs for Transplantation, for which Parliamentary approval will be       sought in early 2014.
It has also supported the career development of       highly skilled researchers who have gone on to take specialist roles.
One       PhD graduate is now employed by Nottingham University Hospitals NHS Trust       as a trainee consultant surgeon in the field of organ transplant and       another secured a post as a trainee consultant surgeon in the transplant       unit within the London Postgraduate School of Surgery.
