     CIPPM's research brings evidence-based academic rigor to the regulation       of intellectual property, making it an increasingly important resource to       those involved in the legislative process.
Economic effect of parody     The most direct and immediate impact of the parody research was to shape       the language of the new legislation to create a copyright exception for       parody, based on the empirical evidence.
Being the first rigorous academic       study of this subject in the UK, the findings of the research were       instrumental to the policy process.
The BU research team recommended that UK policy adopt the widest possible       exception permitted under EU provisions.
Such a copyright exception would       allow both commercial and non-commercial parody, and would adopt a wide       definition of parody to include a range of different forms of expression.
The BU research was heavily cited by the Government in its legislative       impact assessment in 2013.
The IPO wrote: "The research carried out by       Bournemouth University found that there is no demonstrable harm to the       popularity (and by inference reputation) of original works arising from       spoof or parody videos...An evaluation of potential substitution and       dilution effects found that in neither case was there compelling evidence       that the parody is damaging to the original in terms of the copyright       owner's ability to attract and monetise an audience for their original       copyright work on the online platform" (R2).
In December 2012, Business Secretary Vince Cable announced the Government       plans to reform the copyright regime in the UK, introduced in the       Enterprise and Regulatory Reform Bill.
On 31 July 2013, the Government       published a draft of their proposed changes to the law, including the       exemption from IP copyright on the grounds of parody (R3).
The proposed exception for parody will have significant impacts on a       range of beneficiaries: UK media businesses, advertisers, technology       providers, fans and consumers.
The new law will grant the ability for       anyone to create parodies of existing work without requiring permission       from rights holders.
While the research clearly shows that there are       minimal economic downsides for rights holders, the potential benefits in       terms of freedom of expression, economic growth and the upskilling of       young people are considerable.
Open standards     The report was included on the Cabinet Office website when the open       standards principles were launched on 1 November 2012 (R4).
Since then,       all Government bodies had to comply with open standards principles for       software interoperability and data and document formats in Government IT       (R5).
The Government repeatedly cited the CIPPM research in its explanation of       the new policy, first explaining the role the research played in assisting       and informing the legislative process: "The Centre for Intellectual       Property Policy and Management (CIPPM) at the University of Bournemouth       was commissioned to undertake the analysis of the evidence submitted.
The       Cabinet Office has published this as an independent report.
The       methodology for the analysis is also provided" (R4).
Specific elements of the CIPPM study that informed the decision are as       follows:     - The Government reported that the CIPPM study did not suggest the       implementation of IP rights in this field was clearly beneficial (R4).
- When assessing the value of patent protection of software standards       within the policy, the Government considered important issues (such as       patent trolls and patent thickets) flagged by the CIPPM studies (R4).
- As for the alignment with European policies, the Government stated that       its policy was based on the legal and economic evidences of the research       produced by CIPPM (R4).
Members of staff at the Cabinet Office acknowledged that the innovative       approach taken by CIPPM in the analysis of the public consultation helped       the policy process by providing scientific and reliable indicators of the       impact that the policy would have on stakeholders (R6).
In his blog post, `A Question of (Open) Standards', technology writer       Glyn Moody said of the draft review: "As far as I know, it's the first       rigorous, in-depth look at this whole area, and it makes for fascinating       reading."
Moody also highlighted several specific points that he       considered worth emphasising (R7).
In addition to the impact on policy makers, beneficiaries of the open       standards work include central government departments, their agencies,       non-departmental public bodies, non-governmental organisations,       professionals, and small, medium and large enterprises.
Additionally,       members of the public will benefit from the research when they interface       with governmental bodies.
To summarise, CIPPM's body of research has advanced the role of       transparent, evidence-based policy in the regulation of intellectual       property.
With academic rigor at its heart, this research has become an       increasingly important resource to those involved in the legislative       process.
