     The research has contributed significantly to the UK policy debate, and       the policy response, surrounding poverty and income inequality.
It has       done this partly by providing new empirical evidence about the nature of       poverty and inequality in the UK, which has formed the basis of useful       inputs for policymakers, and partly by showing the value of a longitudinal       analysis of income inequality and poverty in the UK.
The research has had       impact on government policy and on third- sector organisations.
Impact on government legislation and policy     The main impact of this research has been to fundamentally change the way       in which poverty statistics are reported in Britain.
Prior to this       research, the annual official poverty statistics, as reported in the       Department for Work and Pensions' report, Households Below Average Income       (HBAI), concentrated solely on point-in-time measures of poverty and       income inequality.
Because of Essex research on poverty and low-income       dynamics, the HBAI series now routinely produce statistics relating to       income-dynamics poverty persistence and poverty transitions.
The most       recent example of this is the DWP's 2011 Low-Income Dynamics       report.
Section 4 of this report is on `Transitions into and out of Low       Income' and explicitly states that the methodology used is that developed       by Jenkins and Rigg (2001) [corroborating source 1].
As a direct consequence of the change to the HBAI reports, a measure of       persistent poverty now forms one of the four statutory measures of child       poverty named in the Child Poverty Act 2010, against which future       governments have to report progress [corroborating source 2].
Before       bringing forward the Bill, the previous government consulted on how they       should define and measure child poverty, and the consultation document [3]       refers to research by Jenkins and Rigg (2001).
These sorts of statistics       continue to inform policymaking at the highest level: Figure 1.3 of the       Cabinet Office's 2010 State of the nation report&#8212;a document which       represents the current government's overall approach to poverty and       disadvantage&#8212;cites statistics on persistent poverty [4].
This impact was       generated largely through the academic outputs in Section 3, but also       through writing reports for government departments and publishing more       accessible versions of academic findings.
Essex research informed the work of the National Equality Panel (NEP),       which was established by the Labour government in 2008 to identify the       extent and depth of inequality in Britain.
The NEP's final report, An         anatomy of economic inequality in the UK, identified a range of       deep-seated and systematic differences between social groups across many       dimensions of life, and it has attracted a great deal of policy and media       attention (over 400 items of media coverage since January 2010).
Stephen       Jenkins was a member of the NEP, and his work directly influenced the       panel's thinking through Jenkins (2009), which was commissioned to support       the panel's deliberations.
The final report makes extensive reference to       Jenkins' research [5].
Impact on the third sector     The research has also had significant impact on the way in which       charitable organisations understand poverty.
Essex research has been used       extensively by The Joseph Rowntree Foundation (JRF), which has stated:     "The way that JRF approaches poverty (as outlined for example in its       strategic plan and new programme to develop anti-poverty strategies) is       informed by research undertaken by Stephen Jenkins while he was at the       University of Essex Institute for Social and Economic Research... A clear       thread of Stephen's work can be seen within JRF thinking on poverty over       the last decade, influencing two major reviews and at least five separate       programmes of research" [6].
The JRF's programme on `recurrent poverty' was informed by Essex       research, which is demonstrated by the very concept being drawn from       Jenkins' work [5] and the final summary report in 2010 [7] directly       referencing Jenkins and Rigg (2001).
This review then fed into a further       JRF programme on the future of the UK labour market, which again draws       heavily on the dynamic approach to poverty developed at Essex [6].
Furthermore, the JRF's strategic plan states that one of its aims is to       "equip policy-makers around the UK to understand the complex causes and       dynamics of poverty, including how it relates to ethnicity, disability and       ill-health across the age range" [8] [6].
A JRF programme called       `Anti-poverty strategies for the UK', which began in 2012, reflects these       strategic aims and has as its core principle the ideas that poverty is       dynamic and should be understood over the life-course [6].
Jenkins' work on income-changes after divorce has provided evidence on       the link between single parenthood and poverty, which has been central to       policy development work by the charity Gingerbread, which represents lone       parents:     "Gingerbread has made significant use of research work undertaken by       Stephen Jenkins on income changes after couples separate.
This has been       particularly valuable for us in policy development relating to the       incidence and experience of poverty in single parent families.
This, in       turn, has played a particularly key role in our influencing work on child       poverty, as a significant component in explaining why children in single       parent families are disproportionately likely to be affected by poverty,       and informing our development of relevant policy measures to tackle       poverty" [9].
Essex research is referred to frequently in Gingerbread's policy       documents, including briefing materials and responses to government       consultations.
For instance, Jenkins (2008) is cited in the charity's Single         parents, equal families (2009) report [10] and Gingerbread has       stated that Essex research has informed a further four policy documents,       including its submission to the Independent (Frank Field) review of         poverty and life chances and its response to government consultation       on Measuring child poverty: A consultation on better measures of child         poverty [9].
