     COMPAS's research has had significant impact on UK policy development,       and shaped and informed international debates on both labour demand and       trafficking and forced labour.
It has also influenced the training of and       the advice provided to NGOs and practitioners who are key players in       policy formation, thereby furthering the influence of the research on       immigration policy.
Below are some instances of the impact of this       research within these three areas.
UK government policy     Anderson and Ruhs' expertise on migration and low-waged labour markets       has led to close engagement with government at all stages of the policy       cycle.
Their research on demand for labour in six high-usage sectors was       commissioned by the Migration Advisory Committee (MAC) in March 2008.
[Section         5: C1] The MAC is a group of economists established to advise the       government on labour and immigration policy.
Its first report, analysing       the UK's skilled labour market, addressed the question `Is it "sensible"       to fill a shortage with migrants?'
and in this chapter acknowledged: "We       draw heavily on Anderson and Ruhs (2008) [R1].
"[C1] The       report was later published by OUP as the edited volume Who Needs         Migrant Workers?
and described by Professor David Metcalf, the Chair       of the Migration Advisory Committee, as "the definitive research on the       demand for migrant workers... [it] will inform the debate for years to       come.
"[C2]     In the same year the controversy surrounding government policy resulted       in the House of Lords Select Committee on Economic Affairs Inquiry into       the Economic Impact of Immigration.
Ruhs served as its specialist adviser       and was responsible for the first draft of its report.
Anderson provided       oral and written evidence during the Inquiry.
Her evidence and her       research on demand for migrant domestic labour [R3] was cited in       the final report of the Inquiry.
[C3]     Anderson's particular interest in demand for migrant domestic workers and       its relation to trafficking and forced labour [R4] led to an       invitation to give evidence to the Equality and Human Rights Commission's       (EHRC) Inquiry into Trafficking in Scotland by the investigating       commissioner, Baroness Helena Kennedy QC.
The research findings on the conflict between older care users and       migrant workers were taken up by the Equality and Human Rights Commission.
Spencer had been a Commissioner at the precursor body of the EHRC, the       Commission for Racial Equality (2002-2006).
An EHRC Commissioner was the       key speaker at the launch of the research report [R2] and this led       to a seminar organized by the Equality and Human Rights Commission       involving the Care Quality Commission to discuss how to respond to the       discrimination and harassment faced by care workers.
Evidence from the       report was cited in recent responses to a Home Office consultation on       workplace `third-party harassment' by those arguing that a legal provision       protecting staff from harassment should not be repealed,[C4] and       the report was cited in the Government's summary of consultation       responses.
[C5] Spencer then met with the Department of Health       Director of Workforce Development to discuss the broader findings.
He       acknowledged that "the points raised are extremely helpful" and agreed to       ensure "that these are fed directly to the White Paper team.
"[C6]     International debate     In 2005 the Annual Report of the UN Special Rapporteur on trafficking       cited Anderson and O'Connell Davidson [R4] extensively.
As a       direct result of this influence on the international debate, Anderson's       later work on trafficking and forced labour,[R5] and her writing on       precarious labour and migration [R6] have been used to frame       policies and debate at an international level by the Organization for       Security and Co-operation in Europe (OSCE).
For example, her contribution       to the OSCE high-level dialogue in 2010 was clearly reflected in       recommendations 1, 5, 7, 8, 15 and 20.
[C7] She has addressed their       annual alliance meeting for the prevention of trafficking on two occasions       (2010 and 2012).
These meetings are attended by c. 60 ambassadors and       their advisers as well as by organizations such as the United Nations       Development Programme (UNDP), International Labour Organization (ILO), and       others.
Access to these ambassadors is critical in conveying analysis to a       broad international audience.
At a more specific level, following the 2010       meeting, OSCE initiated training courses for diplomatic staff on best       practice in the employment of domestic workers in embassies.
Research by Anderson and Ruhs [R1] has also informed training and       development courses, including one held in conjunction with the ILO, for       the Association of South East Asian Nation (ASEAN) officials on labour       demand and trafficking (2013).
The four-nation comparative report of the       Migrant Care Worker study [C8] was published by an       intergovernmental body, the International Organization on Migration (IOM),       and was the subject of an IOM seminar in Geneva to discuss its       implications.
NGOs and civil society     In 1987 Anderson was instrumental in establishing the domestic workers'       charity, Kalayaan.
She has continued to work closely with this       organization and her research is used regularly in their lobbying work.
Their current campaign is situated in her analysis of demand and       employment relations.
[C9] Her substantial contacts within the       sector meant that in 2012 she was asked to draft the background paper for       the campaign of the group Justice for Domestic Workers.
Her analysis       (Anderson 2007), based on concepts of exclusion and indenture was critical       in developing the group's campaign strategy to restore the domestic worker       visa.
[C10]     Anderson and O'Connell Davidson's research [R4] has been widely       cited in policy-oriented publications, including the Centre for Social       Justice 2013 report on equipping the UK to fight modern slavery.
[C11]       Anderson and Rogaly's research on forced labour in the UK identified       indicators of forced labour [R5] that were taken up by the Joseph       Rowntree Foundation (JRF) as key issues in the development of policy and       practice to reduce forced labour.
It has continued to inform the research       and policy recommendations of the JRF on forced labour.
[C12]
