     Maxwell Stamp PLC is an economic consultancy company based in London with       offices in       Washington DC, Riyadh, Abu Dhabi, Dhaka and Nairobi.
The company currently       employs about       2,000 people globally and, founded in 1959, is one of the longest       established economics       consultancies with a global reputation.
Past clients include the World       Bank, the European Union,       the United Nations, various development banks and governments throughout       the world.
As a former employee, Webster has maintained the unpaid position of       Associate Director for       Maxwell Stamp and provides academic consultancy on economic problems for       global clients.
Webster has used the quantitative analysis methods developed in the       research (P1, P2, P5 &amp; P6       specifically) on a range of projects, including analysing the effects of       import tariffs and business       taxes on international trade and inward FDI.
This has had significant       economic impacts for Maxwell       Stamp, as well as policy implications for governments, including Namibia.
Organisational impact on Maxwell Stamp     Specific research findings used by Maxwell Stamp in recent years include:       (a) the analysis of       underlying patterns of advantage in international trade; and (b) the       analysis of the overall effect of       different taxes, subsidies and similar measures on profitability at the       sector level.
In a letter dated 22 February 2013, the Global CEO of Maxwell Stamp       stated: "The paper by       Webster (2007) extended existing techniques for the analysis of       specialisation and advantage in       international trade which allowed them to be applied to developing       countries and, subsequently, in       a number of our projects.
This was further developed to apply to the       analysis of inward foreign       direct investment (FDI) by the research, which ultimately resulted in the       Webster (2013) paper.
The       research by Miller and Webster (2009) created a methodology by which the       effects of a variety of       different policies such as customs duties, national insurance       contributions, fuel and property taxes       could be combined into a single overall effect on profits at the firm or       industry level" (R1).
Using this research methodology strengthened Maxwell Stamp PLC's capacity       to deliver high       quality advice to its clients through identifying current and potential       advantages in trade, in       attracting inward investment and in identifying the effects of government       policies, individually and       collectively, on competitiveness.
The Global CEO acknowledges that the       research knowledge and       methodology significantly contributed to the company winning and       successfully undertaking three       large consultancy projects for the governments of Abu Dhabi (2010),       Namibia (2011) and Saudi       Arabia (2010).
The combined turnover was around &#163;12 million (R1).
Namibia     Namibia is a member of the SACU.
The country's annual share of the       combined customs revenues       in 2011 amounted to US$710 million, which equates to around 27% of the       country's entire budget.
The South African government commissioned a report for a firm of       Australian consultants on the       sharing of Customs Revenues.
Their 2011 report recommended reductions in       Namibia's share of       revenues from 28% of the current SACU total to 15% initially and later to       9%.
The Central Bank of       Namibia considered this report to be based on flawed analysis (R2) and       contracted Maxwell Stamp       to produce a report based on sound quantitative economic research, of       which the techniques in P1       and P2 were at the heart.
Webster himself advised on this report, while       Maxwell Stamp staff       applied the techniques.
Since the completion of the Maxwell Stamp report, there has been no       further discussion of this       issue.
There is no further record of South Africa pursuing the proposal to       re-allocate revenues in its       favour.
This outcome is worth US$300-400 million each year to the country,       which is equivalent to       about 13% of its national budget.
Government of Azerbaijan     Azerbaijan's plan to invest a portion of their oil revenues into       developing new, internationally       competitive industries carried the risk that major changes would affect       other areas of the economy.
Independent of Maxwell Stamp, the UN Development Programme in Baku,       Azerbaijan, contacted       Webster to work with their Institute for Scientific Research on Economic       Reforms on how best to       develop these industries.
From 2007-9, Webster adapted his research       methods to analyse the       effects of taxation in the UK (P2 specifically) into a model that       calculated economic consequences       of changes in Azerbaijan.
Ordinarily this process would be carried out       using input-outputs tables       showing the different components required or generated from an industry.
Azerbaijan and other       countries in a similar economic position do not have this information so       Webster devised a model       that allows economists to `borrow' data on production techniques from       other countries.
In order to       account for the considerable variants in costs of labour, Webster       developed a mathematical       formula using comparable labour and capital data, alongside the Western       input-output model to       calculate the risk.
This information was integral to the country's economic strategy based on       skilled and educated       labour in sectors such as tourism.
This is confirmed in two letters from       the Ministry of Economic       Development, Republic of Azerbaijan.
The first (R3) also confirms the       contribution this research       had in the World Bank naming Azerbaijan as one of the top 10 economic       reformers in the world in       2008 (R3).
The second specifically references the use of P1 &amp; P2 in       the country's economic       strategy (R4).
The reforms were presented at a major international conference, which       included representatives of       the oil and financial industry as well as policy makers in Rome in 2012       (R5).
The continuing impact       of this work is further evidence in letter R3, informing BU that the       techniques have proved so useful       that they are continuing and extending their research in this area.
Dr       Valiyev said: "Since 2008 the       Institute has continued to use the techniques and skills which Prof       Webster and his colleagues       helped develop.
The results of this research continue to provide an       important part of Azerbaijan's       economic policy making."
He continued, "Recent economic reforms, to which       the work of the       Institute has directly contributed, using the techniques of Prof Webster       and his colleagues, have       focused on the long term competitiveness of Azerbaijan's economy.
These       include strengthening       the economic potential of the non-oil sector of the economy by developing       labour skills, providing       better access to finance and development of particular sectors, such as       tourism" (R3).
To summarise, the research by Webster has been applied to economic policy       making in a range of       countries, both directly and through the consultancy Maxwell Stamp, for       whom the research has       driven increased profits of &#163;12 million to date.
In Namibia, it has been       applied to safeguard       revenues of US$700 million annually from SACU and in Azerbaijan the       economic modelling       techniques have been integral in the successful development of new,       internationally competitive       industries.
