     Economic underpinning that has enabled clinical impact since 2008:       Initial clinical translation and       &#163;1.8M revenue was achieved through a licence to a major international       pharmaceutical company       for EMATE as a synthetic liver-sparing oestrogen, the first since       ethinylestradiol (first marketed in       1938) suitable for oral dosing.
This licence funded, in 1998,       incorporation of the Bath-Imperial spin-out,       Sterix.
Intellectual property was vested with Sterix from which large       development contracts to       both universities [ca.
&#163;12M to Bath (1998-2010)] facilitated       R&amp;D activity that led to Irosustat.
Sterix       attracted &#163;8M of venture capital in 2001 to support the initial clinical       trial of this drug.
Then, in       2004, Sterix was acquired by the French pharmaceutical company, Ipsen,       which provided       substantial research funding to both universities [&#163;8.3M to Bath] and       initiated wider clinical trials.
Revenue for J995 from initial licensing and milestones from       1998 through to 2003/4 in Europe       amounted to &#163;4.2M and a Japanese licence of &#163;1.34M was also secured during       2002-2003 [Sterix       Ltd, Annual Accounts, Companies House].
Sterix employed up to 40 research       staff, directly or       indirectly, and returned ~&#163;28M to the UK university sector in direct       research contracts.
Overview: Successful drug discovery in academia is a very rare       event and clinical translation is       even rarer.
The validation of new drug targets, the synthesis of       "first-in-class" drugs to address       them, and their clinical translation into humans reflects extraordinary       impact by any measure.
Moreover, this success has been achieved twice, dosing hundreds of healthy       women volunteers as       well as cancer patients with drugs first designed at Bath.
Overall, this       research has had impact for       industry, the economy, clinical practitioners and, most importantly,       patients.
There is also potential       for further benefit deriving from ongoing clinical trials.
The work has       facilitated the design of       compounds with highly desirable pharmaceutical properties and has defined       novel therapies with       indicative clinical proof of benefits to patients primarily in       hormone-dependent cancers.
Breast cancer: The first clinical trial (2003-05) of Irosustat       demonstrated encouragingly positive       effects in breast cancer patients and, after the acquisition of Sterix,       Ipsen continued development       of both Irosustat [STX64, BN83495] and J995       [PGL2001] in concert with the two universities.
Ipsen       refined the pre-clinical package for Irosustat to full industrial       standard.
New international clinical       trials have commenced since 2008 for Irosustat in breast cancer       [1], prostate cancer and       endometrial cancer [2], initiated by Ipsen.
Concomitantly, Ipsen published       in late 2009 [1] the       clinical observation of stable disease in a new cohort of thirty-five       oestrogen receptor-positive       metastatic breast cancer patients, after dose optimisation [3].
Importantly, in this trial, the disease       of one patient was stable for thirteen months, one for eight months, one       for seven months and       three for ca.
six months.
Biopsy-validated erythematous skin       infiltration in one patient was no       longer visible after one month of treatment.
Nearly complete inhibition of       the target enzyme was       observed at all doses.
Significantly, the Director of the Imperial CRUK       Cancer Centre, the clinician       who led the study, said of the effects on patients: "To date, four of         the patients who received         Irosustat [BN83495] had tumours that remained stable for at least 6         months.
One of these had         cutaneous metastases that improved after one month of treatment.
This is         very encouraging, as         these women are patients who are reaching the end of their hormonal         treatment options.
Importantly, Irosustat [BN83495] was well tolerated at the selected         dose."
He added: "I am         confident that Irosustat [BN83495] will become a new hormonal option in         the treatment of post-menopausal         women with oestrogen receptor-positive metastatic breast cancer"       [3].
Further impact is illustrated by the formal use of this work (published       in The Oncologist, a journal       for practising clinical oncologists,) in a Continuing Medical       Education (CME) programme for       "physicians who wish to advance their current knowledge of clinical cancer       medicine in breast       cancer and are involved in providing patient care in a cancer care       environment" [4].
Finally,       overseen and substantially funded by CRUK, two further clinical trials       with Irosustat were initiated       in 2012; these trials aim to explore the benefit of combination dosing       with an aromatase inhibitor       and also to examine the effects of Irosustat in breast cancer       patients using PET scanning [5,6].
Other cancers: Drug discovery research at Bath has also provided       the stimulus for active clinical       trials against other cancers: androgen-dependent prostate cancer and       endometrial cancer inter         alia.
Prostate cancer represents a large unmet medical need and a       Phase I/II clinical study [17       patients] of Irosustat commenced in 2008 at three centres in the       USA (Johns Hopkins, Duke and       Wisconsin), evaluating the pharmacodynamics and safety of the drug in       metastatic prostate cancer       patients [7].
A Phase II clinical programme comparing Irosustat       and megestrol acetate in recurrent       or metastatic advanced post-menopausal endometrial cancer patients at 44       separate centres       worldwide started in 2009.
Results to-date have shown inter alia       significant stable disease (47%)       and an advantageous safety profile for Irosustat [8].
Endometriosis: Since 2008, clinical trials have also taken place       in endometriosis through PregLem       (Switzerland) and Gedeon Richter (Hungary).
Ipsen spun out PregLem in 2007       with one of its two       main clinical assets being J995 [PGL2001], licensed outside       oncological indications.
Endometriosis       is a benign gynaecological disease characterised by the presence of       endometrial tissue outside the       uterus, leading to chronic pelvic pain and infertility.
In addition to       production of oestrogens in the       ovaries, there is compelling evidence that local synthesis of oestrogens       in endometriotic lesions       promotes progression of the disease and resistance to endocrine therapy.
With an estimated 80M       patients worldwide, the disease is still poorly understood, most       treatments have unpleasant side-effects       and current therapies are grossly inadequate.
J995 [PGL2001],       is en route to be the first of       a new class of treatment for endometriosis and other benign gynaecological       conditions, and       entered clinical trials in Germany in 2008 in healthy pre-menopausal women       [9] to advance this       compound towards a novel, once-a-week, oral medication.
J995 [PGL2001]       was part of the clinical       assets of PregLem, acquired by the Hungarian drug company Gedeon Richter       in 2010 in a deal       valued at ca.
&#8364;337M [10].
The drug continues in clinical trials       against endometriosis and       multicentre Phase IIa studies to investigate its efficacy, safety,       pharmacokinetics and       pharmacodynamics started in Hungary, Poland and Romania in 2012 [11].
