           1.
Impact on the environment.
Prof Szekely's team has made       substantial impact on the environment by reintroducing a flagship       conservation species to the UK.
This species is one of the handful of bird       species, such as the Red Kite, that has been reintroduced in the UK using       stocks from their existing breeding populations.
Research establishing the most important factors that affect mortality of       released bustards [1] had an immediate positive effect on the welfare of       birds and their post-release survival.
Birds that were released earlier in       the year were found to have a higher chance of survival and recruitment       into the population than those released later [3]; this finding led to a       revision of the release protocols and management by the Great Bustard       Group and RSPB [5].
The released birds in 2012 had an initial survival       success of 100%, whilst in previous years the survival was less than half       [1,3].
Monitoring is in progress to establish whether the improved       survival will persist for a substantial time period after release.
Research showing that birds return to their release area after winter       dispersal to breed [1], has highlighted the importance of maintaining the       release area for birds year-round.
From this research, we advised the       Great Bustard Consortium to prepare and set up plastic decoy bustards in       the release pens during the release period and in the breeding season, to       socially bind the birds to the release area.
This work thus averted a       potential criticism arguing that the released birds would disperse and       leave the UK, so that our efforts would be futile.
In addition, analysis       of spatial distribution of birds released in the UK has provided key       information on habitat preferences of Great Bustards [6].
It has been used       by the RSPB to locate new release areas and manage the land effectively       for Great Bustards [5,6].
Also, a study on diet of released bustards and       how this changes throughout the year is critical in developing a targeted       agri-environment scheme to be implemented by Natural England.
The research       was of immediate benefit to the success of the reintroduction programme.
The Head of Nature Recovery, RSPB commented [A]:       "Bath's role in the project has been that of monitoring and measuring         the parameters deemed to be vital to the success of the project.
Using a         combination of direct observation and remote data collection from         satellite and VHF transmitters they have helped build up a picture of         the dispersal and survival of the released birds.
Dr Kate Ashbrook         working under Professor Tam&#225;s Sz&#233;kely has helped to provide data to         inform the future direction of the project.
Research by the University         of Bath has showed that birds have a greater chance of survival if         released earlier in the year; this work contributed to the decision to         import eggs from Russia for the first time in 2012, allowing us to         release birds earlier than previously.
Survival rate from the 2012         cohort released at a new site chosen based on data collected from         monitoring was markedly higher than in any previous year.
This vast         improvement will undoubtedly increase the chances of the reintroduction         succeeding.
Habitat selection modelling has confirmed that there is         sufficient suitable habitat to support a self-sustaining population on         Salisbury Plain".
Ornithologist, Technical Advice &amp; Designations, Natural England       commented [A]:       "The research undertaken by the University of Bath has helped to         identify areas that are favoured by released birds in southern England,         based on a combination of observational studies and the collation of         data from remote tracking.
This will be invaluable in guiding the future         development of the release programme and has already helped with the         selection of a new release site with a resulting increase in the         survival rates of released birds."
2.
Animal health and welfare has been enhanced by the research.
By       quantifying the behaviour of captive birds and observing post-release       behaviour, the team proposed measures that improved their health and       welfare [5].
Improvement of the visual experiences of captive birds, using       transparent windows and moving them into soft release pens before release,       made the transition from captivity to the wild less stressful and       contributed to improved survival.
3.
Public understanding has improved in regards to environmental         conservation and biodiversity.
The Great Bustard project partnership       produced public awareness materials, for example, 1000s of leaflets and       tractor cabs stickers targeting farmers and land-owners who manage habitat       accessible to the Great Bustard (widely distributed around Salisbury and       Marlborough, Wiltshire and also in Somerset [B]); many 1000s of leaflets       distributed via RSPB reserves and Tourist Information centres across the       South of England [C].
The project has a permanent exhibit in the Hawk       Conservancy Trust (Andover) that welcomes 60,000+ visitors per year [D].
The Great Bustard press releases reached a broad national and       international audience as reflected in a high volume of requests for       interviews, commentaries and social media activity:     In 2009, the first bustard chick hatched in the UK after 175 years.
This       news was picked up by 14+ news and blogs including Nature.com, Guardian,       BBC News, Times Online, Independent, Daily Mail, Cage &amp; Aviary,       Wildlife Extra.
Following a press release in 2011, The Bath team featured       on BBC West, BBC Wiltshire, Breakfast News and 4 international radio       interviews; the project was commented on in 24 Radio, TV and       internet-based UK media [E].
In 2013, the team appeared on BBC Newsround, a children's news programme,       highlighting how scientific research can directly assist conservation       projects and showing the link between collecting data in the field and       analysing it in the laboratory.
BBC Newsround is watched by 360,000       viewers mainly between the ages of 6 and 12 years old and the footage was       also available on the programme's webpage, which receives 45,000 hits per       day.
This story was also covered in an interview on BBC Wiltshire radio       and in the Bird Watching (circulation &gt;15,000 according to Audit Bureau       of Circulation; readership &gt;50,000) and Birdwatch magazines       (circulation &gt;13,000) [F].
Tweets; there were 1,239 followers of Great       Bustard Group (GBG) and Biodiversity Lab at University of Bath twitter       feeds as of 22/05/2013.
The Great Bustard is a charismatic bird, as indicated by the names and       signage of numerous inns and public houses scattered throughout the       country.
People in Wiltshire are extremely proud of having them back       again.
As a sign of the Great Bustard's significance in SW England, the       county flag of Wiltshire (below) was unanimously voted by 98 Wiltshire       councillors to display a silhouette of the Great Bustard and is flown at       many county events [G].
Great Bustards are released on the Ministry of       Defence Salisbury Plain Training Area and consequently, members of the       public can only view these magnificent birds in this area on official       trips organised through the GBG.
Despite this restriction, in the two       years of the LIFE+ project (2010-2012), 3,173 people visited the project       site on tours run by the GBG [5,6].
Male bustards have conspicuous,       eye-catching display behaviour, observation of which is high on the list       of birders, photographers and nature-lovers.
The Bath team actively engages the public in the research, including       coordinating the daily work of 15 volunteers who assist with collection of       research data on the Great Bustard population in S W England.
These       volunteers learn about bird biology and behaviour, and gain first-hand       experience in conservation and assist in generating funding.
In addition,       the Great Bustard Project relies on re-sightings of birds from the general       public, which are reported through the project webpage [H] (3185 hits on       LIFE+ project website as of 23/05/2013).
Each re-sighting reported is       followed up by a member of the team, including corresponding with the       reporter and a visit to the area.
Numerous presentations have been given       to the public, including bird-watching and natural history groups (e.g.
[I, J, K]).
Director of the Great Bustard Group David Waters with BBC Radio Wiltshire       presenter Matt Smith, Great Bustard and the Wiltshire Flag at the Hawk       Conservancy Trust, Andover.
