     The research cited above has had impact in two distinct ways: (1) directly         informing the migration debate, changing its terms and providing the       information needed to make evidence-based arguments in the policy arena;       (2) changing the practices of parliamentarians and other participants         in the migration debate, including journalists who influence public         opinion, thanks to the credibility of Ruhs' research, which enabled       the establishment of the Migration Observatory.
1) Directly informing the debate     a) Public opinion on immigration in Britain.
Blinder's research on       public attitudes changed the terms of the debate over student migration,       and in the process contributed to a decision to change the reporting of       immigration statistics.
These findings have introduced an important       addition to the evidence base regarding policies and data on international       students.
The Chief Executive of Universities UK (UUK) cited the research       in two contexts.
First, it was used in evidence to the House of Commons       Select Committee on Business, Innovation and Skills.
[C1] Based on       this evidence, the Committee recommended removing international students       from the government's migration target.
Within days of the hearing the       government agreed to provide immigration statistics disaggregated into       students and non-students.
[C2] In addition, the Chief Executive of       UUK cited the research in the media to rebut claims about attitudes toward       student immigration that came from a poll conducted by a pressure group.
[C3]     This impact occurred prior to publication of the relevant journal article       [R1] because the findings were disseminated in a report (`Thinking       Behind the Numbers') published on the Migration Observatory website in       October 2011.
The report reached a large audience, receiving extensive       media coverage including BBC News, the Daily Mail, Sunday         Telegraph, and the Independent, and was cited directly by       Vince Cable (Minister, Department for Business, Innovation and Skills) in       a speech in December 2011.
[C4]     b) Remittances.
Vargas-Silva's research on migrants' remittances       had a direct input to internal debate within the Office of National       Statistics on methodologies for measuring remittances.
Vargas-Silva's       research was used in internal ONS discussions to develop the first       official measures of remittances for the UK.
The study of remittance flows       between the UK and Bangladesh and Pakistan [R2,R3] provided the       basis for Vargas-Silva's briefing paper for the Migration Observatory (Aug       2011), prior to the appearance of the scholarly articles above.
Thus, the       Migration Observatory acted as the vehicle for impact.
An official in the       Trade and Transfers team in the Business Indicators and Balance of       Payments section of the ONS, who was charged with updating the UK's       international reporting of balance of payments data, read this briefing       and contacted Vargas-Silva directly by email and in person to discuss       options for measuring remittances.
The detailed explanations of the       methods for measuring remittances and the discussion of their relative       strengths and weaknesses, provided by Vargas-Silva's research [R2, R3],       better informed the ONS.
The current ONS official leading this project has       testified that Vargas-Silva's research was quoted at a key internal ONS       meeting of a methods committee, and was useful in shaping ONS       deliberations.
Vargas-Silva's discussion of the weaknesses of existing       measures ultimately informed ONS's decision that present data do not offer       an adequate method for measuring UK remittances.
[C5] As a result,       the ONS rejected the idea that it should simply adopt existing       international measures of remittances, at least until better data and       methods are available.
2) Changing practices in how migration is debated and reported to the         public     Ruhs' research on labour markets and migration [R4,R5,R6] was       critical in establishing the intellectual credibility and independence of       the Migration Observatory, which has in turn changed practices for many       participants and observers of the migration policy debate, in the       following ways.
First, previously, parliamentarians, civil servants, NGOs, and       journalists had relied on organizations such as IPPR (Institute for Public       Policy Research) and Migration Watch for data and analysis on migration,       yet these organizations have clearly stated political agendas and are thus       less impartial.
The Observatory has changed practices in a variety of ways       among these stakeholders by introducing an accessible and impartial source       of data that can be used to increase the evidentiary basis of policy       debates and media coverage.
For example, MPs from three different parties       cited Observatory research in debate in the House of Commons;[C6]       in this instance, Migration Observatory analysis provided an evidence base       for discussing proposals to limit to the UK's population below 70 million,       as two MPs cited the report during the debate (one Conservative, one SNP),       while a third MP (Labour) cited many of its key findings, including the       Observatory's recognizable term the net migration `bounce', referring to       reductions in emigration that follow from earlier reductions in       immigration.
[C6, cols 447-448] In another instance, the House of       Commons Public Administration Select Committee made recommendations for       improved collection and public communication of migration statistics,       drawing on written evidence from the Observatory and oral testimony by       Blinder.
[C7] Journalists use Observatory work extensively.
As one       journalist put it, "Before (the Migration Observatory) I'd use Migration       Watch quite a lot.
I think of them as credible but they are partial, so       while I still use them, I now use them more for quotes than for       information.
"[C8] Observatory work also has allowed journalists to       write about new aspects of the migration issue where they previously       lacked access to data or analysis.
[C9]     This impact extends beyond reporting on migration.
Civil society       organizations have also benefited from the Migration Observatory, which       offers impartial evidence that they can use to support their arguments.
[C10]       The creation of the Observatory as a reliable source has also changed       parliamentarians' practices, making elements of the migration debate       better grounded in reliable evidence, as testified in the Observer       editorial of 2 Sept 2012.
[C11]     These impacts are directly linked to Ruhs' research, which was essential       for establishing the Observatory as a reliable, credible, and non-partisan       source of public information.
First, the Observatory is widely trusted       because it is rooted in Oxford University research, particularly that       undertaken by Ruhs prior to 2011.
[R4-R6] Second, Ruhs' research on       labour markets led him to prominent roles that bestowed public trust for       political impartiality.
As a direct result of his research, he became       Specialist Advisor to the House of Lords Inquiry into the economic impacts       of migration to Britain (2008) and member of the Migration Advisory       Committee, the politically neutral body that advises the government on       migration data and policy (2007-present).
These roles have helped his       research and the Migration Observatory to gain credibility and prominence       within UK policymaking circles.
