 The team's research had considerable impact on UK migration policy, thanks to COMPAS's core aim to engage with policymakers and contribute to government policy development in this arena.
In particular, COMPAS's early research had a direct influence on the thinking of the Commission on Integration and Cohesion (set up in response to the London bombings in July 2005 and where Keith was principal academic member), whose recommendations were largely adopted by the Brown government in its 2008 reform of UK integration policy.
Against this backdrop, since 2008, COMPAS's research in this area has had a significant impact in three key areas: 4.1) `Superdiversity': Contributing a new framework for UK migration policy Vertovec's research on `superdiversity' [R1,R2] is cited explicitly by the Commission on Integration and Cohesion and informed the government response to the report.
[Section 5: C1] Both Ruth Kelly and Hazel Blears (successive Secretaries of State at the Department of Communities and Local Government) stressed the importance of the report's analytical frame-work in establishing the Migration Impact Forum and the Migration Advisory Committee.
[C2] The `superdiversity' framework became a key component of the drafting of new guidelines for the management of diversity at local governance level, in establishing new funding streams of central government support directed at the integration of new migrants, and in the recognition of new diversities that incorporated both older models of `race relations' and new associational forms, such as diasporic religious faith and transnational connection.
For example, the new principles of integration linked to this research [R3,R4] were adopted by the Housing Corporation (the principal funder of social housing subsidy in the UK 1964-2008) when drafting revised principles of integration and cohesion for new-build housing estates.
[C3] The Housing Corporation implemented new policies because patterns of `superdiversity' undermined their previous support for ethnic-specific social housing provision and cited the work of the Commission as spurring this change, and therefore, by association, the research of Vertovec.
[C3] 4.2) Changing integration policy at local and city level in the UK and Europe As mentioned, the Commission on Integration and Cohesion drew heavily on the research of Vertovec [R1,R2], but also relied on the research of Keith [R3,R4] (as principal academic on the Commission) when drafting the principles of a new model of integration and cohesion.
[C1] Keith has continued to advise central and local government on cohesion and integration policy.
For example, the London Borough of Hackney formulated their cohesion and integration policy in response to Keith's post-2008 research and supervision of an ESRC CASE studentship held by Hannah Jones (2007-11) jointly at Goldsmiths and the London Borough of Hackney.
Drawing on the rethinking of `race relations' and focusing on the need to address new diversities in London, Keith's research [R4] was used along with the work of Jones to restructure policies on integration of one of London's most diverse boroughs.
[C4] This is reflected in the adopted policy of the council.
Keith supported the CASE studentship research of Jones which was used to draft council policy and gave evidence to the relevant council committees that passed the final policy.
[C5] The work COMPAS has done with a local government focus has also been recognised at the European level.
For example, recommendations made by Spencer as part of the CLIP project (on equality and diversity in municipal staffing and service provision), [C7] were instrumental to Eurocities when they were benchmarking good practice for its network of 170 cities across 35 countries in Europe.
[C6] Moreover, in competitive peer-reviewed funding calls COMPAS has been awarded over &#163;900,000 in grants from the European Integration Fund programme for projects that specifically translate research knowledge into policy practice on local leadership and migration, understanding migrant integration outcomes at the neighbourhood level, and on the impact of restrictions and entitlements on the integration of migrants.
[C8] Several senior European policy officials have offered personal testimony to confirm the impact of this work on European thinking and practice in relation to migration integration (e.g.
the EU's Deputy Director of Integration).
[C9] 4.3) Recognising the importance of religious faith in formulating integration and antidiscrimination policy Spencer's work with Fredman [R8] was explicitly cited by government as informing the revised definition of equality that would underpin the Equality Bill,[C10] enacted in 2010 and implemented by the 2010 Coalition government, thereby impacting directly on the formulation of anti-discrimination law in the UK.
This research focus was complemented by Gidley's [R6] work on the Jewish community in contemporary Britain and work on Islamic politics and political participation by Keith [R3] and by Jayaweera,[R7] which fed directly into the consideration of migrant rights and equalities in processes of integration, as evidenced by the research providing the principal focus for the 2013 All Party Parliamentary Group Against Antisemitism's symposium on `Integration, Disadvantage and Extremism'.
[C11] Conclusion COMPAS has investigated, described, and disseminated research on the major changes in UK migration dynamics over the last decade.
It has also revealed the policy options, trade-offs, and consequences of these new patterns through work that engaged directly with policymakers in both central and local government.
In articulating the importance of new and multiple diversities that have arisen from these migration trends, the research has been significant in the national policy rethinking of `race relations' institutions and multicultural policy (4.1 above).
In signalling the importance and implications of local differences in diversity (4.2 above) for service delivery, research has had impact on local government and urban policy-making.
Finally, in highlighting the significance of religious faith in patterns of social identity formation (4.3 above), research has influenced the manner in which religious faith and broader dimensions of diversity nuance the understanding of equalities policies and also the manner in which policies are put into practice.
