     Edensor and Millington's ambitions for producing impactful,       practice-centred research capable of improving the everyday quality of       life in the city is rooted in the work of the MIPC, which initiated the       formation of Manchester's &#163;31-million Museum of Urban Life, Urbis,       in 2002 and also fostered the development of Manchester's Creative       Industries Development Service (CIDS), the UK's first dedicated local       economic development agency for the creative industries.
Given the current       recognition of the importance of the creative industries, this       intelligence was critical in shaping public policy &#8212; particularly in       Manchester where connectivity across the public and private sector       facilitated through the work of CIDS ultimately paved the way for a later       raft of investments including mediacityuk and the Sharp Project which have       also had huge cultural and economic impacts since 2008 [A].
In the       absence of alternative research into illumination Edensor and Millington's       work stretches the boundaries of sociological research by developing a       springboard for innovative collaboration and knowledge exchange with local       authorities, urban designers and creative lighting practitioners involved       in place-making and regeneration practices at national and international       levels.
It has resulted in the establishment of an increasingly vibrant       and influential network of academics, lighting professionals,       policy-makers, funding bodies, artists and curators, and the research       findings have been scrutinised at both national and international       conferences and workshops.
More specifically, the research has promoted professional engagement with       lighting designers and place managers.
In 2009 Edensor and Millington were       invited to present their work on Christmas illuminations to a meeting of       the Professional Light Designers Association (PDLA) in London.
Subsequently, the chair of the PDLA, commissioned a non-academic article       for the trade journal Lighting Matters to communicate these ideas       more widely to professionals as, in his view, vernacular lighting       practices deserved to be taken more seriously by the profession [B].
The journal is circulated to over 2500 lighting engineers, lighting       designers, consultants, lighting manufacturers and local authority       lighting personnel in the UK, as well as reaching an influential       readership among key lighting specialists in other English-speaking       countries.
Also in 2009, Edensor and Millington were invited to address a       large gathering of light designers and policy makers at Fete Des         Lumieres, the annual international conference of Lighting Urban       Community International (LUCI) in Lyon [C].
Their presentation on       the Blackpool Illuminations prompted an unprecedented professional pledge       to furthering the potential social and economic utility of vernacular       illumination and led to further consultations with light designers from       Columbia, France, Italy, Germany, China and Sweden.
The research has also       underpinned the development of certified qualifications for professional       place managers in association with the MMU-affiliated Institute of Place       Management http://www.placemanagement.org/.
Millington's research has directly contributed to the Institute's       development and delivery of a Masters programme in Place Management, an       introductory diploma and international certificate, all of which have been       lauded for their transformative effect on professional practice.
This       professional accreditation has been awarded to 48 place managers since       2008, and as one attendee testifies: "The research context helped me         to gain vital learning and knowledge which has been instrumental in         shaping both my career and my understanding of the complexities in place         management.
The professional qualification has assisted my career         enormously" [D].
Research findings have also been shared       with professionals at the annual Streetscapes conference in 2010 organised       by RUDI http://www.rudi.net/, a       national organisation for knowledge sharing about urban development for       both professionals and academics.
The research has directly impacted upon cultural and creative policy and       community development in a number of areas.
Firstly, it has influenced the       strategy of the Blackpool Illuminations Team.
Edensor and Millington were       consulted by the Director of Blackpool Illuminations, http://www.blackpool.gov.uk/Services/G-L/Illuminations/       [E] on the basis of their research into visitor experience, which       reveals how local lighting design can provide a more situated and grounded       expertise that pre-empts homogenising tendencies.
Their advice was       subsequently incorporated into the department's strategic plans and       included in a successful bid for financial support from Blackpool Council,       which highlights the potential of the research to inform planning and       stimulate collaborative research across the academic/professional divide.
Secondly, the North-West Coastal Forum, which brings together stakeholders       to promote sustainable management of the regional coastline, invited       Millington in 2011 to discuss the policy implications of his research       findings.
In addition, the Littoral Society, an international network of       coastline policy makers, invited Millington to utilise data from the       Blackpool research to provide a workshop on lighting and coastal       regeneration to industry professionals at their 2010 international       conference.
Thirdly, to develop further collaborative work with the PLDA,       designers Sharon Stammers and Martin Lupton, members of the Social Light       Movement [F], a philanthropic movement dedicated to improving       light provision for people and communities, were invited to MMU in 2010 to       deliver a public seminar that addressed the social uses of illumination.
Their visit initiated the writing of a co-authored work-in-progress paper,       which seeks to develop innovative theoretical perspectives in direct       complementation of the designers' practical expertise.
The next step in       this collaboration will be a social lighting event scheduled for 2014 and       involving hands-on collaboration with PLDA to devise more creative ways       for illuminating the Bentley Housing Association in Manchester and an       adjacent section of the Mancunian Way, which will exemplify the broader       potential for making Manchester's public lighting at once more diverse and       sustainable.
The important role of Edensor and Millington's expertise in securing and       consolidating support for the archiving and exhibiting of popular heritage       collections is evidenced a statement from the Head of Heritage at       Blackpool Council, to add academic weight to a subsequently successful bid       (awarded January 2012) to the Heritage Lottery Fund.
The award has       assisted `with the documentation and re-storage of the Illuminations       Collection' [G], making the collection available to the public,       particularly schools.
Furthermore, Edensor has recently been invited to       collaborate with a senior curator at Manchester Museum of Science and       Industry, on a public exhibition for 2014 that will combine their academic       and curatorial expertise to showcase the history of urban illumination and       enhance popular understanding of its cultural evolution and contemporary       relevance.
The research has also contributed significantly to public engagement.
Millington collaborated with MMU's North-West Film Archive (NWFA) to host       a presentation of historic film footage of the Blackpool Illuminations to       over 70 people at Manchester's City Art Gallery in March 2013.
Urbis       Research Forum, a public forum for debating issues concerning urban       regeneration and development in Manchester (http://urbisresearchforum.wordpress.com/upcoming-events/),       initiated and co-founded by another UoA23 researcher (Holloway), invited       Edensor and Millington in June 2013 to elaborate on the broader       implications of their work.
Their research has also been instrumental in       creating a forum for collaboration and intellectual exchange through the       recently established website-cum-blog `Light Research at MMU' (http://www.lightresearch.mmu.ac.uk/),       which provides an interactive resource for researchers and lighting       professionals at an international level, and moreover serves as a device       for public engagement.
Beyond this, Edensor and Millington's lighting       research has also contributed to broader academic, professional and media       deliberations.
The contemporary relevance of the debate on how       illumination could be more creatively utilised by professionals to improve       urban environments, enhance sustainability and develop place-making       strategies is indicated by increasing media interest in the research,       resulting, for example, in an invitation to contribute to the discussion       about Christmas and taste on BBC Radio 3's Thinking Aloud in 2010       [H].
The research made a further significant contribution to public       debate with an article in the Manchester Evening News and two       appearances by Millington on BBC Look North in February 2013.
Millington has also helped to enhance place-management activities along       the Oxford Road Corridor, an important thoroughfare and economic and       cultural quarter in Manchester city centre, by lending his research       expertise to a high-profile design competition focused on improving a       local "sense of place", which also included contributions from Transport       for Greater Manchester, the Arup firm and Manchester City Council [I].
