     The Book Depository is an online book retailer, founded in 2004.
Book       retailing traditionally falls into two classes: high-street style       retailers selling the relatively small number of top-rated titles, all       available instantly, and specialist stores serving niche markets, with       many titles available but longer delivery times (2 - 4 weeks) and       relatively few sales per title (under 1 unit/month worldwide) &#8212; the "long       tail".
BD's unique aim was to bring high-street style availability and       turnaround time to the long tail sector.
The research of BD's Chief Technical Officer Emad El-Akehal with         Padget has driven the design of two software systems crucial to BD's         operations: the catalogue maintenance system and the price       setter/checker.
The operation of these systems enables BD's business to       run: the catalogue system maintains a "virtual warehouse" of books,       currently over 8 million titles, which are physically located at over 120       distinct suppliers; and the price system monitors supplier cost and       competitor prices to enable BD to offer their books at optimal pricing.
[7]     The adoption of the design principles developed in Padget's research has       enabled BD to deploy software systems that are highly distributed and       decoupled &#8212; the software comprises many separate software agents that run       on computers all around the world with minimal reliance on one another &#8212;       and that can monitor and repair themselves thanks to the norm-based       governance of the system.
This means that the system is highly scalable,       for example no change to the running code was required when scaling from 5       to 20 suppliers early in BD's growth, as well as being modifiable,       so that for instance changing data format to suit a new supplier is easy,       and reliable, because many faults and problems can be addressed by       the system itself stopping the faulty agent and replacing it with a fresh       one.
The distributed nature of the system allows agents to be placed where       they are most effective: for instance, agents that need to make a great       many requests for data to Amazon's servers in the US can be located in the       US, while agents holding data governed by UK law can be located in the UK.
BD's Managing Director explains the significance of Padget's work to BD's       operation as follows [7]:     "The system design was grounded on the research efforts of the company's       Chief Technical Officer; Emad Eldeen Elakehal during his PhD program under       the supervision of Dr Julian Padget at the University of Bath &#8212; UK.
Both       the catalogue maintenance (Virtual Warehouse System) and Pricing System       are designed as multi agent systems and are responsible for the core and       crucial elements of our daily operations.
These systems in particular are       responsible for the implementation of our pricing strategies and they       contribute to the management of the company's offers in both third party       marketplaces and our own website.
Both systems have shown high degree of resilience and scalability over a       period of more than six years and they are still in operation today.
We       are able to change and modify the system attributes easily with minimal       amount of development effort, as a result of their norm/agent based       design.
The company's operations and the number of transactions have grown       more than 10 fold since implementation and the systems were able to scale       up to support this growth.
This acceleration is clearly reflected in the       company's annual revenue, turnover increased from &#163;24M in 2007/8 &#8212; first       year of operating these systems &#8212; to over &#163;120M in 2010.
The company       continues to grow with expectation of reaching circa &#163;150m turnover this       current year, 2013.
The size of the operations and technical support team who looks after       these specific systems has remained static over the last six years, due to       the reliability of the software and to its dynamic features."
Thanks to these systems, and Padget's work with Elakehal, BD has been       able to fulfil its goal of offering its 8 million titles with 48 hour       turnaround, creating a service in the long-tail sector that was         previously unavailable.
It has rapidly become the market leader in       long-tail book provision.
As the Managing Director notes, turnover has         grown from &#163;24 million to over &#163;120 million in the period since       2008.
[7,8] Most remarkably, this has been possible with no increase in         the operations team: the software systems are still managed by just       two staff.
The success of the business is directly attributable to the       effectiveness of their software systems: BD's managing director states       that "without the agent/norm based technical systems not one of the       business' USPs could have been effectively realised."
[7]     Every user of Amazon who has searched for a book has been a user of this       software.
The Book Depository sells its books via Amazon's third-party       "marketplace", and every book search returns "new and used" price results,       one of which is invariably from the Book Depository.
This marketplace       offer is generated by BD's software; the fulfilment of orders placed via       Amazon is also handled by this software.
The Book Depository became such a       significant player in the long-tail sector, winning the Queen's Award for       International Trade in 2010 [9], that Amazon chose to acquire the company       in 2011 [10].
Though now an Amazon subsidiary, BD continues to trade in       the same way under its own brand, using the same software.
[7]
