     The context of the Bath research is concisely stated by the Chief       Executive of PPMA [A], prior to the assessment period, who indicates that       the consideration of climate change, packaging waste legislation and       economics leads to the conclusion that the use of thinner packaging       materials is advantageous, particularly if achieved without a significant       reduction in packaging machine performance.
The impact achieved has been in a number of inter-related areas.
Modelling of machine-material interaction: The Bath research has       generated new computer-based models to represent the complex interaction       between machines and materials during processing.
This helps to reduce the       volume of packaging and to make use of new lighter and more       environmentally friendly materials.
The significance is illustrated on the       website of Smithers Pira [B]:     `The tools and methods created by the research team have enabled the       optimum material properties to be established for particular processes,       the re-engineering of packaging design, the redesign of tooling and       matching of tooling to new and emerging materials, and the determination       of robust machine settings (less sensitive to material variation).
It       has been shown that the ability to represent machine-material       interaction enables reasoning about material, machinery and product       within a single approach, and bridges the link between the three key       supply chains: materials, machinery and consumer good manufacturers.
The       latter of these is critical for consumer goods manufacturers to meet the       ever-increasing legislative requirements [European packaging and       packaging waste directive 2004/12/EC of 11 February 2004 amending       94/62/EC11, 2004].'
Improved performance of an existing business: The research on the       VFFS process has been undertaken in conjunction with HayssenSandiacre, a       global manufacturer of flexible packaging systems.
Its Technology Director       states of the Bath research findings [C]:     `Our customers are continually requiring us to handle thinner,       lighter-weight, recycled and bio-based packaging materials ... to comply       with the new packaging waste legislation ... We believe that this       research has helped us to develop improved techniques for creating       forming set tooling that better enables the creation of       right-first-time-tooling ... and significantly contributes to reducing       our customers carbon footprint.
The main business improvement resulting       from successful completion of this research has been our ability to       offer forming set tooling which creates package styles that were       previously difficult or not commercially viable.This work has       significantly contributed to the sales of a large number of machine       systems, with approximate total revenues of $8M.'
The research on forming shoulders has put its design on a much firmer       foundation.
This has led to the creation of a design methodology that has       been incorporated into a design tool called FORMIT.
As part of the       collaboration, HayssenSandiacre has used the tool to define `non-symmetric       shoulders', which was not previously possible.
This has enabled the       company to move to a new business activity with the design and       manufacture of machines, for example, new `quad-pack' designs for       Cadburys.
The Technology Director states further [C]:     `We are delighted to have been involved with these projects and the       provision of machinery, equipment, manufacturing capabilities and       engineering time as part of our industrial contribution has been a very       good investment for HayssenSandiacre.'
Improvement/changes in existing practices: The findings relating       to machine-material interaction have been presented as a workbook [6] that       provides a general methodology for understanding machine-material       interaction and the realisation of targeted and sustainable benefits.
They       may be practice, process or design led.
This publication includes detailed       industrial case studies, worksheets and templates.
In particular,       AstraZeneca has successfully used the methodology within the UK to improve       its processes.
Early in the assessment period (2008), the       Manufacturing Engineering for UK Operations stated that [D]:     `... the AstraZeneca packaging department at the Macclesfield site has       been working with the University of Bath to introduce their methodology       for understanding Machine-Material Interaction (MMI) and to deliver       training courses for our manufacturing teams in Macclesfield.
The       methodology has now been incorporated into our manufacturing operational       excellence programme and along with Reliability Centred Maintenance       (RCM) forms a fundamental component of our programme.
Our Operational       Excellence programme has already resulted in a 16% improvement in       Overall Equipment Effectiveness (OEE) for one packaging line.
The       significance of this is underlined by the fact that a 1% improvement in       OEE is worth an estimated &#163;70,000 to the business each year.'
New business activity: Based on the research into the deformation       and delamination of carton board, an item of equipment for testing the       crease resistance of carton board was created as a new product, in       conjunction with Smithers Pira (formerly Pira International) and Hanatek.
It is used to assess material properties in order to determine the       settings for good running of packaging machinery.
This specialised       equipment is now commercially available (via Rhopoint Instruments) [E] and       is used by Smithers Pira as part of its commercial testing:     `Other developments to come out of this research collaboration with       the University of Bath is a new item of industry specific testing       equipment ...
This equipment is now commercially available and in use       worldwide (costing in the region of &#163;10,000 with approximately 20-25       units sold).'
Collaboration with research and trade associations: Where       possible, research is undertaken in collaboration with research and trade       associations, in particular, with Smithers Pira, the Processing and       Packaging Machinery Association (PPMA), and Campden BRI.
This       collaboration ensures access to the research outcomes by members of these       associations, thus ensuring that real problems are investigated [F] and       facilitating dissemination of the results of research.
PPMA indicates [G]:     `In terms of direct benefit for PPMA members, one of the most       successful research projects has been the `Impact' research project led       by the University of Bath which modelled the behaviour of carton board       and flexible films in packaging machinery.'
This has allowed the offering of new and improved services,       particularly with respect to Smithers Pira, which currently employs around       80 people in the UK and provides testing and consultancy services to the       paper board, printing and packaging industries.
It has enabled Smithers       Pira [B] to produce guidelines providing new protocols relating to the       properties, storage and processing of folding cartons.
It has provided       this information to its member base of 200 companies worldwide through a       web resource on its website and through presentations at trade conferences       (e.g.
IAPRI, International association of packaging research institutes).
The Senior Scientist of Smithers Pira states [F]:     `Experience from the collaboration with the University of Bath has       improved our techniques for investigating complex, challenging problems,       where standard tests are either not available or inappropriate.
The       experience gained enables Smithers Pira to `win' a greater proportion of       high-value and value-added customer enquiries which would have       historically been lost or turned away.'
