 In the area of STEM subjects, the general belief is that the trend of the steadily increasing importance of High Performance Computing will continue for decades.
It is likely that the highest levels of computing performance will be achieved through distributed hardware resources, such as computer nodes or web-data storage.
The performance of cloud computing critically hinges on both the performance of individual nodes and the ability to pass information between them and, to a certain extent, on the performance of the network between head node and end user.
Benchmark testing for supercomputer architectures, such as LINPACK, has been available for many years.
Generically, these benchmark suites do not differentiate between the relative importance of communication (RAM, inter-core, inter-node, network) or local computational power.
We have developed a benchmarking suite, BSMBench, which bridges this gap.
The unique feature of our benchmarking tool is that it allows the relative weight of memory communication against single-core computational resource to be changed.
This makes BSMBench a perfect tool for comparing different computing architectures, which may range from home computers to large cluster installations.
This versatility makes BSMBench an attractive tool for a wide range of end-users.
The code BSMBench is the only publicly available suite based on a BSM Particle Physics simulation environment.
By changing fermion representation and colour number, BSMBench offers the unique possibility of changing the relative weight of memory communication against CPU computations.
IBM (see source [1]) is using the code suite BSMBench to both assess the performance of new generation machines, including BlueGene/Q, and evolve future hardware.
A third-party company, BSMBench Ltd [2,3] (featuring the name of our code suite), was created in 2012 to promote and make the best use of know-how gained during the development of the code BSMBench.
Currently, this company is developing general-purpose parallel software based on BSMBench that can be used in High Performance Computing applications in the finance, aerospace engineering, weather forecasting and oil extraction sectors, among others.
In early 2013, Fujitsu [4] started collaborating with the developer of the code suite BSMBench and the company BSMBench Ltd to adapt our code suite and create a benchmarking tool on mainframes used for virtualization.
The main idea is to unravel unused resources during a virtualization run, and to understand the underpinning restrictions of their usage.
Fujitsu is enhancing the BSMBench code suite by embedding a facility for measuring specific hardware metrics, such as the L2/L3 filling level and the throughput cache.
BSMBench has been made available to third parties and the general public via GitHub [5].
This has been announced to the computing community in a presentation at the International Supercomputing Conference 2012 [6].
BSMBench has also featured in the IT magazine `Linux Format', and been distributed to its readers via more than 20,000 copies on DVD [7,8,9].
The HPC-assisted research already carried out by our group was the subject of an INTEL case study in 2010 [10].
This case study was also presented at the 21st meeting of the Machine Evaluation Workshop (MEW) organised by STFC in Runcorn, in November 2010.
Here, the Plymouth HPC installation served as a showcase illustrating how supercomputer environments can be efficiently used for complex engineering problems.
