     In 2009, a Knowledge Transfer Account (KTA) funded project between Bath       and Ashwoods Automotive, an Exeter based SME, was focused on the       optimisation of hybrid electric powertrains.
It became clear that       realistic driver behaviour had a far more significant effect on CO2       production and fuel efficiency than that possible through design       improvements, as is the case in conventional vehicles.
Because of the importance of driver behaviour for all types of vehicles,       and following discussions between Bath and Ashwoods based on these       findings, a new product (Lightfoot&#174;) was created by Ashwoods       that incorporated the Universal Driver Aggression Algorithm (or UDAA)       which arose from the Bath research [5].
The development of this product       relied heavily on the Bath team to ensure that the full benefits of the       research findings could be realised.
Ashwoods engineers were seconded to       Bath during the product development, ensuring effective knowledge exchange       and exploitation of the research.
Lightfoot&#174; was launched in 2011 through a new business       venture, Ashwoods Lightfoot, which owns the IP relating to the product,       creating three new jobs.
The product is marketed to fleet operators of       light commercial vehicles.
The system consists of a data processing module       and a driver display system that can be integrated into the existing       dashboard instrumentation and is connected over the mobile phone network       to Ashwoods' central servers.
The system makes use of data readily       available from the vehicle's diagnostic computer.
The data are processed       using the UDAA algorithm developed in the underpinning research both to       quantify driver aggression and to optimise gear shift strategy.
This       approach allows Lightfoot&#174; to be fundamentally more effective       than competing products, which simply aim to indicate to the driver when       to change gear, due to its ability to modify driver behaviour in a robust       and universally applicable manner.
This represents an important strategic       advantage to Lightfoot&#174;, significantly improving driver       acceptance and minimising the application support needed for each new       fleet user.
Lightfoot&#174; uses visual and audible feedback to drivers to       help them improve the fuel efficiency of their driving.
In addition, the       system reports back to the fleet manager who oversees a ranking and       monitoring system to reward the best drivers and encourage those who need       to improve.
The reduction in CO2 emissions is achieved solely       through behavioural improvements, with no modification to the vehicle       engine.
During the development phase, trials run on customer fleets by Ashwoods       demonstrated that Lightfoot&#174; saved an average of around 7% in       fuel/CO2 when compared with baseline measurements across a wide       range of drivers and duty cycles.
The savings were even higher for       exceptionally aggressive drivers and highly dynamic duty cycles; in these       cases savings of up to 20% were achieved [A, B].
In service, the product       has consistently returned a saving of at least 10% [C].
Lightfoot&#174; has been a commercial success and is the sector       leading product, winning a number of industry awards [D].
The work       undertaken by Bath, exploiting the underpinning research has been central       to this success.
In the words of the Ashwoods Managing Director [C]:     `The innovative work of the PVRC has contributed directly to our         business.
The novel driver aggression monitoring algorithms developed         with the University have helped our Lightfoot product to become the         leading offering of its class.'
The impact here is immediate and persistent.
The beneficiaries are       Ashwoods Automotive, through increased sales (value of the 2,500 unit       sales to date are around &#163;625,000) and a rising profile within a new       product sector [C].
In addition, the six major fleet operators that use the technology have       gained significant reductions in fuel costs, valued at over &#163;83,000 per       month on the current number of installations.
Over 50 subsequent trials       have now been run by large fleet operators with savings ranging from 8 to       23%.
Northumberland County Council saved 13.5%, Coventry City council       12.7%, DAF 9.9%, and May Gurney 14.3%.
User experience has been positive,       for example, Wiltshire County Council [E] states:     `We have improved our consumption by 8-10% on these vehicles.
The         system is easy to manage, relies on the driver to drive correctly to         make the savings, and therefore does not take up officer time.
As the         potential savings are significant, it is our intention to invest in         Lightfoot in the future.'
The largest user is Autoglass, which has adopted Lightfoot&#174; across       its entire fleet and has seen rapid and significant improvements.
In the       words of the Autoglass Managing Director [F]:     `Within a couple of days of using the tool we see many of our drivers         go from spending 55&#8212; 60% of their time in the green zone to hitting 90%         and higher.
Our savings in fuel costs speak for themselves.
...     ... Our technicians have really embraced the technology...We've even         seen some light-hearted competitiveness emerging when the manager         reports go up on the notice board every week.'
Fleet operators spend around 25% of their cash flow on fuel, so any       saving in this area can be passed on to the general public through a       reduced price of goods and services.
The wider environment benefits       through reduced CO2 from the vehicle fleet are clear.
The       annual impact of the 2,500 currently operational systems can be estimated       by considering the effect of a 10% saving relative to the current fleet       average CO2 emissions from light commercial vehicles, estimated       in 2010 by AEA at 207.6 gCO2/km across a fleet of 2500 vehicles       travelling an average of 25,000 miles each year [G].
The saving is in over       2,000 tonnes of CO2 per year.
Figures 1 and 2 show actual changes in driver accelerator pedal activity       before (Baseline) and after (Live) activation of Lightfoot&#174;.
These changes, represented as probability density distributions, give rise       to the savings determined in [G].
Fig.
1: Accelerator pedal (throttle) activation probability density       before (Baseline) and after Lightfoot&#174; was activated (Live).
Note the shift towards lighter pedal activation when the device is active.
Fuel use is proportional to accelerator pedal position.
Fig.
2: Engine speed probability density before (Baseline) and after Lightfoot&#174; was activated (Live).
Note the considerable shift towards lower engine speeds when the device is active.
Lower engine speeds are typically more efficient for an equivalent power output due to reduced friction.
