     Reform of the UK's parallel systems of social care and disability       benefits &#8212; Attendance Allowance       (AA) and Disability Living Allowance (DLA) &#8212; for older people have been       the subject of active       debate for a number of years.
AA and DLA are not means-tested.
The 2006       King's Fund Review of       Social Care (chaired by Sir Derek Wanless) suggested that public funds       used for AA and DLA       might be better channelled through the means-tested social care system, on       the grounds that AA       and DLA were not well-targeted on those in greatest financial or       disability need.
The then       Government's 2009 Green Paper on the future of care endorsed the option of       redirecting funds       away from disability benefits into social care as worthy of further       consideration.
Our research       challenged the premise that AA and DLA are not well-targeted.
The impact       documented below was       achieved jointly by the researchers at Essex and UEA, and is underpinned       by the research       publications to which the two institutions made equal contributions.
We highlighted a fundamental flaw in previous analyses which had       suggested that recipients of AA       and DLA were located within the middle and upper parts of the income       distribution.
Our first       analysis drawing attention to this flaw was published in February 2008 and       also presented to a       seminar held at number 11 Downing Street, in the presence of the then       minister for social care.
On the same day, Berthoud and Hancock presented our findings in a piece in       the Society pages of       The Guardian [corroborating source 1].
We then conducted more detailed research and drew on it in written       evidence to the Work and       Pension Select committee's 2008/9 Inquiry into Pensioner Poverty and the       Health Select       Committee's 2009-10 Inquiry into Social Care.
Our written evidence to the       latter was used by Age       UK in their oral evidence:     "I think that other submissions have provided you detailed modelling on       the different income       groups who are claiming [AA].
There does seem to be evidence that it is a       reasonably well       targeted benefit, in terms of which income groups receive it and what       their incomes would be       without it, taking into account the cost of their disability"       [corroborating source 2(a)].
The then Acting Charity Director of Age UK has confirmed that this       implicit reference was indeed       referring to our written evidence (Pudney et al., 2010 &#8212; in Section 2)       [3].
Our work was also cited       by a member of the Select Committee [2(b)] and was quoted heavily in the       Committee's report       published on 4th March 2010 [4].
The Committee called on the Department of       Health to publish       evidence that contradicted our research, if they had any.
The White Paper       on Social Care       published on 30th March 2010 ruled out, at least for the next Parliament,       any reform of AA and       DLA to fund its proposed reform of social care.
The Head of Public Policy       at Age UK states that     "we believe that their report, and your submission to them, influenced       the then Government's       decision not to reform AA or integrate it with means-tested care       support...
It is our impression       that the research has had an influence on the way the Department for Work       and Pensions views       the financial position of disabled older people in receipt of AA or DLA"       [5]     The subsequent change of government led to the establishment of the       Commission on Funding       Care and Support (CFSC), whose report recommended retaining non       means-tested disability       benefits for older people.
Before its report was funded we presented our       research at a high-profile       seminar organised by the Strategic Society Centre, which was attended by       representatives from       the CFSC, relevant government departments (HM Treasury, Department of       Health, Department for       Work and Pensions), voluntary sector organisations (e.g.
Age UK), Local       Authorities, the private       insurance sector and academics [6].
Papers and briefings published by the       Strategic Society       Centre and Age UK have quoted heavily from our work [7] [8] [9], and have       continued to do so [10].
The 2012 Welfare Reform Act has replaced DLA with Personal Independence       Payment for new       claimants, which differs from DLA in detail but remains a non means-tested       benefit for disabled       people.
AA is still in place.
For the foreseeable future older people in       the UK therefore retain       access to non means-tested cash disability benefits to help them meet the       costs that disability       brings.
As of 2012, they reach some 2.44 million people aged 65+ in Great       Britain.
These are the       immediate beneficiaries of the decision to retain these benefits.
Some of       them would have lost as       much as &#163;77.45 per week (April 2012 rates) had AA and DLA been withdrawn       completely.
Perhaps       more importantly, a public policy change based on an incorrect premise has       been avoided.
There were of course many voices arguing for the retention of AA and DLA,       and providing       evidence of their benefit to older people.
Our distinct and material       contribution was to highlight the       flaw in previous analysis, conduct rigorous academic research which       corrected this flaw and       improved in other ways on previous analysis of the influence of income and       disability on receipt of       AA/DLA.
