     Overall Contribution: Our straw bale research has directly       contributed to the market development of ModCell, the award of UK and EU       patents and certification of the system [1 below].
The research has shown       that the excellent thermal insulation levels provided by straw bale and       hemp-lime construction can reduce operational carbon emissions by 70-90%       compared to 1990 best practice housing requirements.
Using crop materials       in place of conventional cavity masonry wall construction can also save       around 30 tonnes of carbon per house (equivalent to 10-30+ years       operational impact depending on the heating system).
These figures are       based on the Life Cycle Assessment of the BaleHaus project.
The research       has supported UK industry in the development and adoption of novel       sustainable low carbon building materials and products.
Research       contributions to new building projects have included BRE Information Notes       design guidance, expert advice on material specifications, bespoke       performance tests on materials and evidential data from research output to       support the building control approval process.
Through the very close       collaboration with industry partners, research outputs have often had an       immediate impact.
Over 300 building projects have benefited directly or       indirectly from the research (equating to approximately 9000 tonnes of       carbon saved) [2, 3 below], and these have won prestigious awards [4       below].
Benefits and Beneficiaries: The benefits of the research stem both       from improved performance and lower carbon impact of new technologies       compared to existing solutions.
The embodied and operational carbon       reductions of both straw bale and hemp-lime are significant.
Direct       beneficiaries of the research include industry partners (both ModCell Ltd       and Lime Technology Ltd) through increased sales and clients who have       procured lower carbon buildings.
Clients include: The Science Museum;       Marks &amp; Spencer; Tesco; Hayesfield Girls School (Bath), May Park       Primary School (Bristol); Hengistbury Head Visitor Centre; University of       the West of England; 20 BaleHaus homes for LILAC Co-Housing (Leeds);       Inspire Bradford Business Park; Waterfoot Primary School; Think Low Carbon       Sustainable Centre; Barnsley College; Holm Lacey College Straw Bale Caf&#233;;       Weydon Secondary School; and HAB (Kevin McCloud's development company).
Dissemination: The research activities have been undertaken in       close collaboration with industry (ModCell Ltd, and Lime Technology Ltd).
This has ensured direct and almost immediate uptake of research findings.
Wider dissemination routes have been through conventional publications       (journal), presentations (conferences, seminars) as well as CPD activities       to promote benefits of renewable materials (workshops; exhibitions).
In       2009-10 BaleHaus received substantial media coverage, including on local       TV (BBC, ITV), international, national and local radio (BBC), national and       international print media and internet exposure [5 below].
McCloud       officially opened BaleHaus in November 2009, attracting significant media       interest (see quote above).
The Lilac Housing scheme, using BaleHaus       design, has more recently featured on BBC national TV (The Culture Show;       10.10.12).
The CICM's reputation as a leading centre for innovative       construction materials research has increased, attracting new staff,       students, researchers and visiting academics.
In 2010-2011 the Centre       completed a Knowledge Transfer Account Fellowship with BRE, aimed at       raising awareness and promoting wider uptake of renewable construction       materials.
This included a series of workshops in the South West at which       over 400 participants attended.
Commercial impact: "The research carried out at the University         of Bath has been instrumental in the growth of ModCell" &#8212; Director       (ModCell Ltd).
Since 2008 the commercial value of ModCell projects has       grown from &#163;11k in 2008 to over &#163;1.8 million in 2012; over the same time       ModCell staff grew from 1 FTE in 2008 to 10 FTE in 2012.
The hemp-lime       construction market in the UK has grown from a few niche projects to over       250 completed projects, including Kevin McCloud's Triangle Project in       Swindon.
Lime Technology's turnover has grown from &#163;1 million in 2005 to       &#163;6 million in 2012; over the same period Lime Technology's staffing       expanded from 12 FTE in 2005 to 57 FTE in 2012.
"We could not have         developed as successfully as we have without our collaboration with the         University of Bath over the past 10 years" &#8212; Technical Director       (Lime Technology).
These commercial developments have been directly       supported by the research outputs from Bath.
Wider benefits of this impact       derive from employee spending into the local economy.
Both main industrial       partners have also been developing export markets for their products.
Lime       Technology has exported materials and technical expertise delivering       projects in USA and Australia; and ModCell, supported by the EuroCell       project, in Netherlands and Spain.
Societal impact: The research has directly supported the delivery       of new housing projects (Lilac community housing in Leeds) and public       buildings, including four new school buildings (see www.modcell.co.uk).
CICM has played a leading role in the Nucleus building, a new science       block for Hayesfield Girls School in Bath, the first commercial       loadbearing application of the ModCell straw bale panels.
Walker supported       the school's development committee during the procurement process,       advising on technical details and using research data directly to provide       reassurance and clarification on performance where necessary.
"We won't get to an ultra-low-carbon built environment simply by         improving on the performance of the same old construction techniques.
The BaleHaus certainly hits that button, and could play an important         part in enabling house builders to meet their carbon targets."
-       Director (Forum for the Future).
