     It is in the nature of architectural history that its outputs are of       interest to both an academic and a `popular' audience.
The models       described here were made in order to `test' a new understanding of the       buildings and landscapes in question, as well as to visualise these in an       engaging way to the public.
The chosen pathways to impact were public       exhibitions, lectures, and monographs, all of which have led to an       increased public awareness of the history and meaning of these buildings       as well as, more specifically in two Bath-based examples, to tangible       impacts for their custodians.
Five post-2008 examples follow of how our       computer-visualisation research has led to public impact:     Hart's work on Andrea Palladio's four pilgrimage routes through Rome, as       described in his guidebooks of 1554, led to CASA's construction of a       computer model of them [see 4 above] and the translation of the guidebooks       published in 2006.
This publication was reviewed in the popular press,       including The New York Times and The Times (by Jeanette       Winterson, see 1 below), assisting sales in general bookstores (including       Waterstones).
A paperback edition appeared in 2009 and a Japanese one in       2011.
Since 2008 (- December 2012, the last statement) it has sold 1,205       copies globally, through Amazon and bookshops, generating an income to the       American and UK publisher Yale UP of $22,308.
The computer model of the       routes was publically exhibited at The British School at Rome, February       2008, funded by the British Academy and the Leche Trust; and at the George       Peabody Library, Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, USA, March-April       2008, as part of the exhibition `Harmony to the Eyes' funded by the Samuel       Kress Foundation.
Taken together, at least 700 people have seen the model,       ranging from the general public to academics and museum curators.
The       exhibitions were supported by public lectures on the models by Hart at the       venues, each attended by around 200 people.
Computer models also informed Hart's monographs on John Vanbrugh and       Inigo Jones that were published in 2008 and 2011.
They contained new       understandings of both architects, and computer models of their key       buildings that expressed this new understanding.
The books and their       models have been widely reviewed in the popular press, including The         Oldie, Times Literary Supplement, Catholic Herald, The New York Times       and Apollo ("the author engages computer modelling and       reconstructions to flesh out his interpretations", see 2 below).
They have       sold 2,973 copies globally (- December 2012, the last statement), through       Amazon (see 3 below) and bookshops, generating an income to Yale UP of       $116,768.
The models of Vanbrugh's buildings formed the core of a       series of public lectures by Hart in 2008 in Baltimore, Philadelphia, and       Boston, thus reaching a more global audience, whilst the models of Jones's       buildings were discussed in public lectures at the Courtauld Institute,       London, the British School at Rome, the Universities of Kent and       Cambridge, as well as in talks and booksignings at Hatchards bookshop in       London and the Theatre Royal &amp; Toppings Bookshop in Bath.
The average       audience for the lectures was 100 people.
Hart has also spoken about the       research results of the Jones models in radio broadcasts for Australian       National Radio and BBC Radio 4 (both 2012; `Unbuilt Britain' available on       the BBC website).
A Senior Partner of Lynch Architects wrote to Hart: "we've         been referring to your work a lot recently" (see 4 below).
The publication of Hart's Vanbrugh monograph coincided with the       successful campaign by the National Trust to preserve Vanbrugh's Seaton       Delaval in public ownership: the book was used to promote this campaign in       a number of popular journals: Andrew Mead in the Architect's Journal       (28 August 2008) opened with the fact that the house's "future is       uncertain and the National Trust is trying to raise &#163;6.3 million to `save'       it.
The full significance of the house clearly emerges in [this] thorough       and absorbing new monograph", whilst Tim Knox (Director of the Soane       Museum) observed in the World of Interiors (1 October 2008) that       "the recent news" of the NT appeal "makes this new book...especially       timely".
This public impact of the Vanbrugh monograph and its models led       to Hart being asked by the NT to be a co-signatory (headed by Lord Richard       Rogers) to an appeal letter published in The Times (6th       October 2008) see: http://www.beattiegroup.com/prclients/pr-press-releases.aspx?news=31&amp;id=10051     There has also been close collaboration between CASA and the National       Trust on a number of computer visualisation projects, including a       fully-researched reconstruction of the original gardens of Prior Park in       Bath (by Hart, Richens and Harney in 2009).
The model was built for a       public exhibition of CASA computer-history projects in collaboration with       the Sorbonne, Paris, held at the R&#233;fectoire des Cordeliers, Paris, in       October 2009: see http://www.bath.ac.uk/news/2009/10/27/sorbonne-exhibition/.
The exhibition was visited by over 1,000 people, including students and       the general public, and was opened by the Sorbonne's President (George       Molini&#233;).
It was supported by a public lecture, attended by around 200.
The model is intended for display in the visitor's centre at Prior Park.
This project has led to a collaboration with the NT on Engineering       Doctorates (co-funded between the Trust and EPSRC) piloting the use of       digital technology in `real-life', heritage sites managed by them (by       Shepherd in 2010-date).
The project has thus-far led to employment of two       students, part-based at the NT's HQ at Swindon.
The Head Curator of the NT       comments: "Their research project...is already paying dividends,         and...has I believe begun to change the way that the Trust thinks about         the uses of new digital computing technologies" (see 5 below).
Over       the years CASA's graduate student staff have been taught advanced computer       modelling techniques developed at Bath and have then moved into industry       and set up their own consultancies applying this research (eg Joe Robson       (M.Phil.
1997) and AVR London: see http://www.avrlondon.com/         ).
Pre-2008 models listed above have also continued to find pathways       to impact during the REF period.
Firstly, the Napoleon Paris model was       supplied in June 2010 to Kensington Communications for the Canadian       documentary series called `Museum Secrets', for broadcast in January 2011.
Additionally, it has had 7,673 downloads [at November 2013] on Youtube (http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3uXhErt5agA)       and is linked via the Napoleon Foundation, Paris (http://www.napoleon.org/en/fun_stuff/video/index.asp).
Secondly, the computer model of Spencer's Artists House was displayed in       `Sir Stanley Spencer: Between Heaven and Earth', September 2011-January       2012, at the Kunsthal Rotterdam.
And thirdly, the use of the Bath computer       model (Day and Hart) for the development of key new buildings such as the       Thermae Bath Spa with Grimshaw Architects in 2006, has led to its use for       the New Southgate Shopping Centre by Chapman Taylor Architects in 2010.
The model was used to carry out early proportional studies of the streets       and urban spaces in Bath as well as to provide the context for the       architectural visualisation that was used during public participation       exercises.
Harney and Richens have worked with the Bath Preservation Trust       to develop and install in Beckford's Tower a fully interactive (by the       public) model of the area of Bath between Lansdown Crescent and the Tower       (&#163;13K funded by the Heritage Lottery in 2011).
This visualises the       landscape and buildings that William Beckford constructed between       1822-1844 and demonstrates them in new ways to the public.
Its impact is       evidenced by increased visitor satisfaction at the Tower since its       instillation.
The museum's Director comments: "The model has gone down         brilliantly at the Tower.
The visitors' response has been fantastic,         with locals who had vague ideas about the ride as well as tourists         really getting a lot from what it reveals about Beckford's landscape and         how the Tower itself fitted into it.
Young visitors spend a significant         amount of time using it and then want to go out in the cemetery to see         what is there now.
Visit lengths have also been increased noticeably for         family groups, as the parents get a chance to spend time in the museum         while the children are playing on the model.
That is very beneficial to         visitor experience and satisfaction, and to the recommendation to visit         the Tower they will then go home and give friends" (see 6 below).
Our impact, both cultural and economic, on the city of Bath as a visitor       attraction is notable, involving Beckford Tower, Prior Park, The Thermae       Bath Spa and Southgate.
The total number of visitors to Bath and North       East Somerset each year is 4.5 million and the total tourism spend is just       under &#163;350million (source: Bath Tourism Plus: http://visitbath.co.uk/media/information-sheets/btp-and-tourism-industry).
In terms of its reach, this research has thus had notable public impact       not only geographically (through book sales and public lectures in the UK,       USA, France, Australia, Holland, and Italy) but also through the high       profile of the venues, events and exhibitions.
Carl Laubin, a leading       contemporary architectural artist, commented to Hart concerning the public       exhibition of Laubin's `Two Vanbrugh Capricci' at the Plus One Gallery,       London: "Your books on Hawksmoor and Vanbrugh were a great help to me"       (see 7 below).
