     The impact of this research lies in two principal areas, namely: the       establishment of architectural geometry as a recognised professional       specialism in both structural engineering and architectural practices; and       a direct and substantial contribution to the design of a series of       exemplary and influential buildings.
This was made possible in many cases       through a symbiotic relationship with Buro Happold (BH) initiated some 35       years ago by Ted Happold, then the Department's Professor of Engineering,       and there has been close cooperation with BH ever since &#8212; in research, and       just as importantly in its translation into challenging building projects.
Whilst the Department has benefitted from the recruitment of expert BH       staff with practical experience at all levels (including Harris and       Shepherd), BH have in turn according to a Senior Partner enjoyed "privileged         access" to our "world-class research".
This has been "a         significant factor in the firm's international growth and success.
The         novel structural analysis techniques developed at Bath have led to         significant consultancy on major landmark buildings."
He also       recognises "the valuable role of Bath in training future researchers"       [7].
In this way we have contributed directly to the UK economy.
The impact on Foster's office of Bath's work on the BMGC roof was such       that they immediately set about creating an in-house `specialist modelling       group' to develop their own expertise in using our research methods to       inform the more geometrically complex of their projects.
The Smithsonian       Institution (2004-7) is the most obvious beneficiary, designed and       engineered by the same team as the BMGC, and acknowledged on Foster's       website (http://www.fosterandpartners.com/projects/smithsonian-institution/)       as further developing the structural and environmental themes first       explored in the BMGC.
The idea of establishing a specialist geometry group       has now been taken up by most leading architectural and civil engineering       firms, for example Buro Happold SMART, Arup Advanced Geometry Unit (AGU),       Ramboll Computational Design Group (RCD), Zaha Hadid Architects       Computation and Design Group (CODE).
In particular, SMART was set up by       Shepherd to focus on applying Barnes' Dynamic Relaxation methods, and RCD       is staffed entirely of Bath research graduates, showing how our       innovations have changed the way the industry approaches the design of       complex geometric buildings.
Indeed, according to the Director of Design at Ramboll UK, "Since its         inception [in 2011], the RCD team have partaken in a number of projects         including Astana National Library (Kazakhstan), Tallinn Town Hall         (Estonia), Kreod Pavilion (UK), Belvedere Sculpture (USA) and Trada         Shell (UK), which would not have been possible without access to the         digital architecture-focussed research of Chris Williams and Paul         Shepherd" [8].
The group has been involved in the design of other significant buildings.
An early steel gridshell with which Williams and Barnes had involvement       was the Singapore Esplanade Theatres (Michael Wilford, 1997-2002) that has       been imitated by others during the REF period in Croatia (Dvorana       Kre&#353;imira &#262;osi&#263;a), Abu Dhabi (Yas Marina Hotel), Taiwan (Kaohsiung Marine       Gateway) and Frankfurt (Zeil Gridshell).
Williams's research into novel       analysis of forms was applied in 2006 to a further gridshell at Savill       Garden (Glen Howells, Buro Happold) [9], where he and Harris (then       Technical Director of Buro Happold, joining the Department in 2006)       combined the blended-equation surface technique used at the British Museum       with relaxation methods of grid-smoothing and analysis.
Indeed Williams       collaborated on the 2010 Gardens by the Bay gridshell (Wilkinson Eyre),       which won the WAF World Building of the Year award in 2012.
An independent       project to build a GFRP gridshell by Douthe of the Universite Paris-Est       specifically acknowledges use of the Barnes/Williams algorithms [10].
Williams has developed his Dynamic Relaxation methods further to produce       gridshell roofs composed entirely of planar polygons.
This is important       for glass roofs since the cost of curved glass is prohibitively high.
Williams applied this research as a consultant on the National Maritime       Museum in Amsterdam (Ney+Partners, 2011), a project which won several       architectural awards [11].
Williams provided consultancy for the design of the award-winning 2010       Aviva Stadium in Dublin, and supervised the PhD project that developed the       architectural parametric design of the fa&#231;ade.
A parallel role on the       engineering side was played by Shepherd (initially at BH but then at Bath       and jointly supervising the PhD student).
The parametric methodology they       developed allowed the structural and cladding models to adapt quickly to       late changes in the overall geometry of the building, preventing the       prohibitively expensive rework associated with traditional design.
This       was the first time that a single model embracing both structure and skin       had been shared between architect and engineer [12].
A further example of research directly impacting on industry through a       particular building is the 2012 Aarhus Botanical Garden Hothouse in       Denmark.
Research software based on subdivision surfaces developed by       Shepherd was used (with architects C. F. Moller) to design and optimise       the design-competition winning building completed in summer 2013, which       was shortlisted for two IStructE Structural Awards [6].
The most striking buildings to benefit directly from the group's research       into form-finding and analysis are undoubtedly the timber gridshells,       which have about one-sixth the CO2 cost of an equivalent steel       structure.
Prior to this research, expensive physical models and       full-scale load tests had to be performed (as occurred at Mannheim) to       give confidence in the design, and rectification of any problems at such a       late stage was costly.
The computational methods developed at Bath reduced       this risk and have been important in a number of projects where the       influence of our research is directly traceable in terms of knowledge       transfer.
These include Chiddingstone Castle (2007), the Savill Garden       building (which won the IStructE Supreme Award in 2007 [9]), and, during       the REF period, Scunthorpe Leisure Centre (2011).
The last building was       designed by BH's in-house SMART group (originally set up by Shepherd),       which has employed many Bath graduate students and is currently sponsoring       one of our EngDs.
Apart from direct involvement in consultancy, the Bath group has another       major pathway by which its research impacts on industry and wider society,       namely through education.
Finding sufficiently skilled staff for such       specialist modelling groups within consulting has been a challenge since       they first started to appear on the back of the BMGC roof project.
To help       resolve this through CPD, Richens was among the founders of the Smart       Geometry movement, which today runs annual intensive workshops around the       world.
Williams has been a tutor since the inaugural meeting in Cambridge       (2003), and several research students have made substantial contributions       as teachers at public workshops in New York (2007), Munich (2008), San       Francisco (2009), Barcelona (2010), Copenhagen (2011), Troy (2012), as       well as private ones in the offices of leading architects (such as HOK       Sport, 2007; Ian Simpson Architects, 2008) and engineers (such as Whitby       Bird, 2007; Atkins, 2012).
In 2009 Richens, Shepherd and Williams launched the Digital       Architectonics MPhil Research programme at Bath, which gives architects       and engineers in- depth exposure to the research methods developed by the       group, and guides them in developing their own in practice.
Students have       been sponsored by several leading firms (BH, Arup, Ramboll, Schlaich       Bergermann &amp; Partners), taking approaches pioneered at Bath back into       practice, as evidenced by their subsequent publications [13-15].
These       training enterprises, and a steady flow of PhD and EngD students into the       professions has been a major route of dissemination of the philosophy,       methods and results of the group, and has had a significant role in       establishing the new sub-discipline of architectural geometry.
The breadth       of influence is demonstrated by the firms which have employed our students       since 2008: Arup (2), Buro Happold (2), Fosters (1), Schlaich Bergermann       &amp; Partners (1) and overseas universities (2).
Indeed in 2011 in a       scenario reminiscent of Fosters back in 2000, Ramboll set up a new       Computational Design group, staffed entirely by postgraduate research       engineers from the group, their first prize being for the demountable       timber Kreod Pavilion (Chun Qing Li) which won Best Temporary Structure at       the Surface Design Awards 2013.
