     Research at the University of Bath demonstrating that emotion exerts a       powerful influence on brand choice has benefited advertising practice       through the development of a new market research tool.
The research has       challenged conventional wisdom on the measurement of emotional responses       to advertising.
It has delivered benefits to companies through the       development and implementation of a new product and through the       enhancement of professional and corporate practice.
The development of       scales that quantify the power of emotive content in advertising, or the       extent to which the emotion in advertising is perceived as being       influential, means that companies are now able to assess advertising's       potential to trigger meaningful brand associations using quantitative       tools.
By demonstrating that the emotive content in advertising is the       primary driver of brand relationships and developing robust scales for use       in pre-test advertising, Bath researchers have given marketing       professionals a new and effective tool with which to measure and manage       the emotive content in advertising.
Multinational companies have used this       tool to improve the ability of their advertising to build a strong brand.
Two examples of advertisements that were evaluated using the CEP&#174;Test are       included in the sources to corroborate section (source 1).
There have been significant benefits from this research for companies       during the REF period 2008-14:     (1) Distinctiveness and predictive value: Companies now have a       way of measuring the likely effect of emotion on favourability towards       their brand.
For example, a company can take two advertisements, identify       which has more effective emotive content, and thereby create an accurate       prediction of favourability and a more informed choice of advertisement.
The Director of the OTX Marketing Insights Team has described the CEP&#174;Test       as `a unique and innovative point of difference that was well received by       many clients' (source 2).
(2) Effectiveness of the measure: The tool that was developed       from this research has improved the ability of companies to build strong       brands.
The specific benefit of this is that a marketing company can now       tailor its advertising to the ability to communicate emotion and therefore       to build brand favourability.
The Senior Research Manager at Ipsos has       confirmed the importance of the CEP&#174;Test not only as a way `to optimise       our client's advertising, but in some cases was the deciding factor on       which campaigns to move forward with' (source 3).
(3) Strategic importance: The ability to pre-test advertisements       and to select from among competing ads those which score highest on the       emotional response scale has put marketing budgets to more strategic use       as a driver of brand growth and loyalty.
The Managing Director of OTX       Europe has confirmed that the implementation of the CEP&#174;Test has       influenced brand strategy, citing T-Mobile as an example (source 4).
(4) Broader impact: The research findings have important       implications for regulators, especially in understanding and monitoring       the influence of advertising in restricted categories such as alcohol,       cigarettes and fast food.
As the benefits of the tool have become apparent, its reach and       significance has developed.
The number of companies across the globe now       using the test provides evidence of the reach of the research (source 5).
Following its introduction, two of the world's biggest and most successful       marketing companies, Kraft and Procter &amp; Gamble, made use of the       CEP&#174;Test.
Other early clients included Nestl&#233;, Wal-Mart, Tropicana       (PepsiCo), Nokia, Burger King, General Motors, Ford Europe, and Quaker.
In       its first year of use (2006), 356 advertisements were tested.
The       following year 572 ads were tested with major marketers such as Unilever,       Lee Jeans, Xbox, Microsoft, Kelloggs, and Sarah Lee.
In 2008, the number       of ads tested increased to 711, with Diageo, SC Johnson, Safeway, Disney,       Warner Brothers Studios, Campbells, Citibank, T-Mobile, and O2 among the       multinationals that were added to the client list.
By this stage the       CEP&#174;Test was being used in 16 countries.
In 2009, a total of 954 ads were       tested.
New clients included the BBC, Kimberley Clark, HSBC Bank, Del       Monte, Walgreen's Pharmacies, Johnson &amp; Johnson and Starbucks.
In       2010, the number of ads tested rose to 1577.
By 2011, 30 Global Fortune 500 Companies were using the CEP&#174;Test and its       Emotive Power measure to test their advertising.
In addition, 42% of the       Advertising Age Top 100 Global Marketing Companies were using the test.
In       2011 the biggest advertising pre-testing company in the world, Ipsos ASI,       acquired OTX.
The CEP&#174;Test and the Emotive Power metric are now       incorporated into some 10,000 advertising tests worldwide each year.
A       document of evidence that lists the wide range of international companies       who have used and reused the test during the REF period is provided as       part of this case submission (source 5).
