     The benefits of this research for HMRC arose from the data collection and       analysis completed within this organization; and from their involvement in       a consortium where sensitive and confidential data could be discussed       within a group of organizations that faced similar challenges.
Significant       improvements in workplace practices can be linked to the research (source       2).
Specifically, HMRC benefitted from a prolonged and independent assessment       of their capability of managing change in a way that engaged employees.
This was important because the research identified common problems across       different divisions of the organization and provided HMRC with different       models of change (source 1).
The research transformed thinking about       strategic change in HMRC by helping managers to move from a model based on       alignment with management requirements (referred to within the       organization as "policing" change).
A new model was introduced based on       the understanding from the research that organizational members wanted a       change process that could be described in practical terms, with milestones       in place, and in language they could understand.
HMRC also benefitted from       being able to compare themselves with other CMC member organizations in       order to draw broader conclusions about the importance of employee       engagement in strategic change.
The impact of the research can be seen in the way in which HMRC has       transformed their understanding of and approach to large-scale change       (sources 2 and 7).
This is evidenced through researchers' tracking of       improvements in staff engagement survey results over the last 5 years       (2008-13).
More specifically in HMRC:     (1) Since 2008, the research has instigated a process offering       opportunities for managers to receive staff feedback.
For example,       community forum web pages were established as a way of more visibly       reviewing areas of policy or practice that had faced criticism from the       front line (source 2).
(2) As a result of the Bath research (reference 4), HMRC have grown their       communications capability to explain change more effectively.
Since 2010       more clarity has been provided around the future of local offices and they       have streamlined the processes for redeploying people.
In a major       restructuring and delayering of management during 2011/12, HMRC focused on       re-defining specific roles, particularly emphasising leadership and       engagement obligations on all senior managers (source 2).
(3) Conversations were held with over 1,000 managers to discuss how       working across levels could be improved.
This helped senior management to       support improvements in employee engagement while still focusing on the       issues originally identified by the research.
(4) The Executive/ Directors' team have greatly improved communication       and visibility (source 2).
Survey results show that they are now seen to       be listening and taking action on areas of difficulty (source 3).
Front       line managers now have more opportunity and legitimacy to develop change       solutions with more attention on local initiatives (source 3).
HMRC is one case illustration of the significance and reach of the CMC.
The Directors who sponsored the CMC were responsible in total for around       150,000 employees.
All members made adjustments to their change practices       as a result of the research conducted within their own organisations and       their learning from others (e.g.
sources 4 and 5).
In the DVD provided       (source 6), Directors involved talk about the impact of the Consortium's       work on their practice.
Results from the CMC led to Professor Hope Hailey       becoming an expert contributor to the Labour Government's Task Force       report on Employee Engagement.
She is currently the only academic member       of the Coalition Government's second Task Force on Employee Engagement       (Source 8).
The research led to a request from the CIPD to write a report       on trust repair (source 3) looking at trust maintenance and repair within       14 organisations representing over 750,000 employees.
Hope Hailey has now       been commissioned to provide a report funded by the CIPD and HEIF on       "Creating Trustworthy Leaders".
The work on change and engagement with the       consortium has led to funding from the Society of Human Resource Managers       (USA) to conduct a comparative study on employee engagement in India,       China, the UK and The Netherlands.
In 2013, HMRC requested another survey       and interviews in order to be able to assess progress on a longitudinal       basis.
