     The research undertaken by members of WERC has improved the relationship       between employee       commitment and work practices that necessarily cut across organizational       boundaries.
It has       informed the development of new approaches within AMS that have improved       the effectiveness of       practices for multi-party working.
A changed approach to the management of       human resources in       AMS has resulted in enhanced employee commitment and an increase in       internal promotions.
The research in AMS is a demonstration of the importance of academic/       practitioner collaboration,       and of the relevance and benefit to companies of applied human resource       management research.
AMS "have benefitted immensely from our long running association with the       research team from       the School of Management at Bath.
They have not only provided the data       essential to prompting       our changes and then monitoring their impact but they have also provided       an intellectual stimulus       to myself and my team" (source 2 &#8212; Chief People Officer).
In addition, the       research "has provided       vital information which has underpinned our strategic decision making and       helped us to identify       appropriate changes and innovations which have delivered tangible business       benefits" (source 3 &#8212; Global       Head of Human Resources).
The beneficial impact of the findings of the University of Bath research       for AMS can be highlighted       particularly in relation to two key HR dimensions: employee commitment and       professional and       career development.
Employee commitment: As a result of the Bath research, AMS has       developed new work       processes that make a stronger link between multi party commitment and       business performance.
These included: (1) significant enhancement of the corporate induction       process to include issues       that are likely to arise from multi party commitment (source 4); (2)       introduction of `The Hub', a       company wide, on-line repository designed to improve employees' access to       people and       organisational information.
For employees based on the clients' sites,       this has improved their ability       to remain in contact with the company (source 4).
AMS has recognised that       a key component of       the improvement in employee commitment to multi parties depends on how the       organisation's       leaders communicate with staff.
For example, members of the company       Leadership Team visited       over 400 employees on client sites in 2010; the PP survey results were       published in `The Point', a       printed in-house magazine and `CheckPoint', a series of Leadership Team       video webcasts       available to all employees.
Improved guidance was provided to senior       managers when managing       communications (sources 5 &amp; 6).
These benefits and changes in the company in terms of employee commitment       can be evidenced       through measures of employee attitudes and behaviours from the PP survey       and other internal       data (source 8).
Employee commitment (scale 1-7) has increased from 4.93       (2009) to 5.38 (2011),       a 9% improvement.
Employees' intention to quit has been reduced from 3.20       (2009) to 2.94       (2011), an 8% reduction.
A better understanding of the relationship       between commitment and       boundary spanning behaviour has resulted in: stronger employee commitment,       higher numbers of       internal promotions and transfers, leading to greater stability and       knowledge retention.
The       changes AMS have made are significant in their support of growth.
Between       January 2010 and       February 2011 the company increased their staffing by around 50% (source       2).
The success of       AMS during this period contributed to the company winning the `Baker's       Dozen' award &#8212; the main       accreditation award for HR outsourcing.
Professional and career development: As a result of the Bath       research, AMS has developed       new work processes to more effectively support employees' professional and       career development       needs.
In particular, the research has led to improvements in the approach       taken towards       managers with 3-4 years' experience, who were identified as having unmet       training and       development needs.
The company has invested in professional development as       a result of       evidence from the research, which showed that improved opportunities for       personal development       are positively related to willingness to stay.
AMS have increased       technical and soft skills training by       15%; they have increased management development programmes by 45%,       especially in the areas       of performance management and coaching.
AMS initiated a Leadership       Academy, which 60 senior       managers have attended (source 7).
The company has improved the agility of       its HR processes in       response to employee and manager feedback on boundary spanning problems       and issues,       allowing localised promotion decisions and performance management       decisions within accounts       and functions (source 2 and 7).
The benefits and changes in the company in terms of professional and       career development can be       evidenced from PP and other internal data (source 2).
The proportion of       the workforce promoted       internally rose from 10% to 15%.
AMS employees have experienced an       increased ability to move       positions across boundaries within AMS and to improve skill development.
This has led to 240       internal moves in 2010.
The success of these changes was confirmed when       AMS gained industry       recognition as the recipient of an Investors in People Bronze Award and       the Polish Investors in       Human Capital Award (source 7).
A recent (2013) CIPD publication on       employee commitment and       behavioural change (source 9) has extended the reach of the research       beyond AMS and provided       a model of good practice for other professional service firms.
