     Since 1999, this research has helped to change the ways in which the       automotive industry thinks about the production of cars.
At that time,       built-to-order was a challenge to the conventional wisdom of the       manufacturing process.
In the past fifteen years a series of well-funded       UK and European research projects, involving academics from the University       of Bath, have helped this way of thinking to become established as an       industry norm.
Bath research has contributed to specific aspects of       intelligent logistics in practice and has informed ongoing developments in       the processes that underpin intelligent logistics.
Bath research has       contributed to improved profitability through the dissemination of       insights into lean production strategies.
BTO has helped to decrease waste       through processes designed to reduce `inventory'.
Research at Bath       continues to support the development of innovation and growth strategies       and to provide recommendations to both industry and government.
For       example:     (1) Profitability: As a result of sharing research findings on       intelligent logistics, vehicle manufacturers, suppliers, industry trade       associations and government bodies, original equipment manufacturers       (OEMs) and suppliers have coordinated changes to support a leaner, smarter       BTO production strategy built on an improved and more flexible automotive       component supply chain across Europe and "profoundly affected the car       ordering and manufacturing system" (Member of the European Parliament,       source 1).
A specific example of how Bath research has contributed to this       is in the development of `spaceframe' technologies, designed to increase       model variety and reduce delivery times.
Manufacturers have used these       technologies to highlight changes to core industry configurations (source       1).
Through their application of the BTO approach, manufacturers have been       able to see "improvement in productivity and increased profit margins       which have been reinvested in new technologies, materials, working methods       and outsourcing strategies as defined by Professor Graves' research"       (Strategy Director, Morgan Technologies, source 2).
(2) Disseminating the BTO Approach: Several major manufacturers       have BTO initiatives in place, which underscores the degree to which       industry leaders are committed to implementing the research findings.
These include: BMW, DaimlerChrysler, Siemens, ThyssenKrupp Automotive, TRW       Automotive, Dana Corporation and Hella Autotechnik.
BMW's Internal       Consulting Division requested copies of `Build To Order: The Road to the       5DayCar' (reference 1) and continue to develop BTO expertise as a       potential core competency.
Bi-Monthly research workshops were hosted by       partnering companies around Europe, such as ThyssenKrupp, CLEPA (European       Association of Automotive Suppliers) and VDI/VDE-IT at which Bath       academics disseminated the research.
The CEO of CLEPA has said that that       "the Road to the 5DayCar Bath research provides us with a vision of a       sustainable future" (source 5).
The EU's Information, Society and       Technologies (ICT) web pages highlight the 5DayCar as `high impact ICT       research' with `results that lead the way' (source 3).
The project's final       public event took place in February 2009 where research findings, posters       and a production line simulation were featured at AutoWorld in Brussels.
The Bath research was covered extensively in the automotive press, both in       Europe and the USA (source 6).
(3) Innovation: In April 2008, the Director of LARG (Prof.       Graves) was invited to become a member of the New Automotive Innovation       and Growth Team (NAIGT).
This industry-led project was launched to develop       a collective strategic view from the automotive industry highlighting the       innovation and growth challenges it faces in the years ahead.
(Members of       NAIGT include representatives from BMW, BERR, Bosch, GKN, JCB, Nissan,       Jaguar/ Land-Rover, RMSG, Ricardo, SMMT, the Technology Strategy Board,       the Universities of Bath, the University of Cambridge, and automotive       consultants).
The NAIGT's report, along with a study examining the       competitive status of the UK automotive industry, has been instrumental in       shaping a vision for the automotive industry and specific recommendations       to Government and industry to achieve this (source 4).
In 2009, Professor       Graves was asked to participate in the Gordon Murray Design Ltd. (GMD)       project for a new prototype electric sports car, the TEEWAVE &#8212; T27.
This       project harnesses innovative production methods, using `iStream       technology' to enable a car's powertrain and all major components to be       fitted directly onto the chassis prior to fitting the body panels and then       being delivered to the end of the line.
"The revolutionary manufacturing       system (iStream) totally changes the economies of scale and cost base of       producing cars and was a key finding of the 3/5 Day Car Programme"       (Chairman of GMD, source 5).
This project has attracted a &#163;4.5m       development grant from the Technology Strategy Board and demonstrates the       continuing importance of the Bath research in this area (source 5).
