     University of Bath research in the area of strategic purchasing and       supply has changed procurement processes, practices and policy within the       NHS.
The research has informed a move away from disconnected practices       across procurement agencies, hospital procurement teams, clinicians and       hospital administrators, to practices based on collaboration in       inter-organization networks of multiple stakeholders.
The research has       challenged conventional wisdom on procurement and supply in the NHS and,       over time, has had significant effects on the efficiency and       cost-effectiveness of services to the public.
The Executive Director of the Health Care Supply Association has said       that the "joint applied research on formulating and implementing supply       strategies across all areas of NHS spend on goods and services yielded       savings and improved approaches to managing supply markets" (source 1).
More generally, the research has informed changes to the delivery of NHS       services to the public and helped to influence government policy.
The       former Director of Procurement Policy in the Department of Health comments       that "the research contributed to that change from a previously fragmented       system to a more strategic, centralised approach" (source 2).
The reach and significance of this research can be demonstrated through       evidence relating to: (1) the impact of the research in the example of NHS       Audiology Services; (2) broader changes in the procurement of goods and       services in the NHS across all other categories of spend; and (3) how the       benefits emerging from these broader changes influenced government policy       and practice.
Reach and significance has evolved: from the application of       new knowledge in strategic procurement, to broader changes in practice       within the NHS as a whole, to influencing government policy and practice.
(1) Audiology Services: Representing 24% of the total disabled       population, hearing impairment is the second most common disability in the       UK, after mobility, affecting 8.7 million people, 55% of whom are over the       age of 60.
Prior to the public procurement strategy changes prompted by       this research, up to 450,000 NHS patients used to be prescribed highly       visible, behind-the-ear analogue hearing aids, first patented in the       1930s, even though digital devices patented in the mid-1980s were widely       used elsewhere.
Because analogue aids amplify all sound, produce feedback       and provide little control besides volume, up to 25% of analogue users do       not wear them, even though they receive the benefit of a free service.
On       the other hand, digital hearing aids can be customised to suit the user       and selectively adjusted for environmental noise.
This dramatically       increases the likelihood that individuals will use them.
Although the technology gap between the public and private sector was       increasing, as was the benefits gap between the digital `haves' and       `have-nots', the NHS could not afford to close this gap at existing market       prices.
Private-sector companies provided around 167,000 digital hearing       aids each year to those who could afford &#163;1750 - &#163;2500 for supply and fit,       resulting in wealthier patients benefitting from the technology, but at a       price.
Based on a previous investment of around &#163;100 million for 450,000       analogue units per year, averaging &#163;222 per patient per year, it was       difficult to see how the NHS could afford the additional costs of going       digital.
Working with the audiology team of the NHS Purchasing and Supply Agency       (PASA), Bath researchers led the coming together of key stakeholders,       including RNID, the Department of Health, the Medical Research Council and       the Institute of Hearing Research, along with clinicians and patient       groups and the various, disconnected purchasing points across the NHS       system.
Conceptual frameworks from research (references 1, 2 and 5) were       used to inform and facilitate the process of helping the NHS PASA       audiology team to develop new links and structures to implement a       strategic, collaborative approach to procurement across this system.
Using       this approach, the NHS was able to negotiate a framework contract and       supply over 260,000 digital hearing aids at a reduced cost of &#163;60 per       unit.
As well as providing these free to patients and standardising on       behind-the-ear digital models, the NHS succeeded in lowering the market       price and saving &#163;45.5 million annually in total service costs (source 3).
In recognition of this achievement, the NHS PASA Audiology team won the       Team Award at the Government Opportunities Awards for Excellence in Public       Procurement.
The judges said that by working with RNID, the Audiology team       had "developed an innovative supply strategy which can be used in other       areas".
Reflecting on the research partnership with the University of       Bath, the Senior Advisor to the All-Party Health Group (and former CEO of       the NHS Purchasing and Supply Agency) has said that the strategic approach       developed with Bath made it "possible to be highly influentual in altering       practice and delivering substantial patient benefits and measurable       savings...
In audiology these were evidenced as saving &#163;252 million on the       purchase price of hearing aids and &#163;45.5 milllion annually on audiology       service costs" (source 3).
(2) Changes in Procurement in the NHS: Working in partnership       with CRiSPS, the NHS Purchasing and Supply Agency expanded on the success       of Audiology Services to craft `Developing Supply Strategy' as a means of       rethinking the organisation's procurement of goods and services, worth &#163;18       billion annually.
Teams of NHS buyers were educated through an MBA       accredited module to utilise this approach to analyse their existing       supply situation, develop scenarios offering better value-for-money       provision, make strategic choices, implement changes and evidence benefits       (source 1).
Estimates are that up to &#163;500 million in annual savings has       been achieved across the NHS as a result (sources 4 and 5).
This body of       research and implementation has influenced other healthcare organisations       that have been challenged to rethink their approach to procurement.
Other       services that have been transformed as a result of the research include:       prosthetics, diagnostic medical equipment and orthopaedics.
(3) Broader influences of the research: Members of CRiSPS were       part of the Healthcare Industries Task Force (HITF) organised by the       Association of British Healthcare Industries and the Department of Health,       to examine the difficulties of introducing new technologies into the UK.
The final report of the task force, `Better Health Through Partnership'       concluded that, based on the experience in the NHS, partnership between       government and the private sector improves the uptake of innovation.
In       support of these conclusions, University of Bath research has been       influential in shaping methodologies designed to enable smaller businesses       to engage more effectively with the NHS and to reduce the timescales       needed to evaluate medical devices (source 5).
Insights from University of       Bath researchers about the value of innovation and leveraging network       resources for positive benefits have informed changes in the Department of       Health's Commercial Strategy (source 1).
