     Researchers at Bath have had significant impacts on reducing the burden       of injuries and illnesses in both sport and military training       environments.
These impacts include knowledge transfer and engagement with       key stakeholder groups (e.g.
practitioners), as well as changes to policy,       practice and outcomes with regards to personnel/player welfare.
Although       wider research dissemination is relatively recent, our stakeholders have       acted immediately based on the conclusions and recommendations submitted       in earlier reports, often long before journal publications.
Musculoskeletal Injuries in Military Training.
Based on our analysis of British Army Parachute Regiment training [1] the       Ministry of Defence implemented (i) evidence-based physical selection       criteria, (ii) a 2-week increase in training duration and (iii) the       introduction of a 1000 kcal per day nutritional training supplement in       (High Activity Training Supplement (HATS), implemented by Defence Food       Services Agency (DFSA) in 2008) [7].
This intervention has resulted in an       increase in recruit success rates during Parachute Regiment training (from       43 to 58%) and a substantial reduction of all-cause medical discharge       incidence during training from 14 to 5% [8].
The decision to implement       this intervention across all three military services was not taken lightly       by the MOD (the cost of implementation is ~&#163;2.5 million per annum).
Furthermore, the nutritional supplement component has now been implemented       throughout all military initial training, thus benefiting approximately       20,000 trainees per year, or 80,000 trainees since inception in 2009 [7].
Early findings were disseminated to practitioners at the Occupational       &amp; Environmental Medicine Conference in November 2008 [8] and more       complete analyses to the Military Rehabilitation Conference at the ExCel       in London in November 2010 [9].
Whilst the initial research was focussed       on Parachute Regiment trainees, it has been used more generally to inform       wider British Army training policy and practices &#8212; for example, via the       implementation of physical selection standards and more progressive       training regimens throughout the army [10].
Our orthotic insole       intervention research with Royal Navy Officer Cadet trainees has also       resulted in a 50% reduction in time-loss lower limb injuries among       trainees [3], and has been implemented across the Royal Navy, affecting       some 3000 trainees per annum.
It has also been used to inform and direct       related British Army research, leading to the implementation of a related       training risk reduction model [11].
As a result of research and expertise       in this area, Dr Bilzon was appointed by the Director General Army Medical       Services to act as Honorary Civilian Consultant Advisor in Sport &amp;       Exercise Science in January 2012.
Based on conservative estimates from       British Army training alone, a health economist has estimated that,       collectively, this research into musculoskeletal injuries in the military       has contributed directly to an annual training delivery cost-saving of &#163;49       million associated with training completion rates and an additional &#163;13.5       million saving associated with a reduction in injury incidence since 2009       [10].
Exertional Heat Illness in military training.
A primary outcome from this research was that the incidence of exertional       heat illness was relatively high, ranging from 5-10% across the training       events monitored [4], affecting approximately 500 trainees per year.
Furthermore, casualties were not being appropriately diagnosed and       treated.
Our demonstration that all casualties had core body temperatures       &gt;39.502daC has heightened awareness of the gravity of the issue and led       to immediate changes in Army Recruiting &amp; Training Division medical       guidance to training establishments on the prevention and treatment for       heat-related illnesses.
This included the use of the Glasgow Coma Scale to       monitor levels of consciousness and reporting to the medical centre for       clinical observation.
This research was presented to the Army Recruiting       &amp; Training Division Research Working Group in 2010 and recommendations       incorporated into MOD-wide policy and medical research strategy.
Our       research has therefore contributed directly to changes in trainee       healthcare policy, whereby all suspected heat illness cases will be       referred to the medical centre for monitoring and observation in a       controlled environment.
This has and will continue to reduce the risk of       relapse and secondary complications among ~12,000 otherwise healthy       British Army trainees per annum [10].
Musculoskeletal Injuries in Sport &#8212; impact from injury surveillance         research.
The long-term injury surveillance research programmes from Bath that are       in place across the whole array of Rugby Union, from youth to premiership       rugby, have generated specific recommendations that are being used by the       RFU across all levels of rugby in their medical safety policy and have       been embedded into RFU coaching courses such as `Rugby Ready' since 2010       [12].
Over 10,000 adults per year undertake the `Rugby Ready' coaching       course alone [12].
The implications and messages from our research are       disseminated by annual [13] and game-wide reports [14], user group       meetings, RFU-assisted dissemination to players and coaches, and       presentations by RFU medical directors to the International Rugby Board       annual medical conferences (to which representatives from all 100 member       unions and 17 associate member unions are invited).
Recommendations       regarding player technique, design of training and competition schedule to       reduce injuries in youth rugby have been disseminated to &gt;3000 schools,       elite rugby academies and teams in the RFU club network.
As a result of       expertise in this area, Dr Keith Stokes was appointed as the Sports       Science Advisor to the RFU Medical and Sports Science Advisory Group in       February 2013 and Drs Stokes and Trewartha were appointed to the IRB Scrum       Steering Group in 2010 [15].
Further, from September 2013, the RFU have       commissioned Bath to deliver an injury prevention programme to schools       players based on our findings in youth rugby.
Musculoskeletal Injuries in Sport &#8212; impact from mechanistic         intervention trials.
Our epidemiological findings that the scrum represents a disproportionate       source of acute injuries led to a specific and large international       programme on the biomechanics of scrummaging, which involved "an         extensive process of testing and analysis at all levels of the Game         within the unprecedented IRB funded Scrum Forces Project run by the         University of Bath in conjunction with the RFU" [15] and in       May 2013 the IRB announced a global game-wide trial of new Laws for a       modified scrum engagement sequence underpinned by our research [15].
Independently, our research has been highlighted and utilised by the South       African Rugby Union in changing scrum laws at youth and community levels       [16].
Overall, the greater awareness of the injury problem and strategies       for injury prevention is now the subject of an international IRB-hosted       Rugby Science Network, which is edited and run by Bath-based scientists       [17].
The website provides an interactive discussion forum for over 600       active practitioners and researchers and over 2300 twitter followers       around the world.
