     The Object Theatre Network meetings in December 2011 and September 2012       have had an       impact through influencing the methods and understanding of theatre       practitioners and industry       professionals, generating new ways of thinking that have changed their       creative practice.
They       also provided opportunities for industry trainees and their teachers to       reflect on and develop their       performance practices.
Supporting evidence is highlighted in section 5,       and includes confirmation       from professionals of the adjustments made to their practice.
The first Network event, `Foundations of Object Theatre', resulted in       changes to the practices of a       number of practitioners and industry professionals.
These included Object       Theatre practitioners;       puppeteers, writers, actors and choreographers; and those involved in       design, curation and arts       management [5.1].
The Design and Display Projects Manager at       Nottingham City Council, for       example, has confirmed the influence on opportunities for visitor       interaction at his institution,       reporting that the workshop `had considerable impact on [his] work at       Nottingham City Museums &amp;       Galleries', and has influenced new plans for the museum's use of objects [5.2].
Watt's research, as referred to in sections 2 and 3, underpinned the       discussion sessions that were       integral to that event, when questions that lie at its heart were used to       structure group discussions;       groups were guided to explore wider theoretical issues concerning puppets,       objects and       performance.
Questions addressed included: what is an object?
; can we       distinguish a puppet from       an object&#8212;is a puppet always figurative?
; how do mechanical and digital       objects differ?
; are       natural materials important in object theatre?
; what is the relationship       between object/person/       space?
; how does memory affect the meaning of an object on stage?
; how       might this be different       for the audience and practitioner?
; how is language used in object       theatre?
; what cultural       differences might there be in object theatre?
; what roles do gender and       heteronormativity play in       object theatre?
; do we need a definition of object theatre?
[5.3].
In addition, Loughborough University's Arts Centre, RADAR, organised an       event in March 2012,       which examined the object as both puppet and installation material [5.4].
This extended the reach       of the Network's impact by opening the debate to other arts professionals       and members of the       public who had not attended the other events, totalling over 130       participants [5.5].
One of the clear outcomes of the first event was its exploration of a       divide between a mode of       object manipulation that is focused on a form of storytelling, where the       object becomes a character,       and that in which the properties of the object drive the performance to       develop its aesthetic, either       in opposition to this, or to enhance it.
This understanding, drawn       directly from Watt's work on       Kantor and objects, offered much for the actors working in the workshop,       but also for those writers       involved, who saw different modes by which objects might `speak' rather       than simply be used to       `tell' a tale.
As a blogger after the RADAR Arts event summarised, `Radar       helped me realise       objects and puppets are more than mere props' [5.6].
The meetings' consideration of the manifold political contexts of object       theatre also had an impact       on the work of performers.
The use of detritus and rubbish is particularly       important in object       theatre, and the practitioner leading a workshop on this matter has       written that he has since drawn       on what he explored at the event when working with school-teachers in his       village in Indonesia       [5.7].
This directly relates to what Watt terms the `abject       object', a degraded material whose use       value is refracted negatively back upon the audience during performance       (in the case of the       performers at the first network event, this is waste material such as       carrier bags, plastic bottles       etc.
; in the case of the second, this is the articulation of the object as       death, relating directly to       Kantorian theories).
The Winter 2012-13 number of the key journal used by puppeteers, Puppet         Notebook, refers to the       Network events from 2011-12 as having provided `high hopes' about       developments in their       profession [5.8, p. 2].
Many of the contributors to this journal       number were participants at the       network events, and their articles draw on those events directly.
The research has also caused a change in the learning experience of       students at the Central       School of Drama, because professionals who combine teaching there with       their own practice       attended the network events, bringing students with them.
One such teacher       commented of her       students' experience of the events that the equitable format used `built       the confidence of the       students taking part', and that it was `really valuable for them to       experience' [5.9].
