     The research has (a) influenced the methods, ideas and ethics of       individuals and organisations in       the Law Enforcement sector and shaped the manner in which this has been       portrayed through the       media; and (b) provided a source of expert advice to governments (via Law       Enforcement agencies)       and the Private Sector in the UK and internationally, thereby influencing       policy and practice.
In terms of direct impact, this research has:     (1) Impacted on private sector organisations' working in Law Enforcement       internationally by       changing perceptions of the geographical spread of the Camorra and by       raising awareness of its       increasing presence beyond Europe (D)     (2) Impacted on public sector Law Enforcement agencies in the UK and       abroad with regard to       awareness of (a) the breadth of intelligence that multi-national companies       hold on material crucial       to understanding to the spread of organised crime (see Reference 4); (b)       the role of `white collar       facilitators' in international organised crime (E)     (3) Raised awareness of the importance of inter-agency co-operation,       including between the Public       and Private sectors (D)     (4) Raised awareness about Italian organised crime groups among Home       Office officials to inform       their strategic approaches to tackling organised crime in the UK.
(5) Contributed to the European Parliament's internal policy document on       combatting organised       crime/terrorism in the European Union which will be used as a basis for       MEPs to develop       legislation     (1) Allum initiated and organised two Knowledge Transfer funded seminars       on the topics of 'Italian         Mafias in the UK' (14 May 2012) and `Getting to the cash?
A         Comparative Discussion on         confiscation legislation: is a common framework possible?'
(14       September 2012).
She invited       representatives from the Home Office, British Law Enforcement agencies       (for example, Thames       Valley Police, The Metropolitan Police, The Greater Manchester       Constabulary, Association of Chief       Police Officers, Serious and Organised Crime Agency, The Financial Conduct       Authority -FCA-),       Italian Law Enforcement agencies (The Anti-Mafia Prosecution Bureau &#8212; DDA,       Naples, la Guardia       Di Finanza, London), Private companies (BAT) and associations (British       Bankers Association).
There was a clear debate and engagement around the threat of Italian       organised crime groups in       the UK and this has informed delivery of services: 'I have found Felia       Allum's research of great       interest as it has shown how Crime Groups that are normally considered to       be European based       are now actively involved in Organised Crime in different continents.
This       will help my decision       making process when conducting my analysis and producing my conclusion &#8212;       is this an indigenous       Crime Group from Bolivia or Colombia or are the characteristics that of an       Italian, or other foreign       based, Crime Group?'
(C).
(2) She was invited by the Metropolitan police to present her research at       the Metropolitan Police's       London Regional Confidential Unit 's away day (14/3/13).
This research       informed and will influence       their policing practice: 'Allum's research 'inform[ed] the way we look at       these groups which should       encourage us to include the white collar facilitators as well as the       criminal       fraternity' (D).
(3) She has had regular meetings with representatives from different law       enforcement agencies       (for example, Thames Valley Police, Italian Financial Police, Antimafia       police (DIA, Rome) and       Naples Prosecution service) to discuss her on-going research and its       implications for them.
To       summarise, the interaction and dialogue with law enforcement agencies has       been an on-going two       way process in this research.
It benefited both partners as it informed       the research and provided       new insights for them.
As a top Italian Antimafia police officer noted:       Allum's 'analysis and       published work are enhancing our understanding of these evolving       phenomena.
[...] Some       outcomes and ideas steaming from [her] research are eligible to be taken       into account for such       preparatory works [forthcoming Italian presidency of the Council of the       European Union, sem 2,       2014] ....
Practitioners can clearly learn from [her] findings'.
(E)     (4) She was interviewed for the Journal Police Professional in an       article entitled 'Territorial       challenges' (Feb 28, 2013) to explain her research.
Police practitioners       read this journal across the       43 British constabularies (6,000 printed copies).
(5) She participated in a private roundtable, organised by the Royal       United Services Institute,       London (24/5/13) and discussed the 'Strategic Approaches to Organised         crime' as they assist the       Home Office in reviewing their approach to tackling organised crime.
(6) She contributed to the European Parliament's study on 'Europe's         Crime-Terror Nexus: Links         between terrorist and organised crime groups in the EU' (Directorate       General for Internal Policies       Policy department C: Citizens' rights and Home Affairs, December 2012,       PE462.
503), which       underpins the European Parliament's internal policy on terrorism in the       EU.
In terms of public engagement, this research has:     (1) Changed perceptions of the historical nature of the Camorra's link       with Naples (A)     (2) Changed perceptions of the underlying drivers of organised crime in       Italy (B)     (3) Provided educational materials ('Il crimine organizzato a napoli'       (Napoli, L'Ancora, 2011) used       as set text book for 2 courses at l'Universit&#224; degli studi di Napoli       Federico II (00151 -Storia       Contemporanea and 28156 &#8212; Storia Sociale e storia economica contemporanea       for 2013-2014)     More specifically:     (1) Allum's research on the Neapolitan Mafia (the state witness       protection programme, relations       with local politics, the fight against the Camorra) in Naples and Italy       has contributed to a wider       public understanding of the Camorra in Naples.
It has extended the range       and improved the quality       of evidence to enhance Italian, British and European general public       understanding of the major       issues relating to organised crime and the Neapolitan Camorra in Italy and       Europe.
In particular,       her work informed the work of screenwriter, filmmaker and novelist Ben       Hopkins in his film Naples       Open City 1943-1948 (tigerlilyfilms).
In 2009, this documentary was       distributed on mainstream TV       channels in UK (BBC 2, BBC 4), Arte (Germany/France) and tsr in       Switzerland.
She advised on       whom to interview as well as what to stress and highlight: 'I read Felia       Allum's work on organised       crime in Naples, which was very influential in forming my ideas about the       complex social and       economic situation in post-war Naples' (A).
(2) Allum's research came to the attention of the BBC Radio 4 programme 'Thinking         Allowed' (radio       audience of around 990,000 per edition, 250,000 people per month who       subscribe to the podcast       and another 100,000 who listen again via the I-player).
She was       interviewed twice to explain       various aspects of her research.
In August 2012, she contributed to a       debate on the Italian family,       the Neapolitan Family and the Camorra family: 'Her expertise and       experience meant she was able       to give a perspective on the role of the family in Italian life that I was       not able to get from anyone       else, despite speaking to many social scientists both in the UK and in       Italy [...].
I was extremely       pleased to be able to include her in our programme' (B).
In February 2013       (6/2/13, 4.00-4.30 pm),       she participated to a debate on 'Organised crime in the UK' with Professor       D. Hobbs (Essex       University) where she presented her findings on the Neapolitan Camorra in       the UK.
By being       interviewed on mainstream British radio, Allum's research informed the       British general debate       about the state of Italian families and their relationship with criminal       families as well the presence,       activities and harms the Italian organised crime groups pose the UK and       Europe.
(3) Allum's research on the fight against organised crime has also       informed the public's       understanding of the problem.
Her work has been quoted in various       articles: (a) on the Italian State       witness protection programme ('Italy's secret anti-mob weapon: witness       protection', 14/10/12,       distributed to main US news distributors: abcnews.com, newtimes.com,       myfoxchicago.com,       newsyahoo.com, newsday.com, bloomberg businessweek.com) and (b) in The         Telegraph on       9/1/2010: 'Italy claims finally defeating the mafia' (by Nick Squires,       daily circulation of the       Telegraph: 634,113, July 2011).
This shows that different aspects of her       research have been used       to engage more broadly in the general debate on the fight against       organised crime in Italy.
(4) Allum's research has provoked a debate among those working in the       area of policing in the UK.
She wrote an opinion piece for the Journal, Policing 'Italian       Organised crime in the UK' was       published in December 2012 and prompted a reply by Gachevska, K. (2012).
`On the Persistence       of the Mafia `ghost': A Reply to Felia Allum', Policing 6(4): 360-364.
(3,069 institutional       subscribers; only 4% are from the UK, 25% from Europe and 14% from North       America, with 57%       falling into the Rest of World bracket).
A reply 'Italian Organised crime       in the UK: continuing the       debate?'
was subsequently published in Policing (Jan, 2013, 7 (2):       227-232).
As a result of her       academic work, Allum was asked to contribute to 'Policing UK 2013'       on the topic of 'organised       crime' (edited by P. Neyroud, Witan, 2013) to present her thoughts.
As       already noted, this led to       her being interviewed for the Journal Police Professional in an       article entitled 'Territorial challenges'       (Feb 28, 2013).
