     The research has contributed to processes of commemoration,       memorialisation and reconciliation, in terms of:     (1) Public discourse, where the public has gained an understanding of the       issues and challenges faced by Italian society, including the existence of       partisan reconstructions of the past, divided memories and the plight of       victims of terrorism, who feel that truth and justice have not been       secured.
This has been achieved through engaging school-children, the       media and online fora.
Research findings, which revealed the existence of widespread feelings of       bitterness and mistrust among the victims and many of the citizens, as       well as partisan versions of the truth and contrasting representations of       the past, first appeared in a book published by Berghahn (reprinted in a       paperback edition in 2011, after the hardback edition had sold out &#8212; c.       500 copies, a high figure given the price tag of &#163;53).
This book received       attention in the form of positive reviews and rated `highly recommended'       by USA-based magazine Choice.
On the strength of its excellent reviews and       citations, as well as adoption in university courses, the research       attracted the attention of the Media, leading to:     (a) a commissioned paper in 2009 by il Mulino (a non-academic journal       with a circulation of 8,000 and a website with c. 15,000 hits per month)       to commemorate the 40th anniversary of the Milan 1969 bombing massacre and       comment on the disappointing trial verdicts for this massacre as well as       on the legacy of extreme-right terrorism.
(b) A further paper was commissioned in 2010 by il Mulino commenting on       the disappointing trial verdict in 2010 for the 1974 Brescia massacre.
As       the Editor stated: `The author is not only one of the top experts in the       field; she is also always prepared to write on these themes for an       educated yet not specialist public, as the one addressed by the journal il       Mulino'.1     The 2009 article was extensively summarised in the authoritative daily       IlSole24ore on 13 December 2009 and in the blog by Nicola Rao, author of       bestsellers on the extreme-right, starting a debate among right activists       concerning neofascism's role in terrorism, an issue they generally       consider as taboo.
2 Other Italian blogs and the online Wikipedia cited       the research (10 blogs and 12 wikipedia entries) as well as quality media,       including British and Italian established newspapers.
Radio interviews       with Australian, Belgian and Italian national radio programmes, including       a live recording of a 3-hour programme by RAI Radio 3 commemorating the       1980 massacre on 2 August 2010.
The Producer states, `Farenheit is one of       the most important cultural broadcasts from RAI.
We estimate that an       audience of at least 200,000 listen to our programme.
In particular, the       programme broadcast on 2 August 2010 attracted a wide audience given that       it focused on a dramatic event which is still present in the civil       conscience of the city of Bologna and Italy as a whole.
Your participation       in the debate and the programme was especially valued and appreciated'.3     (c) Keynote speech (to c. 500 people) at a 2012 public seminar on       Conflicts in Memory, to `create dialogue between Aarhus University and the       surrounding society concerning subjects of wider societal interest' (http://matchpoints.au.dk/aboutmatchpoints/).
Bull gave an interview to daily Kristeligt-Dagblad on the legacy/memory of       conflict in Europe, and to italiensklrerforeningen on the legacy/ and       memory of terrorism in Italy.4     Thanks to this wider dissemination, research was able to enhance public       understanding of the continuing relevance and lack of closure concerning       the political violence that raged in Italy in the 1960s-1980s and to       contribute to processes of commemoration and memorialisation.
(2) Civil society, where it has helped Victims' Associations commemorate       the violent past, highlight their exclusion from the reconciliation       process, engage in a dialogue with former terrorists and share experiences       with other Victims' Associations.
This has been achieved through       involvement with their events and the media and facilitating their       interaction with each other and with former terrorists.
Bull's research collaboration with various victims and their relatives,       and the media attention on her advocating the need for a wider process of       truth and reconciliation in Italy, attracted the attention of Associations       of Victims of Terrorism.
Italian Victims' Associations have formed in the       early 1980s and are still in existence, comprising roughly 2,000 members.
They have been able to:     (a) raise public awareness of terrorism and its legacy     (b) educate school children who would not have experience of the events     (c) begin a process of reconciliation with former terrorists     l(d) earn from other Victims' Associations     Collaboration has been especially intense and ongoing with the       Brescia-based Casa della Memoria (formerly the Association of the Victims       of the 1974 Brescia Massacre).
The Association has benefitted from:     Bull's major speech to an audience of c.2000 local teachers and       schoolchildren in May 2010, commemorating the 1974 massacre, widely       reported in the local media.
Her involvement in an informed public debate with c. 100 local       citizens/students in 2011, also commemorating the 1974 massacre, widely       reported in the local media.
These speeches appeared in a commemorative volume distributed to c. 250       local/regional schools and libraries.
Feedback indicates that they gave       rise to in-class discussions in schools on terrorism and its legacy,       thereby partially compensating for the lack of inclusion of these issues       in the school curriculum.
Her involvement in a heated public debate in 2010, before c. 200 local       citizens, following a live interview broadcast by the local TV station.
Many commented on the need for more such occasions to remember the past       and discuss its legacy.
Other victims' associations from Italy, Spain and the UK have been       interested in the research.
Bull has brought them together in a knowledge       transfer workshop, held in Bath in June 2012.
Participants included: from Italy, Mr. Milani, President, Casa della       Memoria; Mr. Guglielminetti, Head of International Relations, Associazione       italiana vittime del terrorismo (Aiviter); from Spain, Mr. Silva,       President, Association for the Recovery of Historical Memory; from the UK,       Ms. Dover, Programme Manager, Tim Parry Johnathan Ball Foundation for       Peace; Mr. Gallagher, President, Omagh Support Group.
This enabled the       associations to meet and compare aims and activities, as well as       approaches to and practices of reconciliation thereby extending the reach       of Bull's impact beyond Italy.
Jo Dover wrote that `The workshop provided an opportunity to widen our       existing contacts, especially in view of the importance our organisation       attributes to cross-national links [...] We would welcome further       collaboration with Italian and Spanish victims' associations to promote       these processes [of dialogue and reconciliation] on a wider scale'.5       Manlio Milani stated that the workshop had stimulated his association to       establish contacts at the European level and to develop a similar       comparative approach in Italy.
Guglieminetti wrote of his gratitude for       Bull's work, stating that `It is for us very important that academic work,       after decades of absence, focuses its attention on the activities of the       victims of terrorism and their associations.
This is a very useful       acknowledgment for promoting a debate between theory and practice, history       and memory, academic research and the didactic activity carried out by       victims among schoolchildren.
Furthermore, I am convinced that       associations like mine need their work to be analysed and verified by       academic researchers working on terrorism at the European level.
'6       Collaboration with these associations is ongoing.
Indeed Bull was invited       to join the Radicalisation Awareness Network's working group Voices of       Victims of Terrorism (VVT).
RAN is set up by the European Commission as an       EU-wide umbrella network of practitioners and local actors involved in       countering violent radicalisation.
Recent research has also discussed the ways in which the narratives and       memories of both former terrorists and victims can foster a dialogue and       has identified a group of former terrorists who are open to a dialogue       with victims.
This has enabled Casa della Memoria to facilitate a       pioneering and confidential on-going dialogue among a small group of       victims and former terrorists, to encourage reconciliation.
`Your ideas       and reflections have spurred a debate with other associations (especially       those in Bologna and Milan) but above all they constitute an important       reference point for a project that sees former terrorists (from the Red       Brigades and Prima Linea especially) work together with relatives of       victims (like Agnese Moro).
This frank exchange of views will soon be in       the public domain with the aim of drawing attention to the theme of public       memory, which must include the participation of both victims and       perpetrators.
The document we are discussing also aims to show that it is       possible to embark on a path of social reconciliation especially when it       is a matter of crimes involving (and perpetrated against) society as a       whole and not just individual victims.
When a joint document will be       produced and the public initiative will take place, you will be able to       see, I am pleased to say, that they will both have been informed by the       themes and issues you put forward in your research'.7
