     The research undertaken has impacted on the performance of Bombardier by       opening up new international markets.
This has led to an investment in       their Plymouth site which exports some of the products.
The innovative       coding algorithms and enhanced system performance has improved railway       reliability, eliminated `false positive' danger alerts, and so achieved       savings for train operators while improving the travelling experience.
The research has led to the EBITrack 400 being launched by Bombardier.
Officially launched at the InfraRail exhibition at the NEC in March 2008,       the system has enabled Bombardier to reinforce their market presence and       increase their market share.
It has resulted in increased worldwide sales       of the system in international markets including European and Asian       markets, Australia and the USA.
It has led to projected worldwide sales in       excess of $6m per annum (2,000 systems per annum) in international markets       including; the UK, Spain, The Netherlands, Russia, Latvia, India,       Australia and the USA, and has also triggered an increase in sales       enquiries for the product family of over 200% with a further 30% gained       due to recovery of markets recently lost to competitors.
The KTP project was awarded the `KTP Business Impact Award 2011',       presented at Innovate 2011 [I4,I5,I6,I7].
This award, funded by the       Technology Strategy Board, is awarded to the business that has benefited       most from its KTP project.
As Bombardier state:     "As a result of our successful collaboration with the University of         Plymouth through KTP, the joint team developed a cutting-edge product         that is innovative and marketable and has already secured a market lead         over its world-wide competitors" (Bombardier Transportation).
The EBITrack 400 offers significant reliability advantages over other       products on the market After seeing a presentation of the new EBITrack 400       coded track circuit system, Network Rail approached Bombardier to adopt       the system for use in the UK, which is unprecedented within the industry       and makes Bombardier the only UK company to have coded track circuit       technology being trialled by Network Rail.
"The EBI Track range embodies several significant design enhancements         over its predecessors, principally: A unique, exceptionally safe, coding         system and communication technique - a particular feature of EBI Track         400; and extremely high immunity against traction current interference.
The EBI Track 400 coded track circuit offers a significant improvement         in track circuit performance since: Dangerous failures caused by         traction current interference are practically impossible.
The incidence         of nuisance failures is significantly reduced because of improved         ability to tolerate excessive traction current interference;" (The       Institution of Railway Signal Engineers)[I8].
At a more local level, the research has had a significant impact on the       Bombardier site in Plymouth.
The new product and increased orders has       ensured the long term survival of the site, securing the jobs of 60 people       and retaining vital skills by ensuring that Bombardiers research, design,       development and manufacturing functions remain in the UK [I1,I2,I3].
The       knowledge embedded through this Partnership has also been vital to the       company's long term strategic direction and has enabled it to compete for       a larger range of future work and projects.
The research has ensured that       Bombardier are now far ahead of their competitors and they have continued       to use this market advantage to grow and develop.
All Research and       Development funding for the Plymouth site is generated from its product       sales, so it is vital to demonstrate long term viable product development       opportunities within the UK business to the multinational business.
This       will have a significant impact upon future innovation and on-going job       security at the site.
In markets where export from the UK is not possible the technology is       manufactured under license in those countries, thus returning the funding       to the UK.
It has created jobs in other countries including Russia and       Sweden.
The intellectual property and codes that makes the system unique       are so critical and confidential that they are kept securely at the       Plymouth Bombardier site.
