     The Aberdeen report investigating the key sources of Campylobacter       infection in Scotland was the first study in the world to do so on a       national scale.
It provided the Food Standards Agency (FSA) Scotland with       clear evidence that broiler chickens were the single most significant       source of Campylobacter food poisoning [a,b].
The report was       published by the FSA Scotland (2009) on its website [c], and the Aberdeen       researchers were invited to present their findings at an FSA key       stakeholder event held a month later which was attended by some 100       stakeholders in NHS microbiology and public health, public analysts,       Defra, FSA, Health Protection Scotland (HPS), the National Farmers' Union       (NFU), the then Scottish Agriculture College (SAC), the Scottish Food       Advisory Committee (SFAC), and the Scottish Government Health Department.
As a direct result of the Aberdeen findings [c,d], the FSA recommended       intervention strategies should be targeted to the broiler food chain, and       the FSA's Strategy for 2010-2015 [e] and its Foodborne Disease Strategy       (2010-2012) [e] were developed.
The important role of contamination in       undercooked chicken liver pate, eg [3], in many outbreaks has been       identified in FSA health warnings.
One month after the FSA report was published, a Joint Working Group on Campylobacter       (JWGC) was established as a joint industry and government initiative [f]       with an aim to identify interventions that could reduce Campylobacter       in chicken.
Membership includes the British Poultry Council (BPC), the       National Farmers' Union (NFU) the British Retail Consortium (BRC), the FSA       and Defra.
Drawing on the researchers' identification of the role the UK's       food distribution network has played in the dissemination of contaminated       chicken, an Action Plan with a strategy for overseeing on-farm, transport,       processing, retail, consumer and catering sector trials and interventions,       as well as surveillance and monitoring, was developed.
An industry target       to reduce Campylobacter in UK produced retail chicken from 27% to       10% by 2015 was set.
In terms of public health, the JWGC estimate that reaching their target       of 10% reduction in Campylobacter loads in broilers by 2015 could       mean a reduction in Campylobacter food poisoning of up to 30% &#8212;       about 170,000 cases per year.
In 2009, the Aberdeen team provided the       European Food Safety Authority (EFSA) BIOHAZ panel with evidence of the       extent to which meat derived from broiler chickens contributes to human       campylobacteriosis.
The panel recommended the establishment of active       surveillance of campylobacteriosis in all member states &#8212; including a       representative collection of isolates from humans and putative reservoirs       in all member states for genotyping and storage [g,h].
Following on from       their assessment the EFSA is expected to set maximum permitted Campylobacter       loads in chicken within the EU next year.
During October 2009 a member of the Aberdeen research team work shadowed       and presented at a workshop at the New Zealand Food Safety Authority on       the use of molecular modelling techniques to identify different strains of       Campylobacter in order to gain a better understanding of the       sources of New Zealand's own epidemic and to support appropriate       intervention strategies.
Resulting interventions led to lower incidences       of infection in New Zealand broiler chickens and reduced incidences of       human campylobacteriosis and of Guillain-Barr&#233; syndrome, which is       associated with prior campylobacteriosis.
This was followed up in       September 2013 when two delegates from the New Zealand Ministry for       Primary Industries (industry regulators) discussed recent action and       trends in both countries with Forbes and Strachan.
Aberdeen research insights have been used to raise awareness of food       poisoning by Campylobacter among health practitioners and the       general public through articles such as that in The Lancet [2].
Members of the team have are also been regularly quoted in the press (e.g.
The Sunday Times, May 2009) and asked to contribute expertise to       programmes such as BBC Radio 4's Face the Facts (January 2013)       [i,j].
In September 2013 the Aberdeen research team hosted the biannual       international Campylobacter conference (www.chro-2013.org/)       at which 450 delegates from 40 countries discussed disease burden and       global concerns.
Therefore the claimed impacts as listed by REF include: disease         prevention has been enhanced by research; decisions by a health service         or regulatory authority have been informed by research; public awareness         of a health risk has been raised.
Impacts on commerce have been that         industry (including overseas industry) has invested in research and         development and that strategy, operations or management practices of a         business have changed.
Impacts on public policy and services have been         that policy debate has been stimulated and moved forward by research         evidence; policy decisions have been informed by research evidence.
Impacts on production have been that decisions by regulatory authorities         have been influenced by research.
International policy development has         been influenced by research.
