     Obesity and its associated co-morbidities are a major public health       burden.
The development of a commercially available, specifically designed       food range gives consumers another option to make sensible meal choices to       control their weight.
The Rowett research was the subject of a series of high impact       publications and presentations at major conferences.
M&amp;S was contacted       as part of an ongoing programme at the Rowett aimed at promoting knowledge       transfer to the food industry.
Following a presentation of this research       at a meeting with M&amp;S senior executives, prospects for its commercial       application as part of complete meal solutions was explored in 2008.
The       potential for the development of a new range of calorie controlled food       products, underpinned by Dr Johnstone's research into high protein diets,       was quickly identified as a key strength for the development of a unique       and new commercial food range.
M&amp;S retained Dr Johnstone and her team, for a year in 2009, to       provide scientific support and guide them in creating and developing their       new product concept.
The Rowett team also worked face-to-face with the       M&amp;S senior management team and their supply chain partners to       reinforce their understanding of the scientific basis for the new food       products.
The Aberdeen researchers provided further scientific support during the       development of marketing and media materials [a,b].
They were also       involved at the formal event in London in January 2010 when the range was       launched in M&amp;S stores across the UK, with an estimated weekly       customer base of 20 million people.
Figures for one week's sales in       January 2012 indicate it is the No1 food diet brand in M&amp;S in healthy       meals (including FL and Count on Us&#8482; ranges) with 1.5m meals sold in a       week (M&amp;S statistics, personal communication from Head Office).
The FL       range has exceeded sales expectations and was quoted in the 2011/2012       M&amp;S annual reports.
Just a year after launch (2011) of this new       product range, the Fuller Longer range became the UK's second favourite       health food brand.
This range was beaten into second place only by Marks       and Spencer's own hugely successful Count on Us&#8482; range, which       had a clear advantage of being in its eleventh year of production.
The FL       range continues to grow with addition of new products following consumer       demand for more variety.
In July 2012, M&amp;S reported that the company       held the highest share of the market for healthy eating through the       quarter with its FL range as the market leader [c,d].
The Fuller Longer&#8482; (FL) range encourages people to manage       their weight sensibly with a menu plan, which features a carefully       calculated balance of proteins and carbohydrates for calorie-counted meals       and snacks to achieve sustained weight loss.
Recently, the FL range has       been extended further to give those following the programme more choice       and a greater range of flavours.
There is currently an M&amp;S-produced       advert which explains the expanding range of meals available.
Importantly,       details of this range of foods have been featured by a wide and diverse       range of media targeting a range of ages and socio-economic groups (e.g.
YouTube, Daily Star, Daily Record, The Daily Telegraph, The         Independent, Cosmopolitan, LiveStrong, Reuters, BBC).
Given the       obesity challenge facing the world, this type of coverage is vital to       provide information to the large numbers of people trying to achieve a       healthy weight [e,f,g,h,i].
The relationship between M&amp;S and Dr Johnstone's group has developed       further through collaborative research into science-led design of dietary       components.
The company has now identified new areas of potential       interaction, including the assessment of other M&amp;S food ranges and the       provision of in-house training for staff.
The collaboration with industry       has led to Dr Johnston's team organising a key satellite symposium,       `Industry and academic partnerships for developing health-improving       products', at the Nutrition Society Summer meeting 2011, with M&amp;S,       where the data on weight loss and improvement in health indices were       presented to peer groups.
This successful and important collaboration with       industry has been further highlighted by the Scottish Government supported       website, Knowledge Scotland [j].
Overall, this research has had clear and demonstrable impacts on commerce       through the development and sales of new products, with resultant enhanced       business performance and competitiveness.
Furthermore, with increasing       concern over levels of obesity in the UK, there is an additional impact of       this research on health and welfare in terms of public behaviour as       evidenced by the increasing sales of this product.
Marks and Spencer are       putting together the required data for a portfolio for a health claim with       the European Food Standards Agency (EFSA).
Therefore the claimed impact as defined by REF is that: the research         has demonstrable impacts on commerce through the development and sales         of new products, with resultant enhanced business performance and         competitiveness.
Furthermore, with increasing concern over levels of         obesity in the UK, there is an additional impact of this research on         health and welfare in terms of public behaviour as evidence by the         increasing sales of this product.
