     The original research and novel IP provided the springboard for the       establishment of a spinout company, founded jointly with the research       partner in 2001.
Initial funding was provided by Angle plc, Rising Stars       Growth Fund and North West Equity Fund.
In 2005 the company floated on the       LSE AIM market and its workforce increased in size to 13.
Further funding       rounds in 2008 and 2010 enabled new projects to be initiated.
Over the development timeline of this product (2001-2010), Provexis has       had exclusive collaboration agreements with Unilever (12-month exclusivity       agreement 2006, long term development agreement 2007-2009); The Coca-Cola       Company (2007-2009), and non-exclusive development programmes with Nestl&#233;       and Cargill.
Provexis plc's share price doubled between January and April       2012.
The company now employs over 20 specialist staff at its business       operations site in Windsor, its manufacturing plant in Nelson, Lancashire       and until recently (April 2013) maintained research laboratories at the       Rowett Institute in Aberdeen.
An alliance agreement was announced with DSM Nutritional Products in June       2010, to commercialise the Fruitflow&#174; heart-health technology.
The       Alliance gave DSM exclusive global rights to Fruitflow&#174; &#8212; a basis for       collaboration between the partners and the development of Fruitflow&#174; in       all major global markets.
The Alliance partners have now worked to develop       a powder concentrate of the Fruitflow &#174; technology, which is being readied       for tablet and capsule use.
Under the terms of the alliance, DSM is       responsible for manufacturing, marketing, and selling via its global sales       force, while Provexis remains responsible for contributing the scientific       expertise necessary for successful commercialisation.
In 2010 it was given       awards for the "Most Innovative Health Ingredient" and the "Best       Innovation in the Heart Health" category at the Health Ingredients       European Conference (Madrid).
In 2011 it was awarded the Nutraward for       "Best New Ingredient" at the USA trade launch at the Nutracon conference       (Anaheim, California).
Fruitflow&#174; is currently incorporated into eight marketed products       worldwide including Europe, North America and Asia.
In the UK it is       available in Sirco&#174;, a fruit juice drink, which is sold through a series       of outlets and supermarkets including, Sainsbury's, Waitrose, Ocado,       Amazon, Holland &amp; Barrett and EH Booth Supermarkets.
In the USA it is       available, for example, in products produced by Swanson Health Products       USA and Relaxzen, USA, and in China by Bankom Ltd as Fruitflow&#174;.
Provexis had moved to increase its footprint in the functional food       sector by taking over a company specialising in functional ingredients for       sports nutrition, Science in Sport (SIS) (www.scienceinsport.com).
It has signed a new 5-year deal to continue as Official Supplier of Sports       Drinks and Sports Nutrition of the GB Rowing Team for Senior, Adaptive and       Top Development rowers providing a range of nutritional products for       hydration, energy and recovery.
In January 2013 SIS launched REGO+ Fruitflow &#174;, the first product of its       kind designed to help endurance athletes improve recovery time after       intense exercise (http://www.scienceinsport.com/sis-products/sis-rego-range/sis-rego-plus-fruitflow-gels/).
The companies have since demerged into two separate entities, with       continuing marketing of the Fruitflow based products.
Building on the original work by Professor Dutta-Roy's team, new research       has generated novel intellectual property covering different therapeutic       areas, as well as different compositions, with several further patents       obtained.
Several applications have now gone to grant in territories       worldwide, underlining the novel and innovative qualities of both the       original and subsequent research in particular in the cardiovascular and       inflammation areas.
Furthermore, in April 2011, EFSA issued a set of draft guidelines 	(http://www.efsa.europa.eu/en/consultations/call/nda110426a.pdf)       to inform applicants of acceptable categories of health claim, as well as       biomarkers/methods of analysis which would be accepted in dossiers.
Health       claims related to platelet function are included as an accepted category       in these draft guidelines, currently open for public consultation.
The       approval of the Provexis health claim submission (the only submission of       this type) was key to the inclusion of this category in the draft       guidelines.
This will be of benefit to the food industry for future       submissions http://ec.europa.eu/food/food/labellingnutrition/claims/community_register/authorised_health_claims_en.htm#art135).
Claimed impact as defined by REF: This work has therefore had impact         on commerce through creation of a new spin-out business with leverage of         significant external commercial investment, successful creation and         manufacture of a new product and creation of other commercial activity,         contracts, and business performance.
