     The research in Aberdeen and subsequent collaborative work has directly       impacted on public health and wellbeing, with documented changes to       dietary guidelines issued by the UK Department of Health to pregnant women       regarding potential health risks.
Existing Department of Health advice for       pregnant women with a personal or family history of allergic disease was       to avoid eating peanuts to reduce the risk of their children developing a       peanut allergy.
This advice was guided by responses seen in immune system       cells cultured and exposed to allergens in the laboratory.
In 2008, the British Nutrition Foundation published a review undertaken       on behalf of the Food Standards Agency.
Devereux was part of the team       compiling the review, which was tasked with systematically reviewing       literature relating to early life peanut exposure and subsequent peanut       allergy [a, b].
The review of human studies, and of narrative expert-led       reviews of animal and CBMC studies (including the Aberdeen ones)       demonstrated the lack of clear evidence to link either maternal exposure,       or the timing of introduction of peanuts in the diets of children, to the       subsequent development of sensitisation or allergy to peanuts.
This work       thus called into question the then UK Department of Health advice offered       to expectant and breast-feeding mothers regarding peanut consumption [c].
The Committee on Toxicity (COT, an independent scientific committee that       advises government departments) subsequently decided to review its 1998       statement that recommended pregnant women with a personal or family       history of allergic disease should avoid eating peanuts during pregnancy       and whilst breastfeeding [c].
As one of three experts in the area,       Devereux was invited to contribute to the 2009 review, which included       epidemiological and trial data, as well as a review of evidence,       (including the Aberdeen research) that in vitro CBMC responses       could occur in the absence of maternal allergen exposure.
The overall       conclusion of the COT review was that the available evidence suggested       neither an adverse or beneficial effect of maternal peanut consumption       during pregnancy and lactation on the development of peanut allergy in       children [d].
The COT conclusions were accepted by the Department of       Health and issued as revised advice to pregnant mothers in 2009.
It was       then incorporated into the advice literature provided to all pregnant       women in the UK (approximately 600-700,000 expectant mothers every year)       [e,f].
The new advice states that as the research has shown that there is       no clear evidence to say whether eating peanuts during pregnancy affects       the chances of a baby developing a peanut allergy, pregnant women can eat       peanuts as part of a balanced diet as long as they are not allergic to       them or advised otherwise by a health professional.
The same advice has       been offered to breastfeeding mothers.
Devereux has shared his research with a wide international audience,       presenting to a number of conferences and organisations.
These include the       December 2008 Netherlands Asthma Foundation Annual Scientific Meeting in       Amersfoordt, the XXII European Congress of Perinatal Medicine in Granada       in May 2010, and the European Science Foundation European Medical Research       Councils (EMRC) Forward Look `Gene Environment Interaction in Chronic       Disease' in Barcelona in October 2010.
He also presented the data to the       British Nutrition Foundation taskforce for Nutrition and Development:       short- and long-term consequences on health, in May 2013.
Therefore the claimed impact as defined by REF is that: the research         by Dr Devereux and colleagues and subsequent collaborative work has         directly impacted on public health and well-being with documented         changes to dietary guidelines issued by the Department of Health to         pregnant women to inform them of a health risk and change behaviour.
Decisions by a health service have therefore been informed by research,         public behaviour has changed, health care training guidelines have         changed; public awareness of a health risk has changed; dietary         guidelines have changed; professionals have used this research in         conducting their work.
