     The research carried out at Aberdeen has improved the quality and       cost-effectiveness of       screening for diabetic retinopathy and has been central to the enhancement       of Scotland's national       screening programme.
Thus, it has achieved a significant impact on patient       health and welfare,       as well as economic impacts for the taxpayer, through cost savings for NHS       Scotland, and for the       company that developed the screening software commercially.
In 2006, the research team was approached by a new start-up company,       Medalytix [a].
The       team, supported by Scottish Health Innovations [b], negotiated a licence       agreement with       Medalytix on the automated grading software.
Following a number of further       licence agreements       and patents, and a &#163;2 million investment package from (amongst others) the       business-venture       arm of the Spanish National Organisation for the Blind, the company       developed a commercial       version of the software known as iGrading.
This, according to a 2010/11       report by Scotland's       Diabetic Retinopathy Screening Programme [c], was successfully piloted.
In       2012, Medalytix       agreed a sub-licence with Digital Healthcare to market the product.
Medalytix's current sales       figures are not known, but a condition of the licensing was that the       products should be made       available to the Scottish screening service free of charge.
Thus not only       has industry benefitted,       but NHS Scotland has had free use of the software.
Following a 2009 independent review by the Scottish Diabetic Retinopathy       Screening       collaborative (made up of individuals from all NHS Boards in Scotland) on       behalf of the Scottish       Government, it was recommended that "automated grading should replace       level 1 manual grading       in Scotland."
This recommendation was implemented in 2010, with the result       that the Scottish       Diabetic Retinopathy Screening Service's screening centres now use the       automated software       developed by the Aberdeen research team.
The workload of screeners has       been reduced by       nearly 40% through the new method, and the estimated annual cost saving       for NHS Scotland is       around &#163;200,000 per year.
Since 2008, interest in using the software has also been shown by centres       in other parts of the       UK, Europe, South America, Africa and Australia.
The Aberdeen team has       worked actively to       increase awareness and understanding of diabetic retinopathy and the case       for automated       screening among clinicians, professional and interest groups, and the       general public.
In 2010 the       team presented details of its findings to medical ophthalmologists at the       World Congress of       Ophthalmology in Berlin and to retinal screeners at the British       Association of Retinal Screeners'       annual general meeting.
In 2012, as part of the University's outreach       programme, they explained       the details and implications of their work to the general public through       the University's series of       informal public talks (the Caf&#233; Med series).
A review of NHS Screening Services in NHS Scotland in 2012 by Deloitte       (currently private and       confidential) concludes that autograding is proving to be as effective as       level-1 graders.
It notes       that as the diabetes population is increasing (4-5% per annum) automated       grading will be       invaluable in processing the increasing volume of images.
The National Collaborative Coordinator for the Scottish Diabetic       Retinopathy Screening (DRS)       Service has confirmed: "Without the research and development of this       software, undertaken by       Aberdeen University the programme would have no option but to continue to       manually grade       patient's photographs....DRS patients require to be screened for diabetic       retinopathy annually       and with the growing numbers the automated grader system will be an       essential asset in helping       the NHS in Scotland to continue to provide a high quality screening       programme for all eligible       patients with diabetes in an efficient and effective manner [f].
The research findings have reached non-specialist audiences through the       pages of the Aberdeen       Press and Journal and the Aberdeen Evening Express (January 2008,       combined circulation over       110,000).
The blog, Diabetic Retinopathy News [d], explained the       system of automated grading       and the reduction in workload it achieves through an article in October       2011, which is still       available online.
Further coverage appeared in the professional journal, The         Engineer (March       2009, circulation over 30,000), whose website also retains it [e].
