     Initial impact occurred when the randomised trial ended in 2005.
The       study led to a direct change       in the Scottish Dental Contract in Nov 2005 with a new fee-for-service for       preventative sealant       application on child molars introduced.
The revised contract stated...     "5.2 Fissure Sealants     Lewis Macdonald, Deputy Minister for Health's, letter of 29 November       advised that, from 1 April       2006, a new item of service fee would be introduced for the application of       fissure sealants as a       primary preventive measure to pits and fissures in each permanent molar       tooth."
[a]     Since its introduction, over 37,000 children per year in Scotland have       received fissure sealants.
This is double the number of children receiving sealants compared to       before the policy change and       equates to some 150,000 children receiving the sealants from January 2008       [b,c]     From 2008, guidance documents from the NHS Department of Health (England       and Wales) [d] and       the Scottish Dental Clinical Effectiveness Programme [e] have recommended       placement of fissure       sealants on children above 11-years-old.
These guidance documents are       provided to some       10,000 dentists throughout the UK.
This work was also pivotal to demonstrating that a significant gap exists       between known evidence-based       practice and the implementation of that practice in dental primary care.
In November 2008,       it led to the setting up of an innovative programmatic approach to       knowledge translation research       in Scottish Dentistry (led jointly by Craig Ramsay, HSRU as principal       investigator for methodology,       and the Scottish Dental Clinical Effectiveness Programme) that informs       some 1000 dental services       practitioners, policy makers and patients on how best to translate       national recommendations into       routine clinical activities.
The initial randomised study now provides an       exemplar for how       translational research in a dental setting can be performed and forms part       of the protocol [f] for the       Translation Research in a Dental Setting (TRiaDS) initiative (http://www.sdpbrn.org.uk/index.aspx?o=2688).
As       well as influencing practitioner services the TRiaDS programme impacts       on the broader research community through knowledge transfer initiatives       such as running national       conferences (http://www.sdpbrn.org.uk/index.aspx?o=3113).
The claimed impact, as defined by REF guidance, is therefore on public         policy and services;       practitioners and professional services; society and economically.
