     The research team in Plymouth worked as part of a Knowledge Exchange       project with De La Rue to design a quality assurance system for specialist       security features used in their banknotes.
The team designed, developed       and constructed a complete system to reliably detect and identify security       measures with a tolerance better than 5%.
Such precision is currently       impossible to recreate in counterfeiting.
The patented technology used in       the sensors was invented by Plymouth University academics and has also       been used to provide applied solutions for a number of other companies.
The University team worked to tight deadlines to meet De La Rue's       production start date for the manufacture of their new technology feature.
The project involved a combination of mechanical design, sophisticated       magnetic sensor design, electronic circuit design, and working in       partnership with another De La Rue subcontractor.
The team have       successfully installed and commissioned working detection systems at the       De La Rue, Bolton &amp; Loughton sites.
This technology is highly confidential and subject to non-disclosure       contacts for much of the detail.
The precise details of the implementation       cannot be described for these reasons.
In outline, invisible encrypted       features are identified by specialist magnetic detectors precisely       designed to optimise the recovered signal from the security thread.
These       heads are micro-fabricated in the Clean Room facility at Plymouth to       ensure maximum security.
The recovered signal is decrypted using novel       information processing algorithms, also developed at Plymouth, to allow       the tiny signal to be reliably recognized with very low signal-to-noise       ratios.
The latest evolution, included in all Euro and other banknotes,       allows innovative optical effects linked to more complex structures which       do not increase the production cost of the banknotes.
Specifically, the development with Plymouth has resulted in two       technologies, Magtext&#174; and MagForm&#8482; which are found on banknotes.
The       University technology was applied specifically to the De La Rue       requirement and has resulted in a completely bespoke system which has now       provided quality assurance for over 5 billion banknotes.
MagForm&#8482; can only       be identified on the expert level.
Magtext&#174; is part of De La Rue's Mask&#8482;       technology which is used on many currencies including the EURO and GB       Pound.
The research has improved the performance of a worldwide business through       the introduction of new technology.
Potential future losses through       counterfeit have been mitigated by the improved quality assurance systems.
The new technology has been adopted by De La Rue, the world's largest       commercial currency printer and papermaker.
This research has considerable       reach in that De la Rue is involved in the production of more than 150       currencies worldwide including the EURO.
Almost half of all banknotes       issued into circulation in the past two years across the world were       created by De La Rue.
The technology is now used on all issued UK Bank of England notes.
The       Bank of England has confirmed that "Plymouth have developed a sensor         technology based around a novel structured magnetic read head to monitor         the quality in banknote production and fraud detection.
This has had an         outstanding benefit enabling all UK bank notes to be monitored using         this technology."
De La Rue is delighted with the system and the partnership continues with       Plymouth University providing technical support and periodic calibration       of the magnetic sensors.
The company has benefited greatly from the       application of the novel technology and the rare academic skills employed       to support their mission critical project.
The new technology is a       step-change in security thread technology.
Dr. Jim Snelling, Research Manager at Overton Technology Centre (De La       Rue International) has said: "We have enjoyed an excellent working         relationship with the University of Plymouth team whose expertise and         technology have produced a tailored and robust solution for our on-line         QA process"     The innovative methods to deter forgery help De La Rue remain market       leaders.
Contracts in this sector are large, for example the contract to       produce new banknotes for the Board of Commissioners of Currency of       Singapore is worth &#163;30 million.
