     This University of Aberdeen research programme has had direct impact on       breastfeeding care worldwide.
In 1992 the children's charity UNICEF and the World Health Organization       (WHO) launched their worldwide Baby Friendly Hospital Initiative       [a].
The Initiative provided a framework for the implementation of       best practice by hospitals, other health-care facilities and higher       education institutions, with the aim of ensuring that all parents make       informed decisions about feeding their babies.
Until 2012, best practice       was represented by UNICEFs evidence-based "Ten Steps to Successful         Breastfeeding".
New standards were introduced in December 2012 which       adopt a more mother and parent centred approach.
Hospitals can apply to be       a UNICEF "Baby Friendly" accredited hospital if they can show they       are implementing UNICEF guidance.
Research has shown that implementation       of the Baby Friendly Hospital Initiative has led to increases in       breastfeeding rates and subsequent child health.
The results of the BIG trial directly influenced a change to Step 10 of       the UNICEF UK's Ten Step guidance.
The 10 steps were the standard guidance       until December 2012, when new standards incorporating, updating and       expanding the 10 steps were published.
Prior to the BIG trial results       being published, Step 10 read "Step 10: Foster         the establishment of breastfeeding support groups and refer mothers to         them on discharge from the hospital or clinic."
with the expectation       that hospitals routinely promote the establishment of breast feeding       support groups.
Following publication of the BIG trial in 2009 which       showed no evidence that these peer-support groups improved breastfeeding       rates, Step 10 was reworded, after consultation with the trial team, to: "Step           10 - Identify sources of national and local support for         breastfeeding and ensure that mothers know how to access these prior to         discharge from hospital" thus removing the expectation that       hospitals should be routinely establishing these groups [b].
Clearly this       results in savings to national health services, as these groups are no       longer being routinely set up.
In the UK, the Baby Friendly Initiative also accredits maternity       and community facilities that adopt the UNICEF internationally recognised       standards.
Hospitals undergo a structured assessment to attain the award       and achieve "Baby Friendly" accreditation if successful.
The National       Institute of Health and Clinical Excellence (NICE) has, through its       guidance on standards of postnatal care in the UK, recommended that the Baby         Friendly Accreditation be the minimum standard for the care of all       mothers and babies [c].
Thus this research from the University of Aberdeen       has directly influenced the care of all new mothers and babies across the       UK.
In November 2011, the UNICEF UK Baby Friendly quality standards were       further revised both in the language used and their content (to reflect       more recent changes in evidence).
Again, this revision drew directly on       the findings of this University of Aberdeen programme of research (in       particular, the in-depth qualitative study of disadvantaged families),       recommending a move away from a breastfeeding-centred towards a more       realistic woman, baby and family centred approach to feeding care [d].
In       particular, Standard 3 recommends a more mother and parent-centred       approach to discussing infant feeding antenatally, and references       Aberdeen's work as supporting evidence.
The Aberdeen research on coaching has also been integral to the policies       developed by the Baby Caf&#233; Charitable Trust.
The Baby Caf&#233; Charitable       Trust is an independent charity dedicated to providing free, top-quality       support to breastfeeding mothers and runs a network of drop-in centres in       the UK and worldwide.
There are currently 111 Baby Cafe centres in the UK       and a further 27 overseas (source: babycafe.org).
Baby Caf&#233; drop-ins are       run by health professionals such as midwives, health visitors, or       lactation consultants and they also run so-called "Baby Caf&#233; Local"       drop-ins which are run by healthcare practitioners (e.g.
maternity support       worker) or breastfeeding counsellors from voluntary breastfeeding       organisations.
Help is available on all aspects of breastfeeding.
Anyone       wishing to set up a Baby Caf&#233; drop-in centre must apply to be licensed by       the Charitable Trust and agree to run their drop-in centre according to       pre-specified procedures.
These procedures are outlined in the Baby Caf&#233;       "toolkit".
The Baby Caf&#233; Charitable Trust have sought to ensure that their       "toolkit" is evidence-based and have drawn on research to inform their       best practice.
They explicitly reference the findings from the coaching       intervention and the BIG trial in their toolkit as providing evidence to       inform their procedures [e].
The claimed impact, as defined by REF guidance, is therefore on policy         and services; practitioners and professional services; society       and economically.
