     The research described has had direct impacts on clinical practice in the       UK and abroad, the development of commercially available test batteries,       and the training of neuropsychologists.
More than 70 user-friendly       computer programs for clinicians developed by Crawford on the basis of his       research [e.g., 3.3 -3.6] have been made available free of charge on the       author's website.
Crawford received at least 800 emails from users between       2008 and July 2013, enquiring about his quantitative methods and computer       programs, including numerous unsolicited comments testifying to their       clinical use, such as "Re-visiting your site to download .exe's to my new       computer.
Thanks for all the stunning work.
Most helpful"; and "I have       been finding your website and resources absolutely fantastic, and as a       clinician have recommended them to others.
Thanks for all your wonderful       work, we appreciate it down under!
"; and "I just wanted to take a minute       to tell you how much I appreciate the contribution you have made to the       field with your work on statistical analyses of psychometric change,       especially as it applies to neuropsychology" (representative email log       available on request &#8212; [5.7]).
The methods developed have also been used in clinical practice in the       following ways.
Since 2008, the generic methods have been used in at least       500 published clinical case studies, primarily in North America and       Europe.
As only a very small fraction of cases seen clinically warrant a       subsequent write-up as a case report, it is safe to assume that the       methods have been used with many more clinical cases.
Furthermore, many of       the methods have been tailored to specific psychological test batteries       which would not routinely find their way into single case studies, but are       very widely used in clinical practice.
These include the D-KEFS       (Delis-Kaplan Executive Function System); the WAIS-IV (Wechsler Adult       Intelligence Scale, Fourth Edition); and the RBANS (Repeatable Battery for       the Assessment of Neuropsychological Status).
The take-up of the normative       data provided by the research is hard to quantify precisely, but again,       the widespread use of these data in clinically oriented research papers is       a strong indication that it is widely used.
Google Scholar records over       1900 citations (as of June 2013) to the normative data for self-report       mood scales.
Major clinical textbooks / training manuals on assessment in clinical       neuropsychology [e.g., 5.a] provide extensive coverage of this group's       methods.
Given the central role of these textbooks in clinical       neuropsychology training and practice, and their practical orientation,       these endorsements will have led to the use of the methods in clinical       practice.
As a result of his research expertise, Crawford has been called upon to       act as statistical/clinical consultant and/or author for most of the major       psychological tests used routinely in the UK.
Recent examples include the       above-mentioned WAIS-IVUK, 2009; the Wechsler Memory Scale &#8212;       Fourth Edition (2009); the Rivermead Behavioural Memory Test &#8212; 3rd       Edition (2009); the Test of Premorbid Functioning (2011); The Functional       Living Scales (2012); and the Spot-the-Word Test Second Edition (2012).
These tests are used daily in clinical practice, and as they are       commercially available, the work carried out by Crawford et al has also       led to commercial impact.
Eminent clinicians in the UK and abroad have confirmed the significance       of Crawford's work for clinical practice.
From the US, Gordon Chelune,       Professor of Neurology at the University of Utah, reports (March 2013)       [5.8] that the pioneering emphasis of Crawford's work has helped change       neuropsychological practice as well as the way neuropsychology is taught.
He highlights the fact that a publisher has asked him to write a book for       clinicians on the application of Crawford's methods.
Jonathan Evans,       Professor of Applied Neuropsychology at the University of Glasgow,       confirms that Crawford's work has had a "very significant impact" on the       clinical neuropsychology profession and has "impacted directly on quality       of care for people with neurological and psychological conditions in the       UK and around the world" (March 2013) [ 5.9].
Since 2008, Crawford has led a number of training and continuous       professional development (CPD) events for clinical neuropsychologists and       similar practitioners based on his research expertise.
These have included       annual CPD workshops on psychological assessment for the British       Psychological Society, which attract around 25 participants each year.
Feedback collected since 2009 has been extremely positive, with one       delegate speaking for many when s/he wrote, "I'm not good at stats and       quantitative issues but I actually understood this.
Found it really useful       and thought provoking in terms of rethinking how I use tests and interpret       results."
Another delegate wrote "Superb!
I wish I had been taught this in       my clinical training".
Other CPD events since 2008 have included an annual       post-qualification course for clinical neuropsychologists and       psychologists at the University of Glasgow.
Delegates since 2010 (around       20 per course) have rated the event very highly at 4.7 out of a possible       5.
Crawford also ran CPD workshops for the International       Neuropsychological Society (Oslo, June 2012), and the Australian Society       for the Study of Brain Impairment (Hobart, May 2013).
These attracted over       75 delegates.
Claimed impact as defined by REF guidance: clinical guidelines have         changed; professional standards, guidelines and training have been         influenced by research; professionals have used research findings in         conducting their research.
