     The therapy based on the research has led to improvements in patient       health and quality of life, as       well as commercial impacts through a spin-out company that was later taken       over by a large       competitor.
Sahraie and his team have also worked to raise awareness and       understanding of sight       loss following stroke among practitioners and the general public.
Patient health and quality of life:       Since the new therapy became available in 2009, around 300 stroke patients       in Britain have       benefitted from it &#8212; all of them private patients, as the treatment is not       yet available on the NHS.
In addition to increased visual sensitivity, patients reported       improvements in their ability to cope       with daily living, including improvements in mobility and interactions       with the environment [3.3, 3.5,       3.6].
The patients also scored higher in questionnaires which measured       well-being [3.6].
Thus,       the new therapy led to a better quality of life for these patients,       indicating the considerable       significance of the therapy for them.
Patient testimonials confirm these       results [5.1], with patients       reporting "a massive step forward" and feeling "almost back to my normal       self and lifestyle," as well       as being able to resume daily tasks like walking alone, crossing the road,       and even driving [5.1].
Following these successful treatments, in 2010 the UK Stroke Association,       which supports stroke       survivors and their families, began to include information on how to       access the new therapy in its       annual factsheet [5.2].
Commercial impacts:       In 2009, Sight Science Ltd was spun out of the University of Aberdeen to       take the new therapy to       the marketplace.
In 2012 the company was acquired by its only worldwide       competitor, NovaVision       Inc, which is part of a US Stock Exchange-registered medical device       company, Vycor Inc.
The       acquisition has resulted in job protection and formalised a partnership       with the University of       Aberdeen for commercialisation of all future vision-related products.
Sahraie is funded by the       Vycor group for a minimum of five years, taking the role of Chief       Scientific Officer in NovaVision       with the aim of further developing new techniques and building on the       science base in order to       work towards the next generation of vision therapies.
[5.3].
The commercial aspects of the technology are protected by UK priority       patent Sahraie (No.
0513603.1; 30/06/2005), subsequently granted in the UK, Germany, France,       Switzerland (No       1906907; 17/11/2010) Singapore (No.
138426 14/01/2010) and pending in the       US and Canada.
[5.4]     Raising awareness and understanding:       Sahraie and his team have introduced health practitioners and the general       public to this particular       type of vision loss seen in stroke patients, and the new way of treating       it, through active public       engagement both in the UK and abroad.
UK events where they presented their       findings included:            the UK Stroke Forum 2009 in Glasgow, organised by the Stroke         Association and attended         by rehab workers, stroke physicians and similar health practitioners         [5.5]       the Moray Vision Awareness Day at Elgin in 2010, staged by NHS         Grampian and involving         a number of local sight loss charities;       the Scottish Vision Strategy Spring Conference 2011 in Stirling, again         an event mainly         attended by health practitioners [5.6];       Caf&#233; Scientifique in Aberdeen, where around 60 members of the public         attended Sahraie's         talk in March 2013.
Internationally, Sahraie et al presented their findings at:&#8212;            the University hospital in Geneva, Switzerland, where Sahraie         addressed an audience of         neuropsychologists and ophthalmologists in 2009;       the Hanse-Wissenschaftskolleg, an independent research         foundation and debate forum in         Delmenhorst, Germany, where he presented his findings in 2010 and again         in 2011;       the 2012 conference of the Association for Research in Vision and         Ophthalmology (ARVO)         in Florida, whose members include clinical practitioners [5.7].
Feedback from these events has included enquiries from centres in       Cambridge and Ireland who       expressed an interest in using the new therapy.
In February 2010, the University of Aberdeen publicised the launch of       Sight Science and the new       therapy.
Media coverage achieved during that month included stories on STV       News (featuring a       stroke patient benefitting from the new therapy) [5.8]; a large feature in       The Sun, Britain's biggest       selling newspaper [5.9]; and reports in other local and regional print and       broadcast media.
The       media coverage stimulated public debate and generated increased numbers of       enquiries from       members of the public.
The acquisition of Sight Science by NovaVision was       covered by the       Ophthalmology Times, a specialist clinical magazine, in January       2012.
Therefore the impact, as defined by REF, was that the invention has         impacted on health and         welfare as a new therapy has been developed.
The invention has had         impact on commerce as         new products have been successfully commercialised by the University of         Aberdeen spin-out,         leading to its acquisition by a major international company.
