     This research has provided new training and assessment tools designed to       raise awareness of       human factors in patient safety and to enhance the non-technical skills of       clinical practitioners       working in the operating theatre.
These tools have been adopted by       surgical and anaesthetic       professional bodies in the UK and beyond, influencing medical education,       clinical guidelines and       professional standards and training.
Since 2008, the Royal College of Surgeons Edinburgh (RCSEd) [5.1] has       delivered (with input from       University of Aberdeen psychologists), a programme of courses on surgeons'       non-technical skills       using the NOTSS system.
These are: Training the trainers online training       programme (NOTSS in a       box); NOTSS Masterclass since 2009 (high-level skills course with       international delegate list, 110       trained to date); International NOTSS workshops (e.g.
Melbourne,       Philadelphia, Budapest, Ottawa,       Lisbon, Tokyo ,Kuwait &#8212; approx.
120 trained to date; workshops for Macau       and Hong Kong later in       2013); with an e-learning module for surgical trainees.
Safer Operative       Surgery (SOS) courses       held across NHS institutions since 2007 were delivered by the NOTSS       faculty of the University of       Aberdeen and RCSEd.
(120 delegates).
These also use the ANTS and SPLINTS       tools.
[5.1]     The Intercollegiate Surgical Curriculum Project (ISCP) [5.2] decided to       adopt the NOTSS system       for assessment of all surgeons in training in the UK in 2012.
In the USA,       SCORE (Surgical Council       on Resident Education) decided (June 2013) to incorporate NOTSS in their       curriculum for the next       academic year as a method of teaching and assessing senior residents.
This       means that       practically every surgical resident in the US will spend December 2013 on       two NOTSS modules       (cognitive skills, social skills).
The American College of Surgeons       included a whole day training       workshop on NOTSS at the 2013 congress (Washington, October), led by a       Harvard surgeon [5.3].
The Royal College of Surgeons England training course `Patient Safety in       Theatre Teams', which       began in 2012, uses the ANTS, NOTSS and SPLINTS tools as core elements of       the course.
[5.4]     The Royal Australasian College of Surgeons, adopted the NOTSS system in       2008 as part of their       competence framework for surgeons (Professional Standards Document).
This       is included in their       updated 2011 /12 version and they have developed a Faculty of surgeons who       are running NOTSS       training courses, with 12 courses scheduled for 2012/13.
To date 20       faculty have been trained to       teach this course, with 340 attending.
The Australian and New Zealand       College of Anaesthetists is       developing a similar 'professionalism guide' and is intending to use ANTS       as part of it (Dr Graham,       ANZCA, personal communication June 2013).
The Royal College of Anaesthetists in London began using ANTS in its       Certificate of Competence       in training (CCT) in 2007, also in later editions.
[5.5] In 2011, it       issued advice that ANTS could be       used as part of a retraining package for staff returning to work after       maternity leave.
The May 2011       council meeting of the Royal College of Anaesthetists referenced the       research by discussing the       merits of attaching the correct importance to anaesthetic non-technical       skills in arranging Specialty       Trainee year 3 appointments (ST3).
[5.5] ANTS is used to build a new       method of assessment in       the selection of anaesthetic trainees in South West England.
[5.5]     The ANTS framework was incorporated into the UK National Advanced and       Immediate Life       Support Courses validated by the Resuscitation Council (UK) in 2011.
[5.6]       These courses are       taught to every medical graduate in the UK and many other senior       clinicians (e.g.
nursing,       dentists).
The European Board and Section of Anaesthesiology under the       European Union of       Medical Specialists (Union Europ&#233;anne des M&#233;dicins Sp&#233;cialistes) specified       ANTS as a `part of       the core competencies for postgraduate training in anaesthesiology in       2011.
[5.8]       Training in the use of the tools has been devised for surgeons (see       above), anaesthetists and       scrub practitioners, with workshops run since 2008 in the USA, Australia,       New Zealand, Japan,       Malaysia, Denmark, Austria, Canada, Hungary and Spain.
The tools have       received international       recognition and the frameworks are now being adopted in other countries       (NOTSS translated into       Japanese and Danish; ANTS into Korean, Japanese, German, Danish, SPLINTS       into Japanese).
The ANTS tool was made freely available from the start, and the NOTSS and       SPLINTS tools are       available on request via the tool website.
Since October 2012, over 80       requests from scrub       practitioners for SPLINTS have been received from China, Denmark [5.9],       Australia, Canada,       Sweden, New Zealand, India, Korea, USA, Latvia, Germany, Italy,       Switzerland [5.10], Hong Kong,       Iran, Malaysia and Thailand, as well as the UK.
A book of collected papers from the first specialist meeting to discuss       the measurement of non-technical       skills in the operating theatre, (attended by psychologists, surgeons,       nurses and       anaesthetists) was Highly Commended in the surgery category of the British       Medical Association       Book of the Year 2010.
This knowledge transfer event was established by       the Aberdeen research       team as an annual event, and the Karolinska Institute in Stockholm hosted       it in 2013.
The development method and design framework have been adopted by other       clinical specialities,       such as emergency physicians (Flowerdew, Annals of Emergency Medicine,       2012), who have used       it to develop similar tools for their professions.
Therefore the impact, as defined by REF, was in professional practice,         standards, assessment         methods and training; decisions by professional bodies have been         influenced by this research into         non-technical skills and professionals and practitioners have used the         research findings in         conducting their work.
