     In July 2008, Wischik and Harrington presented their Phase 2 trial       findings to seismic effect at the       International Conference on Alzheimer's Disease (ICAD) in Chicago.
Over       2,000 delegates,       including scientists, clinicians, people with dementia, family members,       and care professionals were       among the first to hear the momentous news that Aberdeen's research had       provided the first       clinical evidence demonstrating that a treatment based on tau aggregation       pathology may delay       the progression of cognitive decline in both mild and moderate       Alzheimer's.
To understand the       immediate impact of this news, one needs to remember that up until then       the search for effective       Alzheimer's treatments had focused on amyloid-based treatments with       generally disappointing       clinical results.
The Aberdeen research suggested not only an alternative       approach but one that       had already shown positive clinical results.
[a]     Aberdeen's Communications Team says, "This was the University's biggest       ever news story,       leading the national and international network news across the world and       generating awareness       and responses from the families of sufferers and charity organisations       involved in the area of       research and care of people suffering from dementia" [b].
In the month       following ICAD 2008, more       than 100 major media outlets reported on Aberdeen's research.
On 29/07/08       TAI was the lead       story on the BBC and ITN 10 PM TV News and, the next day, was reported in       depth on CNN and       ABC in America [c].
International awareness of Aberdeen's research since 2008 has contributed       to new commercial       opportunities.
Since 2008, US$335 million of international corporate       investment has gone into new       TAI research via TauRx Therapeutics Ltd - a University spin-out company       where Wischik serves as       Executive Chairman and Harrington as Chief Scientific Officer.
As well as       supporting 40 full-time       research positions at Aberdeen, this investment has partially funded the       continued employment of       six collaborative researchers in Berlin and full funding for another six       in Warsaw since 2008.
Further funding for positions at Aberdeen has been provided since 2010 by       the research-based       partnership agreements with Bayer Healthcare and Piramal Imaging.
[d]     As a result of the research, at least 20 patents have been published (11       since 2008), with many of       these already granted.
This demonstrates that the novelty and utility of       the research have been       acknowledged by patent offices.
[e]     In January 2013, the University's business relationship with TauRx was       the subject of a special       presentation highlighting innovation in life science at the "Managing       Innovation" Conference in       Warsaw, Poland.
The aim of this conference is to boost high tech,       academic-commercial       innovation in Poland.
Wischik addressed an audience that included founders       of successful high-       tech companies, scientists, entrepreneurs, investors, and funding agency       leaders such as Poland's       Ministry of Science and Education and its National Centre for Research and       Development.
[f]     In addition to the 1,500 AD patients being enrolled in the global Phase 3       trials of the Aberdeen-       developed medicine, there are also one hundred patients who, since the       Phase 2 trials ended in       2008, have been prescribed the medicine by their physician because they       have found it has       benefitted their quality of life.
Among the benefits described by patients       using the drug and their       families are an improvement in levels of concentration and greater       alertness leading to recovered       confidence and an ability to cope.
[g]     The Aberdeen research has continued to attract both international       scientific attention and media       headlines since 2008.
Wischik presented Aberdeen's ongoing TAI research to       fellow leading       clinical researchers at the Clinical Trials Conference on Alzheimer's       Disease in Monaco in October       2012, and again at the Alzheimer's Disease International Conference in       Taipei, Taiwan in April       2013 - a gathering of more than 1,000 medical professionals, dementia       experts and national       Alzheimer's associations from more than 60 countries.
In the wake of these       events, the Aberdeen       research once again was the subject of reports in the UK's Daily Mail and       Daily Express, The       Times of India and the Wall Street Journal.
[h,i].
Therefore the claimed impact as defined by REF is that: the research         affected commerce by         creating a new spin-out company, through investment by industry in         research and through the         creation of jobs.
