     The research programme has been designed to maximise impact on public       policy, commerce and society through direct interaction of researchers and       management organisations, industry support for research and academic       consultancy, and the integration of research output into education, media       and public arts programmes.
Influencing environmental policy decisions and the management of         natural resources The presence of Aberdeen's comprehensive research       programme in important marine mammal habitats led to Thompson joining       groups that developed frameworks to manage EU Special Areas of       Conservation [SNH Regional and Science Board Member (1993-1997) and       Scientific Advisor for the Moray Firth SAC Management Group (2000-2009)].
Work with this broad range of stakeholders facilitated dissemination of       relevant research on population drivers and underpinned subsequent policy       changes in the way that Scottish Government manages these natural       populations when regulating offshore energy developments.
Working through       a broader group led by the Scottish Government, Aberdeen research       demonstrated that population declines were linked to high levels of       shooting [4].
This led to a paradigm shift in the way Scottish seal       populations are managed through the 2005 Moray Firth Seal Management Plan       and the new 2010 Marine (Scotland) Act [b].
Industry support for research The impact of Aberdeen's research on       offshore energy developments arose through Talisman Energy (UK) Ltd.       jointly funding a PhD.
Talisman subsequently contracted Aberdeen to       conduct offshore cetacean surveys that were completed in 2001, supporting       work on their Beatrice Oilfield.
This led to an invitation to join a       multi-disciplinary consortium, partly funded by the EU Framework 6       programme, to assess the impacts of deepwater wind farms during       construction of the Beatrice Demonstrator Turbines.
A key output of this       work [6] recommended new approaches for assessing cetacean responses to       industrial noise.
At this time, public and scientific concern over       potential impacts on EU protected populations of bottlenose dolphins had       resulted in DECC freezing plans to further develop oil and gas production       in the region.
As a result, Thompson was invited by DECC to design a &#163;1.9       million research project that, in 2010, provided them with sufficient       understanding of cetacean populations in the affected areas to allow       further seismic surveys [a] and, in 2011, studied cetacean responses to       those surveys.
Academic consultancy This research has directly impacted the       consenting process adopted by the two offshore wind farm companies       developing projects within the Moray Firth - Moray Offshore Renewables Ltd       and Beatrice Offshore Wind Ltd, international leaders in this sector.
No       procedures previously existed for assessing construction impacts on EU       protected populations of marine mammals, resulting in a serious consenting       risk for these and other UK offshore wind farms.
Thompson worked with       these environmental and engineering teams [c], liaising closely with       regulatory bodies, and led the development of a framework for assessing       impacts on protected seal populations [d].
This has been used in consent       applications during 2012, demonstrating how planning decisions have been       informed by this research [a].
Other developments are now generalising       these processes for use in areas which lack the local data available to       the Moray Firth developers through Aberdeen's research programme.
Public understanding of environmental and policy issues In       parallel to these developments, recent outreach has focused on activities       that improve stakeholder and public understanding of underwater noise       issues, and inform debate on balancing the demands of EU legislation on       nature conservation and carbon emissions [e].
An arts-science       collaboration funded by Creative Scotland and Highlands &amp; Islands       Enterprise attracted national media coverage for works by sound and visual       artists, and Aberdeen researchers co-organised workshops for schools and       for the regulators and statutory advisors who are dealing with offshore       renewable planning applications.
Claimed Impact as defined by REF: Decisions by regulatory authorities         have been influenced by research, industry has invested in research and       development, new assessment processes have been adopted, and public         understanding has improved.
