     The World Health Organisation estimates that depression affects about 121       million people and is a leading cause of disability worldwide.
A variety       of pharmacological agents are available on prescription to reverse       clinical symptoms of depression, improving mood and health.
However, these       often have side effects of varying severity including drowsiness, sleep       disorder, nausea and in older patients, increased risk of bone loss and       fracture as a result of a fall.
Abrupt termination of medication with       these anti-depressants can cause serious withdrawal symptoms.
Disruption of circadian rhythms has been linked to endocrine and       physiological abnormalities and associated with depression.
Consequently       the circadian system is a target for therapeutic intervention in the       treatment of depression.
Melatonin is the key chronobiological hormone       which entrains the circadian system to the 24h light:dark cycle, through       melatonin receptors which express the brain's biological clock.
Disruption       of the natural 24h rhythm of melatonin production by the pineal gland       leads to sleep disorders and associated consequences, which can include       depression.
An important element of drug development is the acquisition of as much       detailed information as possible on potential therapeutic compounds.
This       is critical to enable informed decisions to be taken on whether       development of lead compounds should proceed in to clinical trial, given       the huge costs associated with clinical trial stages of development and       the need to provide detailed supporting information to regulatory       authorities.
The Aberdeen research provided important information on the       selectivity and efficacy of Servier's novel melatonin analogues at the       melatonin receptor, using both native and heterologous receptor expression       systems.
In turn this research contributed to the development of the drug       Valdoxan.
Valdoxan is a novel anti-depressant developed by the French       pharmaceutical company Servier, based on the melatoninergic system.
In       humans and animal models the drug has been shown to have positive outcomes       for disrupted circadian rhythms including by inducing phase advanced sleep       and body temperature decline, but the major beneficial effect was found to       be for the symptoms of depression.
The action of Valdoxan is through high affinity agonist activity at       melatonin receptors MT1 and MT2 and an approximately 3 orders of magnitude       antagonist activity at the 5HT2c receptor.
Valdoxan was developed with the       aid of strategic research funding provided by Servier to the       Morgan/Barrett laboratories to understand the mode of action of melatonin       and related compounds.
Valdoxan was licensed for use in the European Union       in 2009.
Valdoxan is a highly valued alternative to other       anti-depressants, being very well tolerated with few side effects.
It is       the only anti-depressant drug to be brought to the market in the last 10       years and no other compound with a similar activity has been registered,       making Valdoxan unique among the pharmaceuticals available to treat       depression.
Valdoxan is registered in 74 countries with 3 million       depressed patients having received or receiving treatment with Valdoxan.
The award of the 2012 Italian Prix Gailen Innovative product award, a       prestigious prize in the field of biomedical and pharmacological therapy       which is assessed by a prominent panel of clinicians, toxicologists,       pharmacologists and pharmacists acknowledges Valdoxan as an innovative       anti-depressant therapeutic [e].
In summary, with the aid of investment from industry, research undertaken       at Aberdeen University contributed to the development of a novel       antidepressant drug that provides a new clinical intervention without side       effects experienced with previously available antidepressants that will       make a significant impact on the health and well-being of those afflicted       by depression.
The investment in research and development funded by       Servier into the Morgan/Barrett lab continued for over 10 years and       involved extensive interaction and collaboration.
This required regular       reports and project meetings (2-3 per year) between Servier and the       Morgan/Barrett team.
Claimed impact as defined by REF guidance: A new product has been         commercialised, which has efficacy to improve public health and         well-being involving a new process (a new paradigm for the treatment       of depression).
