     Patient health and welfare: The study of cannabinoid pharmacology       performed by Pertwee and others led to the British company, GW       Pharmaceuticals, developing the cannabis-based medicine, Sativex&#174;.
Pertwee's research was invaluable as stated by the chairman of GW       Pharmaceuticals, Dr Geoffrey Guy, "He has played a pivotal role in       cannabinoid science, which has led to GW's development of Sativex&#174;, the       world's first cannabis based medicine..." [a].
In 2013 Pertwee received       the International Association for Cannabinoid Medicines special award "for       his major contributions to the re-introduction of cannabis as a medicine".
Sativex&#174; is an oromucosal spray which reduces suffering and increases the       quality of life of MS patients and removes any need to self-medicate with       cannabis obtained illegally.
Internationally, Sativex&#174; has been approved       as a treatment for spasticity and pain caused by MS in 20 countries, in       eight of which commercialisation has now commenced.
GW Pharmaceuticals is       awaiting product licences in two further countries (Italy and Ireland)       that have recommended approval.
Regulatory applications have also been       submitted in Switzerland and seven countries in the Middle East.
In the       US, phase III clinical trials for treatment of pain in cancer patients are       underway.
Sativex was licensed in the UK in 2010.
Pertwee's earlier input to the       House of Lords Select Committee on Science and Technology [b] helped       progress the legal issues hitherto slowing the development of       cannabis-based medicines and therefore allow its 2010 licensing.
One UK       Sativex&#174; user who used to self-medicate with cannabis and blogs about the       benefits of the new treatment is Sarah Martin [c].
At Pertwee's suggestion       (2011), she became UK "Patient Representative" of the International       Association for Cannabinoid Medicines.
A colleague of Pertwee's, Dr William Notcutt, Consultant in Anaesthesia       and Pain Management at James Paget University Hospital, Norfolk [d], and       who treats patients with Sativex, testifies to the significance of Sativex       in improving the quality of life of patients and carers:     "Sativex has been shown to have significant effects on symptoms such         as spasticity, muscle spasms, sleep disturbance, pain, bladder         dysfunction and quality of life for about 50% of patients who are poorly         responsive to other therapies.
The improvements with Sativex can be         substantial for the patient in improving mobility, spasm and spasticity,         pain and sleep.
For the carers, ...any improvement on mobility is a         help.
50% of carers/spouses also have a substantial reduction in sleep         disturbance."
Collaborations with industry: Pertwee has been Director of       Pharmacology for GW Pharmaceuticals since 2002 [a] having previously had       formal cannabinoid-related links with other pharmaceutical companies (e.g.
Pfizer and Organon).
In addition to his own research on cannabinoid       pharmacology, Pertwee has established collaborative links with research       groups around the world to study the therapeutic properties of       cannabinoids.
This ongoing partnership between the University of Aberdeen       and industry has enabled the discovery and development of other       cannabis-based medicines with important new therapeutic applications, such       as treating obesity, treating Parkinson's Disease and for suppressing       nausea/vomiting in patients undergoing chemotherapy.
Public engagement: The underpinning research and development of       Sativex has contributed to the public debate on cannabis [e] and has been       discussed by Pertwee at the British Science Association's Festivals of       Science, which are organized for the general public.
His presentations at       these events at Trinity College Dublin in 2005, Aston University,       Birmingham, in 2010 and Aberdeen in 2012 attracted audiences of around 100       members of the public.
In addition, Pertwee was a major invited contributor to a Wellcome       Witnesses to Twentieth Century Medicine seminar entitled "The       Medicalization of Cannabis", which took place in London in March 2009 [e].
The audience was comprised of medical staff, clinicians, pharmaceutical       companies and MS patients.
He also gave an invited talk on cannabinoids to       the general public in London at a Royal Institution event run in       association with the University of the Third Age (March 2011).
This too       attracted an audience of at least 100.
This work contributed to raising awareness and understanding of cannabis       as a source of medicines in many media interviews, including BBC Radio 4's       science discussion programme The Material World (August       2008); Radio 4's Today programme (September 2010, around 7 million       listeners); and BBC Breakfast TV (September 2010).
Impacts on policy and legislation: In 2009, Pertwee was requested       by the Home Office, on behalf of the Advisory Committee on the Misuse of       Drugs, to provide advice about how best to define cannabinoid receptor       agonists in a manner that would facilitate future UK cannabis/cannabinoid       legislation.
In 2011 Pertwee influenced Canadian healthcare guidelines by assisting in       the composition of Health Canada's "Information for Health Care       Professionals-Marihuana" document, providing pharmacological information       and identifying new potential therapeutic uses for cannabinoids [f].
Cannabinoid patent co-inventor: Pertwee is a named inventor of six       GW Pharmaceuticals patents and two University patents.
The former are       directly linked to the development of new cannabis-based medicines       ("beyond" Sativex&#174;) [g].
Therefore the claimed impact as defined by REF is that: the quality of         life of individuals has been enhanced and well-being improved.
Healthcare guidelines have been influenced by research.
Public         understanding of the subject has improved.
Industry has invested in         research and development and a new product has been commercialised.
