     Reid's research directly impacted upon government conservation and       agricultural policy regarding the conservation of an important protected       population of red-billed choughs in Scotland, and consequently impacted       conservation policy-makers and practitioners and farmers.
Reid's analyses identified specific areas of the Scottish island of Islay       that contribute substantially to chough population growth rate and hence       to maintaining a viable population of this Annex 1 species [4].
Her       analyses were used to designate a major SPA on Islay (Gruinart Flats,       total area 3261 ha [a]) with chough as a `qualifying interest'.
Reid's       work [6] has subsequently supported a statutory condition assessment of       Scottish chough SPAs, causing some to be deemed in `Unfavourable'       condition relative to stipulated baselines [b].
This is now prompting       further monitoring and action by governmental and non-governmental       organisations.
Reid's research provided the rigorous understanding of demographic and       ecological constraints on chough population growth rate that was required       to write chough-specific management options into the Scottish       agri-environment scheme (the Scotland Rural Development Programme, SRDP       [4-6]).
Farmers in specific areas of Islay that were highlighted by the       research can now apply for agri- environment funding to undertake land       management activities that benefit choughs [c].
These activities include       bespoke grazing and cutting regimes, and providing or maintaining chough       nest sites, in key locations identified by Reid's research.
The first       applications have now been approved and funded to a total value of       &gt;&#163;250k.
This agri-environment scheme has therefore changed agricultural       practices on Islay, and injected substantial resources into the rural       economy.
Reid's quantification of recent unprecedentedly high juvenile mortality       prompted an SNH programme of emergency supplementary feeding, now funded       for 4 years, and an associated policy review [8, 9].
This programme has       added a new dimension to conservation policy, and is directly impacting       the state of the protected population [d].
Reid pro-actively disseminated the research to conservation managers,       policy-makers and practitioners, farmers and the wider public through       ongoing activities designed to maximise impact:     (i) The NERC Knowledge Transfer research project culminated in the       production of a major research and policy report [e].
This summarised the       key policy-relevant results of the primary research, and included a set of       policy recommendations that were agreed through a two-day round-table       discussion that involved Reid, conservation managers and practitioners       from SNH and Royal Society for the Protection of Birds (RSPB), farmers and       scientists from Scotland's Rural College (SRC) and University of Glasgow       [e].
These recommendations were used to inform agri- environment policy       incorporated into the SRDP [c], and SNH's policy of funding emergency       supplementary feeding [8,9].
(ii) The `Scottish Chough Forum', which comprises Reid and       representatives from SNH, RSPB, SRC, Scottish Chough Study Group and the       University of Glasgow, meets twice per year to ensure ongoing effective       exchange between science and policy [b].
(iii) As part of the NERC Knowledge Transfer project an       international stakeholder conference was held in Ayr, Scotland in 2007.
Approximately 90 delegates attended the two-day workshop, including       scientists, policy makers and practitioners from England, Wales, Ireland,       France, Spain, Italy, Portugal and Canary Islands as well as Scotland.
This facilitated the transfer of new scientific understanding, and views       of emerging threats, to policy makers across Europe.
This meeting sparked       follow-up international meetings in Canary Islands (2011) and Portugal       (2013).
(iv) Reid presented her research to public audiences of farmers       and birdwatchers [f]: Scottish Ornithologists' Club (2011); Islay Farmers'       Association (2008 [g]); Scottish Ringers' Conference (2007).
Reid also       gave major invited plenary lectures to the public at the British Trust for       Ornithology Annual Conference (2011), and to policy makers and       conservation scientists at the Norwegian Academy of Sciences conference on       `Sustainability Conservation' (Oslo, 2010).
Reid's work has directly impacted upon public policy and policy-makers;       on resultant agricultural and conservation policy and hence on the       environment; and on public understanding of and participation in       conservation science.
It has directly impacted on governmental       conservation management by providing information and understanding on       which key policy discussions were focussed and policy decisions were based       [a-e].
In so doing, it has also benefitted the broader research and       conservation community in Scotland by providing a successful and ongoing       example of rigorous conservation science being translated into policy       [b,h].
It has directly impacted on agri- environment and land management       policy and on Islay's rural economy by leveraging substantial funding for       chough-friendly farming [c].
Such schemes are critical to maintaining       viable agriculture in Less Favoured Areas.
Importantly, it has directly       impacted on the agricultural environment that red-billed choughs inhabit,       positively impacting population size and persistence.
This further       benefits Islay's economy because choughs are a major ecotourism       attraction, thereby supporting visitor accommodation and hospitality       outlets and transport infrastructure.
The impact claimed as defined by REF therefore includes: environmental         policy decisions and planning decisions were influenced by research and         management, and conservation of natural resources has changed.
