     The research at the University of Aberdeen has given the pharmaceutical       industry a new paradigm       for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis and other inflammatory /       autoimmune disorders.
The       research identified a completely novel mechanism of action and biological       target for the treatment       of RA, which is now being translated into the next generation of drugs for       fighting the disease.
Compounds being taken forward to clinical trials were designed and       synthesised at Aberdeen,       which has received commercial investment in further research and       development via a spin-out       company and a licensing deal.
UK jobs have been created and protected, and       academics with the       relevant expertise have taken on new consultative roles in industry.
A licensing and co-development deal was reached in 2007 with Modern       Biosciences [a], a drug       development company which sources late-stage discovery projects from       academia and start-up       companies, conducts early proof-of-principle clinical studies and       out-licenses the resulting       programmes to the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries.
The deal       has brought potential       investment into the research of nearly &#163;5 million, which will take the       programme to a point of filing       an Investigational New Drug application, after which additional funds will       be sought to take a       candidate drug into Phase 1 and 2a studies, designed to prove safety and       preliminary efficacy.
These trials are expected to begin within a year, but tangible patient       benefits may still be several       years away.
Precedent deal values for products at a similar stage of       development (Phase 2a) have       reached as much as $600 million and the market worth for this product is       estimated at over &#163;5       billion [a].
Of course, the uncertainty of the market for new       pharmaceutical products means that it       is difficult to make precise predictions about either the financial       returns or the likely timescale of       commercial exploitation.
The funding the research has attracted includes over &#163;2 million from       Modern Biosciences for the       programme itself, with a further &#163;1.6 million from the government-backed       Biomedical Catalyst       award [a], which was launched in 2011 with the aim of boosting growth in       the UK life sciences       sector.
This award is to be matched by IP Group plc, a UK intellectual       property company which       aims to develop technology innovations in partnership with university       research departments and       which is MBS' lead investor.
Separately, the research brought in direct       grant funding of &#163;600,000       to Aberdeen University, enabling further drug discovery projects.
In terms of jobs created, this has meant six full-time posts, and a       further four expected over the       next two years, at a UK medicinal chemistry contract research       organisation, Peakdale Molecular       [a].
It is particularly encouraging that such expertise has been protected       from the general trend       towards outsourcing work to lower cost overseas organisations.
Greig was       taken on as an       intellectual property consultant by Modern Biosciences, a role which       involved writing patents.
He       has continued to write [g - i] and manage a portfolio of 8 published       patents [b - i], of which all have       been granted, and two further recent filings.
Greig was also taken on as a       medicinal chemistry       consultant by Modern Biosciences, initially providing hands-on synthesis       at Aberdeen (most of [g]       and much of [h]) and then more recently advising on drug design, with       synthesis conducted by       contract research organizations [a].
Commercial sensitivities on the part of Aberdeen's industry partners have       precluded media or other       public engagement about the potential patient benefits of the research.
Claimed impact as defined by REF: Industry has invested in research         and development; a new         product has been commercialised by the University of Aberdeen, via         spin-out and a licensing deal;         UK jobs have been created and protected; skilled people have taken up a         specialist role (via         academic consultancy) in industry; and a new process (in terms of a new         paradigm for the         treatment of rheumatoid arthritis) has been taken up by industry.
