     Together the University of Aberdeen and the city of Aberdeen have become       a major centre for the new technology known as biologics, the synthesis of       medical compounds from living organisms.
Much of this can be traced to       Porter's earlier research on shark antibodies as a new platform for drug       discovery, which led industry to adopt the new technology and invest in       its research and development.
Haptogen, an antibody drug discovery company       spun out of the University of Aberdeen by Porter, had a leading role in       the early years of this century in the "biologics revolution."
In October       2007, in a deal whose figures remain confidential, Haptogen was acquired       by Wyeth Inc, at that time the ninth largest pharmaceutical company in the       world.
Wyeth retained and grew the highly skilled research team in       Aberdeen, and the new Wyeth facility, opened by Scotland's First Minister,       in March 2009, became the cornerstone of growth in biologic based       companies in the city, many of which were established and supported by       personnel trained in Haptogen (e.g.
NovaBiotics Ltd, Cyclogenix Ltd,       Scotia Biologics Ltd,).
The world's largest bio-pharmaceutical company,       Pfizer plc, took over the Aberdeen facility in late 2009 when it acquired       Wyeth, and expanded the Aberdeen facility to 25 research science jobs at       its peak in 2010.
The success of this first spin-out has led to a growth in equity       investment into Aberdeen spin-outs and continued commercial investment       into pharmaceutical research and development.
Therefore spin-out       businesses and jobs have been created and highly skilled people have taken       up specialist roles in companies.
For example, Grampian Bio-Partners Ltd       (GBP), a life sciences investment specialist, was established by members       of some of the former directors of Haptogen in 2008.
Staff from Haptogen       have successfully spun-out companies in Aberdeen based on protein       technologies, new methodologies and skills they had acquired from       Haptogen.
For example, Duncan McGregor became CEO of Cyclogenix Ltd, which       develops novel micro-protein display scaffolds as potential drugs and       employs seven staff.
Keith Charlton became CEO of Scotia Biologics Ltd,       producing therapeutic antibodies and employs ten staff.
In addition,       Soumya Palliyil and Porter head the Scottish Biologics Facility which       deploys a variety of antibody and other protein scaffold platforms to       support drug discovery programmes.
Porter has also acted as non-executive       director of NovaBiotics, since 2009, which have continued to develop       strongly in the antifungal drug market leading to the development of the       anti-fungal Novexatin&#174;.
The University of Aberdeen's recent pre-spin-out vehicle, Elasmogen,       based on Barelle and Porter's unique shark-derived VNAR platform and       patent position, is supporting ten full and part-time posts (including       commercialisation professionals in the UK) and has raised significant       amounts of "investor-ready" investment (e.g.
[h]) for what is planned as       the next generation of antibody therapeutics.
Aberdeen has established a       synthetic VNAR antibody library that contains more than 100 billion unique       clones.
This allows the selection of VNAR leads in a few weeks rather than       the months or years it used to take.
A key project has been to extend the       hitherto short period that some biologic drugs remain active in the human       body: a product created using the VNAR library has been shown in trials to       extend the half-life of certain drugs in several animal models including       late stage pre-clinical models, from a few hours to over a week.
It is       predicted (from in vivo models) to extend a drugs half-life to 20       days in humans.
Other programmes include bio-tools for Antibody Drug       Conjugate applications, a new type of targeted therapy for cancer and       inflammatory diseases.
The medium-term aim is to make Elasmogen an established biologics drug       discovery company, developing products both in-house and in collaboration       with larger pharmaceutical and bio-pharmaceutical enterprises.
The       programme of antibody generation via immunisation and the vast antibody       library is protected by patent filings (3, 4, 5, [d]).
The total patent       portfolio for just the University, including divisional and regional       grants, now stands at more than 20, with three patent families at its       core.
New patents from the team were filed in 2012 and 2013.
Porter and Barelle were sponsored by the British Government's Trade and       Investment ministry in 2013 to visit Japan and China, where they presented       their research to potential commercial partners and at scientific       conferences.
They presented at Europe's largest bio-partnering and       bio-investor gatherings, Bio-Trinity and EPIC Biotech, both London in June       2013.
The Aberdeen team's work around shark antibodies has aroused       considerable interest in the media, raising awareness and understanding of       this new technology among the general public (see [h] below &#8212; all February       2013, reporting new funding for the research).
Claimed impact as defined by REF: spin-outs have been created, highly       skilled people have taken up specialist roles in companies, industry and       venture money has been invested in patent protected research and       development, business has adopted a new technology, award winning industry       collaborations have been forged and jobs have been created.
