     Process through which the research led to the impact: The papers       that formed the basis of the IPCC chapter on agricultural GHG mitigation       came to public prominence in 2007 with publication of the IPCC 4th       Assessment Report.
As this was the first systematic, global, multi-gas       assessment of GHG mitigation potential in agriculture, it was quickly       seized upon by other global bodies (e.g.
United Nations Framework       Convention on Climate Change: [a]) prompting significant impact on       public policy, whereby guidelines were informed by the research       to set international and national GHG reduction targets, and identify cost       effective measures to meet these targets.
Impacts on commerce have       also occurred through adoption of the research by companies providing       consultancy to a number of international governments (e.g.
McKinsey &amp;       Co. [b]), and agri-food businesses who are able to improve their         performance by reducing expensive inputs.
Impacts on the environment have been even more significant,       leading to reduced climate impact of farming for growers &amp; suppliers       through changed management of the environmental risk presented by       GHG emissions.
Smith was approached by Unilever, acting on behalf of a       number of global agri-food companies in 2009, to develop the science       described above into a practical software tool that could be used across       the world in a variety of food supply chains to help the companies meet       their ambitions to significantly reduce GHG emissions from agriculture       [c].
The first version of the tool was delivered in 2010, and has since       been used in 16 farming systems, in 18 countries sponsored by 18 agri-food       companies and NGOs (e.g.
[c, d, e, g, h, I, j]).
Some of the largest       agri-food companies (e.g.
Unilever, PepsiCo, Tesco, Heinz, Sysco, and       Costco) sponsor this work, representing a significant proportion of global       agricultural food chains.
A number of these companies have ambitious       emission reduction targets (e.g.
PepsiCo aims to reduce emissions by 50%       in 5 years); these companies are now reducing GHG emissions by engaging       their producers in measures to reduce emissions, facilitated by the Cool       Farm Tool as described by the companies themselves in a number of case       studies (http://www.coolfarmtool.org/CaseStudies).
Contribution by the University of Aberdeen: The work described       above, culminating in the IPCC chapter, was underpinned by a sustained       body of research in Smith's team.
The IPCC chapter is necessarily       co-authored from experts around the world, but Smith led the team that       conducted the assessment, and was lead author of the chapter and       underpinning papers (see section 2).
The development of the software tool       was in collaboration with Unilever and the industry-funded Sustainable       Food Lab; Hillier and Smith led the scientific and technical aspects of       the development.
There are three levels of beneficiary: (1) policy makers who have       benefited from the science arising from the research to allow them to       design policy based on quantifiable outcomes and costs, (2) agri-food       businesses and farmers who, through the Cool Farm Tool, have access to       tools to help them reduce the environmental impact of their farming       operations, (3) society, which benefits from reduced climate change due to       reduced GHG emissions (which account for ~25% of human GHG emissions).
Claimed impact as defined by REF guidance:     Evidence of the extent of the impact described: 18 companies are       sponsoring the Cool Farm Institute which was set up to maximise global       access and use of the Cool Farm Tool to assess GHG emissions and devise       roadmaps for GHG emission reduction.
The work is having real impact e.g.
the PepsiCo "50 in 5" target was introduced in 2010 and the Cool Farm Tool       is one of two tools supporting this programme.
Emissions have been reduced       as a result.
Progress toward its "50 in 5" targets is published in       PepsiCo's yearly sustainability updates, which are published and       independently assured by Deloitte LLP.
Other examples include Unilever       which has embedded the Cool Farm Tool into its farmer and supplier       sustainable agriculture self-assessment platform, H.J.
Heinz which chose       to focus on a key crop and a major growing region &#8212; California tomatoes       -where they source from approximately 270,000 acres annually, and Oxfam GB       which has used the Cool Farm Tool to examine the       effects of climate change on smallholder farmers in Guatemala producing       frozen vegetables for export.
These and other case studies are described       at http://www.coolfarmtool.org/CaseStudies.
Impacts on the environment have already been significant through       quantified emission reductions on trial farms, and through engagement in       GHG emission reduction of previously unaware producers and farmers       supplying the global food companies listed, leading to a reduced         climate impact of farming for growers and suppliers.
Dates when impacts occurred: Society will ultimately benefit from       reduced GHG emissions from agriculture, but the benefits may not be felt       for some time since emission reduction has long-term, rather than       short-term, effects.
In the meantime, many other beneficiaries have       already benefited from the impact described here.
Policy makers and       shapers have already benefited from the science provided on GHG mitigation       potential in agriculture (e.g.
UNFCCC 2008 position paper for climate       negotiations: [a]) leading to impact on public policy, whereby guidelines         have been informed by this research evidence.
Similarly, agri-food       companies and farmers have already benefited through use of the Cool Farm       Tool to help reduce GHG emissions in their food supply chains which has       driven impacts on the environment through changed management         of the environmental risk presented by GHG emissions and impacts         on commerce by allowing agri-food companies to improve their         performance (both environmental and economic) by reducing inputs       [c].
