     The Scottish Government's decision to publish the University of       Aberdeen's windfarm carbon calculator online in 2008 [a] attracted       immediate attention from the national media, and transformed the       politically sensitive debate over the development of windfarms on Scottish       peatlands.
Carbon calculations are now an integral part of the planning       process, having progressed rapidly from a point where carbon       considerations did not factor in the conversation, even though the impetus       for windfarm construction is powered by global pledges to reduce       emissions.
The development of the calculator has involved years of in-depth       negotiations between the Aberdeen academics and regulatory bodies       (Scottish Executive, Scottish Environment Protection Agency, Scottish       National Heritage), NGOs (RSPB, John Muir Trust, National Trust) and       industry (Scottish Renewables, Scottish Power, Forestry Commission) to       ensure the tool is accepted by all.
There are five key beneficiaries;       Smith has communicated with all main parties through regular meetings.
The       windfarm industry has a tool that helps it demonstrate the environmental       credibility of a proposed site and speeds up the planning process,       evidenced by the successful application for Freasdail Windfarm in 2012       [f].
Community groups and NGOs have free access to a transparent       methodology that allows cases to be made against unsuitable developments.
Planning authorities can quickly check the carbon payback time of a       planned development.
Wider society, which recognises the urgent need to       reduce greenhouse-gas emissions by replacing fossil fuels, has a tool that       ensures the envisaged benefits of windfarms are achieved.
The Scottish       Government has been able to claim on its website that it is "a world       leader in advancing new scientific research on the carbon impact of wind       farms on peatlands, as part of our wider drive to promote best practice       for energy developments" [j].
The controversial 103-turbine wind farm in Shetland - the third biggest       in Scotland - received government approval in April 2012.
The calculator       informed three years of wrangling between developers Viking Energy [b] and       community groups like Sustainable Shetland [c] opposed to the plans.
Following carbon calculations, in September 2011 Viking agreed to scale       back its proposals, reducing the number of turbines from 150 to 127.
But       Ministers went further and granted consent for only 103 turbines, which       still provided an estimated &#163;30m in annual income for the local community,       according to BBC news.
The case encouraged the Scottish Government to fund       amendments to the windfarm carbon calculator and energy minister Fergus       Ewing launched a revised model in June 2011.
He issued a requirement that       all new windfarm Section 36 planning applications must use the calculator       "for assessing carbon losses and savings" in developments that generate       50MW of electricity or more [d].
Ewing said: "Planning authorities, like       all public bodies, have a duty to take account of the emission effects of       their decision-making, and they should encourage developers to use the       carbon assessment tool for all wind farms on peat as a matter of good       practice" [g].
The Government is considering an extension of the       regulations to smaller sites.
The long-term environmental impact of the decision is clear: developments       on sensitive peatlands are avoided and sensitive habitats protected.
Furthermore the carbon calculator has opened up opportunities for land       restoration.
Calculation of the impacts of different management strategies       of windfarm sites encourages developers to use their financial resources       to instigate peatland restoration and good practice to achieve a reduced       carbon payback time.
If developments are focused on disturbed sites, extra       resources available for restoration from the industry can have a positive       impact on these habitats.
But Aberdeen's research also provides a       scientific basis on which decisions can be made; it has contributed       rationale to debates where preconceived ideologies often cloud judgement.
The carbon calculator encourages developments on peatlands that are not       sensitive.
For example, Black Law windfarm in Lanarkshire is sited on an       area previously used for mining so the damage resulting from the       development is much reduced.
Aberdeen's research was cited in a Sunday       Herald article [e] in July 2008 to support criticism of a call by Scottish       Conservative MEP, Struan Stevenson, to ban wind farms from all peatlands.
His opponents, including Scottish Renewables, accused Stevenson of `bad       science', quoting Smith's published paper and referencing the carbon       calculator.
Further research published in Nature by Smith has shifted the       public debate further [6].
Based on new calculations the academics assert       that all developments on pristine peatlands should be avoided [h].
The       recommendation was made in a letter to Nature and covered by the Daily         Mail and The Press and Journal.
The John Muir Trust has used       this to support its lobbying for a Wild Land Designation in Scotland.
The       Scottish Government is considering the allocation of further funding to       Aberdeen to explore how the calculator can be adapted to assess wider use       of peatlands.
Claimed impact as defined by REF therefore is that: the Aberdeen work         has had an impact on public policy and services by stimulating public         debate, through changes to regulations and through implementation of new         technology, the Carbon Calculator.
It has impacted practitioners and         services that have used the research findings in conducting their work.
Further, it has had an impact on the environment by planning decisions         being informed by the work.
