     The StratLIP group's role in advancing the understanding of the       stratigraphy of the north-east       Atlantic has been integral to the exploration of oil and gas fields in the       north-east Atlantic Ocean.
The findings have informed every phase of the development process:       licensing applications,       planning of drilling programmes, drilling of wells and post-drill       evaluation.
Leading energy companies Chevron and Statoil confirm (1, 2) that without       Aberdeen's research,       their joint development of the Rosebank oil and gas field &#8212; heralded by       Chevron as "one of the last         great resource areas for the UK" at 240 million barrels of oil       equivalent &#8212; would not have been       possible.
The Rosebank project, a joint venture between Chevron North Sea       Ltd, Statoil (UK) Ltd,       OMV (UK) Ltd and DONG Exploration and Production (UK) Ltd was approved for       development by       Chevron in July 2012.
UK Energy Minister at the time, Charles Hendry,       described the project as a       "pioneer development" with the potential to substantially increase the       UK's proven oil reserves, and       create more than a thousand jobs (3).
Chevron's own reservoir mapping       model originally showed       that the development of Rosebank was not economically viable.
According to       the Leading       Geoscientist at Statoil, new data from Aberdeen suggested greater       intra-reservoir sand       connectivity than previously calculated, effectively reducing the element       of risk in drilling for oil.
They reran the reservoir model by inputting Aberdeen's data and found that       the number of       producer wells required to commence production had fallen to nine from 15       at a saving of &#163;600m       (&#163;100m per well).
Ellis says: "The greater confidence in reservoir         connectivity ... increased the         recovery factor from 25 per cent to 40 per cent, again having a         significant increase on the reserve         base and project profitability."
In effect this 15 per cent increase       proved the difference between the       continuation and abandonment of the Rosebank exploration.
Aberdeen's work on the Rosebank field had a direct impact on the       development of neighbouring       field Cambo, jointly operated by Chevron and Hess.
The stratigraphic       framework devised by       StratLIP was applied during the drilling of an appraisal well and as a       Chevron Geologist confirms       (2), "the decision to continue (with the project) was greatly         influenced by the application of the         framework".
Ablard says an ecosystem model developed by Aberdeen for         Cambo has been         "instrumental in informing reservoir models giving a clearer         understanding of potential recoverable         volumes".
In other words StratLIP's input has enabled Chevron to       better identify the location of oil       and gas deposits in the Cambo field, which contributed to a decision in       November 2012 to drill the       Cambo-5 oil well (4).
In the wider Northeast Atlantic, StratLIP has greatly increased the       regional understanding of the       relationship of the dominantly volcanic Flett Formation to that of the       underlying marine sedimentary       rocks of the Lamba and Vaila formations.
This has given energy companies       much greater       confidence in pursuing deeper exploration targets than would be possible       if they relied on seismic       data alone.
In particular, the stratigraphical and palaeoenvironmental       context provided by       StratLIP's research has, according to Statoil (1), given the oil industry       the confidence to drill deeper       in areas of thick basalt lava cover.
Statoil, with partners ExxonMobil and       Atlantic Petroleum, began       drilling its Brugdan II Well into a sub-basalt section offshore the Faroe       Islands in June 2012.
As the       Leading Geoscientist at Statoil put it: "The cost of a typical well         drilled in thick basalt areas can be         in excess of &#163;100 million and therefore not undertaken lightly."
An example of the risk involved in deep-water drilling in frontier       provinces came with the       abandonment in 2011 of Chevron's Lagavulin well, west of the Shetland       Islands, which cost &#163;170m       to drill.
Findings by Jolley regarding the geology of the wider region are       informing Chevron's       explorations further afield, including more effective planning, to reduce       the risk of a similar outcome       in the future.
As well as benefitting the UK government's efforts to revive the UK's oil       and gas industry,       StratLIP's research has enabled the Faroese government to maximise the       economic potential of       the oil and gas resources situated within its maritime boundaries.
The       SINDRI Group (5), set up by       the Faroese government, comprises oil companies operating in the Faroese       region.
Its main       objective is to carry out joint projects to explore oil and gas reservoirs       in the Faroese continental       shelf.
Oil companies pay the Faroese government substantial fees for each       well drilled.
Reflecting       Aberdeen's influence in driving forward development of the NAIP, Sindri       granted StratLIP a total of       &#163;792,579 in funding between 2008 and July 2013 (Grant examples 1, 2       above).
The funding       decision in 2008 was covered by the Press and Journal and BBC Scotland       News.
