 Impact on Commerce Peppiatt-Wildman and Wildman's unique approaches to investigate kidney and bladder function in a range of experimental models, including tissue slices, isolated and perfused organs, and urine have received substantial industrial financial support and so this research has had demonstrable impact on commerce.
Initial research using the novel kidney-slice methodology was presented in an `invited speaker' acute kidney injury session at the American Society of Nephrology `Renal Week' meeting in 2011, a meeting which attracts ~13,000 international clinicians and researchers.
This presentation resulted, subsequently, in collaborative links being initiated with Pfizer USA and a collaborative research contract based on the application of the model to better understand acute kidney injury (AKI) is now in place at MSOP (Pfizer contract worth &#163;528K, 5.1).
Research at Pfizer has been directly influenced, therefore, by the possibilities opened up through use of this novel model and Pfizer have invested in this now because of its immediate potential for discovering new lead compounds for kidney disease (5.2).
In 2012, collaborative links were initiated with Biogen Idec (USA) and a pilot project, supported and funded by Biogen Idec (5.3), to investigate novel therapies in AKI is now underway to provide preliminary data for an MRC MICA application.
The direction of Biogen Idec's research programme has, therefore, been directly influenced by the research collaboration with Peppiatt-Wildman and Wildman (5.4).
Thus the focus and direction of research in two separate pharmaceutical companies has been directly influenced by the research of Peppiatt-Wildman and Wildman and these companies have invested in research and development as a direct result of this work.
This emphasises the requirement for Pharmaceutical companies to engage with Peppiatt-Wildman and Wildman in order to develop this model for their own internal use.
In the longer term, it is envisaged by both MSOP and industry that the impact of these two industry collaborations will be identification of novel therapeutics for AKI.
Impact on Clinical Practice The novel approaches developed have also made an impact on clinical practice.
Peppiatt-Wildman and Wildman initiated collaborative links with the Centre for Nephrology at UCL in order to identify how this novel model and methodology might be applied to address specific clinical problems.
Their methodology was used to address a highlighted clinical problem of drug-induced nephrotoxicity that was observed in a wide cross section of patients exposed to non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs and also in HIV patients being treated with anti-retrovirals.
This pioneering research not only addresses a costly clinical problem but also demonstrates how this model can be used to characterise other known cases of drug-induced nephrotoxicity.
Both Peppiatt-Wildman and Wildman hold Honorary positions in the Division of Medicine at UCL and provide lectures to renal clinicians, including the Renal Physiology for Clinicians accredited CPD course, which informs clinicians of new and apposite basic and clinical renal research.
In 2012 Peppiatt-Wildman and Wildman began working with nephrologists at Kent and Canterbury Hospital to address nephrotoxic side-effects associated with immunosuppressant medication commonly prescribed to renal transplant patients.
This work has resulted in an internal review of combination drug therapies and funding from Kidney Research UK.
Additionally, research into the chronic recalcitrant UTIs associated with renal transplant patients (using advanced urinalysis imaging), has instigated a local trial of a series of `bedside' tests, using standard microscopy, to help identify patients likely to present with recurrent UTIs.
This work has also resulted in funding from Kidney Research UK to implement a longitudinal, comparative, observational study.
Nephrologists at Kent and Canterbury Hospital began developing new diagnostics for recurrent UTIs in renal transplant patients, involving simple imaging, and have altered clinical practice as a result of this research collaboration (5.5).
Also in 2012, Peppiatt-Wildman and Wildman began investigating the aetiology of OAB using advanced imaging methodologies, in collaboration with clinicians at Medway NHS Trust.
The research collaboration focuses on the aetiology of OAB, a comprehensive search for biomarkers, and developing better `bedside' tests, of which the most promising involve simple imaging.
As a direct result of the collaboration, a laboratory has now been established at Medway NHS Trust Outpatients Department.
This serves primarily as an adjunct to continence clinics providing rapid, cost-effective, `bedside' urinalysis (including imaging of fresh urine samples) to inform treatment strategies.
In a short period of time this research collaboration has altered clinical practice (5.6).
Thus the impact of this research in clinical practice is the identification of a broader range of superior diagnostics that provides clinicians with the enhanced capacity to improve the health outcomes of their patients.
