     Our cryospheric research offers benefits to the non-academic scientific       community and to the       public, through improved understanding of the stability of polar ice       sheets and via our contributions       to public debates and understanding of sea level change and climate       change.
Non-academic scientific beneficiaries    Over the last decade, the findings of our research have been disseminated to     the scientific     community via several pathways, and have had direct impact on the work of     non-academic     scientific institutions.
The scientific output from Antarctica (Bingham) is     being used by the British       Antarctic Survey to reduce the uncertainty surrounding ice sheet     boundary conditions and     processes, and to improve constraints on future model-based predictions of     ice sheet response to     climate change.
The scientific output from the Greenland Ice Sheet (Mair) is     currently still being     used by the European Space Agency Cryosat programme to calibrate and     validate satellite radar     based ice sheet measurements models.
Additionally, Mair had central input to     the design of ESA's     CryoVex field experiments.
As a result, over the REF-reporting period     Bingham has been invited,     on the basis of his geophysical findings, to contribute to     glaciology/Antarctic tectonics workshops at     NASA (Washington D.C., February 2009) and the Polar Research Institute of     China (Beijing,     October 2010), and Mair was invited to participate in the ESA/NASA workshop     on satellite ice     sheet altimetry in Reykjavik in June 2009.
British Antarctic Survey (BAS)     Our acquisition, processing, analysis and provision to BAS of key       ice-penetrating geophysical       datasets across some of West Antarctica's most remote regions has       contributed to greatly-reduced       uncertainties in BAS's programme of numerically modelling the ice-sheet's       future.
BAS ice-sheet       modelling activities over the last six years have been dedicated to       providing greatly improved       predictions of the ice-sheet's fate and contribution to global sea-level       rise over the next 200 years,       to be included in the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change's 5th       Assessment Report (IPCC       AR5, due 2014).
A key deficiency of earlier generations of models was the       dearth of key model-input       data such as basic subglacial topography in some of West Antarctica's most       rapidly       diminishing regions.
Since 2006, our multiple-month field campaigns across       these areas have       provided the key input datasets most required by BAS modellers to meet the       IPCC AR5 goal.
The       radar and seismic data that we have collected have also been integral to       the construction and 2013       release of the Scientific Committee for Antarctic Research (SCAR) product       "BEDMAP2", a new       digital map of subglacial topography that is central to a range of core       activities conducted at BAS,       including "whole ice-sheet" modelling, geological reconstructions and       ice-core palaeoclimatic       interpretations.
The Science leader of the IceSheets programme at BAS       confirmed: "[...] the         datasets you collected have assisted in filling a crucial data gap [...]         and supported our ice sheet         modelling activities[...] which in turn were prepared to support the         upcoming assessment of the         IPCC" (1].
European Space Agency     Our early involvement with the ESA CryoSat Calibration and Validation       experiments from 2004 to       2006 has contributed to the eventual success of CryoSat2 in mapping the       elevation of the GrIS       with unprecedented accuracy in April 2012.
Our ground radar measurements       were made at the       same frequencies and wavelengths as the airborne radar equivalent of the       CryoSat radar altimeter       (ASIRAS) which flew across our transects directly over metallic corner       reflectors which we erected       and measured with differential GPS to determine precise elevations.
From       2007 until the launch of       CryoSat 2 in November 2010, ESA radar processing teams used our       understanding of the       temporal and spatial variations in the relative strength of natural       surface and near-surface radar       reflectors to help devise the most appropriate surface retracking       algorithms and compared airborne       and ground measurements of artificial corner reflector elevations to help       determine absolute       elevation accuracies.
ESA also continue to use our accumulation and       density measurements made       across Greenland in 2004 and 2006 to characterise temporal and spatial       covariance of annual       accumulation across the ice sheet and to constrain near surface       densification models that are used       to convert the ongoing CryoSat2 mission's elevation and volume change       measurements to mass       change outputs.
The head of the Campaign Section at the ESA has clarified:       "the main goal of the         CryoSat mission [...] is to provide cm-scale accurate measurements of         ice sheet elevation changes         to determine the changes in the land and marine ice masses.
Achieving         this challenging goal         requires the collection of independent measurements on the ground [...].
For this the European         Space Agency relies strongly on co-operation with scientists such as Dr.         Mair".
ESA confirm the       importance of the research findings in contributing to their work: "valuable         information on surface         melt and refreezing of the snowpack during the summer season [...] was         and continues to be         extremely useful both to better understand the nature of the CryoSat         radar echos from the ice         sheet, as well as transform ice sheet surface elevation measurements         into ice sheet mass change"       (2).
Public Understanding of Science     Our research has also achieved significant wider societal impact.
We have       used radio, television,       the internet and printed media to raise awareness of our work and explain       the importance of polar       science to different segments of the public.
For example, Bingham's       recent research on the       influence of subglacial rifting on the diminishing West Antarctic Ice       Sheet was reported in &gt;200       international media outlets, including the BBC Website (3], BBC World and       BBC Scotland Radio,       Scientific American (4), Time Magazine and NERC Planet Earth Online.
An       explanatory video of       the work was placed on YouTube and received 75,000 views in 3 days (5).
Bingham       has also       appeared on Sky News (2009) and the BBC Website (2008) reporting on his       research in West       Antarctica (6).
Mair has taken part in radio (BBC Scotland), TV       (BBC, ABC) and newspaper       interviews (Sunday Telegraph) both in the field and from the UK about his       glacial research and its       wider significance.
In September 2012 Bingham and Mair       organised, chaired and were panel       members of a British Science Festival event, watched by an audience of       over one hundred,       presenting and debating the future of our polar regions.
