     Prior to 2008, research in Aberdeen had already led to verification       research by the US-EPA       in the years after 2005.
In parallel, Chinese Import Regulations (a) had       also been revised to       establish a maximum permissible level of arsenic in grain that could be       imported.
This Chinese       hygiene regulation established, for the first time, not only a level for       total arsenic, but also for       inorganic arsenic in different grain types including rice (0.15 mg/kg)       thereby acknowledging the       different toxicity of the different molecular forms of arsenic in       foodstuffs.
No impact was witnessed       at that time, however, on the regulatory levels of either the EU or the       UK.
Subsequent research in       Aberdeen discovered that US rice has high levels of arsenic due to the use       of arsenic containing       herbicides on what were cotton fields but later converted in the Central       Mid-West to rice fields.
The       extremely high arsenic prevalent in Bangladeshi rice grown in the dry       season was due to irrigation       using water containing arsenic; and that while rice accumulates large       levels of arsenic, wheat or       barley does not because rice is grown in flooded paddy soil, in which a       different mobile form of       arsenic occurs which is more easily taken up by the plant.
Subsequently, and as a result of the Chinese regulation, rice-based       consumer products       were analysed in Aberdeen, and it was found that most did not meet the       Chinese standard.
This       triggered a study by the UK-Food Standard Agency (FSA) to conduct a study       on rice-based drinks.
Since the average rice milk had higher levels of inorganic arsenic than       would be allowed for       drinking water, public advice was issued in 2009 that children under 4       should not drink rice milk (b).
So called "health foods" such as bran, analysed in Aberdeen, also showed       elevated levels of       arsenic.
When the levels of inorganic arsenic in the consumer products       were combined both with       consumption data and with the toxicological assessments developed by the       US-EPA for arsenic in       water, the predicted excess cancer cases from eating rice were modelled.
All exceeded the 1 case       in 10,000 often used as a benchmark for an acceptable level of a       contaminant in food.
As a result       the FSA began to support Aberdeen's research (see grants listed in section       3).
We investigated       how the preparation of the rice has an influence on both the toxic form of       the arsenic, and its       amount (A).
However it was only when the results of an analysis of       baby-rice formula were       published (5), which found that a significant number of products (35%)       from the market did not       pass the Chinese regulatory limit that European regulatory authorities       began to pay attention.
At       this point (2009) an expert group of regulators, toxicologists and food       scientists were contracted by       the European Food Safety Authority (EFSA) to develop a scientific opinion       paper related to levels       of arsenic in foodstuffs, and whether there was scope to regulate it (c).
This EFSA paper       highlighted seaweeds and other marine foods, but principally the concern       was about arsenic, and       in particular inorganic arsenic, in rice and rice-based products.
They       concluded that there was       insufficient data available regarding inorganic arsenic in foodstuffs.
The       authorities in their surveys       only consider the total arsenic content, instead of identifying the       specific molecular form of arsenic       that is known to be a carcinogen, and only 2% of data contains the latter       information.
Hence, there       was a pressing need to show that a robust analytical method existed to       determine levels of       inorganic arsenic in rice and rice-based products.
Furthermore, it was       noted at the FAO/WHO Joint       Standard Program (2011) "... that more accurate information on the         inorganic arsenic content of         foods as they are consumed is needed to improve assessments of dietary         exposures of inorganic         arsenic species.
Analytical constraints to achieving this goal include         the lack of validated methods         for selective determination of inorganic arsenic species in food         matrices and the lack of certified         reference materials for inorganic arsenic in foods.
The proportion of         inorganic arsenic in some         foods was found to vary widely, indicating that dietary exposures to         inorganic arsenic should be         based on actual data rather than using generalized conversion factors         from total arsenic         measurements" (d).
Parallel to these developments Feldmann had been invited to join a       discussion group in       2006 at the EU-JRC, IRMM (Institute of Materials &amp; Measurements) to       discuss how the lack of       arsenic speciation data on consumer products could be alleviated These       discussions resulted in       the organisation of a world-wide proficiency testing (PT) (e) and the       development of rice as       reference material (g) in which inorganic arsenic was certified for the       first time.
The Aberdeen       researchers surveyed arsenic speciation in different rice products in the       EU, provided a rice flour       material, and studied the stability of a homogenised sample which could be       sent out for worldwide       PT to more than hundred laboratories to provide information about the       concentration of arsenic and       inorganic arsenic in this rice flour.
Not only was Feldmann's group chosen       to provide the rice       samples, it was also one of the five expert laboratories to identify the       "true" value, and provide data       for the stability and homogeneity of the arsenic and arsenic speciation of       the rice sample.
Overall       the proficiency testing was extremely successful, the analytical community       demonstrating that       more than 75% of the laboratories were able to analyse rice within an       acceptable level (e).
This led       to the decision that the introduction of a maximum regulatory level of       inorganic arsenic in rice       should not be postponed due to concerns over constraints or validation of       the analytical chemistry.
As a result, in 2012 the Joint (FAO/WHO) Food Standard Program with the       Codex       Committee for Contaminants in Foods tabled in their sixth session (26-30       March) a proposed draft       maximum level of arsenic in rice and the Food and Drug Administration       released their preliminary       data of rice and rice based products (g).
In parallel Aberdeen worked together with the EU-JRC-IRMM to generate a       rice flour reference       material in which not only total arsenic but also its molecular forms       especially the inorganic arsenic       were certified.
We provided the material and worked as the expert       laboratory on the certification       process.
The process was successful and the material was released on 28th       January 2013 (f) in       which for the first time the molecular forms of arsenic were certified.
This guarantees that sufficient       high quality and transparent data for inorganic arsenic in rice and       rice-based products will be       produced over the next year to provide confidence for agreement on a       maximum level of inorganic       arsenic in rice and rice based product at the EU level and worldwide under       the leadership of FAO       of the UN and the WHO (h).
Claimed impact includes evidence of enhancement of the quality of data       for contaminants       in consumer products by the development of an analytical method and       fostering a general       acceptance of analytical methods for the carcinogenic chemical form of       arsenic in foodstuff; public       health and well-being has improved; and dietary guidelines have changed.
