     This case study describes the impact of James' fundamental research into       welding and residual stresses which enabled development of fundamental       insights into FSW, resultantly to development of the automated Friction       Hydro Pillar Processing (FHPP) by James' long-standing collaborator,       Hattingh (in conjunction with James), the technology's development and       patenting as WeldCore and early industrial application in collaboration       with the South African Power Untility, ESKOM.
A spin-off company has been       formed to further develop the technology and apply across the globe.
Savings of more than &#163;66M, in addition to significant process and societal       impacts have already been achieved.
This technology has been piloted in providing power station engineers       with evidence that secures confidence in life extension of the current       power generating plant.
It has impacted on business performance by       allowing the postponement of major capital expenditure and a multi-million       pound cost saving.
The underlying research provides the necessary direct       link between FHPP welding conditions, the service performance and residual       stresses; this enables welding to be performed on safety-critical power       plant components using an automated platform.
Automated FHPP has been       termed Weldcore and provides structural information that was previously       unobtainable, which resultantly leads to longer service life of critical       structures due to improved monitoring; deferment of capital expenditure;       lower risk of catastrophic failure; and increased plant uptime, hence an       increased widespread operational profits [Source 5.1].
Weldcore allows cost-effective assessment and repair of creep exhaustion       in steam power plant components that would otherwise be difficult or       impossible to repair and to certify for continued safe operation.
The       technology and the impact thereof has only been possible because of a       long-standing collaboration between Hattingh and James, instantiated by       sabbaticals, shorter professional visits, collaborative research projects       and joint publishing, allowing James' fundamental insights to be applied.
WeldCore was developed at NMMU and was awarded first prize in the South       African National Innovation Competition in August 2010.
The process was       also awarded the prize for "research leading to innovation by a group" at       the South African National Science and Technology Forum awards in May       2011.
The underpinning research carried out by James on welding and residual       stresses facilitated focussed development of fundamental insights into FSW       and led to a number of collaborative strain scanning experiments with       James as PI.
Accurate knowledge of weld-induced residual stress       distributions and their modification by heat treatment is fundamental to       the all-important certification of new welding processes in the power         generation industry.
James has taken a leading role applying neutron       and synchrotron diffraction techniques to steam power plant via peer       reviewed experiments [5.2].
Making the weld certification case for       incorporation of the FHPP into power plant repair would not have been       possible without the detailed knowledge of residual stress fields afforded       by neutron and synchrotron diffraction experiments [5.3, 5.4].
Equally,       the process has to be controlled to deliver specific and reliable outcomes       in terms of microstructure, defects and residual stresses, which would not       have been possible without the type of in-depth knowledge and       understanding of process-property-performance linkages provided by the       research.
One example concerns blade attachment holes in the steam turbine rotor       discs of Hendrina Power Station in South Africa where original equipment       manufacturers (OEM) life calculations led to a replacement recommendation.
Turbine component design is complex and historically the industry follows       OEM replacement recommendations without testing true life exhaustion of       components with complicated geometries.
Testing the WeldCore FHPP platform for creep assessment and repair on       Unit 6 at Hendrina Power Station in 2011, showed that the creep life of       the high pressure turbine was less than 50% exhausted.
This was in       contrast to the OEM recommendations to urgently replace the turbines on       all ten units after their calculations indicated creep exhaustion levels       of &gt;&gt;100% at the unit life (270-300,000h of operation).
Unit 6 was       returned to service without further outage delay or operation with a       reduced output.
To meet the OEM's recommendations the alternative would be       to remove two stages of blades and run with reduced output until a       replacement turbine could be manufactured (2 years) and then enter into a       long replacement outage again (an additional 80 days [5.3]).
The work on       unit 6 demonstrated that the scheduled replacement of the turbines for all       ten Units at Hendrina Power Station (with a cost of over &#163;6.5M per unit)       could therefore be delayed until the decommissioning date of the Power       Station.
This condition monitoring and life extension of the discs saved         the power utility some &#163;65M in direct replacement costs and an extended         outage period [5.5].
Aside from the significant cost savings made,       the avoidance of any outage is particularly pertinent for ESKOM as whilst       "the international norm for spinning reserve is 15% ... Eskom currently         has on average 3% ... Any loss of generating capacity increases the risk         of load shedding (blackouts)" [5.3].
The extended outage period       avoided has been estimated as at least 8 weeks [5.3].
The work by Plymouth       on the performance-processing-weld parameters in FHPP was fundamental to       the certification and to the parametric design of the welding platform.
To maximise the impact of the research, James has also provided ESKOM       with CPD short courses on failure analysis.
During the most recent course       in 2011, 33 mechanical and materials engineers from ESKOM's Research,       Testing and Development department attended.
James delivered this training       at below market rates (R40000 paid rather than estimated market value of       R132000 [5.3, 5.4]) as part of the technology transfer process.
ESKOM       clearly regard the training as important stating: "failure analysis         knowledge is critical for engineers operating in our environment"       [5.3]     Since initial use on the turbine blades WeldCore has also been applied to       two main steam pipework applications at Lethoabo Power Station and a main       steam valve inlet pipe at Kendal Power Station.
At Lethoabo, application       of the technique (in 2012) proved that the components had to be replaced       (total cost = R318m (~&#163;19.8m)) in order to prevent a major safety incident       of these safety critical systems.
ESKOM views safe operation as extremely       important [5.3] and in early 2013 at Kendal, WeldCore proved that the       serviceable life of the steam valve inlet pipe could be extended, thus       saving ESKOM a further R16m (~&#163;1m) in parts/down time/etc.
costs.
[5.3]     Now that initial technology transfer and development work has been       completed a spin-off company (MantaCor (Pty) Ltd) was registered on 28       March 2011 and has been assigned the rights to conduct commercial       activities to develop and market the machines on a commercial scale.
As a       result of the early commercial work two further commercial projects with a       combined value of &#163;100k have been completed outside the scope of that       taken on for ESKOM and resultantly, a systems engineer, a process engineer       and two technicians are employed in South Africa [5.4.
5.6, 5.7].
