     The research has informed social-mobility policy in two main ways.
Firstly, through informing strategy, including influencing the policy of       government and third-sector organisations.
Secondly, through influencing       the development of practical measures to support breastfeeding &#8212; a key way       of fostering social mobility.
Informing social mobility strategy     The work conducted as part of the project on cross-national study of the       intergenerational transmission of advantage has played an important role       in informing the UK policy debate.
The first major impact of the study       stemmed from Del Bono and Ermisch's Educational Mobility in England       policy report for the Sutton Trust.
The Sutton Trust has stated that "the       research was a centrepiece for an international summit on social mobility       attended by the leaders of the three main political parties.
The policy       influence from this was manifested in the Coalition's 2011 Social Mobility       Strategy, which set out a number of key policies attempting to improve       social mobility" [corroborating source 1].
The Educational Mobility       report was referred to in the Sutton Trust's submission (October 2011) to       the House of Commons Education Select Committee inquiry into social       mobility [corroborating source 2].
In addition, the research on inequality       in adolescence, as well as other international evidence on the interaction       between educational institutions and social mobility, was presented at a       workshop held at the British Academy in May 2011 to an audience of       policymakers and journalists [3].
The Russell Sage Foundation, an American charitable organisation, has       outlined two specific impacts arising from Ermisch and Del Bono's (2012)       chapter on inequality in adolescent achievement.
Firstly, the findings of       this work were central to the Foundation's engagement with policymakers       and non-academic audiences.
A non-technical summary of the From Parents to       Children project, which highlighted the work of Ermisch and Del Bono, was       devised for the purpose of engaging with such audiences [4] [5].
Secondly,       the Foundation has confirmed that Ermisch and Del Bono's findings on       income gradients have led to investment in "several grants looking at       exactly these issues to build upon and extend the findings from the       Ermisch and Del Bono work".
Further to this, the Foundation now has four       visiting scholars working on these issues and is looking to fund further       projects on developmental patterns [5].
Influencing practical measures to support breastfeeding     Essex devised a programme of dissemination for the findings of the work       on social mobility and breastfeeding, which has led to various impacts.
In       October 2011, Essex organised a policy workshop, `Early Intervention and       Social Mobility: Are pro-breastfeeding policies worth it?'
at the British       Academy in London to discuss some preliminary results from the research.
The workshop was chaired by Dr Miriam Stoppard, a well-known author of       books on child development.
It featured a panel of healthcare experts and       representatives of third-sector organisations, including Janet Fyle       (Policy Advisor for the Royal College of Midwives), Alison Baum (CEO of       Best Beginnings), Belinda Phipps (CEO of the National Childcare Trust),       and an MP who is both a member of the Health Select Committee and chair of       the All Party Group on Maternity Services [6].
As an immediate consequence of this workshop, the MP addressed the       under-secretary of State for Public Health in a parliamentary debate on 21st       November 2011 to ask about the provisions set in place by the current       Government to support breastfeeding in the long-term [7] [8].
The MP, now       a Minister in the Department of Health, has confirmed that various policy       decisions have been informed by the research, including the Government's       support for the Healthy Child Programme, the inclusion of breastfeeding in       the Public Health Outcomes Framework, supporting breastfeeding through       increasing the number of health visitors, providing information about       breastfeeding through the NHS Information Services, and promoting National       Breastfeeding Awareness Week [8].
Essex research on breastfeeding and social mobility has been vital to the       work of UNICEF UK's Baby Friendly Initiative, which works with public       services to promote and support breastfeeding.
The Director of the       programme writes that "ISER's research has been valuable in giving strong       evidence for the efficacy of the Baby Friendly Initiative &#8212; particularly       in areas of lower socio-economic status, where breastfeeding is less       common" [9].
The necessity of providing such evidence is that "it is       important that we can show that the programme has a measurable impact on       practice and breastfeeding rates in order that the investment in staff       time and resources is justifiable &#8212; particularly during a time when       budgets are being cut" [9].
The Director also states that the research has       been providing vital evidence on why breastfeeding is important,       especially in providing an effective methodology to demonstrate the       association between breastfeeding and IQ [9].
Further to this, Iacovou and       Sevilla-Sanz's 2010 working paper is cited multiple times in a 2012 report       by UNICEF UK on the benefits to health services that breastfeeding       provides [10].
Most recently, the 2013 paper on breastfeeding and intergenerational       social mobility from Archives in Diseases of Childhood has       received extensive media coverage, including articles in the Independent       and Daily Mail.
It has also been the subject of a feature on the NHS         Choices website [11].
