     White has become a leading figure in socially engaged practice in art.
His work has had considerable reach across the UK, Europe and the US,       through exhibitions, workshops and the media.
It provokes societal       reflection on the critical issues it addresses; notably how sites,       technologies and events shape our ideas of culture, political and personal       life.
In addition, the work has contributed to the art-science discourse,       providing impetus and critical breadth to the development of art and       science as a cultural sector in the UK.
Reach     White's interdisciplinary research has been disseminated widely across       the internet, periodicals, magazines and radio, leading to enhanced       engagement with the critical issues presented through his work.
The Overt       Research Initiative (2008-date) was included in BLUEPRINT       magazine, Afterimage Journal and New Scientist.
The       research has also been discussed in a large number of critical texts and       publications by leading cultural contributors (R2-R4 among others).
Public engagement projects for the Overt Research Initiative have taken       place locally in Dorset (Secrets of Portland, 2010; Resonant Terrains,       2013) as well as in London (Experimental Ruins funded by Heritage Lottery       Fund, 2012) and through artist talks at the Association of American       Geographers in the US (2012) and in public conferences such as `Art and       Covert Culture' (CRASSH, Cambridge University) (R5).
Public engagement and cultural enrichment     White is a former director of O+I (formerly the Artists' Placement Group       &#8212; APG), who have defined socially engaged practice in art since 1966.
During his time in the role (2007-2009), White led numerous events at Tate       and the setting up of Flat Time House, the home of one of the founders       John Latham.
O+I/APG is well documented as laying out the public and       social engagement dimensions of art, argued as leading to the development       of public arts policy under New Labour (Bishop 2012).
White's significant       role in developing social and public engagement is evidenced though his       work with OOE and the Arts Catalyst organisation.
For example, the Overt Research Initiative's Experimental Ruins project       opened up sites such as the Department of Homeland Security, Admiralty       Research at Southwell Business Park, Portland ROC Nuclear Bunkers and the       Women's Peace Camp at AWE Aldemaston.
These sites are accessed and       reimagined as sites of cultural importance or as future heritage.
The       significant impact of the research projects has been recognised in terms       of the contribution to cultural enrichment, the discussion of sites of       national heritage and engagement of public in moral and ethical issues       arising from new scientific developments and the transparency of closed       sites.
This is further evidence in participant feedback from the Experimental       Ruins project.
The majority of participants said that the critical       excursion drew attention to elements of technological heritage that they       hadn't known of before.
Many respondents believed the critical excursion       provided an opportunity to push the frontiers of investigation into       improbable, underground or unremarkable sites in suburban settings.
Around       half felt the experimental field workshop presented them with new ideas       and ways to explore and map contemporary heritage sites (R6).
Reviews and commentary consolidate this impact claim, citing White's       approach as addressing and engaging audiences in new experiences and       discussions of complex and sometimes difficult subjects.
Examples of these       include cultural reviews (Afterimage, BLUEPRINT, Art         Monthly) and published books, The Body in Contemporary Art       (R2), non-art academic paper in Geoforum Editorial (R7), online       interview we-make-money-not-art (R8) as well as leading edited       publications on contemporary art such as All this Stuff (Libri       Publishing, 2013), How Artists Think (Black Dog Publishing, 2013)       and Experimental Systems, Future Knowledge and Artistic Research       (University of Leuven, 2013).
Director for the Arts Catalyst organisation describes White's work as       "providing cultural enrichment, insight, discourse and provocation for       public and professional audiences across the UK and internationally" (R9).
Arts Catalyst     The Arts Catalyst organisation commissions art to experimentally and       critically engage with science.
Their work often features in New Scientist       and Design Week, among other high profile publications.
Much of White's       research has been presented in partnership with them, with 12 repeat       commissions to date.
White's research has made a significant impact on       this leading cultural organisation in the International Digital Art and       Science field.
In a letter to BU, the Director described the on-going relationship the       organisation has with White as having "made a real impact on our ability       to conduct our core aims to enable the public to have distinctive,       thought-provoking experiences that transcend traditional boundaries of art       and science" (R9).
Since working with White the organisation has received significant public       funding on joint bids from the Gulbenkian Foundation, Arts Council England       and Heritage Lottery Fund.
This has facilitated a more direct impact on       audiences across the UK and in Europe at third party venues.
During the       impact period these include: FACT Liverpool (Human Futures programme 2008,       European City of Culture), Casino Foundation for Contemporary Art       (Luxembourg, 2009) John Hansard Gallery (2009-10) as well as Arts       Catalyst's own events (Art and Ethics 2012, Experimental Ruins 2012).
Collaboration with White has contributed to the steady growth of the Arts       Catalyst organisation.
Between 2009 and 2012 the numbers participating in       exhibitions increased fourfold (12,006 to 51,662) and page impressions on       their website more than doubled (R10).
The Arts Council of England have scrutinised the impact of Arts Catalyst       activity through the annual review process.
Subsequently in 2011, during       the period of the Overt Research, they awarded National Portfolio       Organisation (NPO) status to the Arts Catalyst, stating: "The Arts       Catalyst is a science-art agency that aims to extend the relationship       between the arts and science.
It organises and promotes exchange and       collaborations between artists and scientists, and research in       multidisciplinary laboratory situations.
Events include exhibitions,       education and critical debate, which are presented in a range of arts,       science and public venues" (R11).
White's on-going relationship with the Arts Catalyst is cited by the       Director as an important factor in securing NPO status (R9).
Art-science discourse     In addition to public engagement and cultural impact, White's research       has made significant contributions to the discourse of art and science.
For example, in January 2012 White presented work from his project `The       Void' (2004-5) to an ethics panel drawn from some of the UK's leading       ethics committees.
The event `Trust Me I'm an Artist' investigated the new       ethical issues arising from art-science collaboration and considered the       roles and responsibilities of the artists, scientists and the institutions       involved (R12).
To summarise, the extensive international reach of White's       interdisciplinary research across art and techno scientific disciplines       has provoked reflection on society's critical ethical issues, furthering       art-science discourse in the process.
As a leading figure in his field, he       is making significant contributions to socially engaged practice in art.
