     In December 2006, the UK Government promised that all new homes would be       `zero carbon' from       2016 and introduced the Code for Sustainable Homes (CSH) against which all       new homes would       be rated on a range of sustainability measures.
The announcement had a       galvanising effect on the       house building industry and supply chain.
By August 2008, Aberdeen's monitoring results from the CALA       Balerno-project were showing a       16% reduction in the total space heating energy requirement compared to a       conventionally       insulated building, resulting from the use of dynamic insulation solely in       the roof &#8212; the walls,       windows and doors were conventional [1].
Since December 2008, the Aberdeen       spin-out company,       Energyflo Construction Technologies (ECT), has attracted more than &#163;2.5       million in additional       venture capital investment [2].
In 2009/10, 9 new jobs were created at       ECT, including the full time       employment of a CEO, four product design engineers, a sales manager and a       business design       manager, followed by DI commercial developments (2008-2010), including a       47-house retrofit in       Kirkwall for the Orkney Housing Association (2009); the Fair Isle Bird       Observatory, which was fitted       with Energyflo wall, roof and floor insulation (2009); and the "Eco-House"       in Cranford,       Northamptonshire, where DI was used in SpeedDeck's roof construction       (2011) [3].
All new building products must meet strict compliance frameworks, one of       which is the assigning of       a "U-value", indicating how much heat is conducted.
As there was no       recognised way of assigning       a U-value to a DI product, Aberdeen researchers in partnership with the       National Physics       Laboratory and the Building Research Establishment (BRE) devised and       designed a hot-box test       capable of determining net heat transfer (2009/2010).
This data, together       with BRE's input,       enabled a dynamic R-value for Energyflo dynamic insulation (used to       calculate the dynamic U-value       of the wall construction) to be assigned and written into the Standard       Assessment of       Performance (SAP) methodology in early 2011m meaning that house builders       can use Energyflo       products to meet the Government's 2016 environmental standards [4].
In 2010/2011, ECT completed three new licensing agreements with major       manufacturers and       received new expressions of interest from major clients, including       national house builders and       manufacturers using modern methods of construction.
Among the development       projects that       followed are:     - Chorleywood Homes (2011): main contractor DBC Contracting and       Architects PFG Design built       detached four-bedroom homes in traditional masonry cavity using Jablite       Dynamic Insulation       [5];     - Wilmot Dixon (2011): DI retrofit to homes built in the 1950s and `70s       at South Cambridgeshire       Council's Rampton Drift properties in Longstanton [6];     - Stewart Milne (2011) : AIMC4 Developments 17 homes designed to meet       Level 4 of the Code       for Sustainable Homes on three sites: Portlethen, East Lothian in Scotland       and Preston in       Lancashire;     - Lovell Partnership (2012): dwelling at Bassaleg, South Wales fitted       with DI partial cavity       insulation.
In May 2012, two houses featuring Aberdeen's DI technology and product       were completed by       Lomond Homes as part of the Housing Innovation Showcase in Dunfermline.
During 2012, over       2,500 construction and housing professionals visited the Fife showcase.
Five hundred local people       were also given the chance to tour the homes during a family day in May.
[7]     The DI products that were developed and inspired by the original research       have won a number of       UK awards and professional accolades, including in 2011 the Green Apple       Award for Lomond       Homes developments using DI [8]; the 2011 International Green Awards       (Dynamic Insulation in       Best Green Production Innovation category); and the 2012 EEF Future       Manufacturing Awards       (Winner of the Climate Change Opportunity Award for Jablite's Dynamic       Cavity Products).
As a result of DI research, development of energy-saving products and       evolution of successful       private public partnerships, Imbabi is regularly invited to speak about       the Aberdeen research at       non-academic meetings worldwide, including Ecocity World Summit (San       Francisco, April 2008,       1,500 attendees included members of the public, representatives of       international governments and       business); the European Environmental Bureau Brokerage Event (Brussels,       July 2012) and the       Housing, Carbon Reduction and Climate Change Conference (Edinburgh, Oct       2012, attended by       Government ministers and key stakeholders from the house building       industry, its suppliers and       associated professional members).
Media coverage of Aberdeen University's research and Energyflo has       appeared in many technical       and trade journals including in-depth articles in "Eco-Construct" magazine       (Winter 2011) and       "Timber and Sustainable Building" (Spring 2011).
Since 2010, Imbabi has been a member of the Technical Standards Committee       of the Emirates       Green Building Council (EGBC).
In this capacity, he assesses the       environmental impact of various       construction projects and sits on the judging panel of the EGBC Awards.
