     Impacts of the research have been both commercial &#8212; through the       successful spin-out company,       Brinker Technology &#8212; and environmental.
They have been significant both in       the UK and a number       of other countries across the globe.
The principal benefit to Brinker's       clients has been in the cost       savings achieved through minimising lost production time.
Brinker Technology Ltd was spun out of the School of Engineering in 2002       (with McEwan taking on       the role of Technical Director).
It grew rapidly to become a world leader       in leak sealing applications       both for oil and for gas.
The company's staff grew from 6 in 2004 to 30 by       2008, reaching a peak of       34 in 2011.
Sales turnover increased from &#163;900K in 2006-7, peaking at       &#163;4,479K in 2009/10 [1].
These figures demonstrate that the company achieved maximum commercial       performance after       2008.
Since 2008 the platelet(R) technology has been used in various       projects for the international oil and       gas sector.
One example was a project for ConocoPhillips [2], where the       technology was used to       address five highly problematic annuli leaks (the annulus being a void       between piping and the       casing surrounding it) in down-hole oil wells in the Kuparuk oil field in       Alaska in 2009.
Wells with       annuli leaks usually require costly and time-consuming work to excavate       and remove the       conductor casing in order to patch the leaking casing.
For one particular operation in Kuparuk, the Brinker Technology team       identified a leak with an       equivalent diameter of 3mm and an approximately round geometry.
A single       type of Platelet&#174; was       selected for the seal, and a small number displaced to the leak via the       annular wing valve.
It is       estimated the leak volume was approximately 1.0-1.25 litres/second (0.5       barrels/minute) [b].
Annular pressure rose as soon as the Platelets&#174; reached the target depth.
The operation stopped       the casing to formation communication, and the well passed a Mechanical       Integrity Test (MIT) at       1,800 psi to reinstate full service qualification.
It is understood that       production was regained far       more quickly than conventional methods would have allowed.
The temporary       repair postponed the       need for an expensive rig workover.
In addition, the local environment       benefitted due to the       reduction in waste water leakage.
The leak was confirmed as still holding       11 months after       deployment [2].
In a further example, the technology was applied to remedy leaks in seven       wells in Oman in 2011.
The wells were suffering from various well integrity issues.
The oil       producing wells had been shut       in for between 6 months and 5 years whereas the water injection wells were       flowing, but with       restrictions placed upon them in terms of operational use.
To eliminate       the requirement for a rig       workover of these wells, Brinker engineers rebuilt the integrity of the       wellhead via a dynamic,       flexible, and robust seal while ensuring that full functionality was       retained.
As a result, the wells       were brought back into production sooner than previously planned, with       significant well intervention       time savings, significant workover cost reductions, and significantly       reduced health and safety risk       compared to alternative means of remedial work.
For just one well, the       Petroleum Development       Company of Oman [3] estimates that a conventional workover would have       incurred at least       US$200,000 in deferment costs over 8 days, while deferment for the chosen       Brinker method was       just a few hours.
All seven wellheads were repaired within 45 man hours.
Brinker Technology has undertaken around 60 similar projects since 2008       [4], all based on the       original technology.
67% of the company's total sales revenue was earned       in or after 2008.
Other       companies that have benefitted from the technology include BP; Aker       Kvaerner; and Shell.
Brinker Technology Ltd won Scottish Offshore Achievement Awards in 2008       and 2010 (Innovator       Award) [6]; Best Well Invention Technology at the World Oil Awards in 2010       [7], and the Harts E&amp;P       Magazine Meritorious Award for Engineering Excellence in 2011; each on the       basis of the novel       technology developed.
These and other awards were reported in a range of       media, raising       awareness of the technology and its significance among the general public,       including BBC News       online (March 2008 and April 2012) [8].
Coverage in technical and trade       publications, such as in       Scandinavian Oil-Gas Magazine (May 2011) [9], has raised understanding of       the technology       among international oil and gas industry practitioners.
