     This research initiated changes in post-fire catchment management,       bushfire management and       forest protection strategies in Sydney's water supply areas.
In April       2008, the Sydney Catchment       Authority (SCA) produced a `Guideline to the implementation of the SCA       policy on fire       management for water quality and quantity'.
To quote the SCA's (Senior       Spatial Analyst for       Catchment Indicators), "the research [of Blake and colleagues] was       fundamental in developing the       policy" (statement from SCA, 2011) which relies on sound knowledge of       runoff and sediment       delivery processes.
Three key policy principles most relevant are outlined       below followed by details       of the chain linking them to our research:     a) Policy Principle 1: Minimise the area of bushland in important         catchment areas burned by         unplanned, high intensity bushfire.
Within this, the impacts of       rainsplash and slope wash on       hillslopes which "input organics and fine sediment into streams" and "fine       sediment in the water       column which can impact chemical and physical properties of the stored       water, such as       turbidity, dissolved oxygen and nutrient levels" are identified.
b) Policy principle 2: Retain the integrity of riparian areas through         protection from mechanical         interference and the impact of fires.
Here the function of riparian       (riverside) forest areas as       "inhibitors of sediment and nutrient to water storage in times of runoff"       are flagged and the       need to monitor fuel loads in these zones to protect them from wildfire       are outlined.
c) Policy principle 6: Implement response and recovery techniques to         mitigate water quality         impacts in areas severely disturbed by bushfire.
Here the need for       rapid response to implement       "remediation and pollution control strategies ... in critical areas to       reduce erosion and       sedimentation into major drainage features" are highlighted.
All three of these areas outlined within the 2008 Policy Document are       linked directly to our       research through citation of a key scientific summary document (Chafer,       2007) published by the       eWater Cooperative Research centre (Australia's leading water resource       management advisory       group).
The eWater Cooperative Research Centre website "aims to bring         together information         about effects of bushfire on catchments and the water resources they         collect ... to assist land and         water managers with their impact assessment and rehabilitation planning".
Chafer (2007) distils the       scientific evidence from our research articles (which are cited within it)       and reports for assimilation       by policy makers via the website gateway.
It is cited in the 2008 SCA       document detailing new       policy principles and linked directly to our research by the statement of       SCA Senior Spatial Adviser       (quoted above).
Policy principle 2 was further emphasised in the       co-authored Technical Report by       Wilkinson et al.
(2007) which was linked to a workshop delivered by       Wilkinson, Blake and Wallbrink       at SCA headquarters during Blake's scientific visit to CSIRO.
The       workshop was attended by key       SCA catchment managers at the time the 2008 policy document was being       written and is linked by       the 2011 testimonial of Dr Chafer quoted above.
The influence of       our research is evidenced       through use of these and other research outputs in the 2010 Audit of the       Sydney drinking water       catchment which identifies areas to be targeted for additional action to       protect water resources.
Its       continued relevance is highlighted by the October 2013 wildfires in the       Sydney catchment area.
The reach of the research impact goes beyond the Sydney water supply area       and helps underpin       policy and changes to management operations elsewhere in Australia; e.g.
in the state of Victoria.
Our wildfire and water quality research contributes scientific       underpinnings of key policy guideline       documents developed by Assoc.
Prof. Patrick Lane's group at       Melbourne.
This was developed       during a knowledge transfer visit by Blake to Melbourne in 2007.
Patrick         Lane is a key policy       advisor to Melbourne Water on post-fire catchment management who has been       commissioned to       develop hydrological knowledge and models to support management policy.
Key links to the       Sydney work are Smith et al.
(2010, 2011) which use our research to inform       policy and best       management practice guidelines for protection of water supplies after       wildfire.
As outlined by in a       letter from this policy advisor (University of Melbourne, 2013), "The       Sydney-based research has       helped inform models for assessment of wildfire risks to water supply,       through the process       understanding gained during the SCA project and collaborative       discussion/workshops between the       Sydney and Victorian researchers.
These models are directly influencing       pre and post fire       catchment management activities of Melbourne Water wherein rapid response       teams are mobilised       to put erosion and sediment delivery mitigation measures in place in the       areas predicted to be at       greatest risk".
Coherence with SCA policy principle 6 exemplifies the       clarity of the messages to       stakeholders from our process research.
The international reach of the research is further exemplified by the       influence of the research on       water resource management in upland UK where there is concern about       coniferous plantation and       moorland fires in upland reservoir catchments, as recognised by Southwest       Water.
As Martin         Ross, Environmental Manager of Southwest Water says "research       studies undertaken in Australia       and Greece to quantify sediment and phosphorus yield from burnt forested       slopes have been       instrumental in raising our awareness of the risk posed by wildfire"       (Statement from Environmental       Manager, South West Water, 2012).
Furthermore, "South West Water is       explaining its concerns in       public meetings and in discussions with Defra, Ofwat and environmental       regulators in relation to       global warming.
The company is also taking [the research] into account in       the development of its       water resource protection plans for 2015 to 2020 and beyond.
The research       undertaken by       Plymouth University has helped with the company's initial design work on       the establishment of       Paid Ecosystem rewards for upland farmers whose stock help to control       scrub growth and wildfire       risks" (Statement from Environmental Manager, South West Water, 2012).
