     Research at Aberdeen on indices has led to the development of new       resources which enhance       professional practice influencing, for example, the decisions of       institutional investors and, in turn       the performance of their investment portfolios.
The urban regeneration       index has shaped public       policy in relation to regeneration schemes and planning while the       residential indices have       influenced decisions made by mortgage lenders and the housing choices of       the general public.
Transaction-based commercial property indices       Research on appraisal-based indices [Ref 1] has impacted commercial       property markets by       making investors more aware of the limitations of appraisal-based indices,       through the generation       of a new transaction-based UK index [Ref 2] and more widely, by showing       the potential for such       indices.
The approach adopted by Aberdeen-based researchers has been       extended within the       REF period to European real estate data by the Investment Property       Databank, an independent       company that provides real estate performance analysis and indices for       investors, managers,       lenders and advisors [Source A].
Provisional UK and European       transaction-based indices are cited       in a major report by IPD on real estate volatility and capital adequacy       requirements in relation to       real estate portfolios under the Solvency II regulatory framework [Source       B].
In early 2012 the       European Central Bank recommended that, in order to improve market       efficiency and       transparency, EU members should provide information on their real estate       markets in the form of       transaction-based indices.
For the period during which member states move       towards this goal, the       IPD European transaction-based indices (based on the index construction       approach developed in       Aberdeen) are being used by the European Central Bank and the central       banks of individual       member states.
Urban regeneration property Index       Building on research on regeneration areas [Ref 3], Aberdeen-based       researchers working with       colleagues from the University of Ulster and Glasgow developed a prototype       Urban Regeneration       Property Performance Index in 2003.
This was launched in 2005 and the       index was produced       annually thereafter by researchers based in IPD and Savills until 2011       [Source C].
The IPD/Savills       Regeneration Index is now an established barometer for those involved in       urban regeneration       markets.
For example, the development manager of Aviva's Igloo       Regeneration Fund, quoted the       index in response to a request for written submissions from the       Communities and Local       Government Select Committee in 2011 [Source D].
The index research was       also referenced in a       report published by the Scottish Government on town centre regeneration in       2011 [Source E].
More generally, the index provides information on the effectiveness of       regeneration policy       mechanisms, some of which include sizeable financial support.
Local and national house price indices       The hedonic index approach proposed by an Aberdeen-based researcher and       colleagues [Ref 4]       has been adopted since 2008 by the Swiss National Bank (SNB) [Source F].
The national and       regional house price information is used by the SNB to determine mortgage       lending policies, in       their estimation of household wealth, and in assessing the risks of a       housing bubble which would       have a significant impact on monetary policy.
With the aim of eventually replicating the real estate residential       property derivatives which exist in       the US, the hedonic indices have also been available, since 2008, on the       Swiss Stock Exchange       [Source G] thus substantially improving the reliability and (as shown in       the underlying research) the       quality of information on the Swiss housing market to potential investors.
Since summer 2012, the Aberdeen house price index has been produced by       Aberdeen-based       researchers each quarter.
It is published on the ASPC website [Source H]       (which typically hosts       more than 50,000 searches each day) and Aberdeen University's Centre for       Real Estate Research       website, and is regularly quoted by local media and recently in the       national press.
It is used by a       wide range of beneficiaries including the local council (to inform       residential planning decisions),       surveyors, Council of Mortgage Lenders members (i.e.
banks and Building       Societies) and potential       house buyers and sellers in North East Scotland.
Local housing       associations have referred to the       index in setting rental levels, as the rents they charge have to be       justified in relation to market       within which they operate.
