     The research described has had considerable impact through a wide range       of TV and radio       programmes, raising public awareness and understanding of the history of       domestic animals &#8212; and       what it reveals about human colonisation history &#8212; in Britain and abroad.
Through these and other       engagements, the research has contributed to culture and quality of life,       as well as enabling       economic impacts through film and book sales.
Dobney discussed his findings twice on BBC Radio 4's flagship science       programme, Material         World in June 2010, to explain how his findings on pigs have shed       new light on how humans       colonised islands in the Pacific; and in June 2013, to discuss the       challenges and wider importance       of new DNA sequences from a horse dating back more than 700,000 years.
[1]       As part of Radio 4's       programme offer, Material World has a reach of nearly 11 million       listeners, according to June 2013       Rajar figures.
After each of these appearances, Dobney received 20-30       direct audience responses.
Dobney and colleagues in Durham also acted as consultants for the       six-part BBC2 Horizon series,       The Secret Life of the Dog, broadcast in January 2010 and repeated       in October 2012.
Drawing on       their research, the group advised the programme makers on early evidence       of the domestication of       dogs.
[2] The series was reviewed in The Guardian newspaper [3]       and on online fora such as       channelhopping.onthebox.com, both of which called it "fascinating".
On       YouTube, part 1 alone had       attracted over 35,000 views by the end of July 2013.
The series was also       shown in Australia (latest       repeat September 2011) and on the BBC HD Channel (October 2012).
Another BBC2 documentary, A History of Ancient Britain (series 1,       part 2), drew on Dobney's       research into commensal rodents (February 2012).
The programme examined       the story of how the       first farmers arrived in Britain from Europe in 4000BC.
[4]     A National Geographic programme, How Man Tamed the Wild, also       relied on Dobney's research,       using information he supplied to programme makers and featuring an       interview with him [5].
The       programme was broadcast on the National Geographic and History Channel in       November 2010       and then released as a DVD and sold to French TV.
Dobney received numerous       emails from       viewers in response, which were mostly very positive about his approach to       viewing animal       domestication.
The Discovery Channel featured the group's research in a       documentary entitled       Prehistoric Dog Domestication Derailed by the Ice Age (July 2011).
[6] Viewer feedback from the       programmes above revealed both a widespread fascination with the subject       matter, and a       particular interest among people with a professional connection, such as       dog breeders and       farmers.
The research has also featured In newspapers, such as Aberdeen's The         Press and Journal (May       2010), which focused on the research into pigs in South East Asia; and on       a range of news       programmes and outlets, including BBC North East Scotland (May 2012) and       NBC News (July       2011).
[7]     One particularly interesting impact involved the "Lapita Voyage" [8], a       six-month voyage       undertaken in Nov 08-April 09 following the migration routes of ancient       Austronesian settlers.
Dobney was invited to join five of the participating scientists because of       his research expertise in       this area.
During the voyage, unique hair and feather samples were       collected of domestic animals       for genetic analyses.
The voyage was accompanied by a film crew, who       produced a feature-length       documentary for German public broadcaster ZDF.
Wagnis in der S&#252;dsee:         Das R&#228;tsel der         Polynesier was first broadcast in 2010, repeated in July 2013 and is       still available for online       viewing [9].
A 2011 popular book by German expedition leader Klaus       Hympendahl (featuring a       section written by Dobney) sold several thousand copies in Europe by June       2013, with sales       revenues estimated to be between &#8364;50-100,000.
The paperback edition was       published in May       2013.
[10]     Dobney has also engaged with the public through lectures on his work,       e.g.
a TechFest lecture in       Aberdeen in September 2011.
This was attended by a paying audience of       around 200 people,       many of whom told Dobney afterwards that he had encouraged them to look at       domestic animals in       a new way.
Similar numbers attended Dobney's talk at the British Science       Festival in Aberdeen in       September 2012, and another at the University of Basle in May 2013, which       attracted both       members of the public and Swiss government officials.
Beyond this engagement at popular level, Dobney has contributed to a       changing understanding of       prehistory among those dealing with it professionally.
His findings have       helped create a new       appreciation of the impact of humans on the early Holocene, or       `Anthropocene' as it is now more       commonly called.
This paradigm shift has begun to be reflected in public       discourse and in new       museum exhibitions around the world.
