     The research described above has been found valuable and employed by       investors, policy-makers       within the UK Government, and also by House of Commons Committees who       influence policies.
Often acknowledgement of the value of the research has been made privately       but sometimes       publicly.
In June 2009 the House of Commons Select Committee on Energy and       Climate Change       published a report entitled UK Offshore Oil and Gas (Vol.1, HC       341-1) in which the Memorandum       and Oral Evidence given by Professor Kemp was cited several times and his       recommendations on       the fiscal regime and related issues were incorporated in the conclusions       of the Committee's       report.
The study by Kemp and Kasim (2006) highlighted the particular economic       problem of securing       stranded gas developments in the West of Shetland region where there was       little infrastructure and       the investment costs correspondingly high.
This had some influence on the       introduction in 2010 of       tax allowances for stranded gas fields.
A later paper (Kemp and Stephen       2011) identified the       problems of developing fields generally in the UKCS, but particularly oil       fields in the West of       Shetland region.
This informed policy regarding the introduction of the       special allowance for large,       deepwater fields in Budget 2012 as outlined below.
The results of the research paper produced after Budget 2011       (Kemp and Stephen 2011) were       quoted in support of her views by Justine Greening, Economic Secretary to       the Treasury, in her       evidence to the House of Commons Energy and Climate Change Select       Committee on 4th May       2011 in support of the Government's position (see House of Commons Energy       and Climate       Change Committee, HC108-i, January 2012).
The study by Kemp and       Stephen (2011) produced       evidence of the need for further field tax allowances to mitigate the       effects of the tax rate hike in       Budget 2011.
In Kemp and Kasim (2005) the research paper on production decline rates       in the UKCS found that       the generally assumed exponential production decline rates did not       correspond with the realities of       the UKCS.
Detailed econometric modelling demonstrated that production       decline rates were more       likely to be logistic rather than exponential.
It was also found that       decline rates were very sensitive       to the presence or otherwise of incremental investments during the mature       phase of a field's life.
At this time there were no tax incentives for such investments.
This study       and that by Kemp and       Stephen (2011) provided independent evidence of the need to incentivise       investments in mature       fields.
In Budget 2012 provision was made to introduce the       brownfield allowance to apply to       incremental investments.
In the Green Budget published by the influential       Institute for Fiscal       Studies in February 2013 there is a section on North Sea oil taxation in       which the paper by Kemp       and Stephen (2011) is cited approvingly.
The various oil company and Scottish Enterprise sponsors have been       sufficiently impressed with       the research work that they have continuously renewed their sponsorship       throughout the REF       period (and for many earlier years).
Their sponsorship is on a one-year       basis only, and no       promises are made about any further funding.
They have clearly revealed       their satisfaction by       continually agreeing to fund further research studies on this important,       ongoing subject.
They see       the benefit of independent research which models the entire North Sea oil       sector and measures       the aggregate effect of tax changes on the sector.
The impact of the       research on the private sector       has been generated by providing a public analytical service to individual       oil companies, who       generally lack industry-wide knowledge of the impact of tax measures.
In       turn this has enabled the       companies to make better-informed decisions.
This private sector impact       further augments the       impact on the UK Government.
Based on his research papers on North Sea oil, in the REF period,       Professor Kemp has given       many television interviews to the BBC, STV, Channel Four, Al Jazeera, and       Bloomberg, radio       interviews to Radio 4, Radio 5, BBC Radio Scotland, and North Sound, and       press interviews to       The Financial Times, Times, Guardian, Scotsman, Herald, Aberdeen Press and       Journal, and Le       Monde.
These indicate the wider impact effect of the research.
