     The early study (Kemp and Stephen, 1999) broke new ground and has been       cited in the debate on       constitutional change since that time.
The results of the economic       modelling of the hypothetical tax       take for historic years have been used in the recent report of the House       of Lords Select Committee       on Economic Affairs (see below).
The study by Kemp and Stephen (2008) has       been used every       year since then by the (SNP) Scottish government in its yearly       publication, Government         Expenditure and Revenue, Scotland (ISBN: 978-1-78045-705-5) and was       also used by the Scottish       Government in their publication An Oil Fund for Scotland (2009)       (ISBN: 978-0-7559-8119-9).
Kemp       and Stephen have been asked by the Scottish Government to update the oil       related estimates       every year since 2008.
It should be noted no other reputable source of       information is available on       the hypothetical Scottish shares of production, investment, gross revenues       and tax revenues from       North Sea oil and gas.
The modelling has widely been accepted as being       independent and reliable       in the on-going debate.
Tax revenues would form a substantial part of a       Scottish Government       budget in the event of independence or enhanced devolution and an       understanding of their       potential size, volatility, and long term behaviour is clearly important       to the constitutional debate.
Professor Kemp was asked to give written and oral evidence to (1) the       House of Commons Select       Committee on Energy and Climate Change (March 2012) and (2) the House of       Lords Select       Committee on Economic Affairs (October 2012) on the implications of       Scottish independence for       the North Sea oil and gas industry.
A major element in both instances       concerned petroleum       taxation and licensing issues.
These related to (1) the intricate problems       of taxing the industry       separately in Scotland and the rest of the UK and (2) the likely size of       the tax revenues from the       Scottish sector.
Kemp was able to call on his updated research to give       useful information on the       subject.
The House of Lords Committee published its report in April 2013 (The         Economic         Implications for the United Kingdom of Scottish Independence, HL       Paper 152).
The report       incorporates material from Kemp's modelling of the hypothetical Scottish       share of North Sea tax       revenues since 1976, and his Memorandum and Oral Evidence are published in       full.
A further       publication by the Scottish Government entitled Maximising the Return         from Oil and Gas in an         Independent Scotland (ISBN: 978-1-78256-776-9) cited Kemp (2013) as       a credible source of       estimates of potential future oil production and decommissioning costs       relating to the likely Scottish       continental shelf.
Professor Kemp was invited to become a member of the Council of Economic       Advisers (2007-2011)       to the Scottish Government, where his expertise on oil and gas matters was       utilised.
In       2008-2009 Kemp was appointed a member of the Independent Expert Group to       the Calman       Commission on Scottish Devolution.
He was the lead author of the report       entitled Natural Resource         Taxation and Scottish Devolution: Evidence from the Independent Expert         Group to the         Commission on Scottish Devolution, www.commissiononscottishdevolution.org.uk/uploads/2009-         06-06-ieg-natural-resource-taxation-1.pdf     Professor Kemp was appointed a member of the Scottish Energy Advisory       Board to the Scottish       Government (chaired by the First Minister) in 2011 reflecting his       expertise in oil and gas matters.
Based on his research papers Kemp has given many TV interviews on the       subject of constitutional       change and North Sea oil and gas to the BBC and STV, radio interviews to       BBC Radio Scotland,       Radio 4, North Sound, and press interviews to The Financial Times, Times,       Scotsman, Herald and       Aberdeen Press and Journal.
These indicate the wider impact effect on       public debate.
Professor Heald provided written expert evidence in 2009 to the Calman       Commission on Scottish       devolution that referenced his research, on how the Barnett formula       affects Scottish and UK public       finances.
This public impact was further strengthened through his written       and oral evidence to       parliamentary committees investigating this controversial topic, with       frequent references to his       research and evidence in published reports.
These include: participation       in the Round Table on the       Budget Process held by the Finance Committee of the Scottish Parliament       (10/06/2008); a private       seminar for the House of Lords Select Committee on the Barnett Formula       (14/01/09); and public       evidence to the Committee on Finance and Personnel of the Northern Ireland       Assembly (3/11/10).
On these occasions he communicated his findings that the operations of the       Barnett Formula have       not been properly documented, thereby eroding the transparency and       legitimacy of the devolution       finance settlement.
His work is cited extensively by other witnesses to       the Calman Commission,       government Committees and Committee Reports.
Heald's research has also been exploited in government inquiries: the       Holtham Commission on       Welsh funding (private seminars on 09/12/08 and 23/09/09); the Calman       Commission on Scottish       devolution (invited seminars on 08/12/08 and 12/03/09); and the McKay       Commission on the       implications of devolution for the composition and role of the House of       Commons (oral evidence,       10/05/12).
