     Research conducted by Theodossiou and Pouliakas has impacted on national       and international policy through feeding into influential policy papers       and reviews.
Extra impacts have been achieved through public engagement       and media activities.
In the UK, the EPICURUS research led by Theodossiou was cited in the Hutton         Review of Fair Pay in the Public Sector (2011).
The review was       commissioned by the Prime Minister and the Chancellor in June 2010 to       produce recommendations on promoting pay fairness in the public sector by       dealing with disparities between the lowest and the highest paid.
It       recommended that the pay of senior public servants should be directly       linked to their performance and that the level of pay should be explained       clearly to the public, saying that `there is a much stronger case for       linking pay to performance at the senior levels of public organisations,       as opposed to the rest of the workforce' in view of the fact that       `performance pay is associated with greater job satisfaction when       individuals are performing autonomous jobs and are employed on permanent       contracts'.
The later assertion is an empirical finding from Pouliakas and       Theodossiou (2009) ([5.1].
The Government announced in the 2011 Budget that it accepted the       recommendations in the final Hutton report as a basis for consultation       with public sector workers, trades unions and others and promised that       proposals will be set out that are affordable, sustainable and fair to       both the public sector and the taxpayer [5.2].
Internationally, EPICURUS was cited in the first chapter of the 2011 Employment         and Social Developments in Europe review [5.3], an annual       comprehensive analysis of the challenges facing the EU in terms of       employment and social policy.
This review feeds into the European       Semester, the EU's annual timetable for drawing together information,       identifying challenges, setting strategy and issuing policy advice.
The research related to the HEALTHatWORK study was cited in Socio-economic         costs of accidents at work and work-related ill health, a major       report for the Directorate-General for Employment, social affairs and       inclusion, published by the European Commission in November 2011 [5.4].
The report aimed to provide employers, workers' organisations and       representatives, policy makers, managers and occupational safety and       health authorities with an overview of the economic aspects of       occupational health and safety.
It assessed the considerable financial       consequences of accidents at work and work-related ill-health and argued       that employees' ability to work and their productivity could be hampered       following an incident at work.
It concluded that investing in measures to       prevent accidents and ill health benefits employers.
The report quotes research from the HEALTHatWORK (in Theodossiou and       Pouliakas (2010)), noting that `individuals that experience accidents or       ill-health related to work may face a higher probability of unemployment,       experience early exit from the labour market or face increased       difficulties to re-enter into a suitable job.
Studies point to the fact       that this provokes the effect that a significant portion of the European       labour force remains idle following the occurrence of an accident or case       of ill health, as individuals do not feel capable of performing the work       that they performed prior to the incident' [5.4].
In terms of public engagement, Theodossiou was invited by the Commission       to present the research at EU forums such as Investing in well-being         at work &#8212; Addressing psychosocial risks in times of change in       Brussels in November 2010.
The audience included policymakers from the       European Commission and individual member countries.
The research has also attracted considerable interest from the media, and       during 2010 and 2011 Pouliakas was interviewed for articles in The       Scotsman (circulation 28,500), the Portuguese newspaper Diario Economico       (circulation 220,000), and the Russian magazines Elite Trader and Finance,       and Investment Business weekly.
Pouliakas was also interviewed by the BBC       radio programme Business Scotland in February 2011.
The research results were published on the projects' websites       contemporaneously, and although visits to the sites have not been       measured, Theodossiou is still receiving emails inquiring about the       research.
