     Our research has led to an improved understanding of environmental risk       associated with sea- level change in south west England, and has       influenced government and institutional policies related to the management       of this risk.
In light of the paper Sea-level rise and coastal         subsidence in southwest England (Gehrels 2006), UKCIP altered their       website to explain that the high subsidence rates in the Southwest were       based on insufficient data.
Dr Chris West, the Director of UKCIP,       wrote "Based on your work, we have decided to add... to our technical note       "Updates to regional net sea-level change estimates for Great Britain."...
We would also very much like to include a link to your paper, so that       those stakeholders who are interested can obtain further details of your       work" (Reference 4).
In 2008 Gehrels was invited by Dr Jason         Lowe of the Met Office to provide input into the section on vertical       land-level movements for the UK Climate Projections science report       (Reference 7; see Lowe et al.
2009 - reference 1).
UKCIP's published sea-level projections have since been corrected based       on the Plymouth research.
The debate we instigated led to UKCIP's       determining vertical land movements in a revised manner, i.e.
by using a       numerical model of Glacial Isostatic Adjustment that is calibrated by       relative sea-level data, and the UK Climate Projections science report       contains the revised predictions (see reference 1).
In 2010 our research       led to the publication of a revised map of vertical land movements in the       British Isles (Gehrels 2010).
Importantly, the UK Climate Projections         science report now underpins government policy on the coastal zone       impacts of future to climate change (see, for example, Reference 2).
The second stage of the research, focusing on the Dawlish-Teignmouth       railway line, has proved particularly informative for both Network Rail       and the Local Authorities in the south west.
Network Rail's Principal       Engineer and Chair of the company's Climate Change Adaptation Group, John         Dora, states that "the research has been extremely useful in       highlighting the wider impacts of future sea-level rise, as well as       helping the British railway industry to recognise the importance of       understanding the potential future impacts of climate change on railway       operations.
The research has clearly illustrated the economic benefits       that could arise by implementing a climate change adaptation strategy for       the Dawlish section of railway, and Network Rail is currently using the       outputs to aid the formation of long term plans for the future of this       line in association with the Environment Agency and local authorities"       (Reference 5).
More broadly, the research has helped Network Rail to       improve their overall approach to climate change adaptation by utilising       economic indicators and leaves them better informed on how coastal railway       issues in the UK could be examined in future research and network       resilience programmes.
We were keen to disseminate the results of the socio-economic analysis as       widely as possible to stakeholders in order to stimulate and inform debate       on the future of the important regional railway links.
Concrete evidence       of the impact of the research is provided by Andrew Ardley,       Transportation Manager at Devon County Council.
Commenting on the research       in relation to Devon and Torbay's Local Transport Plan (LTP3), he noted:       "Devon and Torbay's LTP3 was written in the context of a 15 year time       frame to 2026 but also looking ahead to the impacts of critical factors       affecting infrastructure such as climate change.
The plan places a       particularly important emphasis on the economic impact of the Exeter to       Plymouth rail line for Devon, Torbay and Plymouth / Cornwall in its       Strategic Connections section.
The plan is used as a lobbying mechanism       for improvements to strategic infrastructure - a clear evidence base was       essential for this and the research [i.e.
that outlined in this document]       provided the necessary background on climate change in the case of the       rail line in the Dawlish / Exe Estuary area.
The final copy will be used       in future reviews of the LTP to ensure that there are clear plans for the       future management of the infrastructure" (Reference 6)     Sustained heavy rain in 2012 has added further urgency to debates       surrounding the need to protect the UK's critical infrastructure against       extreme weather events and underlying climatic changes.
Railway line       flooding - described as the worst in a decade - on south-west England's       rail network resulted in ~&#163;12.5m in compensation being paid by Network       Rail to train and freight operators because services did not run due to       the damage caused to the lines (Reference 3).
This disruption to rail       services combined with our research have increased the sense of awareness       of climate-related infrastructure vulnerability for both Network Rail and       the Southwest Local Authorities, and the need for future adaptation and       mitigation.
