     The EU is facing a major identity crisis, not only in terms of handling       the 2008 financial/euro crisis but also in terms what the EU aims to       achieve as a global actor.
At the same time, the EU has steadily improved       its foreign/security policy capabilities, so that it actually possesses a       wide range of power resources to implement its goals.
The 2009 Treaty of       Lisbon was supposed to address this apparent incongruity between the EU's       (underwhelming) global policy performance and its (overwhelming) economic       resources, yet many observers agree that the Treaty has not performed very       effectively in terms of raising the EU's international profile or making       the EU more responsive to its 28 member states and its 500+ million       citizens.
These problems have inspired much debate regarding the next steps for       Europe, particularly in terms of whether to reform the Treaty of Lisbon.
Smith's large body of research on the EU's global 'actorness' has informed       this debate in several ways.
Initially, the impact involved personal       conversations with dozens of high-level EU policy-makers.
These       conversations were not one-way interviews but intense exchanges of views       about the EU's variable performance, and potential, as a global actor.
Based on these conversations, and thanks to his five-year ERC grant, Smith       began to consolidate his research into a coherent set of arguments to help       shape the debate over the EU as a global actor.
In November 2010, Smith       was invited by the Belgian EU presidency to deliver a keynote speech at       the Flemish Peace Institute on the topic of "Export Controls and the       European Defence Market."
At this event, Smith spoke to nearly 100 senior       representatives of EU institutions, European defence firms, members of the       press, and various think tanks.
Based on his CSDP research, Smith argued       that the EU was spending too much time on capacity-building without       debating the larger question about what interests the EU is attempting to       protect.
Following this workshop, Smith drafted a major article on this topic       (reference #3 above) and the first detailed study of the European       gendarmerie force (reference #4), which (along with the EU's       counter-piracy naval operation) demonstrates the EU's expanding efforts to       coordinate its civilian/economic instruments with its new       military/policing capabilities.
In addition to publicizing these works       through a series of conference presentations and invited lectures, Smith       also created a Twitter account in 2012 (with over 1,300 followers now) to       share his views and to facilitate conversations with European       policymakers, journalists, think tank representatives, academics, PhD       students, consultants, and interested citizens.
These efforts coalesced at a major event in May 2013 at the Swedish       Institute of International Affairs at the final meeting of the European       Global Strategy (EGS) project, an initiative launched by the Swedish       foreign minister (Carl Bildt) in cooperation with the foreign ministers of       Poland, Italy, and Spain.
The idea was to initiate a 'track two' think       tank-led process to inform 'track one' policymaking at the Council of the       EU meeting regarding the 10th anniversary of the European Security       Strategy (scheduled for December 2013), and to broaden the debate beyond       the 'big three' EU member states (France, Germany, and the UK).
Four       leading European think tanks directed the project (the Swedish Institute       of International Affairs, the Instituto Affari Internazionali, the Polish       Institute of International Affairs, and the Real Instituto Elcano),       supported by input from other associated think tanks, foreign policy       institutes, and academics across Europe.
At this event, Smith gave a PowerPoint presentation to over 50 academics,       diplomats, and policymakers from across Europe based on his work.
Afterwards, his presentation was praised as one of the most important       interventions made during the meetings of the EGS process, and copies of       his presentation were requested by several participants.
Later the EGS       organisers publicly thanked Smith through their Twitter account, and the       final EGS report used Smith's three-level organising scheme       (internal/home, regional/neighbourhood, and global levels of action),       juxtaposed against three core sets of interests: security interests,       economic interests, and &#8212; equally important &#8212; the projection of EU values.
This scheme was explicitly based on Smith's grand strategy article noted       above, and it provided a useful way for the EGS participants to visualise       and evaluate how the EU currently ranks its strategic priorities.
In particular, the final EGS document placed as much emphasis on internal       EU economic issues as on external political matters, and it prioritised       the 'neighbourhood' (rather than the global sphere) as the key focus of EU       foreign policy, as Smith had suggested.
Strategy is not only about       priorities but also about the relations between those priorities (i.e.,       coherence), and the EU cannot hope to increase its influence at the global       level without simultaneously enhancing its internal effectiveness and       legitimacy.
Moreover, Smith argued that the EU should lead by example and       attempt to build support for its foreign policies among European citizens,       rather than only among officials in Brussels.
Following the EGS meeting,       Smith was invited by the European Council on Foreign Relations to expand       upon his thinking about EU global strategy as a guest contributor to their       website blog, in order to help publicise the official release of the EGS       report two weeks later.
Thanks to his input, and on the recommendation of       the director of the Swedish Institute of International Affairs, Smith was       invited to speak at a follow-up event (September 2013) on European Global       Strategy at the Riga Process Workshop, organised by the German Marshall       Fund, the Latvian Transatlantic Organisation, and the Latvian Foreign       Ministry.
He was also invited to give oral and written evidence to the       Foreign Affairs Committee of the Finnish Parliament (September 2013) on       the same topic, to help Finland prepare for the December 2013 Council of       the EU meeting on European security/defence.
