     A critical challenge to Scotland's new system of devolved government is       the making and       implementation of public policy in areas where Scotland has primary or       sole authority.
Thanks to       his research, Keating has been called upon to advise policy makers,       collaborate with civil servants,       and provide an expert perspective through the media.
In this role, he       attempts to facilitate a two-way       exchange of views between academics and practitioners to help improve       policy learning.
Following the first ESRC project, Keating was invited by Scottish civil       servants to collaborate on       fostering policy innovation.
One result was the Scottish Policy Innovation       Forum (SPIF), a group of       academics and practitioners who for five years have been holding regular       seminars, conferences,       and meetings to consider innovation in various fields.
SPIF meetings bring       together policymakers       and researchers to discuss innovative strategies for public policy and       feature short presentations in       which academics make policy recommendations to be discussed by attendees.
Keating's own       research has featured in meetings on `Innovation' (23/3/08), the `Scottish       Policy Innovation Forum'       (4/09/2009), and `The New English Localism' (30/4/12).
The ESRC Follow-On       grant was used to       organize two academic-practitioner seminars in 2010: one on policy       transfer and policy learning at       the devolved level; and one on policy styles and processes (with support       from the German Consul       General in Scotland).
Seminar participants included senior civil servants       from the Scottish       Government, Wales, and Whitehall, officials of agencies, and academic       colleagues from Scotland       and other European countries.
The project's final report was published in       the journal Scottish         Affairs (Winter 2011), and individual papers from the seminars were       published as a special issue of       Regional and Federal Studies (22/3: 2012), edited by Keating and       Cairney.
Between 2008-11 Michael Keating and Richard Rose ran the `Scotland in the       World' seminars,       bringing distinguished academics to Scotland to lecture to mixed       academic-practitioner audiences.
The principal aim of these events was to allow international public policy       experts to contribute their       experience of working in a world of interdependent states and to broaden       ongoing conversations       on Scotland's constitutional future though events aimed at policy advisers       and directors, civil       servants, parliamentarians, the diplomatic corps, and media       correspondents.
The series was       launched by the First Minister and seminars were attended by prominent       politicians, civil servants,       European Commission and European Parliament officials, and members of the       Edinburgh consular       corps.
In the Forum's inaugural lecture (04/02/08), First Minister Alex       Salmond said, "The Scottish       Government has launched a National Conversation with the people of       Scotland.
This conversation       is about the country that we wish to be &#8212; and the changes we must make to       meet our ambitions...
The Forum that we are launching today will be a major part of this       conversation, drawing in views       across the academic world and internationally."
Since the launch, Forum speakers have included the Prime Minister of       Finland and Jeffrey       Weinberg, legislative attorney to the White House Office of Management and       Budget.
A seminar       on the experience of Catalonia was attended by the former Presiding       Officer of the Scottish       Parliament, the former First Minister, and prominent figures in Scottish       public life.
A seminar on       the Irish experience was attended by the consuls-general of Ireland and       Germany, the Scottish       representative to the EU, and the representatives in Scotland of the       European Commission and the       European Parliament.
These events, informed by Keating's large body of       comparative research on       policy learning, gave sub-national (or devolved) policy-makers from       several European countries the       opportunity to share practical ideas and best practices regarding their       own experiences with this       form of governance.
In 2010, Keating was invited by the Scottish Government to lead a series       of training courses on       policy skills, with a team drawn from five universities.
The basic text is       Keating's book The         Government of Scotland.
The course has been run eight times for       around 20 civil servants on       each occasion.
Departing from the conventional training format, it       introduces key ideas and       concepts, then provides an opportunity for civil servants to reflect on       their own experiences and       explore the scope for, and constraints on, policy innovation, particularly       during times of public       spending reductions.
Evaluations have consistently been highly positive;       the course employs       teaching materials developed as part of Keating's ESRC Devolution and       Public Policy research       and Cairney was a member of the teaching team until February 2013.
Also in       2010, Keating was       invited to participate in meetings to discuss the Scottish Government's       policy-making framework       and its contribution to the UK reform programme.
This fed into the reform       of policy-making and the       Scottish policy cycle, although not all the nuances introduced by the       academic participants       survived.
He also presented at a meeting of local authority       representatives on the reform of       cohesion policy organized by the European Commission representative in       Scotland.
Keating has been closely involved in regular discussions about       establishing a more permanent       policy institute for Scotland.
He collaborated with Robert Black, recently       retired Auditor General,       on this, chairing two stakeholders' meetings in the summer of 2011.
The       outcome was the Royal       Society of Edinburgh's (RSE) Fellows Public Services Reform Group, which       it is hoped will develop       in the years to come.
Keating also contributed to the RSE submission on       the impact of the Lisbon       Treaty on Scotland.
The resulting Advice Paper was alluded to in a       Parliamentary debate on       09/12/10, when Helen Eadie, MSP, said: `I refer to the evidence that was       given by Professor       Michael Keating, who said it is vital that the Parliament agrees &#8212; among       others &#8212; the committee's       recommendation that there be established a formal mechanism for dispute       resolution covering all       areas where the UK as a member state, may have a different opinion from       the devolved Scottish       Parliament."
Keating also helped organise the RSE's `Franco-Scottish       Policy Seminar' (02/10/12)       on policy innovation, youth employment and training polices.
As a member of the British Academy (BA), Keating also serves on steering       committee for the joint       BA/RSE initiative on Enlightening the Constitutional Debate.
This involves       a series of monthly       seminars in 2013-14, with summary findings on the academies' web sites;       Keating organized the       seminar on Europe held in April 2013.
Taken together, these efforts have       facilitated the       emergence of a permanent network of academics and policy practitioners who       know each other       and exchange ideas in a variety of forums.
This network plays an       increasingly important role in       informing the public debate regarding the future of devolved government in       general, and the issue       of Scottish independence in particular.
Keating's ESRC Large Grant funding       under the UK and       Scotland Programme will ensure this effort continues at least until the       referendum itself in 2014.
