     The research described in Section 2 was commissioned primarily by the       European Commission       and its associated bodies.
It was therefore designed to have impact by       stimulating debate and       shaping policy within these organisations.
The findings have also been       used by individual EU       governments and beneficiaries beyond the EU.
Europe-wide impact:     In June 2010 and November 2012, the Aberdeen team presented their       findings to the Eurofound       Board, which includes European Trade Union leaders and representatives       from Employers'       Federations, the European Commission and EU member states.
Robert       Anderson, who oversees       all quality of life research at Eurofound, confirmed the importance of       Aberdeen's work, saying that       it had contributed "to the work of the Foundation which underpins social       policy developments in       Europe" by providing evidence for underpinning policies and discussions       [5.1.]
The research also       informed a regional Eurofound meeting with representatives from Croatia,       Macedonia and Turkey       in Zagreb in November 2010, where it was presented to policymakers       responsible for EU       accession negotiations.
The Aberdeen reports provided information on a       range of social indicators       to inform accession nations' efforts to meet European standards [5.2].
The Aberdeen team's findings have also been incorporated in the EurLIFE       interactive database, a       Eurofound project set up as a resource for policymakers wishing to access       comparative quality of       life data.
Between January 2008 and July 2013, the database had more than       336,000 page views       [5.3].
The European Foundation Reports and the EQLS surveys, to which the       Aberdeen team have often       contributed, were frequently used in policy documents and discussions at a       European level       between 2010 and 2013; this work was also repeatedly cited by the Council       of Europe (3 times),       the European Commission (31 times), the European Parliament (14 times),       the European       Economic and Social Committee (once), European Agencies (twice), European       Social Partners       (twice), European Thinktank's (3 times), EU NGOs (3 times) and       International Agencies such as       the OECD (twice), UNECE (once) and WHO (twice) [5.4].
Wallace gave a keynote address on her findings from the Eurofound       research in June 2013 in       Dublin at the 21st European Social Services Conference.
This       gathering was attended by over 360       European policy makers from 32 countries and organised by the European       Social Network (an       independent network for local public social services in Europe) in       partnership with the Irish       Presidency.
[5.5] Among those present was the President of Ireland,       Michael Higgins, who       indirectly endorsed the work of Eurofound by stating that "it is time for       socially driven politics based       on normative theory."
Impact on individual countries:     For the benefit of individual countries, the Aberdeen team have distilled       relevant findings on       particular aspects of life quality.
For the UK Work Foundation (a provider       of research-based       analysis, knowledge exchange and policy advice) the Aberdeen team       presented their findings on       quality of working life in two sessions in Edinburgh in 2010 and 2011.
At       the 2011 event, the       Aberdeen team also organised a deliberative forum.
The results were used       to help inform the       Scottish government's 2012 Parenting Strategy [5.6].
Individual country information has also been made available to       policymakers and the general       public via the Workcare Synergies project, a two-year dissemination scheme       (2010/11) involving       Portugal, Austria, Denmark, England, Scotland, Italy, Poland and Hungary.
The information       gathered for the scheme remains available on its website [5.7].
As a result of this work, Wallace was invited to Germany in January 2013       to present her social       quality model to the Bertelsmann Foundation, an influential think tank.
The Foundation used the       model in their report, Social Cohesion Radar.
An international         comparison of social cohesion,       published in July 2013 [5.8].
The report was widely picked up by the       German national media,       including Sueddeutsche Zeitung and Der Tagesspiegel, as       well as Focus and Stern magazines.
In early 2013, Wallace was invited to present her Social Quality model in       Hangzhou in China       (designated City of Quality of Life by the Chinese Government) where the       model had been used by       city government since 2004 in its policies for urban development and to       promote collaboration       between different stakeholder groups.
Since 2010, the Hangzhou city       authorities have built further       on this model, developing indicators to measure progress [5.9].
For the Senate in Rwanda, Abbott and her collaborators produced a       specially commissioned report       and analysis focusing on how social quality can be used to inform national       policies aimed at peace       and reconciliation [5.10].
Findings were presented to the Rwandan Senate       in July 2013 and       received positive feedback, which were incorporated into the final report.
