     The research described in this case study has directly benefitted policy       makers and       community leaders, peace practitioners and civil society groups in       Northern Ireland and       elsewhere, as well as building knowledge and stimulating debate via online       media.
Brewer and Hayes have briefed influential Northern Ireland policy makers,       community       leaders and opinion formers on their research findings.
These include Paul       Jordan, Director       of Funding Programmes at the Northern Ireland Community Relations Council       (2012-2013),       who commended the research as being `insightful' and showing `a deep level       of       understanding of the causes and ongoing impact of conflict' [5.1]; Norman       Taggart, former       President of the Methodist Church in Ireland and Patron of the Northern       Ireland Council for       Integrated Education (NICIE; 2010-2011) [5.2]; and Eamonn Mallie, a       veteran political       journalist (2013), who praised the team for challenging conventional and       evolving thinking on       aspects of compromise and has invited them to contribute to his       influential website on       several occasions (see below) [5.3].
Hayes's research on integrated education has been used by NICIE to argue       in favour of       educating children from different communities together.
A leaflet quoting       Hayes's work was       re-posted on the NICIE website in 2012; several of her outputs are       available on the site [5.4].
Brewer and Hayes have both translated their research findings into       practical peace-building       events and workshops for civil society groups.
Brewer contributed to an       international       conference on Trauma and Spirituality held in Belfast during March 2011;       it brought together       over 250 delegates (mostly health professionals and representatives of       faith communities)       from around the world.
Brewer presented his findings on the role of church       leaders in       providing prophetic and practical guidance during the Northern Ireland       conflict [5.5].
In June and November 2011, Brewer delivered a set of workshops based on       his research to       an international group of participants from Sweden, Ireland and Northern       Ireland at       Ballymena under the auspices of Mediation Northern Ireland, a       peace-building NGO.
The       aim of these workshops was to build civic leadership through international       dialogue [5.6].
This programme was coordinated with an event in July 2010, at which Brewer       addressed a       civil society audience at the John Hewitt International Summer School in       Armagh.
In October 2012, Hayes presented her research findings on church       attendance to a seminar       run by ARK, which aimed to promote knowledge-based policy in Northern       Ireland.
The       audience included people from the voluntary sector and churches [5.7].
In 2011, Brewer's research findings on religion and well-being among       victims and ex-combatants       were translated by the Northern Ireland Association for Mental Health       (NIAMH)       into a training DVD, Journey towards Healing [5.8].
Internationally, Brewer has used his research insights to devise       peace-building workshops       for civil society groups, which he rolled out in Sri Lanka via the Asian       Institute of Missiology       in August 2010 and February 2012 [5.9].
Following the latter, Brewer       agreed with the       Institute that he would engage in a small scale but active civil society       peace-building project       bringing together Sinhalese and Tamil widows and their children.
He also       addressed an       audience of civil society peacebuilders in Houston, Texas, under the       auspices of the Gulen       Institute in September 2010.
In September 2012, a former student of Brewer's set up a charity in       Scotland called Enabling         Women to Engage in Peace Processes, acknowledging that this was due       to Brewer's work       on gender empowerment in peace processes.
Brewer and Hayes have also actively engaged with opinion leaders,       peace-builders, and the       public through online media [5.10].
They have a following of nearly 7,250       on their Twitter       account, @compromisestudy, which focuses on the role of compromise after       conflict.
Followers include politicians such as Northern Ireland's First Minister,       Peter Robinson,       members of every political party in the UK, international organisations       like the European       Union, NATO and the White House, social movements and victim rights       activists, and world       leaders like Nelson Mandela.
In 2012, representatives of the Northern       Ireland Assembly       contacted Brewer for advice on victims legislation as a result of his       tweeting and other social       media comments.
The corresponding `Compromise after Conflict' website had       nearly 8,000       hits in the 12-month period up to 1st July 2011 until 30th       June 2012, with 6,320 of those being       unique visitors.
Hayes's work has been quoted on the website of       Presbyterian minister and       former politician Ivan Foster, on Worldsecuritynetwork.com, an       international foreign and       security policy network, and on Northern Ireland's highly regarded       political blog,       sluggerotoole.com (2008).
While impressive themselves, these figures were       dwarfed by the       establishment of a very successful blog based on research by Brewer and       Hayes in July       2013 and a correspondingly dramatic increase in their work's social media       presence [5.10].
Brewer's research is widely reported and quoted on influential blogs in       Northern Ireland,       including Eamonnmallie.com, a platform for independent thought run by       leading political       journalist, Eamonn Mallie (most recently in 2012) as well as on       sluggerotoole.com (2012).
