     The research outlined above, along with Mills' role as       Co-Director of the Scottish Centre for Himalayan Research, was what led to       his being invited to act as the principal academic advisor to the Scottish       Parliament's Cross-Party Group on Tibet.
This invitation was made on the       grounds of Mills' experience and involvement regarding the Tibetan       'Shugden controversy' from 1996-2003 (Mills 2003b), for which he carried       out research between 1993 and 2003, wrote an internal assessment for       Amnesty International following human rights allegations made by       worshippers of the deity, and dealt with media inquiries.
Mills'       works (Mills 2003b and 2009) now represent major sources for public and       scholarly debate on this controversy.
In more specific terms, the research above contributed to the production       of four briefing papers for the Scottish Parliament's Cross Party Group on       Tibet in the following ways:     (1): Research Projects 1 and 2 (see above), and in particular the work on       the role and status of incarnate lamas within the authority structure of       Tibetan religious schools, contributed directly to the 2010 paper       "Religious Policy and State Control in Tibet", which outlined the       influence and structure of new Peoples' Republic of China regulations on       the recognition of incarnate lamas in Tibet.
(2): Project 3 (see above) involved substantial initial research into the       1987-90 protests in Tibet, and provided essential background data to the       demographic, geographical and ideological shifts represented by the 2008       protests examined in the parliamentary briefing paper, "The 2008 Protests       in Tibet: Main Facts and Analysis".
The core conclusions of this paper       were presented to a closed meeting of scholars, Foreign Office officials       and representatives of human rights organisations at the University of       Cambridge in May 2008.
It was later reproduced in abridged form by the       internationally-distributed Students for a Free Tibet Newsletter (http://data5.blog.de/media/521/2541521_bbfe98e4f0_d.pdf).
(3): Project 3 also involved substantial research on the history and form       of Tibetan claims to sovereignty and governance, and the difficulties of       squaring these with the modern constitutional claims of nation-states.
This history, and the constitutional problems implied, formed the basis       for some of the recommendations in the 2009 briefing paper, "Issues of       Sovereignty in the Sino-Tibetan Dispute".
(4): Research Project 4 (see above) contributed directly to the       production of the fourth briefing paper on recent Tibetan       self-immolations, which was ratified by the Cross Party Group on Tibet in       June 2012, from where it was disseminated to Scottish MPs, human rights       organisations, newspapers and Tibet organisations.
Because of the urgency       of the issue, the briefing paper was produced simultaneously with the       development of academic research papers which are currently still in       production, but which were initially presented at the South Asian       Anthropologists Group seminar in Edinburgh in September 2012.
The key       findings of this research were also formally presented to the Scottish       Parliament's Cross Party Group on Tibet and attendant members of the UK       Human Rights organisations on the 6th June 2012.
The first three of these papers were presented as evidence to the Foreign       Affairs Select Committee of the UK Parliament by the Tibet Support Group       in 2009.
The Select Committee used these extensively as part of their       deliberations on the human rights situation in the Peoples' Republic of       China (PRC), published in its Human Rights Annual Report 2008.
Their examination of Mills' three reports constituted nearly 60%       of the PRC section (see esp.
pp.EV145-7).
In this regard, Mills'       primary research work &#8212; particularly of the late 1990s and early 2000s &#8212;       contributed directly to Foreign Office deliberations on the China human       rights situation.
In autumn 2013, a motion is to be put for debate to the Scottish       Parliament by Maureen Watt, MSP.
A draft of the motion reads as follows:     "That the Parliament expresses sadness that at least 117 people have       self-immolated, often fatally, in Tibet since February 2009; understands       that these self-immolations have, with few exceptions, taken place in       Tibet itself and expresses concern at the State's attempts to prevent       accurate reports of self-immolation reaching the media and condemns the       criminalisation of victims' family members and, sometimes, witnesses in       the process; recognises the work of the Scottish Centre for Himalayan         studies at Aberdeen University and Grampian Tibet Support Group in       highlighting these issues, as well as supporting cultural and educational       links with Tibet and beyond."
The motion has been tabled but not debated yet because of the summer       recess.
