     Public talks were held from 2005 onwards in locations as diverse as the       Stromness Museum, Orkney (The Orkney Historical Society), the Village       Hall, Stuartfield, Aberdeenshire (The Buchan Field Club), and the Elders       Centre, Thompson Manitoba (Honekwe Oral History Gathering).
Several short       articles were published, aimed at a non-academic audience, for example,       Alison Brown 2007, `Christina Massan's Beadwork and Family History',         Fox Tracks, Newsletter of the Fox Lake Negotiations Office, Fox Lake         Cree Nation, vol.
7 (3): 4-5.
In addition, a number of outreach       activities were developed in connection with this project, detailed below.
(1): Material Histories: Scots and Aboriginal Peoples in the           Canadian Fur Trade.
Exhibition curated by Alison Brown and         Nancy Wachowich and held at Marischal Museum, 4 February 2008-11 May         2008     This exhibition drew on oral history, archival and artefact-centred       research undertaken by Brown and Wachowich between 1       October 2005 and 31 December 2007 to highlight the experiences of people       from the Northeast of Scotland who joined the Hudson's Bay Company during       the twentieth century.
The curatorial team worked closely with members of       the public who had responded to a press release regarding their own family       connection with the fur trade to develop text panels that highlighted the       experiences of individuals within the broader context of changes in the       northern fur trade.
The exhibition was aimed at the general public and ran       for approximately three months.
It was attended by approximately 7000       visitors.
The exhibition raised the profile of the Material Histories       project, drew the attention of visitors to the historic and economic links       between Scotland and Canada, and enabled students in the Department of       Anthropology to gain experience of research and curation by assisting with       the exhibition's development.
(2): Material Histories: Scots and Aboriginal Peoples in the           Canadian Fur Trade.
Website www.abdn.ac.uk/materialhistories       This website was developed in order to make the results of the research       available to a global audience and was launched on 17 June 2008.
Data for       the total number of hits since then are not available, but the most recent       available figures show that during May 2011 there were 231 separate visits       to the site from 22 different countries.
Brown continues to       receive emails about the project via the website at least once a month,       mostly from people requesting help in locating fur trade ancestors.
In       April 2012, for example, a Canadian emailed to say, "I have just       discovered your work posted on ABDN website and I want you to know that I       really appreciate it.
Thank you...." He then requested assistance in       finding archival resources for his own research.
In March 2012 a First       Nations individual wrote: "Hi.
Mrs Alison.... sorry about my english.....i       speak more my language.....
I'm an Algonquin from canada quebec.
i was in       contact with you by an anthropologist from montreal she helped me to trace       my great-grandfather who was a Scottish.
He arrive here in Canada in 1876.       i... would love to know if he has family in scotland ..... if he had       brothers .... sisters.
I now that he was from Orkney....something like       that....is name was David McKenzie.......he arrived in north of Ontario       Canada.....in Moosenee exactly....he was 16 years old in 1876.
We had a       picture of him.....at my grand mom....but someone took it away from our       family.....
So i dont now if these informations will help you out.....but       tanks alote to helping us to find a part of our ancesters.....everyones       gonna be happy if we now about our great grand dad :) Mikwetch."
The       website continues to generate similar queries from an extremely broad       audience.
We have also received very positive feedback from professional       archivists and educators.
(3): Cultural Awareness       One unanticipated impact of the project is how it is being used by       individuals who were interviewed as part of the research.
As an educator,       Christine Massan, from Fox Lake Cree Nation, Manitoba, has been a keen       supporter of the project and co-authored a book chapter with Brown       about her own family's fur trade connections.
She is involved in Cultural       Awareness training for employees of companies such as Manitoba Hydro,       Ducks Unlimited, Comstock, which have a presence in Northern Manitoba for       the construction of dams.
She has also used the research as the basis for       presentations to school students in her own community, many of whom are       struggling to find positive role models.
Finally, she is in the early       stages of developing a film, with Cree actor and director Michael       Lawrenchuk, based on the research.
(4): Film/television       Several media productions in the early stages of development will draw on       aspects of the research.
Cree actor and director Michael Lawrenchuk, from       Fox Lake First Nation, Manitoba, Canada, has proposed developing a film       based on the lives of a family with ties to his community whose story was       uncovered during the Material Histories project.
In addition,       there have been some preliminary discussions with the BBC to develop a       documentary featuring one of the families researched during the project.
This follows from the screening of an Antiques Roadshow episode       (televised on 30.02.2008) in which one of the individuals who worked with       Brown on the project participated.
