     As Content and Integrated Language Learning rapidly expands, Coyle's work       at Aberdeen has had a major influence &#8212; both nationally and       internationally &#8212; on education policies and guidelines, teacher training,       and the classroom experience of teachers and learners.
In 2008, Coyle presented her findings as a keynote speaker at the       high-profile EU Presidency Conference in Luxembourg to top level policy       makers, educationalists and stakeholders from all EU nations.
She       co-authored the DES 2009 UK National Guidelines for CLIL [5.1a] to provide       an authoritative source of guidance for teachers [5.1b].
In 2011, the       Scottish Government's Modern Languages Excellence Group used a school case       study based on Coyle's 4CF to illustrate the successful classroom practice       and praised it as promoting young people's ability "to use and enjoy the       language effectively... for a range of relevant purposes... throughout       their life."
[5.2].
In March 2011, the Times Educational Supplement       featured a school from the Esm&#233;e Fairbairn research project.
The 4CF has been refined since 2008, focussing on language for       higher-order thinking and cultural implications for literacy skills,       taking into account the learners' views of learning.
It is widely adopted       internationally, especially since the publication of Coyle's seminal       (co-authored) 2010 book, Content and Language Integrated Learning       [3.3].
For example, in 2009-10, the Education Council for Francophone       Belgium trained over 30 teacher trainers in 4CF [5.3], now impacting on       over 270 schools.
In 2011, Coyle acted as advisor to the Quatar Ministry       and the Flemish Ministry of Education, Belgium, [5.8] and is advising the       Sri Lankan Ministry of Education in using 4CF in the World Bank-funded       2012-2014 reform of the national bilingual education policy involving       4,895 teachers [5.4].
Since 2008, 4CF and its conceptual tools have impacted on the training of       thousands of teachers with professional organisations across the world       regularly access exemplar 4CF materials: in 2009-10, through Skype       master-classes and on-line resources for Language Teacher Associations in       Victoria [5.6]; and in 2011 in Madrid and Lombardy, reaching 100s of       teachers on each occasion.
She has shared her work with delegates at over       30 teacher conferences in Sri Lanka, Australia, Japan, Qatar, Slovenia,       Poland, Netherlands, Belgium, Spain, Italy and Estonia, as well as Ireland       and the UK.
These contacts have led to specific professional development       opportunities for teachers.
The Catalan Government and the British Council       jointly invested over one million pounds in bespoke CLIL teacher training       under Coyle's direction (2005-2010), publishing teacher-participant       resources on an open-access website [5.7].
Coyle's work is used extensively across professional networks: in the       European-funded CLIL Cascade Network (CCN), with teacher members from 18       countries; in the UK's Association for Language Learning, which launched a       CLIL teacher network (FLAME, January 2013) [5.5a] with Coyle as advisor;       and other professional associations such as the MLTAV in Australia [5.5b].
Her role on the Scottish Government Advisory Group ensured her CLIL       research informed the 2012 national Language Policy.
As a result, all       trainee teachers in Aberdeen now have a CLIL experience in preparation for       transforming traditional language practice in their schools.
The International Schools in Geneva funded 25 teachers to undertake       Aberdeen's MA in PluriLingual Education.
These teachers published their       own e-book of CLIL materials in Aberdeen for the International       Baccalaureate Organisation.
In the UK, the significance of 4CF was       corroborated by school inspections: in 2012, Chenderit School was graded       "outstanding" by HMI (Schools) for CLIL student learning.
An unexpected but far-reaching impact of Coyle's work [3.5] is the LOCIT       digital tool and repository described above.
This now contains data from       50 schools across five countries.
In 2011, remote primary schools on the       Isle of Skye used LOCIT collaboratively to self-analyse classes taught in       Gaelic.
One teacher commented: It let the children become part of our         learning together in ways I wouldn't have believed.
LOCIT evidence       is also used as training material for CLIL teachers.
And its impact is       spreading: the Scottish Government is funding (2013-2015) a national pilot       for LOCIT available to teachers in all subjects across three Local       Authorities.
LOCIT was presented to the Duchess of Cornwall during her       2012 visit to Aberdeen.
Coyle's work continues to attract wide attention among professional       educators.
Coyle et al.
's 2010 book [3.3] has sold over 11,000 copies and       reports from Academia.edu indicate over 40 online hits per month.
The book       is used for teacher development workshops across the world, is a core       resource for Professional Development programmes and is on university       reading lists in the UK, Australia, Germany, Spain, and the Netherlands.
It is integrated into the University of Cambridge's ESOL examination: Teaching         Knowledge Test for CLIL [5.9].
