     Aberdeen's IPP has become a fundamental part of how the chronic       challenges of under-achievement       and lack of participation for certain groups are being addressed by policy       makers,       teacher educators (i.e.
those who teach teachers) and teachers themselves.
The Scottish government's National Framework for Inclusion, launched in       April 2009, draws       heavily on IPP research.
Reflecting the IPP approach, it promotes       inclusion as being the       responsibility of all teachers, in all schools and builds upon the work of       the IPP to provide the basis       for planning courses in teacher education and professional learning.
Fiona       Hyslop, Cabinet       Secretary for Education, said at the launch, "The framework means       systematic improvement with       all teacher training providers embedding inclusive education principles       within student learning... we       are making advice and guidance available online so that all teachers, no       matter how experienced,       can learn how to make learning in their classroom more inclusive for       pupils".
[5.1]     Following the launch of the Framework, each of the seven university       providers of Initial       Teacher Education (ITE) in Scotland has restructured courses in line with       the Framework.
For       example, at Stirling University, students take a module entitled       `Differences and Identities'.
This       module focuses on the wider pastoral responsibilities of being a teacher       and asks students to       consider how these might shape their thinking.
More than 1,500 students       successfully completed       reformed PGDE over the six year period from 2007-2012.
Teachers graduating       from this course       take up probationary teaching posts across Scotland.
[5.2]     The IPP's follow up study of probationer teachers has shown that, through       using the principles       of Inclusive Pedagogy, probationers found ways of supporting the learning       of all children without       needing to mark some as different.
One said in her IPP follow-up       interview: "(Before the PGDE) I       believed that people's ability is changeable, but I didn't really know how       to articulate it and I       certainly wouldn't have known how to ... bring it into the classroom.
That's what the course has       helped me with... the language to be able to justify what you're doing and       trying to make       (colleagues) think a wee bit."
[5.3]     The research also impacts upon already qualified teachers.
Every year,       Aberdeen trains over       300 teachers in inclusive practice in partnership with schools in 6 local       authorities [5.4] and, in       January 2013, Aberdeen launched a new Masters level programme on Inclusive       Pedagogy.
This       programme draws on the IPP probationer study.
It has been designed with       online elements so       teachers can continue classroom practice while completing the degree.
There are currently 13       practising teachers from Scotland, Egypt and Abu Dhabi enrolled and a       waiting list for next year.
Beginning in 2010, Glasgow University also incorporated Inclusive Pedagogy       in its teacher       continuing professional development programme.
Guidance based on the work of Florian and Rouse has been incorporated       into the new       Scottish national HMIE Inclusion Reference Manual for School Inspections       (2008).
[5.5] Rouse       chaired working groups at HMIE in 2008 and the Scottish Qualifications       Authority (the national       accreditation and awarding body) in 2009.
The impact of the IPP research also has international reach.
In November       2008, Florian       presented IPP research on educating teachers to meet learners' diverse       expectations at       UNESCO's Conference on Education.
[5.6]     Florian also co-authored a White Paper for the American Association of       Colleges of Teacher       Education.
Its key recommendations reflect IPP research in a call for       investment in the       development of new inclusive teacher education.
The Paper was launched at       a series of briefings       on Capitol Hill, the White House and the US Department of Education in May       2011 as part of the       re-authorization of the US Elementary and Secondary Education Act.
[5.7]     Between 2009 and 2012, Florian represented Scotland as national expert on       the European       Agency for Development in Special Needs Education study, `Teacher         Education for Inclusion'       (TE4I).
Fellow participants included policy makers and practitioners from       29 EU countries and       representatives of international organisations including the EU, UNESCO       and the OECD.
The       TE4I's final report makes recommendations to support the development of       teacher education for       inclusion in Europe, citing Florian and Rouse's work.
[5.8]     Public and professional awareness of the IPP research has manifested       through articles in       numerous publications including Prospects, UNESCO's journal on       education, for an international       audience of scholars, decision-makers and educators [5.9]; and the Times         Educational         Supplement (both September 2011).
Education Scotland (the Scottish government executive agency) have made       information about       inclusive practice and Aberdeen's research publicly available via their       Journey to Excellence       website.
While aimed primarily at teachers, this resource is also used by       parents and other       stakeholders.
It features four video interviews with Rouse speaking about       the inclusive classroom       and pupil achievement.
[5.10]
