     The British Local Elections Database, its continual updating, and the       ability to trace trends over time has been pivotal in enhancing media       coverage and public discussion of both national and local elections, and       in influencing policy on electoral matters.
The availability of the data was first flagged in monthly articles       written by Rallings and Thrasher in Local Government         Chronicle from 1984 onwards.
These discussed individual local       election results and their wider significance.
The potential of such data       in contributing to the national level benchmarking and forecasting of the       annual local elections was recognised, inter alia, by the Sunday Times,       which began commissioning election commentary from Rallings and Thrasher       in 1986.
As part of this commentary the database was used by us to devise an       exclusive measure of what any given local election result implies for the       overall popularity of the various political parties.
This `national       equivalent vote' is effectively an estimate of the national vote share,       but based on real election results rather than the expressed views of       opinion poll respondents.
`These forecasts have proved their accuracy over       a period of more than twenty years and The Sunday Times has been       delighted to be able to give its readers this unique insight which       complements its conventional opinion poll-based election coverage.'
(Reference 2)     The `national equivalent vote' has become a standard way of reporting on       and interpreting local election results.
It is widely quoted across the       media and acts as a marker against which commentators and the public can       measure and judge the claims and ambitions of the political parties.
In       2011, 2012 and 2013 Rallings and Thrasher's local projections were covered       in the Daily Telegraph, the Independent, Evening         Standard, Daily Mirror, and the Sun as well as by the       Sunday Times and formed the basis of well-attended briefings for       journalists organised by the Political Studies Association at the       Institute of Government.
(Reference 6)     Post-election the `national equivalent vote' calculation is widely       featured in assessments of how the parties have performed and is used by       the House of Commons Library as a quasi-official summary indicator of each       year's election outcome.
`The Elections Centre at Plymouth University       provides unique analyses of local elections which we use in connection       with our work for Members of Parliament...There is great value in having       the up to date and consistent time series'.
(References 3 and 7)     At a more micro-level the database and forecasting research provides the       raw material for and underpins both the BBC's and Sky News' election night       results programmes.
`It allows us to bring viewers and listeners early and       authoritative estimates of the outcome of the elections even when only a       few results are to hand.'
(References 1 and 8)     For the new parliamentary boundaries which came into force at both the       1997 and 2010 general elections, the Centre used a specially devised       formula based on ward level local election data drawn from the database to       calculate the likely partisan consequences of boundary changes for a media       consortium comprising the BBC, ITN, Sky News and the Press Association.
These were accepted as the `official' notional results and used and cited       in general election coverage across five continents.
Without such notional       results `we would not be able to sustain election night programmes in       those instances with anything like the content viewers have come to       expect.'
(References 1 and 7)     The British Local Elections Database has also contributed to public       policy on elections and election reform.
Since 2001 it has been a key       source of information for the Electoral Commission.
`The Commission highly       values the data gathered and methodology developed by the Elections Centre       at Plymouth University which has been crucial in enabling it to build a       record of election outcomes for use in its own policy and best practice       work.
For example, our understanding of patterns of turnout, the increase       in and use of absent votes, and the variance in practice among local       authorities relies heavily on research undertaken by the Elections       Centre.'
(References 5 and 10)     Similarly for the Local Government Association, `the unique set of local       election results data from the Elections Centre, as well as their       guidance, is crucial for managing the LGA board structure in a way that       properly reflects how votes were cast by the electorate...This provides a       valuable service to councils' (Reference 4).
The overall impact of the Centre's work in recent years was summarised in       an editorial in The Guardian in May 2013 entitled "In praise of Rallings       and Thrasher".
It describes how `the duo's meticulous year- round       tracking of ward byelections...is the only way in which the polls that so       obsess Westminster can be checked against real votes.
By faithfully       mapping wards for so long, they can interpret what boundary changes mean       for national elections too, a mix of art and science in which they have a       distinguished record...(and which has) done more than most to illuminate       British democracy' (Reference 9).
