     The major milestones of the impact have been:     (i) the adoption of a Gaelic Language Act by the Scottish government in       2005.
Scottish nationalism       is not, like Basque or Catalan nationalism, founded on defence of a       threatened language, and       there was no imperative, therefore, for a Labour and Liberal coalition       government in Scotland to       adopt a Gaelic language policy for political reasons.
Rather, the       Government came to approach the       issue in terms of European policies in support of minority languages, a       European approach to       which the research of Dunbar, himself a lawyer, had significantly       contributed.
Providing a legal       framework for the support of a minority language brought Scotland in line       with other European       jurisdictions in a non-politicised context (the bill received cross-party       support);     (ii) the establishment of the University of the Highlands and Islands as       a research university with a       strong commitment to Gaelic language research.
This was in significant       part an outcome of the       SOILLSE initiative, but its broader aim has been to normalise the       use of Gaelic for academic       research, in the communications of public bodies and in the delivery of       outreach education for       adults as well as in Gaelic-medium education for children.
The Rannsachadh       na G&#224;idhlig       conference held in Aberdeen in 2010 and the SOILLSE conference in       2011 witnessed       considerable increase in the number of papers about language planning       delivered through the       medium of Gaelic itself, and part of the result is the development of a       terminology which has been       disseminated into daily usage by those engaged in promoting the language       at grass-roots level;     (iii) Aberdeen leads on the `Community and Family Language Usage' strand       of SOILLSE's       activities.
Macleod has directed two research projects in this       area: the first examined the working       patterns of community language development officers, and aimed at       improving their effectiveness       by providing training in project planning and the assessment of outcomes.
This was a `cascade'       project, dealing initially with 15 of the key professionals in the field       who could relay what they had       learned to others at more diversified levels of language delivery.
Macleod was also involved with       SOILLSE colleagues in a commissioned research project into the CPD       needs of professionals       working in Gaelic language development in the community.
Based on the       results of this project       B&#242;rd na G&#224;idhlig have decided to implement new training strategies and Macleod       has been       appointed to the training steering group.
(iv) Macleod and MacLeod have been involved in various       commissioned research projects to       support the delivery of community-based language learning.
A project on       the Delivery of Gaelic to       adults through &#217;lpan was commissioned by B&#242;rd na G&#224;idhlig in order to       inform their policy on       supporting adult learners: the report will shape future delivery       mechanisms.
A second has been       designed to support Gaelic medium education delivery in primary schools       and the researchers       have worked alongside teachers in developing the project so that the end       results will properly       support the teachers in their work.
They have also undertaken primary       research into the use of       Gaelic in specific environments (e.g.
MacLeod's on Gaelic Language       Skills in the Workplace' and       Macleod's on community language workers and national strategies)       which have helped shape the       agenda of B&#242;rd na G&#224;idhlig.
The impact thus ranges from influence on national language strategies       down to the local       organisation of the delivery of language training in specific       environments.
The SOILLSE project will       run until 2016 and harnesses the work of non-governmental agencies,       non-departmental public       bodies, local authorities and a variety of local educational institutions.
It has led directly to a wide       range of employment opportunities, from a professorship and a non-academic       administrator       through postdoctoral research fellows and postgraduates.
There is a SOILLSE       website which       receives more than 2,000 hits per year, and on which research reports are       made available to the       general public, including research digests written for non-academic       audiences.
The website,       together with the SOILLSE Facebook page and twitter account, all       help in disseminating research       to non-specialist audiences both locally and internationally.
