     The impact of The Pure Land is indicated first by its world-wide       sales and translation into 16 languages, with other translations in       preparation.
In addition to many English-language editions, the novel has       appeared in translation between 2008 and 2013 in French, Italian, Spanish,       Brazilian, Portuguese, Hebrew, Greek, Czech, Russian, Swedish, Norwegian,       Dutch, Finnish, Danish, Polish and Chinese, with editions forthcoming in       Japanese and German.
Book sales for English-language editions currently       total over 50,000 copies, and for other languages worldwide in the region       of 60,000.
In each country, the critical reception of the novel has       mirrored its commercial success, confirming its status as an important       work of global fiction.
On its initial publication, the book was launched at the Edinburgh       International Book Festival and featured at the Aberdeen WORD Festival       (with audiences in excess of 200 for each of Spence's own readings, and       attendance figures of 10,000 for the WORD Festival as a whole).
Spence has       since done numerous other readings, including at the Aye Write Festival in       Glasgow, at festivals in Ullapool, Wigtown and Nairn, and at events in       London (Poetry Society, ICA).
Internationally, he has appeared at a       conference on European literature in Turin, at British Council events in       Madrid and Prague, and at events in Poland (Warsaw, Kracow and Wroclaw,       2008).
On all of these occasions he has read from and discussed The         Pure Land and other Japanese-themed works, reaching audiences beyond       the academic.
Spence's ability to explore and crystallise through his writing the       relationship between Scotland and Japan has made him an important cultural       ambassador between the two countries as well as an artistic authority on       the history of Thomas Glover.
In 2006, Spence was the guest speaker at an       event in the Scottish Parliament honouring Glover, and since 2008 has been       a regular guest of the Japanese Consulate at functions in Edinburgh,       notably in December 2011 when he read his work at a fundraising event for       victims of the Japanese tsunami which raised over &#163;3000.
In November 2011 Spence was awarded Creative Scotland funding for a       research trip to Japan to further his work on Scottish-Japanese themes.
There he linked with two prominent scholars &#8212; Norman Waddell of Otani       University and Yoshizawa Katsuhiro of Hanazono University &#8212; both of whom       have since visited Scotland.
On the same trip, Spence visited Kanda       University in Chiba and spoke to a group of professors and a class of       undergraduate students about his own work, Scottish literature in general,       and the teaching of Creative Writing.
In January 2013 he was invited to       return to Japan to speak at a conference in Tokyo on Zen Art.
In Scotland, The Pure Land has helped to foster public interest       both in Glover and in the broader history of Scottish-Japanese relations.
The novel has featured in articles on the business pages of The         Scotsman and was discussed at a conference at Robert Gordon       University in Aberdeen (July 2008) in a panel on 'Glover Tourism' from       Japan to Aberdeen.
Spence's work has also influenced a generation of       younger writers to explore Eastern spirituality in a Scottish context, and       Scotland in the light of Eastern philosophy.
These include Anne Donovan,       Des Dillon and Kevin Macneil, all of whom acknowledge Spence's influence.
A young academic, Michael Gardiner, wrote a new biography of Glover (At         the Edge of Empire, 2008) inspired by the success of The Pure         Land.
Spence's influence can also be seen in David Mitchell's novel       The Thousand Autumns of Jakob de Zoet (2010), which is set in       Nagasaki and acknowledges Spence in its afterword.
The impact of Spence's writing has been extended through his       collaboration with artists and musicians.
These include public       performances with jazz musician Dick Lee, Japanese koto player Mio Shapley       and shakuhachi master Yoshikazu Iwamoto, as well as the creation of the       mini-opera Zen Story with composer Miriama Young, commissioned by       Scottish Opera and premiered in Glasgow on 26 May 2010.
His collaborative       work with artist Dame Elizabeth Blackadder on Morning Glory was       presented at the WORD festival in 2010 and at the Global Pecha Kucha       `Inspire Japan' exhibition in Edinburgh in April 2011.
These       collaborations underline Spence's role as a cultural mediator whose work       testifies to the importance of art in the relationship between the two       countries at a time when public fascination with the East is dominated by       economic concerns.
The enthusiastic reception of Spence's new novel Night         Boat, launched at the Edinburgh International Book Festival in 2013,       is a further demonstration of his ability to capture and shape the public       imagination on Scottish-Japanese themes.
A final area in which the impact of The Pure Land is evident is       secondary education.
Spence's work has long been used in Scottish schools,       and a study of two of his books was published by the Association for       Scottish Literary Studies in 2010.
The author, Dr John Burns, is a teacher       at Dumfries Academy, and The Pure Land is among the other works       that he discusses in the study and teaches to pupils.
Spence's novel       answers a widely felt need in the Scottish curriculum for contemporary       writing that is sensitive to cultural difference and issues of       globalisation.
