     Language and Linguistic Evidence in the 1641 Depositions was a       one-year project which has had       an impact in three specific areas: public understanding of the 1641       Rebellion and Catholic/       Protestant relations in Ireland and Scotland past and present; interactive       digitally-supported       research with a public engagement element; and understanding of the nature       of written evidence,       with implications for historical perception and current legal practice.
In terms of the 1641 Rebellion and Catholic/Protestant relations in       Ireland and Scotland, the impact       of the research was demonstrated initially by the large volume of       international press attention.
Public interest in the project included individuals contacting the team to       ask for, or provide,       information about ancestors or incidents in the Rebellion discussed in       families.
All 1641 events       held in Dublin were full to capacity and the team also visited Wellesley       College, Dublin, to       demonstrate the project's web interface design to school pupils, and to       introduce them to the       background to the Rebellion and the Troubles.
Perhaps the biggest impact was achieved through the three invitations       Fennell received to       participate in History Ireland Hedge Schools on the 1641 Rebellion       in Letterkenny, ROI       (15.4.2011), Londonderry (17.4.2011) and Omagh, NI (12.5.2012).
These       hedge schools are       designed around frank discussion between panel members and audiences which       on each occasion       comprised Protestants and Catholics, old and young, who were interested in       specific incidents in       the Rebellion and in the reliability of the witness testimony in the       Depositions themselves, as well       as in current interpretations of past events.
Each event had over 50       participants, and the Derry       event is available on-line from History Ireland.
The Omagh event       had been intended for       Portadown, but the Portadown historical society had decreed that the       subject was too `explosive' to       hold there, so History Ireland moved it to Omagh.
After the Omagh       event it emerged that some of       the objectors from Portadown had been present in the audience and that       they had been suitably       impressed by the measured dialogue and were considering inviting the group       to the Orange Lodge       in Portadown.
This episode is a tangible demonstration of how the research       has impacted       positively on a community because of its strong contemporary resonance.
In a further initiative, insights into the divisive language of the       Depositions have enabled Fennell       (PI) and Michael Brown, current Director of RIISS, to link the research to       current policy and       practice regarding sectarianism in Scotland and Ireland, and to develop a       series of Scottish-Irish       `conversations' bringing together scholars, practitioners and the public       to debate challenging       contemporary issues in the two countries such as housing, aging, youth       culture and education.
The       first was a Scottish-Irish Conversation on Sectarianism held at the       Scottish Parliament Festival of       Politics on 17 August 2012.
This event attracted more than 50       attendees from Scotland and       Ireland.
Both Fennell and Brown were interviewed by journalists and       reports appeared, among       other places, in the Glasgow Herald, the Express, and on       Original 106 Radio.
The web design was developed in consultation with potential end-users       (academics, librarians,       computer specialists, pupils and lay persons).
The interface allows four       different levels of access to       the Depositions: casual/non-specialist users, novice researchers,       experienced researchers and       administrators.
It permits users to search for their ancestors, their       family name, by place name, by       named individual and by type of event.
It allows searches by key word,       enabling its exploitation by       e.g.
cultural historians, linguists and anthropologists.
Users can,       depending on their level of       access, mount their own `exhibits' on the website.
The site has been used       by school pupils,       undergraduate and postgraduate students, and other researchers.
It has       spawned a number of       theses, essays and informal studies, and led indirectly to a Trinity       College project, CULTURA,       which involves similar knowledge exchange with SMEs and IBM and focuses on       individualizing the       research experience by tailoring software to different levels of users.
Mark Sweetnam, a       postdoctoral fellow on the Aberdeen 1641 project, now works on CULTURA, as       does Seamus       Lawless, who was consultant to the Aberdeen project, continuing the ethos       of the 1641 project into       this new venture.
The project also has implications for current legal and law enforcement       practice, as it enhances our       understanding of the manipulation of evidence by third parties involved in       the rendering another's       words as evidence.
A follow-on project led by Fennell (with Alison Johnson       of Leeds University,       lawyers from the University of Aberdeen, a self-employed software       designer, a self-employed       lawyer and the Yorkshire police) will compare practices in recording the       evidence in the 1641       Depositions with those employed in rendering the Leveson inquiry live       interviews into transcripts,       identifying procedures that potentially alter the quality of evidence.
The       findings will inform two       professional development workshops for English and Scottish lawyers and       police officers to       discuss the impact of such practices on current evidentiary practice.
