     Bradford's research on Person Centred Care (PCC) and Dementia Care       Mapping (DCM) has had far-reaching impact on the quality of dementia care       by providing an alternative conceptualisation of dementia care and a tool       by which PCC can be developed and measured.
In the area of policy, BDG's research was heavily cited by the National       Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence (NICE) in its 2006 guidelines       on supporting people with dementia, and their support for the use of PCC       in practice was reiterated in the 2012 revision of the guidelines.
They       state that, "There is broad consensus that the principles of         person-centred care underpin good practice in the field of dementia care         and they are reflected in many of the recommendations made in the         guideline" (a).
The National Audit Office (2010), in their interim       report on Improving Dementia Services in England (b), recommend       DCM as a measure of quality of life and the same report highlights       Bradford's research on the importance of meeting psychological needs.
Bradford's research on PCC has also had a significant influence on       international policy, most notably in Norway, where PCC and DCM informed       the focus of national strategy, and in Germany where DCM is recognised as       an indicator of quality care by the long term care insurance system (c).
In terms of practice, PCC is now a widely used term in the UK and has       changed the focus of care for people with dementia.
The Department of       Health's Good Practice Compendium on Living Well with Dementia (2011)       showcases examples of good practice in care for people with dementia from       across England.
DCM is highlighted in two examples demonstrating its use       in care homes, acute hospitals and across the health and social care       community (d).
Inspection reports for care homes provide evidence of the       impact of our training in PCC and DCM on practice (e).
Testimonials from       care providers to whom we have introduced PCC refer to improvements in bed       occupancy, staff turnover and care practice in care homes (f) and in staff       knowledge and practices in NHS settings (f).
Commissioned by Bupa Care       Services, BDG has provided cascade training in PCC to 400 Person First       Coaches and developed cascade materials that have been delivered to over       10,000 staff in 300 care homes.
This training was specifically mentioned       as exemplary practice in Bupa Group's feedback on achieving `Investors in       people' status in 2012 (f).
Four Seasons Health Care, which runs 180 care       homes in the UK, had trained 500 staff in DCM by April 2010 (g) as part of       their Pearl model of specialised dementia care.
Their 2013 report on the       impact of introducing Pearl at 16 of their care homes clearly states the       value of DCM as part of this process (g).
The social care regulator, the       Care Quality Commission (CQC) re-adopted the Short Observational Framework       for Inspection (SOFI) on its formation in 2010: SOFI was first adopted in       2006 by the CQC's predecessor, the Commission for Social Care Inspection       (CSCI).
It was retained by CQC as integral to capturing the experiences of       people who may be unable to report their experiences due to conditions       such as dementia.
All CQC inspectors (1000+) are trained in the use of       SOFI and are expected to use it in inspections where service users have       communication difficulties.
"SOFI is a tool developed with the         University of Bradford Dementia Group and used by our inspectors to         capture the experiences of people who use services who may not be able         to express this for themselves" (h).
Bradford's research on PCC has had significant impact on care practice       internationally including in the USA, Australia, Spain, Germany, Norway       and Denmark.
The influence of Kitwood's PCC on care home residents in an       Arizona care home was so noteworthy as to form the basis of an article in       the New Yorker (i).
The positive impact of PCC and DCM on staff       morale and practice internationally has been empirically demonstrated.
A       cluster RCT study conducted in Australia, published in The Lancet       in 2009, demonstrated decreased falls and agitation in care homes that       used DCM (j).
BDG has contracts with over 12 international organisations       (e.g., voluntary sector organisations such as Alzheimer Catalunya in       Spain) for the delivery of courses in Learning to use DCM.
DCM has       been licensed by University of Bradford for training in countries       including Australia, Denmark, Germany, Japan, the Netherlands, Germany,       Singapore and Switzerland.
The DCM tool is available in a range of       languages including Catalan, Spanish, German, Japanese, Italian and       Danish.
Since 2008, 3189 practitioners have been trained internationally.
Our Japanese DCM partner reported in their 2013 annual report that the       government has implemented a project to improve the quality of dementia       care and dementia care leaders were supported to attend the BDG's Learning         to use DCM course (k).
We have recently signed a contract with       Australian Aged Care Standards Accreditation Agency Ltd. (the national       accrediting body for care homes) to train their inspectors in the use of       the SOFI tool (l).
