     The town of Dover is a decaying area, due to the decline of the ferries       and swift transit of the       Channel Tunnel trains.
In this context, English Heritage embarked (in       2008) on a comprehensive       redevelopment of its Dover Castle site.
The &#163;2.45m project was core funded       by the government's       Sea Change Programme which aims to drive regeneration and economic growth       in seaside towns.
The new display in the Great Tower and Inner Bailey aimed to increase the       number of visitors to       the castle, entice them to stay longer in the town, and stimulate       employment.
It also sought to do       so in accordance with English Heritage's mission to preserve and present       heritage in an authentic       manner.
Medieval Decorative Ironwork in England is widely recognised as a       bench mark for the study of       medieval blacksmithing.
As a result of the publication Geddes has acted as       consultant to various       cathedral conservation inventories, at Lincoln and Salisbury.
The task at       Dover was to provide       appropriate fittings for approximately 30 bare doorways connected to the       royal apartments, paying       due attention to the social status of each entrance, and the existence of       some original pintles still in       the masonry.
In each case the correct timber framing was required, and the       correct types of hand-       made nails to fasten the different types of hinges.
Many rooms also       required chests, coffers and       aumbries, with decorative grilles in the chapel.
Based on examples in Medieval         Decorative         Ironwork in England, actual designs were drawn up by English       Heritage historians working with the       designer Kit Surrey and the architectural firm Purcell, Miller and       Tritton, with numerous       modifications supplied by Geddes.
Thus, essential elements of the       redevelopment of the castle by       a team of 150 craftsmen between 2008 and August 2009 when the Castle       opened were guided by       Geddes' research.
(1)     The process of redevelopment, the re-opening of the castle followed by a       Time Team TV special,       and a subsequent BBC4 documentary inspired by Geddes' research and work in       Dover generated       a range of cultural and economic benefits.
4.1.
Imparting Rare Skills to Craftsmen, Generating Employment.
At       the outset, Geddes visited       blacksmiths and historic joinery specialists to explain how to work in the       medieval fashion, with the       spontaneity and freedom which distinguishes medieval craftsmanship.
For       example, the       blacksmiths were Julian Coode of Littlebourne, Kent, and David Gregory of       Cobalt Blacksmiths,       Nuffield, Oxon.
Developing the skills he acquired from the Dover       commission, Julian Coode has       gone on to recreate ferramenta of the 1180s for restorations at Canterbury       Cathedral.
David       Gregory, using the Dover material as a case study, has encouraged younger       blacksmiths to work       with individuality and confidence.
(1, 2)     4.2.
Economic Benefits to English Heritage and Dover.
As a result       of the redevelopment       English Heritage has benefitted from an increase of visitors to their       stimulating new attraction.
Visitor numbers have expanded since the castle re-opened.
62,000 attended       in August 2009, the       opening month.
Figures supplied by English Heritage shows the boost to       visitor numbers, income,       and surplus for the organisation since the year prior to the re-opening of       the castle.
Compared to       the base year (2008/9), visitor numbers increased by 9 per cent in       2009/10, and then by about 19-       22 per cent in 2010/11, 2011/12, and 2012/13.
More dramatically, the total       income generated by       the castle expanded by 25 per cent in 2009/10 and then by 48, 52 and 65       per cent in 2010/11,       2011/12, and 2012/13.
The castle's revenue surplus (excess of revenue over       expenditure) has       more than doubled in the same period.
(3) More broadly, the redeveloped       castle generated       economic benefits in Dover both by creating additional employment for       guards and guides, and as       a major element of an overall expansion of visitor numbers and spends.
Dover District Council has       provided statistics for the impact of tourism as a whole, comparing 2006       and 2009.
In 2009 the       total value of tourism in Dover is estimated to have been &#163;210,599,000, up       6 per cent since 2006.
In total &#163;180,996,000 was spent on day trips to Dover in 2009 by all       visitors, up 8 per cent since       2006.
This income employed 3,828 FTE in the town.
12 per cent of the total       visitor spend went on       visits to local attractions, of which the castle is a premier site.
(4)     4.3.
Cultural Benefits to Visitors and through Television         Documentaries.
The expanding       visitor numbers to the castle represent not only an economic benefit for       English Heritage, and for       Dover, but also a cultural benefit for those visitors.
English Heritage       commissioned visitor       feedback, interviewing 139 people during August-September 2010.
The       response was strongly       positive.
(5) All interviewees felt that all the family could learn from       the new presentation; the past       had come to life with vivid colours; there was a clear sense of period,       better than the previous bare       white walls; they trusted English Heritage to present an accurate       re-creation.
The understanding of       many visitors has been enhanced by a set of accompanying educational       packages to explain the       artefacts and history &#8212; including the ironwork.
(5) The reconstructed       castle can also be       experienced virtually through an online tour.
(6)     In addition, Geddes' iron research has featured substantially in popular       television documentaries.
In summer 2009 Channel Four broadcast its premier archaeological show, a Time         Team Special,       on the reconstruction of the castle, which remains available on 4OD.
This       programme has reached       between 1 and 2.5 million viewers.
(7) One viewer left a comment online       highlighting the centrality       of research to authentic redevelopment: `The Great Tower occupies a       central place in the       mainstream of English history.
Provided that the intervention is backed by       compelling research and       that damage to the historic fabric could be avoided, serious attempts to       better reveal its historical       associations with important people or events in the past should be       justified.
This is what English       Heritage has done at Dover Castle'.
(8) English Heritage's 2010 survey       found that many visitors       had been inspired to visit the castle by the documentary (contributing to       the economic as well as       cultural benefits of the redevelopment).
(5) A further documentary, Metalworks!
The Blacksmith's         Tale, was broadcast on BBC4 in collaboration with the Victoria and       Albert Museum, on 16 May       2012 and 2 December 2012, focusing on medieval decorative ironwork, with       audiences of 479,000       and 177,000 respectively.
Geddes spoke in depth about key items.
One       viewer wrote to the BBC:       `Professor Jane Geddes was an absolutely outstanding presenter...Her       enthusiasm was       infectious...she is a terrific communicator.
Please could we have a       programme about the       development of clockworks and her other interests presented by Professor       Geddes'.
(9)
