     Prior to Stevenson's intervention, Burra had been neglected not only       within academia, but also       more generally in the cultural sector.
As Rachel Cooke observed in her       review of Stevenson's book       in The Observer, `Edward Burra is not terribly fashionable these       days.
No, that's not right: he's       neither fashionable, nor unfashionable, but simply forgotten'.
(1) The       biography, while meeting       rigorous academic standards, also possessed a fluid and accessible style.
It quickly attracted       attention beyond the academy.
The book was widely reviewed and it featured       on Radio Four's       Book of the Week programme in late 2007.
Following this exposure,       three main impacts and       benefits have emerged from the book.
4.1.
Cultural Benefits through Exhibitions.
In the wake of       Stevenson's book, there was a revival       of interest in Burra in galleries, which generated cultural benefits for       visitors.
Two exhibitions at       Tate Britain featured Burra's work prominently.
Between 21 January and 4       May 2008, the gallery       ran an exhibition on `Burra in Harlem'.
The exhibition was accompanied by       a `Burra study day' on       29 April 2008 for which Stevenson was invited (on the basis of her `recent       publication') to give a       public lecture.
(2) From 16 February to 21 August 2011, Tate Britain       staged a major exhibition of       British Watercolour featuring five Burra paintings.
The exhibition       attracted 160,036 visitors.
As       Rachel Cooke noted in the Observer, `When it opened in February,       Tate Britain's marvellous       survey of watercolours gave pride of place to Burra's landscape, Valley         and River (1972), and you       could tell by the clustered overcoats in front of it that this was one of       the pictures people would       think about on the bus home'.
(3) Following these events, Stevenson's       research formed a key       foundation for the first major exhibition of Burra's work in 25 years,       held at the Pallant House in       Chichester between 22 October 2011 and 19 February 2012.
The exhibition       was re-staged in       Nottingham's Djanogly Art Gallery from 3 March to 27 May 2012.
Stevenson's       book was heavily       consulted by the Pallant House Gallery, and she provided an essay for the       exhibition's catalogue.
In that catalogue the curator, Simon Martin, specifically acknowledged her       `insightful contribution'       and noted that `Jane (as the author of Burra's biography) has been       immensely helpful with my       queries about Burra's life'.
(4) The Chichester Exhibition attracted       28,000 people, and a further       15,000 visitors attended in Nottingham.
(7) Visitors to the Chichester       exhibition commented:            `Superb retrospective of an often undervalued master'       `Fantastic!'
`Wonderfully protean'       `I knew this would be a good show but I didn't dream it would be this         good'       `Excellent'       `Stunning body of work'       `Had never heard of Edward Burra until a week or so ago then the BBC4         programme made me want to come and see for myself.
Fascinating         exhibition, great         paintings &#8212; so thought provoking' (5)          4.2.
Cultural Benefits: Inspiring A Television Documentary.
The       last visitor quoted above had       been inspired to visit the Pallant House Exhibition by the documentary on       Burra, `I Never Tell       Anybody Anything: The Life and Art of Edward Burra', which aired on BBC4       on 25 October 2011.
This documentary originated with Daniel Katz (of Katz Gallery, Bond       Street), himself a collector of       Burra's work.
Having read Stevenson's biography, he commissioned director       Phil Cairney to make       a documentary that was presented by Andrew Graham-Dixon.
Stevenson acted       as consultant in       the production process, answering questions, suggesting sources (e.g.
the       inclusion of material       archived in the British Film Institute), and locations for filming.
She       also spent a day filming in the       Tate Britain Archive, in conversation with Graham-Dixon, discussing       letters, and being interviewed       at length in the Lefevre Gallery.
The hour-long documentary, which was       also screened at the       Pallant House exhibition, attracted an audience of 252,900.
Thus,       Stevenson's work inspired a       further act of cultural production, facilitated by her expert advice.
As a       member of the production       team commented: `Your book definitely made everyone sit up and take notice       of Edward Burra'.
(6,       see also 7)     4.3.
Commercial Benefits: Expert Advice to Auction Houses.
A key       way in which purchasers of       fine art expressed their notice was through a transformed level of demand       for Burra's work.
The       ex-chairman of Sotheby's had `no doubt' that Stevenson's book `played a       part in the revival of the       artist'.
(7) The ability of auction houses to cater to this demand was       facilitated in fundamental ways       by Stevenson's research.
Burra did not date his work, and as a result both       Sotheby's and Christie's       frequently rely on Stevenson's expert advice for the attribution and       catalogue entries of individual       Burra paintings, as well as citing her research.
It is here that the       fine-grained detail of her       biographical research is crucial to the impact of her research on these       users since it creates (as       the ex-chairman of Sotheby's put it) `a specific framework of dating and       provenance'.
(7) She has       provided expert advice for Sotheby's and advice and catalogue notes for       Christie's.
Advice on `Beelzebub' for Modern British Paintings sale, Sotheby's, 12         July 2008.
The         catalogue note quotes materials from Stevenson's book.
Advice on `Beelzebub', for Modern British Paintings sale, Sotheby's,         25 March 2011       Advice on dating Burra pictures for the Evill/Frost sale, Sotheby's,         16 June 2011.
The         catalogue entries for `The Common Stair' and `Zoot Suits' state that the         auctioneers         were `grateful' for Stevenson's `kind assistance with...cataloguing'.
Advice and catalogue notes on `The Tea Shop', `The Garden', `Seeds',         and `Landscape         &#8212; Dartmoor' were commissioned by Christie's in preparation for sale on         16-17         November 2011.
Advice and Catalogue notes on `The Gorbals' and `The Vegetable Stall',         were         commissioned by Christie's in preparation for sale, 23-24 May 2012.
Advice and Catalogue notes on `Landscape with Red Wheels' and         `Excavation',         Christie's, 12-13 December 2012       Advice and Catalogue notes on `The Bouquet', Christie's, 11 July 2013         (7, 8, 9).
Since 2008, the price of Burra paintings has grown dramatically.
For       example, Burra was one of       the stars at the Evill/Frost sale on 15 June 2011 (the greatest collection       of 20th-Century British art       ever to come to the market).
Of the &#163;37.8 million total, Burra's `Zoot       Suits' sold for a record &#163;1.8       million.
(10) From January 2008 to September 2011 the Auction Houses Index       found that the value       of Burra works had increased by 191 per cent.
(10).
Both the individual       sale values and the rise in       the index price of Burra's work highlight the economic value generated for       these auction houses       facilitated by Stevenson's research.
