     Through a series of conference papers, publications, appointments to       leading international organizations and community-based research projects,       Tuladhar-Douglas' research has generated impact by bringing a new       awareness to NGO's of cultural diversity and its implications into their       processes of policy making regarding sacred landscapes, hence improving       the protection of the biodiversity of these sites.
This impact has arisen       from research on the theoretical, methodological and practical       implications of biocultural diversity and the obstacles to its       understanding imposed by secular norms of personhood, and the down-grading       of practices to the `religious'.
Much of the cultural diversity in these landscapes is bracketed by       conservation NGOs as `religious' (and undervalued as a result).
Yet it is       exactly those social practices involving non-human persons that have the       strongest impact on sustainable biodiversity.
For example, in a landscape       where trees are respected, where one must gain permission from medicinal       plants before harvesting them, and where animals are connected to humans       through kinship relations, social practices may tend to restrict excessive       harvesting and unsustainable extraction.
However, if such behaviour is       downgraded to the category `religion' then it is, by definition, not       considered accessible to `secular' conservation management practices.
Furthermore, such secular discourse and assumptions are a mark of western       privilege, leading conservation managers recruited from local communities       to disparage local values in order to bolster their authority.
The       research of Tuladhar-Douglas challenges this status quo and       enables a recognition of such diversity, thereby rendering conservation       plans in sacred sites intelligible to all parties (both for indigenous       peoples in relation to conservation NGOs, and for conservation NGOs in       relation to indigenous peoples) through his emphasis on the importance of       the religious thought of indigenous peoples in relation to their       landscapes and the different understandings of personhood used by       stakeholders.
The recognition of the importance of local practices and       beliefs for conservation transforms traditional peoples living in       conservation sites from paper stakeholders into genuine participants.
The       impact of these insights enriches the models used for conservation       management.
Having established in his fieldwork the importance of cultural variation       and the conceptualization of `personhood' in conservation work, Tuladhar-Douglas       was recruited to the IUCN in 2010.
The IUCN supports scientific research       globally and brings governments, NGOs, UN agencies, companies and local       communities together to develop and implement policy.
The IUCN is the       world's oldest and largest global environmental network, with more than       1,000 government and NGO member organizations, and almost 11,000 volunteer       scientists in more than 160 countries.
In 2008, its revenue was 133       million CHF.
Tuladhar-Douglas was asked to use his research to       move the working group on Cultural and Spiritual Values of Protected Areas       (CSVPA) past a na&#239;ve faith-or-secular model of sacred landscapes.
CSVPA       agreed to co-sponsor the Florida conference on ethnobiology and religion,       and its output (a 2013 special issue of Religion Nature and Culture,       see above) is now being used by IUCN staff to revise policy.
Documents       from the symposium are being used in the run-up to the WILD 10 conference       in Salamanca, and in preparing for the World Parks Congress in Sydney in       2014.
The effect of Tuladhar-Douglas' research into conservation and       indigenous peoples on public policy has led to five discrete shifts in       conservation management:       a) Tuladhar-Douglas' research has driven critical reflection       within Cultural and Spiritual Values of Protected Areas (CSVPA).
Due to Tuladhar-Douglas'       work the CSVPA steering group have agreed to rethink the CSVPA's       fundamental remit, moving away from the language of `values' and towards a       less patronising understanding of traditional and local knowledge.
At the       same time, Tuladhar-Douglas, on the basis of these research       insights, helped negotiate an agreement between UNESCO and IUCN that       establishes CSVPA as the group that links cultural and biological       diversity in heritage site assessments.
b) As a result of his Himalayan research and work on montane social       science, in 2011 Tuladhar-Douglas was appointed a visiting       scientist at the International Centre for Integrated Mountain Development       (ICIMOD), an international NGO working in all seven countries of the       Himalayan region.
While at ICIMOD he has been closely involved in       trans-boundary landscape projects, especially the Kailash Sacred Landscape       Initiative.
This landscape covers a large and complex protected area of       31,175 square kilometres in China, India and Nepal.
It is orientated       around Mount Kailash, sacred to nearly a billion people in multiple       traditions (Buddhist, Jain, Hindu and Bon), and the source of the Ganges,       Sutlej and Indus rivers.
Tuladhar-Douglas' work has been used to       clarify project planning for sacred sites; to train staff in methods to       expose causal links between biological and cultural diversity; and, with       ICIMOD staff and representatives of three governments, to establish       methods for discovering culturally relevant and commensurable indicators       of biocultural diversity to measure the ecological health of the Kailash       region over time.
c) Prior to the 2010 Perth Mountains conference, Tuladhar-Douglas       was recruited to the GLORIA project (a long-term study of montane       biodiversity change due to global warming) to help ecologists learn to       work with traditional knowledge holders to achieve a better picture of how       changing climate affects montane ecosystems.
Discussions at the 2010       meeting resulted in the formal agreement to include social research       protocols, arising from Tuladhar-Douglas' research, in the GLORIA       project manuals&#8212;increasing both the accuracy and the relevance of       GLORIA's work in some 200 mountain areas worldwide (see GLORIA's draft       field manual version 5, which for the first time includes assessment of       traditional knowledge, for which Tuladhar-Douglas' research has       argued: http://www.gloria.ac.at/?a=20).
d) Tuladhar-Douglas' research insights have caused conservation       professionals to reconsider assumptions, including: that religion is about       belief; that there are no indigenous Buddhists; that any community has a       single religious identity; and that sacred sites are intrinsically       biodiverse.
His research has led directly to changes in the next edition       of published guidelines for protected area managers: the 2008 edition of       Sacred Natural Sites: Guidelines for Protected Area Managers is currently       under revision in light of Tuladhar-Douglas' findings.
These       changes have already led to more involvement of indigenous peoples in       conservation work: they have led to open conversations between indigenous       leaders and protected area managers, as can be seen in the meetings in       2011 in Nepal between TILCEPA (the Strategic Direction on Governance,       Communities, Equity and Livelihood Rights in Relation to Protected Areas)       and indigenous leaders; engagements between indigenous Tamang and Sherpa       leaders and protected area managers; and increased indigenous       participation at WIN 2013 &#8212; a major indigenous forum as part of the       lead-in to the World Parks Congress 2014, which will provide opportunity       for indigenous peoples and conservationists to come together, connect and       share stories and experiences.
The apex of these changes can be seen in       eight traditional stewards of sacred sites being invited to participate as       part of the Sacred Natural Sites initiative, and asked to provide input       for the Theme on Indigenous Peoples, Local Communities, Equity and       Protected Areas (TILCEPA) mountains working group at the 2012 World       Conservation Congress at Jeju.
e) Because of the effect of Tuladhar-Douglas' research on       the policy of the IUCN on conservation work with traditional communities,       worldwide cooperation among mountain communities, traditional stewards and       ecologists has begun to create a framework within which local knowledge is       accepted as an equal partner in conversation with secular experts at world       forums.
For example, while working with the CVSPA, Tuladhar-Douglas       was recruited, because of his work on indigenous notions of personhood in       sacred landscapes, as a commissioner in the Commission on Environment,       Equity and Social Policy (CEESP) and the World Commission on Protected       Areas (WCPA).
At the Jeju conference, he was appointed co-chair of the       Mountains working group within TILCEPA and, together with Miriam Torres       and Ed Birnbaum, established a new Mountain Trails Network that co-ordinates biocultural stewardship of long-range heritage trails on every       inhabited continent.
As a result of Tuladhar-Douglas' research,       representatives from the Himalayas and the Andes are already collaborating       on questions of indigenous knowledge and tenure, landscape connectivity,       and ecotourism.
The impact of this is ongoing: the TILCEPA Mountains       working group will make a major presentation at the 2014 World Parks       Congress highlighting traditional trade routes and new trails in the       Appalachians, Altai Shan, Andes, Himalayas, and Ruwenzoris.
Beneficiaries of this research include: the international organizations       working towards the conservation of the most fragile ecosystems on the       planet IUCN (CSVPA, TILCEPA, CEESP, WCPA, SSG); ICIMOD; and the       communities living in sacred landscapes and montane protected areas       worldwide (human or otherwise) &#8212; especially Himalayan indigenous       communities and traditional stewards of sacred landscapes.
