     Impacts of this research from Aberdeen on church leadership can be seen       in the following ways:     A. McDonaldization The body of research arising from Drane's       primary research insight into the       relationship between the McDonaldization thesis and the church (2000) has       significantly impacted       church leadership in the Anglican and Methodist Churches, as well as the       Church of Scotland.
The       diagnosis of the failings of contemporary ecclesial praxis which this       research provided has been       central to the Fresh Expressions of Church Movement, and its rethought       modes of ministry.
This       has led to four principal pathways to impact in relation to church       leadership.
The mechanism by       which this has come about is the effect of Drane's research on the       Fresh Expressions of Church /       Emerging Church movement in the UK, USA and Australia, establishing him as       a leading scholar       and advisor for this international ecclesial movement.
(1.)
Drane is no longer a university academic, but is now       (2004-present), on the basis of his       research and the impact it generates, a self-employed consultant working       with churches of many       different denominations throughout the United Kingdom as well as       internationally.
As part of this       work, he teaches on spirituality and fresh expressions as a consultant for       a number of seminaries       (including Fuller Seminary, California and St John's College Durham),       training church leaders.
The       insights in his consultancy and teaching are underpinned by his research       insights into       McDonaldization culture and church leadership.
That Drane's       research has led him to be an       independent consultant on church leadership employed by church and       para-church organizations       internationally demonstrates the impact of his research on the church.
(2.)
As a result of his research into the conditions in which the       church exists and the nature of a       McDonaldized culture, Drane was appointed to a significant       leadership role within the Church of       England which is focused on addressing decline in church attendance and       renewing and       reinvigorating the theory and practice relating to mission in the church.
He has been co-chair of the       Mission Theology Advisory Group (jointly sponsored by the Mission &amp;       Public Policy Committee of       the Archbishops' Council of the Church of England and by the Global       Mission Network of Churches       Together in Britain and Ireland) since 2002, with ongoing impact through       this census period.
This       group is a partnership between the Church of England's Mission and Public       Affairs Division and the       Churches' Commission on Mission of Churches Together in Britain and       Ireland.
MTAG offers       advice to the churches on matters affecting the mission of the whole       Church.
Its particular focus is       on the relationship between the gospel and western culture, as the context       in which the gospel is       proclaimed in the UK; this is the focused area of Drane's research       insights.
The approach of MTAG       arises directly from Drane's research insights into the church and       contemporary culture.
For       example, included in this work has been the establishment of a website       `Spiritual Journeys'       (http://www.spiritualjourneys.org.uk/ ), created by MTAG which reports to       be aimed at everyone       who wants to explore their spiritual journey or the spiritual journeys of       others; this draws on       Drane's research into spirituality and the church.
The website       offers materials for visitors to the site       to explore, as well as resources for practising Christians (both lay and       ordained).
Its aim is to       provide members of Christian communities with the opportunity to learn       more about their own       traditions of spirituality and explore those of others: this is clearly       contrary to the spirituality of a       McDonaldized church, responding to his critiques of predictability and       calculability.
(3.)
Because of his research insights on McDonaldized ecclesial       cultures and practices of ministry       and because of his work on church and contemporary culture, Drane       was appointed as a member       of the board of Mission Shaped Ministry, which is part of the Fresh       Expressions initiative of the       Church of England and the Methodist Church.
His appointment was to utilize       his research into how       to find new and creative ways to explore what it means to be a community       of the church beyond       the traditional parish system, such as in discussion groups meeting in       coffee shops; through arts       events; etc.
He has engaged in this work throughout the census period.
In       this role, Drane's       research has been used to provide training days and in syllabus formation       for church leaders       exploring new patterns of ministry.
Drane currently teaches church       leaders across the UK, using       his research and applying it directly to church communities.
Mission         Shaped Ministry is at present       running ecumenically in over 50 centres across the UK with more than 2000       students enrolled.
The       one-year, part-time course seeks to take participants on a learning       journey as part of a supportive       community, in contradistinction to what Drane's research       understood to be McDonaldized ecclesial       cultures.
In doing this, the course trains clergy for leadership in Fresh       Expressions of Church.
Fresh Expressions of Church, which Drane's research in part led       to, accounts for about 6% of       Anglican and Methodist churches in the UK, so the effect of this work is       widespread.
(4.)
With Olive Fleming Drane, Drane's research has been       used in his report commissioned by the       Church of Scotland, Reformed, Reforming, Emerging, and Experimenting       (2011).
This report offers       an account by the commissioners of why Drane was appointed,       highlighting his research in relation       to the appointment and the task required from the church.
The report       highlights the take-up and       development of the Mission Shaped Ministry course.
This Report was       commissioned by a Joint       Working Party of the Ministries Council and the Mission, and adopted in       May 2011.
It explores       ways to re-engage with the contemporary culture, and challenges patterns       of ministry, offering       constructive suggestions for how these might be better improved.
B. Biblical Models of Leadership: Clarke's       historical and theological research into New       Testament texts and first-century contexts has key implications for the       development of new and       nurture of existing local church communities in semi-rural or       sparsely-populated rural areas of       Scotland.
Clarke's research has been used in a Scottish culture, in which       critiques of hierarchy and       Baptist models of congregationalism have resulted in the Baptist Union of       Scotland's perception of       a crisis of confidence about leadership in churches; widespread       dysfunctionality among leaders;       and uncertainty about what characterizes a `healthy' community.
Models and       expectations of       leadership have not adapted to declining numbers within congregations.
Clarke's work has been       applied as directly relevant to contemporary situations, especially for       those for whom biblical       models provide the ultimate authority of forms and practice, and has also       been used indirectly to       stimulate reflection and change in Scottish Baptist churches.
Two examples       illustrate this:     (1.)
Baptist Union of Scotland &#8212; national discussions.
As       a result of his research insights into the       forms and practices of leadership in the earliest church communities, Clarke       was involved in       Baptist Union of Scotland `Leadership Consultations, 1 and 2' (Aug and Dec       2006).
The focus was       on exploring what biblical values should shape leadership; defining a       distinctly Baptist       understanding of leadership; exploring the tension between strong       leadership and       congregationalism; and the shape of pastoral leadership in a       post-Christendom world.
This       outcome provided a route to impact through the following three areas       during the REF census       period, and in each of these three instances, Clarke's research       made a distinct and material       contribution (both directly and indirectly) to the impact taking place,       such that the impact would not       have occurred or would have been significantly reduced without the       contribution of that research:     a. a collection of essays (commissioned by the Baptist Union):       Andrew Rollinson (ed.
),       Transforming Leadership: Essays Exploring Leadership in a Baptist         Context (Glasgow: Baptist       Union of Scotland, 2008).
These were circulated to all Scottish Baptist       churches, and have been       used as the formal basis for directing leadership in Scottish Baptist       settings, thereby enabling the       outcome (the publication) to have formal impact in ecclesial leadership       settings.
b. Clarke delivering a public lecture entitled `Biblical       Reflections on Christian Leadership' at a       series of national seminars on `Transforming Leadership', organized by the       Baptist Union of       Scotland (March/April 2008).
The work in this lecture arises from research       for a seminar entitled,       `Theological Reflections on Christian Leadership', delivered at the       national Baptist Union of       Scotland Annual Assembly (Nov 2007); DVD and MP3 of the lecture were made       available.
c. The Scottish Baptist College developing a new module on church       leadership, drawing from the       insights of Clarke's research.
(2.)
A Specific Church Plant: Research, which subsequently       appeared in Clarke's 2008       monograph (A Pauline Theology of Church Leadership), was       foundational to establishing an       innovative set of principles of ecclesiology and models of ministry for a       pioneering church plant,       under the auspices of the Baptist Union of Scotland in September 2007       [http://www.gariochchurch.org.uk].
In particular, the Pauline focus on       multiple domestic settings for       all-age community life and worship (a key insight of Clarke's       research) was foundational, and       impinged on defining a fresh approach to the nature and ethos of local       church leadership.
This       church model is regarded as a flagship within the Baptist Union of       Scotland.
It provides an       alternative to traditional focus on large, plenary Sunday services, with       age-specific content, in       dedicated worship venues.
Continuing Work in Aberdeen on Church Leadership:       The University of Aberdeen continues to       support research into leadership in the church, providing further avenues       towards impact in this       area, and sustaining continued research in ecclesiastical polity.
This is       seen in Clarke's continued       presence in the department, along with the appointments of Brittain       (2007-), Greggs (2011-) and       Nimmo (2013-).
On the basis of his research into homosexuality in       the church, Brittain is a       member of the Faith and Order working group of the Episcopal Church of       Scotland, which is       working on church leadership and sexuality in the Anglican Communion.
His       research has led to       his being invited to speak on BBC Scotland on conflict over moral issues       in the Church of Scotland.
Nimmo's research has contributed to his work with the Church of       Scotland Working Group on       Issues in Human Sexuality, and to his ecumenical work with the Joint       Doctrine Commission of the       Church of Scotland and the Roman Catholic Church.
Greggs' research       in ecclesiology led to his       appointment as a Visiting Professor at St Mellitus College (a new Anglican       training college focused       on church leadership), London, where he helps in the training of Anglican       ministers.
His research       has also led him to be appointed as a member of the Methodist Church's       Faith and Order network.
Furthermore, Christ's College (a Church of Scotland ministerial training       college) is located within       the department, with Swinton as its Principal.
Claimed Impact as defined by REF: The impacts of research       into church leadership carried out in       the unit have influenced the form and content of associations between       people and groups within       the church, and have illuminated and challenged cultural values and social       assumptions locally,       nationally and internationally.
They have also created and inspired new       forms of religious       expression, both through the activities of the church leaders that have       been influenced and the       communities that they serve.
The cultural context of this research and its       impact has also       responded to the needs of religious communities; and the research has       impacted in terms of its       effect on curricula significantly beyond the submitting HEI.
