     Mealor's compositional research has aspired to create a new       musical language which can be both engaging and accessible to twenty-first       century choirs and audiences, whilst embodying choral techniques informed       by English music, renaissance and baroque choral techniques.
As a result       of this, he was commissioned by the John Armitage Memorial Trust (a body       at the heart of commissioning contemporary music for student and school       groups) to compose a setting of English poetry, Now Sleeps the Crimson         Petal, for chorus.
Following this, Mealor consciously       created the potential for impact by recording the work with the amateur       choir, Con anima, on Mealor: Stabat Mater (Campion, 2010).
Serendipitous impact occurred when an amateur, student choir was heard       singing it at St Andrews University by HRH The Duchess of Cambridge.
The       impact of a work on one person thus resulted in the subsequent invitation       to adapt a movement from the work for her wedding to HRH Prince William       and Ubi caritas was the resulting piece.
It was performed at the       Royal Wedding, broadcast around the world to an audience of two and a half       billion people and recorded on a number of commercial compact discs.
Numerous international performances then followed by school, community       and student choirs - especially in the UK and USA - creating an impact on       amateur music-making and in the domain of (usually) non-formal education       (in the case of school groups).
It also had a cultural and spiritual       impact, enriching liturgy and impacting upon the process of worship for       performers and congregations; the piece entered the liturgy of Anglican       and Catholic churches and cathedrals, providing innovative music for       congregations at religious meetings and events.
Ubi caritas, unlike the other music at the Royal wedding ceremony,       had a global impact, and through managed impact by the composer, publisher       (Novello) and record company (Decca) created and sustained a spiritual,       cultural and educational impact as more religious, amateur and church       choirs subsequently purchased, performed and recorded the music.
In turn       this led to further commissions for the composer, commercial recordings of       his music by professional choirs and orchestras and multiple broadcasts of       his work over the next two years creating a sustainable cultural,       spiritual and economic impact, which can be measured by sales figures from       the publisher Novello (over 50,000 copies of Ubi caritas) and       record company, Decca (over 1,000,000 CDs/downloads).
The recordings have themselves impacted on the wider world of the media       and have entered our collective consciousness, with the music being used       in TV documentaries and programmes.
Ubi caritas featured on,       amongst others, the sit-com, Rev and the BBC Two documentaries, Masons         of God and The Coronation of Queen Elizabeth II, 2012,       thereby reaching large audiences outside the normal concert and religious       contexts.
Other artists have adapted and arranged the music for various       combinations.
Wind band, brass band, organ, flute and harp, and voice and       orchestra versions of Ubi caritas have been published by Novello       and Studio Music with further recordings being made by Classic FM (Sir       James Galway, flute and Claire Jones, harp) and Decca (Laura Wright,       soprano and the Royal Philharmonic Orchestra), enabling the music to       impact on musical groups beyond the original intention and reach, becoming       part of a wider cultural consciousness.
Because of its unusual harmonic language, intricate part-writing and       extreme registers, Ubi caritas has been used in courses for youth       choirs and for young conductors, with the American Choral Directors       Association and Association of British Choral Directors setting it on the       syllabus for participants in 2012, thereby impacting on educational       courses for young conductors.
