     74 Degrees North had an impact on the cultural practitioners who       brought it to life for the commissioning institution, Scottish Opera (see       supporting statements from Jeremy Huw Williams, Alex Reedijk and Michael       McCarthy).
Through performances in three big Scottish cities it had a       wider impact on the general public, as reflected in the excellent reviews       in the national press (see press pack).
The scope of the impact can be       measured by the near capacity audiences over the eleven performances (see       audience figures provided by Scottish Opera).
The impact of the work can be seen in its role in a broader reassessment       of opera as a genre which took place at the sound festival in       2012, which had an overarching theme of New Opera.
This included the       commissioning of four brand new operas as well as a keynote presentation       from Alex Reedijk, General Director of Scottish Opera, and an academic       symposium on the future of opera.
This was a direct result of the impact       of 74 Degrees North, and the fact that sound is       capitalising on a renewed and re-assessed interest in opera in the region       is testament to this.
The relationship between the University of Aberdeen and Scottish Opera is       gathering strength and as a result, the University has become a venue for       performances of opera as part of its national touring programme (for       example, Carmen in 2010; Pirates in 2013, with       accompanying A little bit of Pirates performed in the Music       Department), with future performances planned.
Scottish Opera also       provides in-kind support for the University's Student Opera Group, through       advice on direction, provision of costumes, sets and support for the       musical director.
Scottish Opera, in partnership with the University of Aberdeen, has been       instrumental in trying to ensure the longer-term sustainability of new       opera.
The partnership of equals in the creation of 74 Degrees North       has encouraged the promotion of similar collaborative ventures between       librettists and composers.
For example, Scottish Opera, in partnership       with the University of Aberdeen, has been successful in acquiring funding       from Leverhulme Trust (2013) for a Young Composer and Librettist       Scholarship Scheme.
This is a unique programme, developed to nurture 12       young composers and librettists over three years.
Starting in 2013, each       year, for three years, this initiative will offer four students a       nine-month scholarship, which will culminate in annual public performances       of two new short operas, created by the scholars, showcased at the sound       festival, NE Scotland's annual celebration of new music.
The impact of this work is sustainable over a longer term: such was its       success that the creative team and Scottish Opera are working on a plan       for further performances of a new extended version in the future.
The       Festival of Choral Music at St Andrew's University has requested that any       future production be staged there, and there are discussions taking place       over potential performances in Toronto.
