     The UK PR sector has a workforce of 61,000.
Accurate evaluation of their       PR activity allows organisations to apply their resources as effectively       as possible.
Watson's research and academic advice has significantly       contributed to a shift in industry evaluation practice away from AVE to an       evidence-based, objective-driven approach.
In addition, it has led to       increased budget allocations for measurement and evaluation (GAP study,       2012) (R1).
Watson helped establish the European Summit on Measurement, held in       Berlin in 2009 and it was at the second Summit in Barcelona in 2010 when       the seven `principles' for measurement of PR and communication activity       were established.
Barcelona Principle 3 states: "AVEs are not the value of       Public Relations" (R2).
Watson's involvement in the Barcelona Principles and Principle 3 in       particular, is evidenced by the Chief Executive of the US-based Institute       for Public Relations (IPR).
Referencing P1 and P2 specifically, he states       Watson "has been a vigorous participant in professional debate and       discussion to help bridge the gap between the university world and       professional practice" (R1).
He continues: "His research papers have been valued highly by the IPR       Measurement Commission for their practical advice for people working in       the field.
He has made an important contribution to the Commission's       policy rejecting Advertising Value Equivalency (AVE) and to a major       international policy statement in this regard (within a declaration known       as the Barcelona Principles that has been adopted by public relations       professional bodies around the world).
More recently Watson's work on       other public relations measurement issues, such as the concept of Return       on Investment (ROI, see P4), has sparked intense industry discussion in       North America" (R1 and see R3 for the IPR policy).
Impacts arising from the Principles began in 2010.
The IPR concluded       there is no evidence to suggest advertising and editorial space hold       equivalent value (R4).
In October that year Watson used his research       evidence (P1 and P2) to present a case to CIPR's chief executive to ban       the use of AVE in its annual awards.
CIPR adopted this policy in late 2010       and it is still current (R4).
The Chief Executive of the CIPR confirmed the role Watson's research       played in the decision to ban the use of AVE in its awards: "In this       activity, we have been greatly assisted by the work undertaken on this       subject by Professor Tom Watson of Bournemouth University.
Two of his       works particularly provided these policy developments with intellectual       credibility: `Evaluating Public Relations', co-authored with Paul Noble,       part of the CIPR PR in Practice Series and a joint paper with Professor       Anne Gregory `Defining the gap between research and practice in public       relations programme evaluation &#8212; towards a new research agenda'.
Both       works set out problems with AVE and encourage the profession to develop a       more comprehensive, realistic and valuable approach to measurement and       evaluation of public relations management" (R5).
The CIPR is the longest-standing (since 1948) and most respected UK PR       professional organisation.
The Excellence awards attract more than 700       entrants on average per year and have a significant influence on industry       practice.
The CIPR's stance against AVEs is set out in its Excellence       Awards judging rules which state: "The CIPR's understanding of best       practice does not include the use of Advertising Value Equivalent (AVEs)       in any form and AVEs will not be scored."
Entrants are informed that any       use of AVE "will result in a zero score in the Award's measurement       criteria" (R4).
To gauge the response to CIPR's policy move against AVEs, entries from       the 2010 and 2011 awards (pre and post-AVE ban) in the five categories       with most entries were investigated by BU (Fig.
1).
A total of 85 entries       were reviewed and showed the effect was immediate.
Fig.
1.
Use of AVE as a measurement metric in CIPR awards.
Source,       CIPR.
2010 Winners           2011 Entries           2011 Winners                             Use of AVE as a measurement of PR campaign effectiveness           60%           32%           0%                          # CIPR only retains winning entries, and disposes of other entries.
It       was not possible, therefore, to compare all 2010 and 2011 in the five       categories.
Although judges had an instruction to reject AVE-supported entries, usage       of AVE dropped by nearly half (46.7%) when the 2011 entries were compared       with the 2010 winners.
Notably six of the world's twelve leading public relations award schemes       have also barred the use of AVE as evidence in entries.
Watson's research       has made a significant contribution to this trend.
Organisations include       the Middle East Public Relations Association, the Public Relations Society       of America, the Society for New Communications Research (US) and the       Institute for Public Relations (US) (R6).
The awards themselves reflect best practice within the industry and       Watson's research has been instrumental in changing award entry criteria.
This forms a significant contribution to the industry trend away from       using the AVE metric in favour of an objective-driven, evidence-based       evaluation, as advocated by Watson.
