     The most direct and immediate impact of the research was to shape the       language of the new legislation to create a copyright exception for       parody, based on empirical evidence.
Being the first rigorous academic       study in this area in the UK, the findings of the research were       instrumental to the policy process.
Impact took place through a consultative process with policymakers at the       IPO.
Following completion of the reports the research team presented the       findings to the Government and other stakeholders at a series of meetings       in London.
These included the Copyright Research Expert Advisory Group       (CREAG) at the IPO offices in June 2012 (R1) and an ESRC-sponsored       Festival of Social Science conference on Copyright policy held in       Bournemouth in November 2012 (R2).
The findings were peer reviewed by an       expert panel and published on IPO.gov.uk in January 2013 (R3-5).
The BU research team recommended that UK policy adopt the widest possible       exception to parody permitted under EU provisions.
Such a copyright       exception would allow both commercial and non-commercial parody, and would       adopt a wide definition to include a range of different forms of parody       expression.
The BU research was heavily cited by the Government in its legislative       impact assessment in 2012.
The IPO wrote: "The research carried out by       Bournemouth University found that there is no demonstrable harm to the       popularity (and by inference reputation) of original works arising from       spoof or parody videos.
[...] An evaluation of potential substitution and       dilution effects found that in neither case was there compelling evidence       that the parody is damaging to the original in terms of the copyright       owner's ability to attract and monetise an audience for their original       copyright work on the online platform."
(R6).
In December 2012, Business Secretary Vince Cable announced that the       Government plans to reform the Copyright regime in the UK, introduced in       the Enterprise and Regulatory Reform Bill.
On 31 July 2013 the Government       published a draft of their proposed changes to the law, including the       exemption from IP copyright on the grounds of parody (R7).
Societal impacts of the proposed copyright exception     The proposed exception for parody will have significant and widespread       effects for a range of beneficiaries including UK media businesses,       technology providers, fans and consumers.
The new law will grant the       ability to anyone to create parodies of existing work, without requiring       permission from rights holders.
Such an exception would enable parodies of       popular music, film, art and literature.
While the research clearly shows       that there are minimal economic downsides for rights holders, the       potential benefits in terms of freedom of expression and economic growth,       are considerable.
The BU research cites advertising revenue value from this activity at       tens of millions of pounds, but the original Hargreaves report values it       as billions, taking into account growth of the creative industries, the       `up-skilling' of young people and other economic factors.
This type of activity gives young people the opportunity to train       themselves in digital literacy, creating an excellent skills base for the       UK and helping to place us at the competitive edge of the creative       industries.
The videos in the study also gave voice to minority racial and       sexual orientation groups, enabling vocalisation of marginalised       viewpoints in the public sphere and encouraging freedom of speech.
The study showed retail sales of original records were higher when       heavily parodied.
As this does not necessarily show it was a result of the       parody, less popular content was also studied.
Findings showed heavily       parodied work out-performed those not parodied; suggesting parody acts as       a discovery mechanism for lesser known artists.
These impacts are widely acknowledged, often by the original rights       holders themselves who sometimes gain revenue from the parody.
This is       evidenced by the fact that original rights holders have not contested the       proposed change in law and generally do not enforce their copyright by       demanding parody material is taken down.
Evidence-based policy making     This body of research has advanced the role of transparent,       evidence-based policy in the regulation of Intellectual Property.
The       experience gained on the part of the IPO in commissioning, evaluating and       disseminating the findings has strengthened the credibility of academic       research as a tool for sound policy planning.
The IPO has recognised the       importance of empirical research to inform IP policy and has requested       that key researchers (Erickson and Kretschmer) undertake embedded       placements with the IPO in 2013 to assist with implementation of IP       policy.
In order to support that effort, the IPO has contributed &#163;51,000       to an ESRC Knowledge Exchange activity by Kretschmer and Erickson on IP       and policy.
The purpose is to amplify the relationship between academics       and policy officials initiated during the parody research study, and       extend the role of empirical research to answer further IP regulatory       questions.
While reach of the impact is currently limited to the UK, the European       Patent Office in Alicante has shown interest in the work and it is being       presented at various conferences.
This further verifies the importance of       this research in evidencing the significant social and cultural       opportunities for the range of beneficiaries the proposed copyright       exception for parody would bring.
