     BU research has demonstrated the social and cultural benefits of radio       archives.
This information       was instrumental in the forming of a committee to raise awareness of the       lack of archive access,       but also directly informed BL's new sound archive policy.
In December 2011, BU hosted a summit attended by representatives from the       BL, Ofcom, the       BBC, Danish archives, regional archives and UK higher education       institutions.
BU researchers       presented a summary of their findings to the BBC and the BL, stating why       radio archives needed to       be more readily available (R1).
At the summit the UK Radio Archives       Advisory Committee       (UKRAAC) was born, with Chignell as chair (R2).
Soon after the establishment of UKRAAC, the BBC agreed to give BL's       16,000 daily users access       to their digital catalogue (the `BBC Pilot Project').
This archive had       previously been completely       inaccessible.
In a speech at the British Library on 29 September 2012, the       CEO of the BL       announced that a version of the catalogue would be available in the       reading rooms.
It was made       available online via BL computers in January 2013.
The importance of BU's research in this decision is confirmed by BL's       Head of Sound and Moving       Image, who said: "Research by the CMH at BU clearly demonstrates the       social and cultural       benefits of radio archives.
The cultural, artistic and social importance       of BBC and commercial radio       emerges powerfully in Crossing the Ether by Street [P3] and Public         Issue Radio: Talks, News and         Current Affairs in the Twentieth Century [P1] by Chignell" (R3).
He continued: "Bournemouth University's research findings assisted our       lobbying of the BBC to       make their archive catalogue available at the Library.
In addition,       research by Bournemouth       University researchers has supported and informed the development of the       Library's Radio Archive       policy" (R3).
Access to the archives now offers wide-reaching benefits to culture and       economy, as well as       applied use in education and the radio industry.
Education     Archives are a rich primary source material for teachers.
They bring the       UK's social, cultural and       political history to life in the classroom in a colourful, interactive and       memorable way.
Using digital       archives also fosters digital literacy, which is an important social       benefit at a time when the UK       strives to be a leader in the creative industries.
Radio industry     The archives are a valuable learning tool and inspirational resource for       creative minds developing       new programming and technologies.
As in any industry, past excellence       feeds and informs future       excellence.
And from a purely practical point of view, the archives       facilitate the review, exchange       and licensing of production.
Orion Media own Gem 106 in the East Midlands (441,000 listeners each week       &#8212; R4) and Free       Radio in the West Midlands (nearly 700,000 listeners each week &#8212; R4).
The       Group Programme       Director for Orion Media confirmed: "Research carried out at Bournemouth       University has       genuinely made a significant contribution to developing a UK radio archive       policy."
(R5).
Economic     The BL's `National Radio Archives' policy, actively supported by UKRAAC,       proposes to have all       commercial, community and online radio output archived in the next few       years.
This would       centralise storage and would be a single cost-effective solution for the       radio industry.
Archives       facilitate programme and content sharing between different industry       sectors, opening new outlets       and markets for production.
Cultural     This resource offers the public a reservoir of 21st century       entertainment to enjoy.
There is also evidence to show that radio archives and their use are       becoming increasingly       important and that the role of BU in leading the dissemination and use of       archives is acknowledged       by researchers from other institutions (R6).
BU's work on archive policy has also been acknowledged by the Department       for Culture, Media       and Sport (DCMS).
On 19 October 2012, Chignell and Stoller, along with       representatives from the       BL, attended a meeting with the DCMS.
The aim was to put forward the case       for not only improving       access to old archives but making sure all current radio output would be       archived.
DCMS       representatives agreed with the UKRAAC policy paper and a commitment was       made to support a       national radio archive.
In conclusion, the BL had aspired to be the `national radio archive' for       some time and the BU       initiative has provided the academic stamp of approval to help make that a       reality.
Access to the       BBC's sound archive catalogue was a significant milestone for BU and BL       with subsequent       economic, cultural, industry and educational benefits already emerging.
