     King's report recommended a number of ways in which the BBC's performance       could be improved,       including more thorough monitoring of the network's output, a system of       individual rewards and       penalties for succeeding or failing to report adequately and accurately       `the new UK', improved UK-related 	  training and career management, enhanced networking within the       BBC, and putting in       place one or more `enforcers' (see Ch.
9) [corroborating source 1].
However, much of the report       focused on consciousness-raising and the need to change the BBC's       corporate mind-set.
In welcoming King's report, the BBC Trust said it was "concerned at       Professor King's assessment       that the BBC is not reporting the changing UK with the range that might be       expected" and that it       was also "concerned at the finding by Professor King that there is       insufficient precision and clarity       in the BBC's network coverage" (p. 7) [corroborating source 1].
The Trust       charged BBC       management with first producing a plan for improving the BBC's performance       and then with       actually improving it.
The Action Plan, published in July 2008, made       explicit efforts not only to       change the content of its broadcasting, but sought to change its       practices: "In line with the       suggestion by Professor King's report, a senior individual will be given       the task of driving through       the day-to-day implementation of the action plan, reporting to the       Director of News.
We will appoint       a `devolution champion' to fulfil this role" (p. 2) [corroborating source       2].
In September 2009 the BBC Trust published a progress report on its       response to King's findings.
This report further demonstrates the operational changes that King       inspired in the BBC, including       senior editors attending workshops on matters relating to devolution, the       creation of an online       module on Reporting the UK by The College of Journalism, and senior       network editors improving       their understanding of devolution by taking part in a programme of       placements around the UK.
In       addition to this, the progress report also highlighted the ways in which       the BBC was improving the       accuracy and diversity of its news coverage of the UK as a whole [3].
Since 2008 the Trust has monitored at intervals the extent to which BBC       News and Current Affairs       has improved its performance in this regard.
Its verdict, while not       unqualified, has been positive.
At       the time Professor King was appointed, in 2007, the Trust commissioned       detailed content-analysis       research from Cardiff University &#8212; the findings of which had pinpointed       serious failings in the       content and accuracy of the BBC's coverage [4].
The Trust commissioned       similar research from       the same source in late 2009 (published in March 2010) and that research       reported substantial       improvements in almost every regard [5].
The most dramatic increase was in       the number of explicit       or implicit references made to devolved powers, which increased from 71 to       480 across the BBC,       meaning every one in eight news items carried a reference to devolved       powers, as opposed to the       previous figure of one in fifty.
Other findings showed an increased       awareness of devolution,       including a rise from 7.8% to 14.2% in news items on BBC TV about       Scotland, Wales, or Northern       Ireland.
Coverage of matters explicitly to do with devolution also       increased across all BBC       platforms, most notably online (from 1.7% of news items to 3.5%) and also       on TV (0.7% to 1.2%)       (see pp.
4-6) [5].
Responding to the Cardiff group's findings, the BBC       Executive said it welcomed       "the recognition in the new study of the work done since the King report       to improve the BBC's       journalism", adding that it recognised "that the momentum needs to be kept       up" (p. 6) [6].
The figures from the Cardiff study demonstrate that King's report had a       significant effect on news       coverage of the devolved nations on the BBC.
However, a critic may suggest       that this could have       been due to there being more relevant issues to cover or that the BBC is       simply catching up with       other broadcasters.
This is shown not to be the case, as the Cardiff       findings compare the BBC's       TV coverage to that of Sky, ITV, and Channel Four.
For instance, whereas       BBC TV increased its       coverage about devolved issues from 0.7% to 1.2% of news items, for the       other broadcasters       taken as a whole the figure fell from 0.6% to 0.3%.
While a reference to       devolved powers was       found in one in every eight BBC news items, this figure was only one in       thirty for other       broadcasters &#8212; admittedly an improvement from these broadcasters' 2007       figure of one in ninety       (see pp.
4-6) [5].
Further evidence of the specific effect of King's report comes from       senior figures at the BBC who       have informed King of the impact of his work.
For instance, BBC Scotland's       Political Editor, in an       email to King on an unrelated matter in October 2008, remarked, "En       passant, I should say that       your report continues to cause a substantial (and I mean substantial)       reaction in the Beeb.
I think       it's bringing about real change" [7].
More recently, the Chairman of the       BBC Trust went out of his       way to tell King how important his report had been and how much impact it       had had.
Indeed, a       number of senior figures at the BBC have agreed to corroborate the claims       made in this case       study.
