     The body of research by Mayer (described in section 2) led to a series of       policy recommendations       for diversity, avoidance of the imposition of regulations that impose       homogeneity on the activities       and financing of firms, enabling legislation that promotes the breadth of       choice available to firms,       and measurement of performance that reflects stakeholder and social as       well as shareholder       benefits.
The impact of Mayer's research is most fundamentally reflected       in the way in which the       OECD has altered its policies towards the governance of firms.
He was not       only involved in       informing the original principles for governance devised by the OECD, but       has subsequently       engaged in discussions to revise these principles.
Furthermore, most       recently, Mayer's research       has specifically informed the derivation of rules for incorporating       natural capital in national and       company accounts in the UK.
Mayer's involvement with the OECD began in 1996.
His research had       particular impact through       two papers, which the OECD commissioned Mayer to write during the late       1990s [Mayer, 1996,       and Mayer, 1999].
They played a key role in the initial development of the       OECD corporate       governance principles that are now applied around the world in national       corporate governance       codes.
These reports were informed by Mayer's findings that competition       between financial and       governance systems is desirable and that corporate governance codes should       be permissive       rather than restrictive [R1].
Building on this original engagement       with OECD, over the last two       decades, Mayer has acted as an advisor to the OECD and participated in       conferences and       discussions, led by the OECD, about the formulation of their governance       principles.
In 2012, the OECD decided that it should revise and update their       corporate governance principles,       in light of new thinking about the role of corporate governance in       promoting economic activity.
As a       consequence, building on his previous interaction, the OECD again       approached Mayer, and asked       him to advise them specifically on how best to update these principles.
As       a direct consequence of       his research on corporate governance [as exemplified by R7], Mayer       was invited, along with a       number of other researchers, to participate in a conference in Istanbul       organized by the OECD, at       which initial ideas were gathered about the way in which the OECD should       take forward its work on       corporate governance in the future.
Mayer's presentation at the       conference, based on his findings       on the requirements for diversity across systems and the relation between       governance, innovation       and investment [R2, R3, R4 and R6], is included in the OECD       publication from that conference,       Mayer 2012 [Section 5: C1].
His presentation argues that the       traditional focus of corporate       governance on shareholder value is incorrect, that instead it should       establish an appropriate       balance between corporate commitment and control [R5] and that the       OECD has a key role to play       in promoting appropriate national institutional, legal and regulatory       systems to facilitate this.
Further impact of Mayer's research occurred in meetings and discussions       with the Head of       Corporate Affairs at the OECD, the outcome of which was that in April 2013       Mayer was asked to       advise the OECD on "the direction and content of a 2 year OECD programme"       that revisits the link       between finance and business to establish how principles of corporate       governance should evolve       over the next few years.
The impact of Mayer's research is described by       the Head of Corporate       Affairs at the OECD who says that: "The decision to engage Professor Colin       Mayer in our ongoing       work is greatly based on his past contributions to OECD's work, which has       had an important       impact on the direction and content of international rulemaking.
The       objective of this project is very       much inspired by the policy conclusions that follow from Professor Mayer's       academic work on the       nature of corporate governance and the link to financial markets.
By       possessing an exquisite       combination of academic rigour and an understanding of the public policy       process, Professor       Mayer is not only a highly valuable advisor but also an effective       originator of change."
[C2]     In September 2012, Mayer's research on valuation and performance [R5]       also led to his       appointment by the Secretary of State for Environment, Food and Rural       Affairs (Defra) to the UK       Government's Natural Capital Committee (NCC), chaired by Professor Dieter       Helm (Oxford) and       made up of a small number of both academics and practitioners.
Mayer       serves on this Committee       for an initial period of three years until 2015 and has thus far met with       other members of the       committee on approximately six occasions to advise the UK Government on       how natural assets       should be protected and used in a sustainable fashion.
It is the first       committee of its kind in the       world, and as such provides path-breaking policy advice that will set the       foundations for similar       initiatives by governments around the world and by international agencies,       such as the World       Bank.
The Deputy Director in Environmental Economics at Defra testifies       Mayer was appointed to       provide advice based on his research and knowledge of accounting, finance       and business on the       procedures by which natural capital should be valued for company and       national accounting       purposes, and how businesses should be engaged in protecting and promoting       natural capital       [C3].
Professor Mayer is specifically responsible for advising the NCC on the       inclusion of natural capital       in national accounts and the adoption of natural capital accounting by       corporations and       landowners.
Early evidence of the impact of Mayer's research can be found       in the minutes of these       meetings.
The July 2013 minutes of the Committee, for example, report       "Colin to produce a       concept note defining corporate natural capital accounting in time for the       September landowners       meeting" [C4] and the September 2013 minutes note that "Plans for       a 11th November       `International Seminar on Valuation for Accounting' hosted by Defra and       ONS in association with       the NCC were discussed.
Colin and Giles [Atkinson] have significant roles       and it was agreed that       the event has the potential to make a significant contribution to the       debate."
This is potentially one of the most significant areas of public policy       research at the interface of       environmental, corporate, governance and regulatory issues.
It draws on       Mayer's research on       valuation (Kay and Mayer (1986) and Edwards, Kay and Mayer (1987)), which       he has extended to       a stakeholder and social context in his book [R5].
In particular,       Mayer's research assists the NCC       in the formulation of rules regarding the valuation of natural capital in       national and company       accounts, the way in which the costs of sustaining natural capital should       be determined, how       measurement should be translated into policy for promoting protection of       natural capital and the       governance required at the corporate level to achieve this [C4].
The Committee relies heavily on       the advice provided by Mayer on the formulation of natural capital       accounting [C3].
Mayer was also invited to sit on the ONS natural capital accounting       steering board overseeing the       incorporation of natural capital into UK national accounts.
One of the       Deputy Directors in       Environmental Economics at Defra, says: "Colin's work (through the NCC) on       natural capital       accounting is proving instrumental in helping the Government implement its       aim of getting natural       capital properly accounted for within the British economy.
He has and       continues to not only help       shape the work of incorporating natural capital into the national       accounts, but is also leading the       work to get companies to properly account for the impacts they have on       natural capital" [C3].
In this way, through his involvement with the OECD and the NCC, Mayer's       research on corporate       governance has had substantial impact on thinking and decision making       processes of a number of       governmental bodies in both the UK and international arena.
