     Hyperpigmentation may be caused by sun damage, inflammation, or other       skin injuries including those related to dermatological disorders like       acne vulgaris.
People with darker skin tones are also more prone to       hyperpigmentation, especially if they have excessive sun exposure.
These       conditions present significant cosmetic or psychological challenges to the       affected person, and uneven skin tone and pigmentation is a key concern       amongst consumers over the age of 40 (Mintel report http://www.mintel.com/).
The most effective treatment of solar lentigo consists of invasive       ablative therapies, while available topical drugs have challenging safety       profiles e.g., hydroquinone.
This impact case study describes two projects       with industry that underpinned the creation of new skin care products to       tackle hyperpigmentation in particular age-related solar lentigo.
The first project is in collaboration with Alliance-Boots GmbH, a       multinational pharmacy-led health and beauty group.
This company is       rapidly developing its presence in skin care technology and the No7       skincare range is now the best-selling range of skin care cosmetics in       Britain.
The potential growth for Alliance-Boots in this sector was       further expanded last year when the biggest US drugstore operator,       Walgreens, acquired a 45% stake in the company (a).
Alliance-Boots       revenues in 2012/2013 were &#163;22.4 billion (b).
Alliance-Boots (UK) engaged us to assess the efficacy of several of their       lead botanical extracts.
In additional to revealing the efficacy of some       of these in terms of modulating melanin levels and transfer to       keratinocytes in vitro, we were also able to suggest likely       mechanisms of action.
Our results in vitro informed the design of       a clinical trial that confirmed our in vitro data (c).
This       technology is now included in their new anti-age spot serum, Lift &amp;       Luminate, Day &amp; Night serum (rrp for 30ml is &#163;25) within their No7       range.
No7 is the premier anti-aging serum and skin care brand in the UK       (Boots commercial data).
The skin serum sector of the skin care market is       growing fast, and this product has sold well in Britain since its April       2012 launch.
It has since been launched in Thailand, the US, and Finland.
This was a new product to the markets and within the first month of launch       (from April 18th 2012 to end May 2012), 84 pieces of media coverage were       generated with a total reach estimated to be over 22 million consumers       (d).
The Boots Skin Care Scientific Advisor commented that, "The         research we carried out with Professor Tobin and the University of         Bradford enabled us to identify new safe cosmetic actives that could         tackle age related hyper-pigmentation and provide strong peer reviewed         science that reinforced No7's credibility in this area.
This has helped         us provide a step change in the performance of our No7 anti-ageing         products" (d).
Tobin is a member of the Alliance-Boots International       Skin Advisor Panel, where he helps inform the Alliance-Boot R&amp;D       strategy for new product development.
The University of Bradford Centre       for Skin Sciences has now entered into a Framework Contract agreement with       Alliance-Boots to facilitate a continuing partnership over multiple       individual projects.
The second of these projects, funded by LVMH Mo&#235;t Hennessy &#8226; Louis       Vuitton S.A. (or LVMH), a French-based multinational company considered to       be the world's largest luxury goods conglomerate (revenues in 2012 of &#163;28       billion; &#163;3.6 billion in cosmetics) (e), assessed whether the expression       of Myosin X (our discovered `melanin transfer driver') can be inhibited in         vitro and, if so, whether melanin transfer could be       up/down-regulated by bio-active ingredients.
Thereafter, several actives       from the LVMH library were assessed and some proved successful in our in         vitro assays and passed LVMH clinical assessment in vivo.
This technology is included in their new high-end product `Diorsnow' (f).
The associated marketing materials make explicit reference to the Myosin X       technology and (with permission) the collaboration with the University of       Bradford (g).
This is patented technology (h) with Bradford researchers       credited with the discovery of the role Myosin X plays in the transfer of       pigment granules between skin cells.
The University has a royalty       agreement with LVMH on sales of this product.
This technology is being       marketed for solar lentigo and other hyper-pigmentations associated with       aging.
Patients with melasma commonly also use this type of product in the       absence of effective medical treatments.
