     Neither Hobby nor Gill is a Member of the Society of Friends (Quakers),       but both want their       research into early Quakerism to be significant to present-day Friends,       many of whom have a       strong interest in their movement's history, and find inspiration in their       predecessors' ideas.
This       concern connects directly to the REF Impact expectation that academic       research might `enrich and       expand the lives, imaginations and sensibilities of individuals and       groups', achieving this through       `inspiring and supporting new forms of ... religious and other       expression'.
As a result of such       priorities, both were happy in the 1990s to accept invitations from the       Woodbrooke Quaker Study       centre in Birmingham to serve on their Advisory Panel (Hobby [5.1]),       and the Editorial Board of       their Quaker Studies journal (Hobby and Gill).
Their relationship       with Woodbrooke is of long-standing,       and is a continuing and sustainable one.
Both the Centre and the journal,       whilst providing       important materials for academics, see connection with a wider community       as central to their       mission, ensuring that Hobby and Gill's work in this relationship has       reach and significance beyond       the academic world.
In 2005, Hobby also accepted Woodbrooke's invitation       to deliver the Quaker       Studies Research Association's George Richardson Lecture [5.3],       using the occasion to outline       how Quaker women from the period 1650-80 referred to experiences of       pregnancy and birth to re-conceptualise       key Quaker tenets, constructing a talk that made these ideas accessible to       the more       than 200 Association members present.
As a direct result of this lecture, in 2011 Hobby was approached by the       Quaker group Kindlers,       who describe themselves on their website as seeking `to rekindle the power       of Quaker worship by       renewing and deepening our spiritual practices'.
Kindlers asked her to       lead an open workshop in       London, introducing ideas of early Quaker women such as those explored in       her publications [3.1,         3.2, 3.3], and enabling analysis of the significance today of those       ideas about spiritual capacities.
Members of many different Quaker meetings attended the workshop on 12       November 2011 [5.2],       and the organiser afterwards reported that as a result, `there was       ministry' in various Quaker       meetings for worship `about the courage and empowerment in the great       tradition of Quaker       women' [5.3].
From the Kindlers' perspective, therefore, the key       goal of the workshop had been       achieved, because participants were able immediately to incorporate what       they had learned about       their forebears into their own religious practice in their various Quaker       branches (known as       `Meetings').
An article in The Friend: The Quaker Magazine on the       workshop series that included       the event led by Hobby has received over 1000 hits since its publication       in June 2012 [5.4].
Workshop participants also indicated that initially they had found these       early writings       incomprehensible, but that their meanings had quickly emerged when they       listened to Hobby       reading them aloud and commenting on what was at issue [5.5].
Because Kindlers wished to make       the reach and significance of the workshop available on a permanent basis,       both to those who       attended it and to others across the international Quaker community, Hobby       agreed to produce for       Kindlers not only a booklet containing extracts from early texts and some       explanatory notes, but       also an audio-recording of her reading these materials to help ensure       their comprehension.
Back in       Loughborough, Hobby worked with Gill to select the materials for the       booklet and audio-recording,       choosing passages that between them span the key matters of interest to       present-day readers,       and then to write short introductions to facilitate their comprehension by       a wide audience.
For       instance, their selection of a passage from Hester Biddle's The         Trumpet of the Lord Sounded forth       (1662) connects directly to their co-authored entry on Biddle in ODNB       [3.6], and the passage by       Katherine Evans and Sarah Cheevers describing their imprisonment in Malta       draws on Gill's       discussion of this incident in her article in the prize-winning HLQ       special number [3.5].
As a whole,       the booklet presents in clear form key contributions of early Quaker women       to their movement's       theology and practices [3.1, 3.4], enabling modern Quakers to       engage with the ideas of their       predecessors.
The booklet was launched at the Quaker Yearly Meeting in May       2013, and Kindlers       report that interest from across the Quaker community is already keen,       with hundreds of copies       having been bought at the Yearly Meeting or ordered subsequently by       individuals and Meetings.
Quakers in Britain names it as a June and July 2013 `Book of the       Month' [5.6].
These sales are       helping to enable Kindlers to succeed in their desire to `rekindle the       power of Quaker worship'.
