     The project had impact upon four key groups:     Public participants     The most direct impact was created by the Music Walk performance       itself, which took place over a 1.5-hour period on 17 August 2012.
Six       hundred people took part, experiencing ten pieces of new music in ten       different locations around the Albert Hall, encouraging exposure to new       musical sounds, and an enriched experience of urban environments.
Project materials also reached a much larger public over an extended       two-month period &#8212; e.g.
through chance or planned visits to project       locations, where signs [see Section 5, C1] led visitors to a BBC project       website [C2], random or directed online access to the website, or       access to a `twitterbot' releasing daily `thoughts from the mind of John       Cage' [C3], etc.
The BBC's figures record 5,961 visitors to the website,       2,664 listeners streaming the music, and 903 full playlist downloads [C4].
Other institutions involved in the project included the Serpentine Gallery       and the Victoria and Albert Museum, each of which have their own visitors,       substantially increasing the number of people benefiting from the work but       making the absolute number of people who experienced the project       unquantifiable.
Confirmation of qualitative impact upon audiences is offered by the BBC:       `Our feedback and figures suggested an impressive depth and extent of       public impact' (Steve Bowbrick, Interactive Editor, BBC Radio 3) [C5], and       by new music promoter Sound and Music, who have commissioned Hopkins to       expand the project throughout London:     It was through reports of audience experiences of the climactic 17th       August event in particular that the quality and potential of its concept       had an impact on our thinking.
These were outstandingly positive accounts,       characterised by a sensation of engagement that can be hard for       contemporary music presentation to achieve (Richard Whitelaw, Head of       Programmes, Sound and Music) [C6].
BBC Radio 3     The BBC is constantly concerned with the potential of new digital       broadcast platforms, and this project was one of the BBC's most       substantial explorations of the creative potential of mobile media.
BBC       Radio 3's Interactive Editor confirms the impact of the project on the       future thinking of BBC Radio 3:     Online resources are a substantial and growing part of how the BBC       addresses its remit of universal reach.
Proms Music Walk       represented a significant new model in this emerging area &#8212; projecting       outstanding new compositions to a broad audience... As a project which       reached out to the public in what was for us a significant new format &#8212;       using online to link place, new music and audience in a focused way &#8212; it       had a significant impact not only on participating audiences, but on our       continuing debates around how we reach and stimulate audiences in the       future [C5].
Transport for London     Music Walk instigated the first collaboration between the BBC and       TFL, enabling each to consider more carefully how cultural interventions       can enhance public space as creative space.
TFL has a Surface Planning       policy of incentivising non-vehicular travel, and recognised the potential       value of Music Walk's enrichment of travellers' experiences on       foot.
TFL created bespoke mapping for the project, using its particular       mapping-design expertise to indicate composers and locations [C7].
Lilli Matson, Head of Delivery Planning at TFL, confirms the impact of       the project for TFL:     TFL's interest in the Music Walk project related to our       continuing policies designed to enrich the experience of London's urban       realm, and to our role in incentivising walking as a mode of travel... We       saw this project as an innovative way of extending our activities, with a       significant impact, not only at a crucial moment in the summer of 2012 for       London's surface network, but also as a potential model for supporting       cultural content across the capital in the future [C8].
TFL has committed to involvement in a further project based on the Music         Walk principles [C8].
Sound and music     Sound and Music (SAM) is the leading UK promoter of new music.
The       project impact has led SAM to commission Hopkins to develop a large-scale       extension of Music Walk principles throughout London, and a       further project for an exportable model for other cities.
Sound and Music       confirm the impact of Music Walk upon their commissioning policy:     The use of a widely available technology &#8212; offering the lowest possible       barrier to participation &#8212; the idea of location as an audio-visual muse       for composers &#8212; the carefully curated experiences offered to audiences       engaging in different ways: all these elements suggested a mode of work       which could help us extend our curatorial activity in a significant way       [C6].
Hopkins' work therefore contributes to efforts to bring new art music to       a wider audience and to enrich public space.
