     The research has provided clear evidence of: the positive role and impact       of school libraries on learning, including reading and IL, academic       attainment, and attitudes to learning; and key factors that contribute to       the impact of school libraries on learning: effective professional       staffing; quality and flexible access to resources; and effective       librarian-teacher collaboration.
These messages have been used by       professional groups to advocate for better school library provision and in       literacy initiatives, government-policy initiatives, and CPD for library       and teaching professions.
Examples below show research impact on three       levels: impact on high-level policy and decision-making (government,       education depts); impact on policy, strategy and advocacy by professional       bodies and NGOs; and impact on library development, practice and CPD in       schools.
Government and education departments       The School Library Commission, chaired by Baroness Estelle Morris,       established a joint initiative between the Museums, Libraries and Archives       Council and the NLT, to "set a national agenda to ensure school libraries       are delivering exceptional services to help young people reach their       potential".
Following an open call for evidence the Commission's 2010       report (CE2) recommended "wholehearted" support by the Dept of       Education and key actions by decision-makers in making school libraries       more effective in support of educational objectives.
It cited UR3       as evidence (CE2), while the SLA's open response to the Commission       (CE3) had also cited UR4.
In Ireland UR1 and UR3       were influential in decisions by the Junior Certificate School Programme       (JSCP) to ensure their school libraries moved beyond a focus on       standardised attainment tests to look at wider learning, when evaluating       achievements (CE1).
The JCSP Demonstration Library Project, part of       Ireland's Literacy and Numeracy Strategy, is funded by the Dept.
of       Education and Skills (DES) to improve educational provision and equality       of opportunity in socio-economically disadvantaged communities.
The first       10 of 50 JCSP school libraries sanctioned by the DES were operational from       2007 indicating ongoing social and educational impact in the REF period (CE1).
Professional bodies, Independent Advisory Bodies, and NGOs       UR3 and UR4 have continued to be used to the present day to       raise awareness of the role of school libraries and their impact on       learning and literacy.
In a blogpost (CE3) response to the Campaign       for the Book's 2009 call for school libraries to be made statutory in       England, Jonathan Douglas, Director of NLT, cites UR3 and UR4       as supporting evidence to argue that it is not simply a school library       that is important in developing the learner, but the presence of a skilled       librarian and integration of the library in the school's teaching and       learning strategies.
Douglas also uses a further outcome of UR3       and UR4 as evidence of the need to fill a gap in UK data to enable       better planning of school libraries.
A number of UK and international advocacy tools have drawn on the       research and/or recommended it as a resource for practitioners in their       own advocacy and development work.
An example with wide international       reach is the IFLA School Library Advocacy kit (CE4), where UR3       and UR4 are the only examples of recommended research undertaken       outwith the US, Australia and Canada.
Within the UK, CILIP Scotland       recently cited UR4 evidence to back up its response to North       Lanark's budget proposals (CE5).
SLIC reports that it has continued to use UR3 and UR4 to       the present day "to inform its strategic approach to school library       services and to share good practice with practitioners" and that the       research has "given practitioners a credible source of information to       demonstrate the value of library services" (CE6).
The on-going       impact and value is evidenced by SLIC's commissioning in 2013 of an       updated critical review of evidence to cover the period since UR3       and UR4 (CE6).
Preliminary findings, reinforcing the impact       of school libraries in IL, reading, attainment and learning, have already       been the subject of an invited presentation to librarians, teachers and       policy-makers at the Scottish Learning Festival, Sept 2013, with a public       commitment by SLIC to use the research as launchpad to improve on-going       data collection.
School libraries and librarians, CPD and practice       Invitations to give keynote presentations to practitioners and       policy-makers (e.g.
Gulbenkian Foundation, Lisbon, 2006; Scottish Learning       Festival, 2005, IL Network, Stockholm 2006) enabled reach into teaching as       well as librarianship professions, using evidence from a range of Making       Connections studies (UR1, UR2, UR3, UR4, UR5, UR6) to develop       international awareness of the relationship between IL, learning and the       role of school libraries.
Following the Gulbenkian event a self-evaluation       framework, influenced by UR3, was developed to improve the impact       of school libraries in Portugal (CE7).
Examples of impact beyond       the library profession are the inclusion of research in literacy       guidelines for elementary educators in the US (CE8); and       collaborative teacher-librarian IL initiatives at a Scottish secondary       school, stimulated by teachers' involvement in UR5, and in turn shared       widely by the school (CE8).
UR3 recommended that pre-service training and CPD of both teachers       and librarians should address the need for greater understanding of their       roles in learning in school libraries.
In her professional journal article       (CE9) school librarian Lynn Barrett uses this to support a call for       more effective staff development for librarians in their professional role       in developing IL.
Other examples of CPD use of the research include       Saskatchewan School Library Association's recommendation of UR3       for teacher-librarian development in their role as "instructional leader"       (CE9); and its use in a practitioner-led CILIP workshop (CE9).
Activity on librarian blogs (CE10) provides evidence that the       research (UR4, UR5) is changing librarian thinking.
