     This impact case study demonstrates how research carried out by the SESRC       has culminated in the development of a new recognised category of health       and wellness footwear, based upon `Microwobbleboard&#8482;' techology, which has       directly led to the creation and growth of a successful international       business, FitFlop Ltd.
Following a search of UK universities for relevant expertise in foot and       ankle biomechanics in 2006, the Founder of Brandhandling Ltd approached       the SESRC.
Specifically, Brandhandling were interested in the column-based       mid-sole concept developed by the SESRC, and commissioned further research       and development of the concept into a footwear product.
SESRC       biomechanists subsequently developed a prototype sandal based upon the       `Microwobbleboard&#8482;' technology.
Under the terms of the contract with the SESRC, Brandhandling owned the       Intellectual Property and in 2007, they filed a patent application for       `Microwobbleboard&#8482; technology with SESRC researchers as named inventors.
The PCT Patent was granted in 2012 [1].
Brandhandling subsequently       incorporated the novel technology into its FitFlop&#8482; brand of       technology-driven and affordable health and wellness footwear.
Based upon       the initial market success of the FitFlop&#8482; footwear (Walkstar&#8482; launched in       2007), Brandhandling Ltd. took the business decision to commercialise the       technology more widely through a special purpose vehicle, viz.
FitFlop Ltd       (incorporated 2007).
FitFlop&#8482; footwear proved to be instrumental in establishing a new       category of health and wellness footwear, subsequently enlarged by entry       of major footwear manufacturers, such as, Reebok and Sketchers.
The SESRC       has continued to work closely with FitFlop Ltd to further develop       Microwobbleboard&#8482; technology and explore its application in further       designs of footwear.
Independent Consultants, commissioned by LSBU in 2013 to assess the       impact since 2008 of the SESRC's research and contribution to the       development of FitFlop&#8482; and FitFlop Ltd, established that the Company has       (2):            grown from a single (Walkstar&#8482; , a female sandal) to a multi-product         (sandals, clogs, boots, and sneakers for both men and women),         multi-national footwear manufacturing and retail brand;       generated revenues of $350million from the sale of over 17million         pairs of FitFlop&#8482; footwear;       increased its workforce from 17 (2008) to 160 in 2012;       expanded its operations into 52 countries with e-commerce websites in         the UK, France, Italy, Spain and the USA;       established an Intellectual Property portfolio based around 3         different footwear technologies and designs;       received the American Podiatric Medical Association (APMA) Seal of         Acceptance (2011) (3);       won business awards, including the 2012 Avaya Customer Innovation         Award (4), and the 2011 Draper Footwear `footwear brand of the year'         Award (5).
The Head of Legal and Business Affairs at FitFlop Ltd has acknowledged       the fundamental contribution made by SESRC research to FitFlop Ltd's rapid       growth and success (6).
She has stated that: "without the research         carried out by LSBU, FitFlop would not have been created" (2).
Each pair of FitFlop&#8482;'s sold around the world contains a label       acknowledging LSBU's involvement in the development of the footwear, as       does the FitFlop web site (7)     The combination of technology, comfort and style has turned the FitFlop&#8482;       into an appealing footwear brand.
Wearers consistently comment (7) on the       personal benefits and comfort derived from the Microwobbleboard&#8482;       technology.
As part of its world-wide marketing strategy, the Company       coined the slogan `get a workout while you walk' which was promoted       through television features such as the Oprah Winfrey show (2008).
In addition, the potential for clinical indication has been recognised.
For example, a leading consultant orthopaedic surgeon at Royal Surrey       Hospital, Guildford has stated (8): "Patients with painful feet usually         select a flimsy soft shoe, not realising that they need the opposite.
The combination of support and cushioning, with a degree of built in         "rocker", that the FitFlop&#8482; shoes provide is perfect for nearly         all my patients.
No other commercially available shoe is better.
Prescription shoes are almost a thing of the past."
Since 2011, FitFlop Ltd. has commissioned further contract research with       the SESRC valued at over &#163;200k to explore and develop further novel       footwear products in order to extend the Company's product range and       capitalise on the underpinning science.
