     Visits to the United States, including lecture and seminar tours in 2003,       2007, 2009 and 2011 have facilitated rapid dissemination of Luckin's       recent and innovative work on road traffic accidents.
Audiences have       included public historians, urban historians, historians of technology,       postgraduate and undergraduate students, city planners, road safety       activists and journalists.
In September 2007 in Washington D.C. the Society for the History of       Technology (SHOT) hosted what may have been the first       historically-informed multidisciplinary workshop on death and serious       injury on the road.
Prof Luckin gave a paper on the historical evolution       of the law in relation to alcoholic impairment among motorists and others       in mid-twentieth century Britain.
The audience included road safety       activists as well as professional historians.
In April 2009 Luckin gave a talk at the School of Hygiene and Tropical       Medicine.
Attended by academics, medics and nurses working in or training       for a range of roles in emergency medicine and NHS A and E services, the       paper deepened the Luckin's contacts with the academic drug dependency       community.
This resulted in the publication, in 2010, of an article in Addiction       on anti-drink driving measures in twentieth century Britain.
In the same year, Prof Luckin chaired and commented on papers on       technologies of road safety at the Society for the History of Technology       annual conference in Pittsburgh.
By this juncture, interest and numbers of       researchers involved in the topic had significantly increased.
Partly as a       consequence, in April 2011 a stock-taking workshop was held at the Hagley       Museums, Wilmington, Delaware.
Prof Luckin gave a paper that attempted to       make a provisional distinction between `accidents' and `natural       disasters'.
The most important outcome of the Hagley workshop was the creation of an       H-Net online bibliography to collate predominantly historical work on       risk, accidents and disasters.
The tempo had now increased and in summer       2011, Dr Mike Esbester, then of Oxford Brookes University, organized a       symposium on the `History of Road Safety' at his institution.
Prof Luckin       spoke on the problem of `Tracking the Silent Dead: Road Traffic Accidents       in the Twentieth Century'.
Luckin also contributed to an AHRC-supported workshop at the National       Railway Museum, York, organized by Profs Colin Divall and Colin Pooley.
The title of the project as a whole &#8212; `Mobility Cultures: Making a Usable       Past for Transport Policy' &#8212; provided an opportunity to interrogate       epistemologically highly complex relationships between the shaping of       contemporary transport policies and the `successes' and `missed       opportunities' of the past.
Edited by Profs Divall and Pooley, a selection       of the York papers will be published in 2014 by Ashgate.
Prof Luckin will       contribute an essay on the era of inaction that followed the passing of       Barbara Castle's path-breaking act in 1967.
Most recently, in September 2013, at another conference at Oxford Brookes       University, links between British, American and continental European       mobility scholars, transport planners and safety activists were further       strengthened.
Papers focused on `Accidents and Emergencies: Risk, Welfare       and Safety in Europe and North America, c.1750-2000'.
Emphasizing that the       time had come to begin excavating the deeper past, Luckin gave a keynote       address on `Drink Driving Before "Drink Driving" in Britain in the       Nineteenth Century'.
