     As a product of extensive analysis of the problems that have beset the       privatised British rail networks, Stittle's research has provided evidence       for parliamentary debate about the merits of the current industry, and has       informed public discussion of the virtues and vices of private railways.
His primary impact on public and parliamentary discussion has been       mediated via Rebuilding Rail a report and campaign document       produced by the UK's major railways unions, while other impacts have       included consultation on TV media and citations of his academic       publications by politicians and policy think tanks.
The effect of this has       been to improve the evidence base for railway union campaigns, to       influence the form that union campaigns have taken, and to influence       policy debate.
In June 2012 Transport for Quality of Life, a transport think tank and       NGO, published a report entitled Rebuilding Rail which was jointly       commissioned by the main railway unions: RMT (National Union of Rail,       Maritime, and Transport Workers), ASLEF (Associated Society of Locomotive       Engineers and Firemen), TSSA (Transport Salaried Staffs' Association), and       Unite [corroborating source 1].
Rebuilding Rail discusses the       future of the rail industry and the methods by which the industry can be       brought back under closer state control and accountability.
The report has       functioned as the unions' official statement on the rail industry and of       their position in on-going debate on the future of railway operations.
Stittle's research influenced the report in two ways.
First, he is widely       quoted as an expert witness for the report, specifically on the problems       of the passenger franchising model, the structure and financing of Network       Rail, and the funding of the rail freight industry (Rebuilding Rail       pp.16, 28, 32, 37).
All of Stittle's comments in the report are informed       by his research.
Second, the paper directly cites his publications in this       area.
The report cites his 2011 paper to support its contention that some       private train operating companies (TOCs) have not made the anticipated       premium payments to the government (p.21), that TOCs are insufficiently       accountable for their premium payments (p.38), and that the franchising of       train services has resulted in little real competition between TOCs       (p.22).
His 2004 paper is cited in the report as evidence that there have       also been problems with privatised freight train services (p.29).
Finally,       the 2006 paper is cited to support the contention that Network Rail is       insufficiently accountable for its actions because the government is       ultimately responsible for NR debt (p.64).
The report has had an on-going influence on policy debate about railway       reform.
It continues to inform MPs' comments on the railways, both in       House of Commons debate and in news media.
The significance and validity       of Rebuilding Rail has been acknowledged in interview by Maria       Eagle MP, Labour's Shadow Transport Secretary.
Eagle told The Observer       that the report makes a `coherent case for reform' of the railways       [corroborating source 2].
Natalie Bennett, Green Party leader, cited the       report in support of her argument for renationalising the railways on the       Green Party website [source 3].
The report has also been used to support       arguments put forward by NGO political campaign group Action for Rail,       which has argued that rail franchising is unsustainable [source 4].
Finally, the importance of the report is attested by its coverage in       national and specialist media, including The Observer [source 2]       and Rail Technology Magazine [source 5].
Both the Rebuilding Rail report and Stittle himself were       favourably cited by John McDonnell MP in a House of Commons debate about       rail fares.
In this debate McDonnell paid `tribute to the detailed work of       John Stittle, the senior lecturer in accounting at the University of       Essex, in the Rebuilding Rail report' [source 6].
Using Stittle's       research, McDonnell explained how `we have increased the public subsidies       to Network Rail, resulting in a reduction in the track operational costs       for private companies, which has enabled them to pay the premiums.
Under       privatisation, there has been a straightforward subsidy from the taxpayer       to the private companies to run the system, the passengers have been hit       by high fares, and the premiums that the companies pay back to the state,       which they extol the virtues of, have actually been paid for by subsidies       laundered through Network Rail'.
McDonnell used these research findings to       demand `a re-examination of the whole structure'.
Stittle's other contributions to public debate of rail reform, arising       from the research, include:     The McNulty Review: In 2011 his research (2008) was cited in an       investigation by engineering and business consultancy firm Arup [source 7:       sec 10.1.2].
The investigation was commissioned by Sir Roy McNulty's       independent review of the costs and efficiency of the British railway       system [source 8].
The review recommended to the government a series of       cuts to reduce the costs of running the railway system.
The       recommendations about ways to reduce the costs of supply-chain management       were supported by the Arup investigation, which was in turn supported by       Stittle's research into the privatisation of the rolling stock industry.
The government's response to the McNulty review was published as the       Department of Transport's `Reforming our Railways' statement.
This       response endorsed the recommendations of the McNulty review and set out       the means to achieve the cost reductions suggested by the review [source       9: paras 1.15, 3.45, and 6.5].
More specifically, the government response       included measures to improve the rail supply chain, as suggested by the       Arup-informed McNulty recommendation [see paras 4.68 - 4.70].
ITN's Tonight programme: Some of the more general aspects of the       failings of rail privatisation from Stittle's research also fed into an       ITN Tonight documentary, `Off the Rails' which was transmitted on       national television at 7.30pm on 25th October 2012.
He was contacted by       Independent Television News specialist editor to consult on various       financial aspects of railway privatisation &#8212; which drew on his train       franchising research &#8212; to assist in researching and advising on the       privatised railway industry [source 10].
RMT: In 2011 the RMT trade union commissioned a report by Just         Economics into the value for money of UK rail system in comparison       with France, Germany, Italy, and Spain.
Stittle's case study of GNER       (2011) was cited to support the report's view that `the interests of       GNER's parent company...were at odds with the public interest' [source       11].
The RMT used the Just Economics report, supported by       Stittle's research, in their written evidence [source 12] submitted to the       Rail 2014 Consultation called in 2012 by the Scottish Parliament's       Infrastructure and Capital Investment Committee.
Specifically, the RMT       argued that maintaining or increasing employment levels in the rail       industry had potential socio-economic benefits.
This contention was       supported by figures from the Just Economics report, itself       supported by Stittle's observations about previous mismanagement of the       railways.
