     The BES, whilst at Essex, has had impact in five main contexts:       pioneering online survey methods;       informing public opinion on AV; enabling the formation of a commercial       spin-out; informing UK       parliamentary debate; and shaping other countries' election studies.
In demonstrating the validity of internet polling in the UK the BES         helped alter the way         survey organisations sample public opinion       The BES's pioneering of online surveys was not simply a breakthrough in       survey methodology but       it helped to change how public opinion is sampled.
YouGov initially used       online methods in       teaming up with the BES in analysing the 2001 General Election.
In March       2013 the President of       YouGov confirmed that the success of this meant that YouGov was emboldened       to expand its       operations dramatically in an online direction, with increasing use of       online surveys in subsequent       elections.
He also states that the BES's research convinced the survey       sector as a whole of the       validity of internet-based surveys and that "the effects of this research       have been enormously       valuable in the last five years, with the continued growth of online       polling" [corroborating source 1].
Further to this, YouGov's Special Projects Director notes in a journal       article that the "expansion of       the online survey sector has changed the nature of public opinion research       in ways that have       important implications for scientific inquiry...
The promise is a       significant increase in high quality       research, with data gathered in a very timely way" [corroborating source       2].
The BES informed public opinion on the likely consequences of         introducing AV into UK         parliamentary elections       The 2010 BES included a set of questions that sought to simulate how       respondents would have       voted had the 2010 election been based on AV.
Extensive statistical       analysis of these results       enabled the team to provide a definitive picture, published in December       2010, of how AV would       have affected the outcome of the 2010 general election.
The result would       have been only       marginally different from the actual First-Past-the-Post result but,       crucially, the Liberal Democrats       would have been in a position to form a majority government with either       Labour or the       Conservatives.
This finding from the BES was picked up by The Guardian and,       along with quotations from an       interview with Sanders, was used to demonstrate the difference to the       post-election landscape that       AV would have made [3].
More significantly, this finding from the BES was       used by both sides       campaigning in the AV referendum.
The `No' campaign used the BES order to       support their claim       that the introduction of AV would serve mainly to strengthen the       `king-making' role of the Liberal       Democrats in government formation.
The No2AV campaign used this argument       in its leaflets       without crediting the BES, but the BES was cited by various Labour       websites campaigning for a       `No' vote [4].
However, the LabourYes campaign cited the BES in its claim       that Conservative       opposition to AV was based simply on self-interest as the party would have       lost seats in recent       general elections [5].
The BES led directly to the formation of a profitable, commercial         spin-out, BPIX       The Essex BES team created a commercial spin-out, the British Polling       Index (BPIX), in 2007 with       the express aim of raising funds to support BES election surveys.
BPIX       offers a survey-commissioning       service to major national newspapers and media outlets, involving the       design of       questionnaires and sampling frames.
It has had a series of contracts with       the Daily Mail and the       Mail on Sunday.
The polls that it conducts are typically included in       measures of the UK `poll-of-polls',       for example as reported by the UK Polling Report during the 2010 general       election       campaign.
Since 2009, BPIX has raised over &#163;60,000 in profits that have       been ploughed back into       purchasing more and better BES surveys [6].
The BES has informed UK parliamentary debates       The BES is not simply used by analysts and the media, but is also a tool       used by politicians to       better understand politics.
The BES has been cited in parliamentary       debates and been used as       evidence in informing the decisions of politicians/political parties.
For       instance, Paul Whiteley       worked as a Specialist Advisor to the Speaker's Conference on       Parliamentary Representation, the       report of which was published in 2010.
The report cites BES findings on       the strength of party       identification in Britain (p. 32), but more significantly it cites       findings from the BES's survey from       May 2009 about the lack of public trust in politicians and parties (which       had originally been cited in       the Summary and Recommendations of the Conference's interim report) [7].
On the first sitting day       of 2012, there was a long (over 140 minutes) parliamentary debate on       diversity, growing out of and       frequently referring back to that Speaker's Conference report.
There was       much discussion of the       measures that various parties had taken to address those concerns since       that report, and a       resolution was passed encouraging them to do more [8].
The BES has also informed parliamentary debates about the funding of       political parties.
In its 2006       report on party funding, the House of Commons Constitutional Affairs       Committee drew on findings       from the BES.
Those debates culminated in a set of recommendations from       the Committee on       Standards in Public Life, which were presented to Parliament in 2011.
This       2011 report includes a       note of dissent from Oliver Heald, the Conservative Party representative       on the committee, which       cites the BES's findings on the political affiliations of trade union       members [9].
Heald ultimately       refused to sign the report.
The BES shapes the way other countries sample the opinion of their         citizens       Knowing what citizens think, and why, is central to democratic governance.
National election       studies are the premier scientific instrument through which democracies       explore what lies behind       the brute fact of the vote.
National research councils generously fund       such studies, as a matter of       high national importance.
The BES at Essex is widely regarded as a       template for other national       election studies, and the BES team is regularly asked to advise on the       design of national election       studies elsewhere in Europe.
A Co-Principal Investigator on the Italian       study has confirmed that       "the design innovations introduced in the 2001, 2005 and 2010 British       Election Studies had [a] very       significant effect on the design of the Italian National Election Study       from 2006 onwards" [10].
He       goes on to say that "the studies have employed internet components in the       overall design,       particularly for rolling campaign panel surveys, which interlock with       face-to-face surveys in the       manner pioneered by the BES at Essex" [10].
