     Poor circulation is an increasing health problem in clinical (eg       diabetics, peripheral vascular disease) and non-clinical groups (eg.
obesity, pregnancy, high alcohol consumption and frequent long-haul flying       (economy class syndrome)).
Worldwide an estimated 30 million people across       all age groups suffer with peripheral vascular disease, with over 100,000       people newly diagnosed each year in the UK alone.
Many more people are       estimated to suffer from chronic venous insufficiency due to lifestyle       factors.
Current treatment regimens rely on pharmaceutical and compression       therapies or surgical interventions, with highly variable efficacy and       demand on health-care resources.
SESRC's research has led to the development and subsequent retail of a       range of improved circulation boosters (Revitive&#8482; range) for and by Actegy       Ltd, a health device company based in Ascot.
In 2006, Actegy approached the SESRC to explore the possibility of it       marketing and selling a breathing device (YouBreathe) invented and       developed by the SESRC.
As a result of this interaction, Actegy became       aware of the SESRC's expertise and knowledge in electro-mechanical       stimulation.
In 2008, Actegy awarded the SESRC funding to evaluate the       physiological efficacy and performance of its Circulation Booster product       in order to provide scientific evidence to update and defend its       physiological performance claims.
Actegy was able to provide sufficient       evidence to Advertising Standards Agency reviewers to justify the claimed       performance benefits (1) and to continue trading.
The results identified the opportunity to materially improve product       performance and to identify clinical indications such as diabetes.
As a       consequence, in 2008, Actegy commissioned the SESRC to undertake a product       development programme aimed at expanding the range of advanced circulation       products based upon its current Circulation Booster technology.
By 2011,       the SESRC's work had led to three differentiated products which Actegy       subsequently had manufactured and launched under its Revitive&#8482; range (2).
The IsoRocker, WidePulse and On/Off ratio technologies developed by the       SESRC deliver a more natural user experience than comparable competitor       products.
Patents applications on all three products were applied for by       Actegy during 2013 with SESRC staff named as inventors (3, 4, 5).
The new innovations are user focussed and improve the user experience.
The IsoRocker increases circulation and gives greater comfort during use.
The Wide-Pulse stimulation reduces the required voltage making the device       safer to use.
The On/Off ratios product increase circulation with each       "pump" of the muscles.
Since 2008, and as a direct result of the SESRC's work, Actegy has (6):            Progressed from a single to a multi-product brand built around the         Revitive range, with enhanced marketing collateral;       Built a patent portfolio for its range of circulation boosters.
Actegy         had no Intellectual Property prior to its engagement with the SESRC;       Evolved from an on-line retailer to a medical device manufacturing         company;       Become the market leader in the circulation booster product category         with sales over the period 2008-2012 of &#163;53.1M;       Generated net profits of &#163;1.32M on sales of &#163;16.3M in its most recent         audited accounts in 2012;       Expanded its sales in overseas territories from zero in 2008 to &#163;10.5M         in 2012;       Created 22 direct new jobs with significantly more indirect jobs in         manufacturing, distribution and marketing;       Won a Red Dot Good Design international award in 2012 for Revitive IX         (7);       Been recognised for two consecutive years (2010 (4th) and         2011 (17th)) as one of the fastest growing companies in the         Sunday Times Fast Track 100 list, one of only 2 companies to remain in         the top 20 for two consecutive years (2).
A Director of Actegy has stated that: "the collaboration with LSBU       continues to enable us to differentiate our products and allow us to enter       new markets" (6).
A leading consultant cardiovascular surgeon has commented "We have         used Revitive and have found that it is very effective at stimulating         the muscles of the feet and lower legs, causing a very good increase in         blood flow.
I am so impressed that I will be using it myself" (8).
There are many positive testimonials to the benefits of Revitive on       social and commercial web sites.
For example, Sir Steve Redgrave is quoted       on the Boots web site extolling the value of Revitive (8) and a Type 2       diabetic posted on Amazon that "the Revitive IX Circulation Booster         feels as though it really does me a lot of good in terms of maintaining         good circulation in my feet and ankles, and, my ankles no longer swell"         (9).
The relationship between Actegy and the SESRC continues to this day with       total contract research and consultancy awards of &#163;239,000 to the SESRC up       to 31st July 2013.
The Head of the SESRC is currently a       consultant to Actegy to advise and guide on the clinical trials of its       RevitiveIX circulation booster, which will allow the product to achieve       510K FDA Certification, allowing the device to be sold as a medical device       in the US and other countries.
