     From 2008 onwards, 6,170 health and social care practitioners have       completed BU's research-grounded       CPD, equating to 14% of the current registered workforce of social workers       (R5).
These       programmes have won two prestigious National Training awards since 2008 (9       in total).
The total       now trained to date is 10,515, which is 25% of the social work workforce.
During the impact period,       these figures include over 500 practice educators; 500 social work       managers; 500 adult/childcare       social workers; 1,600 mental health practitioners; and 2,900 completing       the first `consolidation'       stage of a social worker's CPD (G1,P1&amp;R9).
Since 2008, BU has       worked in partnership with 28       NHS Trusts, 96 Local Authorities and 39 other major employers in England       including British Forces       Social Work Service (Fig.
1).
BU's research corroborates the impact of our professional education on       both practitioners and       organisations.
Brown and Keen (P1) demonstrate that the main impact of       BU's CPD has been to       help over three-quarters of the 44 trained professionals to develop or       confirm the importance of       reflecting critically on their career and practice.
Researchers (P4)       emphasise the clear impact of       BU's CPD on professionals' confidence and practice regarding policy and       legislation, and their       ability to reassess roles and responsibilities and practice reflectively       with vulnerable adults.
P4 also       provides examples of organisational impact such as the development of       anti-discriminatory       practice on both individuals who use services and colleagues.
The former Head of Social Work Education at the General Social Care       Council (R2), states that       those under-going BU's research-grounded CPD programmes are "more       confident in decision       making within their job roles, showing increased ability to apply critical       reflection to the social work       task and an increased ability to communicate more effectively to their       peers, professional       colleagues and service users."
He continues: "The BU centre has not only       developed the       necessary provision, but driven it in areas of greatest need such as       management and where now a       growing evidence base is supporting the positive impact such training is       having on the workforce."
This testimony has been influential in the renaming of the BU centre as       the National Centre for       Post Qualifying Social Work.
Specifically, the leadership and management development programme has       been accessed by over       500 managers from 18 wide-ranging organisations.
The impact has been       evaluated by Keen and       colleagues (R10).
Managers indicate highly statistically significant       increases in:     - Levels of general awareness and confidence in their work role.
- Perceived ability to communicate non-verbally, lead change through       people and create a       strong learning climate.
- Feeling less overwhelmed in dealing with conflict at work.
The results represent significant relative impact shifts of between       7%-12% over the programme.
Line managers have also confirmed the development of self-awareness,       confidence and       communicative ability in their staff attending the programme (R10).
Further research with 204       managers from 11 widespread Local Authorities continues to corroborate the       above impact (R3).
All these CPD programmes are complemented by textbooks, which aid       practice improvements       through key professional development techniques and strategies.
These are       accessible, born out       of research, yet grounded in the realities of practice.
Brown has acted as       series editor for 15 books       since 2008 (31 in total).
His series has sold 45,000 copies since 2008       (R4) (55,000 in total) with       Rutter &amp; Brown's reflective practice text alone having sold 13,000       copies (R5).
One further example of impact stands out.
The underpinning research with       newly qualified social       workers (G1&amp;R9) subsequently influenced discussions on the CPD of       social workers in the House       of Lords (R6).
On the basis of the findings and the needs of newly       qualified social workers, R7 was       published.
This text has sold over 5,000 copies, has been adopted as a key       text by 30       organisations who view it as an important tool in the professional       development of those working in       the sector (R4).
In addition, Brown and Keen have published over 12 monographs since 2008       (20 in total), on       behalf of Learn to Care (e.g.
R1).
Each of these publications has been       issued to every local       authority in England as national guidance; thereby influencing the       development of social work       practice and simultaneously facilitating the reach of the National Centre       for Post Qualifying Social       Work (see Fig.
1).
The Chair of Learn to Care, classes these publications       as "excellent...because       of the quality of the research...it makes it very credible when you are       putting forward any points,       arguments or discussions with your organisations as workforce leads" (R8).
Brown has been       supported by BU to maintain his membership of Learn to Care's Executive       Committee throughout       the REF period and since 2008 has keynoted at 29 conferences, mainly       hosted by Local       Authorities.
Significantly, in addition to these vast impacts on improving health and       social care practice, BU's       research has answered important questions on the effectiveness of       professional development.
As       the former Head of Social Work Education at the General Social Care       Council explains: "BU's       evaluation of post-qualifying training's impact shows for the first time a       growing evidence base in       the difference it makes to social work practice and in particular, the       increased confidence social       workers have in their role, which is essential in today's complex,       demanding and challenging social       work environment" (R2).
This unique provision of research-based CPD to 14% (since 2008) of the       current registered       workforce of social workers, coupled with evaluation and publications,       demonstrates the research       team are continuing to make a positive difference to the most vulnerable       in society.
