     Novel Polymer composite building materials &#8212; spin out company in the         USA       Dow Building Products Inc. (a,b) had a goal of inventing the leading deck       board material, and approached us in 2004, because of our previous and       ongoing research and facilities in solid phase orientation processing of       polymers as well as our group's IP portfolio and track record with       industry in this area (including Tensar geogrids, Bridon International       Trulift elevator rope cores (b), and hot compaction technology resulting       in CURVTM material currently exploited by Samsonite).
Dow       realized "that the development of thermoplastic composite solid state         die drawing technology in the world was now centred in the University of         Bradford" (a).
In 2005 we started a Dow-funded project to produce a       light weight, high-stiffness material to act as a wood replacement in       civil engineering applications.
2005-2010 funding was &#163;305k cash and       &gt;&#163;350k in-kind support (materials, technical input).
This support       demonstrates the commercial value to the company of this product of our       research, underlined by their further US investments of $2m and then $16m       indicated below, and the significant patent portfolio now in place (a,c).
Our research and development work took polypropylene plus 46 wt% talc,       initial density of 1.34 g/cm3 and flexural modulus 1 GPa, to a       similar-to-wood product target density of 800kg/m3 and 4 GPa       modulus.
Dow Building Products invested in the manufacturing technique and       product we developed, our knowledge allowing Dow "to significantly         accelerate its research efforts" (a).
Our collaboration in setting       up a $2m pilot line in Michigan (2008-2009) to demonstrate continuous       processing, first demonstrated with Bridon International (b) in 2000, "contributed         to successful scale-up" and "provided valuable trouble shooting         capabilities" (a).
The products replicate the structure of wood       (exhibiting a fibrous nature due to oriented polypropylene) with key       performance enhancements in weatherability, toughness, and reliability,       and include decking, cladding, fencing, and trim.
In 2010 Eovations LLC was formed in the USA by United Forest Products/Dow       to further develop and commercialize `Eotek' products (a,d).
This $16m       investment created 64 jobs (13 in the research area).
Our fundamental       contribution is explicitly credited on the Eovations web site (c,e) and in       the USA technical press (f), while the Eotek website (g) shows the       hurricane resistance of our materials.
Dow filed 3 patents with us as       co-inventors, prior to the launch of Eovations, with 10 auxiliary patents       filed to date (a,h).
We transferred ownership of specific polymer       orientation technology to Eovations, LLC in early 2010 (h), retaining the       rights to develop IP for our other potential routes to exploitation, e.g.
shape memory products for use in health care (see below) and new research       areas in health including oriented stents and anisotropic drug elution       products.
The company has three lines in Michigan, and a new production       plant opening in Alabama.
Because of commercial confidentiality in this       early phase of the company, they have not disclosed market share, but have       indicated it is millions of dollars (a).
Follow-on products will include       marine, transportation, and recreation applications.
Shape memory &#8212; tissue repairs for all ages       Die drawn shape memory polymers products based on Bradford research and       aimed at the rapidly growing world market for both younger (sports       injuries) and older (arthritic/ osteoporotic/ trauma-involved) patients,       are being commercialised by Smith &amp; Nephew (S&amp;N), a global leader       in medical devices (i).
Estimated 2013 markets (USA and Europe) for       shoulder fixations are 1,109,000 procedures, of value ~$856m and knee       ligament reconstructions at 982,000 procedures, of value ~$309m.
Our       programme with S&amp;N, building on our polymer orientation research,       focussed on high performance bioresorbables (2006-2008), bone and ligament       fixation (smart materials) (2008-2010) and design /manufacturing       feasibility for shape memory fixations (2013).
Collaboration with S&amp;N       continues, for example two joint EPSRC research proposals in 2012 each       included support (~&#163;200k contribution from the company) on manufacturing       and biomedical materials development have been submitted.
Shape memory polymer implants match conventional tissue fixation devices,       with significant additional benefits as they reduce trauma to patients and       total costs.
Being smaller devices they need smaller incisions with faster       patient recovery times, improve placement accuracy of fixations and reduce       product inventory, as an expanding device will be able to cover a range of       hole sizes.
Our modified poly-L-lactic acids shape memory implants provide       sufficient locking stresses, with the required profile of decay of stress       for potential in-vivo applications, and have excellent biocompatibility.
Smith &amp; Nephew filed four patents with us in October 2012.
The       programmes with Smith &amp; Nephew have been supported with &#163;567k cash and       &gt;&#163;200k in kind.
This support demonstrates the commercial value to the       company of this product of our research, underlined by their significant       patent portfolio now in place (i).
