     Birch's work on electoral malpractice has had documented impacts in       various geopolitical contexts, including the UK, Macedonia,         Mozambique, and Lebanon.
In addition, Birch's work regularly informs       the work of various international organisations involved in the       organisation and monitoring of elections.
Impact in the UK     The Select Committee Inquiry into Postal Voting incorporated findings       from Birch and Watt's (2004) paper, including the analysis of the threat       of close personal influences on vote choice, into its report.
The report       explicitly cited Birch and Watt's argument about the loss of secrecy       leading to the possibility of a market for votes developing [corroborating       source 1].
The Government accepted the findings of the report and this led       to the drawing up of a White Paper and a change in the law in 2006 on       postal voting.
Part 14 of The Electoral Administration Act 2006, which       came into force in 2007, included the introduction of stricter measures to       prevent the abuse of postal vote fraud through the requirement, among       other things, of individual voter signature and signature verification for       postal voters, and this has led to a reduction in the abuse of postal       voting since its introduction.
The major impact in the UK of Birch's research has been its contribution       to the reduction of postal-voting fraud.
This was most evident in the 2010       General Election &#8212; the first opportunity for the new measures to be in       force at a national election.
There is clear evidence that postal vote       fraud decreased considerably after the introduction in 2007 of the new       laws that Birch and Watt's research helped to inform.
First, the Electoral       Commission itself is convinced that the measures of the 2006 Act improved       electoral integrity and provided a deterrent to fraud.
Analyses of       elections held in 2008, 2009 and 2010 confirmed that since the passage of       the Electoral Administration Act 2006 there has been no repeat of postal       vote abuse on the scale encountered prior to that time [corroborating       source 2].
Second, official statistics from the 2010 General Election show       that the absolute number of ballots rejected under the new system was       220,000 or 3.8% of the total postal votes cast [3].
This compares with       2.5% of postal votes that were rejected in the 2005 General Election.
Whilst the number of ballots rejected is undeniably far larger than the       number of voters seeking to commit fraud, the reduction in ballot fraud       between 2005 and 2010 demonstrates that more stringent checks were being       made and postal voting was held up to greater scrutiny in the 2010       election.
A useful by-product of these changes was the considerable       increase in voter confidence in electoral integrity.
In 2005 research       found that 46% of the population believed postal voting to be unsafe; by       2011, this figure had dropped to 20% [4].
Impact in Macedonia     The most significant direct impact of Birch's research on the threat of       family members to ballot secrecy has been on policymaking and electoral       administrative practice in Macedonia.
In its report on the 2006       parliamentary elections, the Organisation for Security and Co-operation in       Europe (OSCE) reported that the practices of illegal proxy, family and       group voting were "widespread".
Birch's work helped to reduce family       voting in the 2011 Macedonian parliamentary elections.
In March and April 2007, Birch served as a consultant on a United Nations       Development Programme project entitled `One Voter &#8212; One Ballot: Addressing       Proxy and Family Voting in Macedonia'.
She was engaged in this project at       the initial stages, and her role (as part of a three-person team of       experts) was to use her research expertise to help design a strategy for       reducing illegal proxy and family voting to be implemented as part of the       three-year UNDP project.
This involved specifying the types of family       members who were most likely to be vulnerable and those who were most       likely to be culpable of abuse, clarified the nature of the problem, and       helped to identify this problem as a serious breach of international human       rights commitments.
The project in turn funded a number of civil society initiatives and       training programmes for electoral administrators.
It also fed directly       into the State Election Commission of Macedonia's `Strategy Against Family       and Proxy Voting of the State Election Commission', published in 2010,       which mentions the influence of the UNDP project explicitly on three       occasions (pp.
7, 11, unnumbered Annex), demonstrating that the project       played a central role in the development of this policy instrument [5].
The project was also influential in drawing attention to the problem of       proxy voting, such that efforts to eliminate it figured prominently in the       National Democratic Institute-sponsored Code of Conduct signed by       political parties in advance of the 2011 elections held on 5 June 2011       [6].
The report and the associated strategy had, in turn, a direct impact on       the practice of family voting in the Balkan republic.
The OSCE's official       report documented that the practice declined 17% in subsequent       parliamentary elections in June 2011 [7].
Impact in Lebanon and Mozambique     Birch was engaged in a series of training projects on parliamentary       strengthening in which her work on electoral malpractice and democracy in       general formed much of the substantive content.
The projects were part of       a larger &#163;5 million programme on parliamentary strengthening and democracy       funded by the Department for International Development (DFID) and       delivered by the Westminster Foundation for Democracy between 2008 and       2013.
Birch delivered her training in Lebanon (itself governed by a       complicated and confessional system of representation across its many       religious groupings) and Mozambique, a country which features in her Index       of Electoral Malpractice dataset and which she addresses in Electoral         Malpractice (2011).
The aim of the programme was to assist parliamentary staff in       understanding the role of parliament in modern democracy, how elections       convert votes to seats, and how the population of a parliament as well as       its dispatch of legislative functions must be based on free and fair       electoral procedures.
The final report for the programme submitted in late       summer 2013 claims that "One of the major achievements of the global TWC       programme is the establishment of Parliamentary Study Centres (PSCs) in       Uganda, Mozambique and a regional Arab Institute for Parliamentary       Training and Legislative Studies (AIPTLS) in Lebanon" [8].
Birch's work       contributed to the development of the centre in Lebanon, while she was       able to share her insights about electoral malpractice in Mozambique with       the Parliamentary Studies Centre in the parliament building in Maputo.
Contributing to the work of international organisations     In October 2012 Birch gave a presentation to the European Parliament's       Directorate-General for External Policies of the Union workshop on `The       situation in Ukraine ahead of the 2012 parliamentary elections and the       preparation for these elections'.
The presentation drew heavily on her       research, most notably a case study on the country in Electoral         Malpractice (2011), and addressed both the background to the       electoral system and the contemporary issues in Ukraine.
Her presentation       focused largely on the problems of malpractice and the measures taken to       ensure free and fair elections [9].
Birch's work is cited regularly in the publications and presentations of       major international organisations.
For instance, a 2011 Overseas       Development Institute paper on electoral systems relies heavily on Birch's       work in its analysis of electoral malpractice, especially her dataset on       new and semi-democracies [10].
In addition, a July 2012 presentation from       Andrew Ellis, Director for Asia and the Pacific at the International       Institute for Democracy and Electoral Assistance, drew on Birch's       research.
This presentation expounds what Ellis terms "the Birch       methodology" and addresses how Birch's categorisation of malpractice can       be applied.
He cites how Birch's Index of Electoral Malpractice has been       used by the Papua New Guinea Election Study to code the reports of       domestic electoral observers [11].
