     A spin out company has been established and a new technology sector         has been created: There is a clear link between research at       Loughborough University in electrochemistry and methane and hydrogen-based       fuel cell power sources.
This is evidenced through the involvement of Dr.       Phil Mitchell, a lecturer in the Department of Chemistry, in the       underpinning research and his departure from Loughborough University to       form the spinout company Advanced Power Sources Limited, and subsequently       Intelligent Energy in 2001.
Dr. Jon Moore, was a researcher in the       Department of Chemistry and is now also with Intelligent Energy.
Professor       Roger Mortimer is a co-author on some of the publications cited in Section       3 and is still in the Department of Chemistry.
Section 3 lists supporting       evidence in the form of refereed papers, research funding (e.g.
EPSRC and       TSB) and patents.
Research in related areas of electrochemistry is       on-going in the Department of Chemistry (in collaboration with       Aeronautical &amp; Automotive Engineering) at Loughborough University       (LU), funded in part by EPSRC.
Intelligent Energy (IE) has strong links to LU, commencing in the late       1980s when researchers in the Department of Chemistry collaborated with       the Department of Aeronautical and Automotive Engineering to create one of       Europe's first research and development teams working on the development       of proton exchange membrane (PEM) fuel cell technology.
The UK's first       kilowatt-level PEM fuel cell stack was constructed by the Loughborough       Univeristy team in 1995, and the commercial implications of the work       became apparent.
A University spin-out company was formed called Advanced       Power Sources (APS) Ltd. APS was the first company established in the UK       to specifically address the development and commercialisation of PEM fuel       cells.
With respect to the REF Impact timeline, and impact in period since 2008,       in addition to its head quarters in Loughborough and office in London and       its operation in the US, Intelligent Energy has representation in Japan       and in the emerging markets of India.
It has been ranked 27th       in The Times 100 Fastest Growing Technology Companies [5.1] and 15th       in the Deloitte 2013 Fast 50 list of companies ranked by revenue growth       driven by technology innovation [5.2].
Economic Impacts: jobs created, investment raised, evidenced by         business performance measures: IE currently employs some 350       personnel [5.3] [5.4] and it is anticipated by the company that       this will rise to 400.
The majority are in the UK (Loughborough), with       other bases in the US, Japan and India.
In 2011/12, shareholder investment       was in excess of &#163;100M since incorporation.
It had a 269% revenue growth,       150 patents granted and 298 others pending in 76 patent families filed       around the world [5.3] [5.4].
The company was valued at $0.5B in       2012.
R&amp;D expenditure accounted for more than 30% of total turnover [5.3]         [5.4].
Strong links and collaboration exist between LU and IE on       fluid transport, fuel cell control and system integration, materials and       reliability [5.3].
The company has conducted numerous projects       with LU and fully expects such collaborative agreements to continue in the       future [5.3].
Intelligent Energy has collaborated with many high profile partners in       the development of mobile fuel cell power sources, including Peugeot       Citro&#235;n, Suzuki, Boeing, Airbus, Lotus and others.
These collaborations       have led to the development of the world's first purpose-built motorbike       with a fuel cell power source, fuel cell aircraft and zero emission road       vehicles.
Technology Strategy Board support for several of these       collaborations is a measure of the strategic importance of fuel cell       development to the UK.
A collaboration with PSA Peugeot Citro&#235;n (one of the world's biggest       producers of electric vehicles), Prodrive, and Robert Bosch GmbH, funded       by TSB (H2Origin project), led to the integration of fuel cell technology       in a standard Peugeot Partner electric van [5.5].
Intelligent       Energy has worked with LTI Vehicles, Lotus and TRW Conekt to develop a       zero emission fuel cell hybrid London taxi (also supported by TSB).
The       first vehicle was unveiled in 2010 and a fleet of 100 vehicles were       available for the 2012 Olympics [5.6].
Collaboration with Boeing       resulted in the inaugural flight of the world's first manned fuel cell       aircraft, powered by an IE power source in 2008.
[5.7]     A major collaboration with Suzuki has led to the incorporation of an IE       fuel cell power source in the world's first fuel cell motorcycle, the       Burgman Fuel-cell Scooter, which was announced at the 2009 Tokyo motor       show.
The show also previewed the Tokyo Preview: Suzuki SX4-FCV Hydrogen       Fuel Cell concept car.
The Burgman motor cycle was the first fuel cell       vehicle to receive Whole vehicle Type Approval in the EU in 2011 [5.8].
This has led on to the first ready to scale fuel cell production line in       Japan.
[5.9]     The research from the Unit underpinned these impacts.
In turn these have       had demonstrable economic impacts through the creation of a new company in       a growing business sector, employing hundreds of people and creating new       business partnerships and markets.
In addition, the use of fuel cells has       an environmental impact through reduction of pollution and emissions.
