     Nature of the Impact: The PSSRU's pioneering projections models       for long-term care expenditure       have underpinned key quantitative analyses of social care funding       arrangements in both England       and at the European level for 15 years.
Since 2008, the impact of the       Unit's work has been visible       in key documents produced by the UK Government and the EU.
Research by the       Unit provided the       analytical modelling for the Labour Government's Green Paper on long-term       care funding [A,       pp.37,39,88,97], and for the subsequent White Paper on care and support       [B, pp.
45, 47, 48, 125,       131].
The Unit provided significant quantitative analytical support to the       Green and White Paper       teams, using purpose-built aggregate and dynamic micro-simulation models.
The unique nature of       the Unit's models have made it possible to explore the distributional and       longitudinal implications of       changes in the funding arrangements over the next 40 years.
These models       have provided       Government with estimates of the impact of alternative funding systems on       the number of       individuals supported by the care system, the services consumed, the costs       to the state and to       private individuals, and levels of unmet need.
The dynamic       micro-simulation model is unique in that       it generates estimates of the distribution of these key factors across       types of individuals (for       instance across need and wealth groups); it is also able to "follow"       individuals' interactions with the       care system as they age and hence to estimate the "lifetime" consequences       of different funding       systems on people with social care needs.
Fernandez acted as a specialist adviser to the House of Commons Health       Select Committee's       2010 review of Long Term Care Funding [C, p.11].
In the same year, the UK       Government set up       an Independent Commission, chaired by Sir Andrew Dilnot, in order to find       a fairer and more       sustainable way to pay for social care.
The Commission's main report       explicitly stated the source       of its analysis to be the modelling work carried out by PSSRU [D,       especially p.12; E, especially       p.20].
Dilnot noted that the Commission `relied very heavily on the       work of the PSSRU in two       areas.
The first was in helping us to frame the problem.
The second was in       analysing our       suggested responses to it' [F].
Dilnot's main recommendation on the need       to develop a state-funded       insurance mechanism to protect individuals against the risk of       `catastrophic' social care       expenditures referred to the Unit's estimate that the lifetime social care       costs of approximately 10       per cent of 65 years olds in England would exceed &#163;100,000 [D, pp.
13,       32].
In addition the Dilnot       Commission was able to use the Unit's macro and micro-simulation models to       fine-tune its       proposals by modelling the costs and benefits of a wide range of changes       to the current means-tested       arrangements (e.g.
assets thresholds and income tapers), and of       alternative levels of caps       on private lifetime costs [D, pp.
30-33].
The Department of Health (DH) accepted the analysis offered by Dilnot,       drawing further on the       Unit's macro and micro-simulation models to develop its plans for reform       in line with the main       recommendations of the Commission [G, p.30, p.32].
The DH has since issued       a policy statement       on care and support funding reform and announcing the implementation of a       &#163;75,000 cap on       private costs from April 2017 [H], based in part on the Unit's analyses.
The PSSRU is continuing to use the policy modelling tools it has       developed over the last 15 years       to support the DH in its analysis of social care funding reform and of       resource allocation in       England.
Currently, the micro-simulation model is being used in a       DH-funded study that is       developing a resource allocation formula to distribute social care funds       to local authorities and,       after many years of discussions about alternative solutions for funding       long-term care, the Unit's       work is now poised to help bring about decisive movement towards       sustainable, more efficient and       fairer arrangements for distributing the cost of caring for dependent       people in England.
Thus the work of the Unit has had significant reach at national level.
In       addition, the PSSRU has       produced a WHO briefing on funding options that fed into an EU Ministerial       Conference on the       Financial Sustainability of Health Systems [I]; this examined the key role       for the state in achieving a       fair and efficient social care funding system, and reviewed the range of       options adopted by       different countries, together with their associated costs and outcomes.
Wider Implications: Increasing numbers of people need long-term       care and ways are needed to       ensure that the funding arrangements are sustainable, more efficient and       the costs distributed       more fairly.
The analysis carried out by the Unit has helped Government       identify and appraise the       priorities for funding reform, including the need to reduce the       significant risk of catastrophic expenditure       on care faced by a large number of dependent people.
The on-going       implementation of a cap on care       costs in England will potentially improve the lives of millions of older       people at a particularly vulnerable       point in their lives, and achieve a fairer social care system in England.
