     Landman's research insights have been employed in various international       contexts.
He has informed the United Nations' work on measuring human       rights performance, provided resources and training on democracy       assessment for International IDEA, and been directly involved with       projects assessing the quality of democracy in Mongolia and Ukraine.
Informing the work of the United Nations     Landman's work on measuring human rights performance has fed into       international efforts spearheaded by the United Nations Office of the High       Commissioner for Human Rights to provide assessment frameworks for state       party reporting to UN Human Rights Treaty Bodies.
Landman's background       papers and participation in a series of high-level meetings in Geneva has       fed directly into UN documentation [see corroborating sources 1 and 2].
These documents include references to Landman and H&#228;usermann (2003) and       Landman and Carvalho (2010).
He worked on additional commissions with the       UK Department for International Development and the Canadian International       Development Agency (CIDA) on assessing human rights [corroborating source       3], as well as the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Netherlands,       Minority Rights Group International, and the International Centre for       Transitional Justice on human rights impact assessment and information       systems management.
In October 2011 Landman was a keynote speaker in the parallel session of       the UNDP's Oslo Governance Forum on mainstreaming human rights measures       into nationally-based governance assessments [4].
In September 2012 he       gave a keynote speech on the prospects for EU democracy promotion in the       Arab Spring countries at the Representation of Rhine-Westphalia in       Brussels, organised by the German Development Institute [5].
On these       occasions, Landman was delivering core commentary and analysis for leading       global and European policy makers: the UNDP event attracted 270 delegates       from around the world; the Arab Spring event attracted 130 delegates       working on issues relating to EU democracy promotion in Brussels.
The UNDP       appearance led to further briefings in the New York office and a       commissioned study (&#163;25,000) on the relationship between democratic       governance and sustainable human development (2012- 2013) [6].
Providing resources and training for International IDEA     Landman's work on democracy attracted the attention of the International       Institute for Democracy and Electoral Assistance (IDEA), a 28-member       inter-governmental organisation based in Sweden.
Between 2004 and 2009 he       worked on a variety of democracy assessment projects, which culminated in       the 2008 publication of Assessing the Quality of Democracy: A         Practical Guide (a significantly revised version of the original Handbook         of Democracy Assessment) and Assessing the Quality of Democracy:         An Overview of the International IDEA Framework [7].
These       documents, of which Landman was the lead author, are resources for       assessing the quality of democracy in any country and are used by teams       throughout the world [8].
The `State of Democracy' programme at       International IDEA is one of the main pillars of its activities and the       Landman's Practical Guide and Overview serve as the main       methods of application in the field.
The Director of Global Programmes at       International IDEA has stated that this work "continues to be a resource       for teams in different parts of the world who want to assess the quality       of their democracies" [8].
International IDEA has now translated these       publications into Spanish, French, and Arabic (as well as a Thai version       of the Practical Guide, produced by one of International IDEA's       partners), and the most recent applications of them have been in Zambia,       Chile and Ukraine [8].
Landman has been commissioned to provide training for IDEA's 150 staff       for the period 2012-2014 (April and November annually) on issues relating       to the measurement and assessment of democratic performance, as well as to       provide an overview of the assessment framework.
The Director of Global       Programmes at IDEA writes:     "Not only has Dr Landman contributed to the content of the Institute's       induction programme for new staff, but he also periodically lectures on       democracy, democracy measurement and assessment to new staff at       International IDEA.
As a result of this contribution, more and more       International IDEA regional programmes are prioritising democracy       assessment in their work...
Given his deep knowledge and experience of       democracy assessment in general and the state of democracy assessment and       approach in particular, Dr Landman remains an important resource for many       assessment teams applying International IDEA's state of democracy       assessment framework.
This has made him the main intellectual partner for       International IDEA's democracy assessment work'' [8].
Assessing the quality of democracy in Mongolia and Ukraine     Landman's most notable direct involvements in democracy assessment have       taken place in Mongolia and Ukraine.
In Mongolia he assisted a local team       of academics to develop a series of democratic governance indicators.
One       of the main outcomes of the assessment in Mongolia was the formal passage       of a 9th Millennium Development Goal on democracy, human rights       and zero tolerance of corruption in 2006.
Mongolians now produce bi-annual       assessments using the framework developed with Landman's assistance and       input [9].
The 2009 `Millennium Development Goal-9 Indicators and the       State of Democracy in Mongolia' report makes direct reference to       assistance from the University of Essex and Landman's research [10].
In Ukraine, Landman is part of an international team of experts funded by       the Westminster Foundation for Democracy assisting People First!&#8212;a       Kiev-based NGO&#8212;to assess the quality of democracy in Ukraine and develop a       Citizen's Charter for Democracy.
He participated in the first training       workshop in November 2012 and continues to be engaged in the project       throughout 2013 [11].
