     Sikka has a history of interventions in public debates though the media.
His newspapers and magazine articles have translated his academic papers       into popular language and made them accessible to the general public,       legislators, and civil-society organisations.
His commentary on tax       avoidance has received a huge amount of attention by national and       international news media.
His work has been cited in online and print       media across the world, including The Guardian, the Mail on Sunday, The       Telegraph, The Independent, the Belfast Telegraph, Scotland's The Herald,       Le Monde, China National News, CNBC, and Italy's International Business       Times.
In 2010, Accountancy Age listed Prem Sikka as one of 50 most       influential individuals in the field of UK finance [corroborating source       1].
The most notable examples of his contribution to public debate have       concerned tax avoidance.
His contributions to public discourse have taken       the form of expert testimony to parliamentary commissions and committees,       consultation with policy makers, citations of his work in parliamentary       debate, advice to NGOs and civil-society groups, speaking engagements at a       variety of non-academic conferences, and media appearances on multiple       platforms in multiple countries.
These contributions have had an effect on       government and parliamentary policy debate in the UK and abroad, have       informed and influenced anti-tax avoidance NGO campaigns, and have added       considerably to media discussion of tax avoidance.
Secretary of State for Business Innovation and Skills     Sikka's research on tax avoidance and suspect accountancy practices has       established him as an expert in an area that has undergone intense public       scrutiny within the REF impact period.
Public debate about tax avoidance       has been accompanied with efforts from the UK Parliament to analyse the       tax conduct of companies in the UK, as well as much debate in Parliament       about what to do about tax avoidance.
His most notable contribution to       these efforts has been his consultation with the Secretary of State for       Business Innovation and Skills, who sought his advice in February 2013       [corroborating source 2].
He has both met with the Secretary of State and       continued to contribute to his consideration of tax avoidance strategy       with written advice.
Writing to thank Sikka and respond to his advice, the       Secretary of State has noted that the February meeting was very useful and       that Sikka's advice has been passed to the UK Treasury [corroborating       source 3].
Other Contributions to Parliamentary Debate     Sikka's other contributions to UK policy debate have taken the form of       evidence he has submitted to parliamentary committees and citation of his       work in parliamentary discussion.
For example, in January 2009 he was       called to provide expert oral evidence at a hearing held by the House of       Commons Treasury Committee inquiry into bank auditors [corroborating       source 4].
His influence on the Committee is shown in their final report,       which cites three of his contributions [corroborating source 5, paras 226       and 233].
His observation about the potential lack of correspondence       between auditors and the FSA directed the committee `to examine the       existing links between auditors and the FSA, and whether they could be       strengthened' [corroborating source 5, para 226].
This led to the Report's       recommendation that the FSA should make better use of audit knowledge.
More recently, Sikka has submitted evidence to the House of Commons       Parliamentary Commission for Banking Standards, again drawing on his       research on bad banking practice [corroborating source 6].
The Commission       has yet to publish its final report.
His research has also been used to explain and argue for the       implementation of an anti-tax-avoidance bill tabled in the UK Parliament.
On 8 July 2008 Nia Griffith MP tabled a Bill in the House of Commons to       deal with tax avoidance by companies securing publicly-funded contracts.
Griffith introduced the bill to parliament by referring Members to Sikka's       work on private finance initiatives (2008b).
In her opening statement       Griffith said `I am indebted to [Prof Sikka] and his research on the       complex workings of the PFI for much of the illustrative detail that I       shall use to explain the purposes of my bill' [corroborating source 7].
In addition to his contributions to UK Parliament Sikka has contributed       to a Scottish Parliament inquiry into the impact of the banking crisis       [source 8].
He also met with a member of the French National Assembly in       May 2013, upon the request of the French Embassy's tax attach&#233;, to discuss       tax avoidance and evasion using tax havens [source 9].
NGOs and Thinks Tanks     Sikka's contribution to policy debate has also been achieved through       consultation for NGOs and think tanks that analyse and communicate tax       avoidance mechanisms to the general public.
By collaborating with such       institutions he both influences the activities of the third sector and       raises public awareness of tax avoidance.
Sikka co-founded the Tax Justice       Network in 2003 and since then has been a senior adviser to their       campaigns to analyse and communicate the mechanisms of tax avoidance and       offshore finance to the general public [source 10].
He is also a member of       the national advisory panel for independent think tank Centre for Labour       and Social Studies [source 11].
His research has been cited in reports by       Christian Aid, Irish NGO TASC (Think tank for Action and Social Change),       Spinwatch, and Spanish think tank Real Instituto Elcano [sources 12-15].
Finally, Sikka has also informed NGOs concerned with tax avoidance       through a series of speaking engagements and invitations to address       non-academic seminars, conferences, and workshops about tax avoidance and       the regulation of financial institutions.
Such events have included: the       May 2011 `Good Banking Summit' organised by the New Economics Foundation       (independent think tank) and Compass (political pressure group); a London       conference organised in October 2012 by GlobalNet21, a civil-social       public-debate group; and a G8 pre-summit conference in Belfast, June 2013,       organised by the G8 Research Group and Queen's University Belfast.
