     Sikka's work as an academic is complemented by his political activism.
He       regularly uses his research on the fraudulent activities of accountancy       firms to inform his contributions to third sector campaigners.
Specifically, Sikka works with NGOs, think tanks, and political pressure       groups to monitor and hold to account some of the world's biggest       accountancy and auditing companies.
His varied efforts to turn his       research into activism involves on-going working relationships with the       New Economics Foundation, Compass, and the Tax Justice Network, which he       himself founded in 2003.
While Sikka's efforts to reveal the suspicious activity of accountancy       firms have taken a variety of forms, one of his most significant       contributions has been his use of the underpinning research on BCCI.
His       research had revealed that a document crucial to the collapse of a major       international financial institution had been censored.
Once the UK       Government passed the Freedom of Information Act 2000, Sikka used the       findings of his research into BCCI to inform a Freedom of Information       request submitted in 2006.
This request was made to the UK Treasury       Department to secure missing parts of the Sandstorm Report.
After the       Treasury denied the request, Sikka made a successful appeal to the First       Tier Tribunal, again informed by his research, that both secured the       release of the Sandstorm Report to the public and set precedent for future       appeal cases.
His research thus had a direct impact by releasing       information considered to be in significant public interest by lawyers and       media commentators, and the activities underpinned by his research had an       impact on UK FOI appeal procedures by setting new precedent.
Release of Sandstorm &#8212; using research for high profile Freedom of         Information     The statement that Sikka submitted to the Tribunal in April 2011, the       final step in securing the release of the document, included sections       informed by the research on the BCCI and the details of the Sandstorm       Report.
His statement also cited his broader research record on money       laundering in order to evidence his credentials as a reliable witness to       the public interest grounds for releasing an uncensored Sandstorm Report.
In his statement Sikka wrote:     `The BCCI episode highlighted the involvement of banks in frauds, money       laundering and tax avoidance/evasion and regulatory failures.
These themes       have continued to recur and have been highlighted in a number of       investigations.
Organisations and financial intermediaries operating from       the UK have been implicated.
If anything after 9/11, these matters have       become even more significant and are worthy of a study.
I have researched       money laundering and have published papers on it' [corroborating source 1,       paragraph 52].
In July 2011, three judges unanimously ordered HM Treasury to release       most of the information withheld from the Sandstorm Report on the grounds       that it was in the public interest to do so:     `In our view there is considerable public interest in the public seeing       the whole of the Sandstorm Report so that it can be seen, not just what       happened, but what role was played by the governments, institutions and       individuals who were involved' [corroborating source 2, paragraph 29].
The significance of the release of the Sandstorm Report is attested by       commentary from leading legal professionals, by mainstream national media       coverage, and by specialist journalism.
A legal blog operated by Timothy       Pitt-Payne QC, Anya Proops, and Robin Hopkins (all barristers) referred to       the judgement as an `important new decision' and said that the `Tribunal's       recent decision in Sikka v IC and HMT is a good illustration of       how FOIA exemptions...may be trumped by the overwhelming interest in the       public being informed about corporate wrongdoing on a massive scale'       [corroborating source 3].
The significance of the Report's release is also       evidenced by its coverage in national media such as The Telegraph       [source 4] and specialist blogs including AccountingWEB [source 5] and the       Financial Transparency Coalition [source 6].
Late Appeal &#8212; setting precedent and changing legal guidance for the         First-Tier Tribunal     The process by which Sikka turned his research into an FOI campaign also       had its own impact.
His initial FOI request was denied by the Treasury.
Upon hearing of the Commission's verdict he decided to appeal the decision       to the First-Tier Tribunal (FTT).
Because Sikka's appeal case was       submitted more than 28 days after the date of the Commission's decision,       he asked the FTT to allow a late appeal.
He argued that the appeal was       delayed because he was on holiday when the decision notice was mailed to       him, and appealed to the Tribunal for leniency in virtue of the fact he       was representing himself and was unfamiliar with the process.
After       hearing Sikka's case John Angel, Principal Judge of the FTT, ruled that       the late appeal should be heard.
Angel also clarified the regulations on       late appeals, as set out in the FTT ruling in December 2009:     `...tribunals might wish to take into account...whether the reason for       delay was due to a holiday, ill health, or other causes largely beyond the       control of the appellant...[and] the fact an appellant is unrepresented       and unfamiliar with the appeal process' [source 7, paragraph 14].
The ruling also recommended the guidance documentation for appeals be       changed, as a result of Sikka's case: `...in view of this case I would       recommend that the appeal form and guidance notes are amended so as to       assure the appellant that it is unnecessary to go to a large amount of       trouble to prepare for the appeal at this stage' [source 7, paragraph 15].
In May 2010 the UK Department of Justice guidance documents were changed,       and now refer appellants to the `Ruling in Prof Sikka v Information       Commissioner'.
Following Angel's recommendation, they now state: `It is       unnecessary to go to a large amount of trouble to prepare for the appeal       at this stage' [source 8, p.2].
Thus Sikka's FOI campaign, informed by his research into the BCCI       collapse, set a precedent for all cases of late appeal to the UK's First       Tier Tribunal, and changed the guidance documents issues by the UK       Department of Justice.
