     Nankervis' theoretical research in time series econometrics informed his       applied collaborative research with Royal Mail economists.
Nankervis       helped Royal Mail analyse the effects of factors such as stamp prices on       letter traffic demand and consulted with them to produce letter traffic       demand forecasts.
These forecasts regularly provide data to Royal Mail       senior executives and inform Royal Mail decision making and business       strategy.
As explained by the CEO of Royal Mail:     The ILTM is used in three important ways:            First, as a business forecast model to inform business and strategic         plan central case projections accounting for over &#163;5bn of Royal Mail         revenue       Second, as a scenario analysis tool to inform business risks         surrounding our central AIM projections (including Monte Carlo         simulation analysis)       Third, the ILTM estimated price elasticities are key inputs into the         Royal Mail strategic pricing and competitive entry model, which in turn         is used to inform pricing decisions and competitive entry into the         letters market.
CEO, Royal Mail [corroborating source 1]     Royal Mail's CEO also notes that `business reports and external       publications, written by John Nankervis and our internal economists, have       been submitted to our regulator (previously Postcomm and now Ofcom),       Shareholder (the UK Government), Pension Trustees and also the European       Commission'.
These submissions have informed two major changes to the       regulation and administration of the UK's postal service: the UK Postal       Services Act 2011, and the 2011 increase in stamp prices.
Postal Services Act 2011       Nankervis' collaborative research with the Royal Mail informed the UK       Postal Services Act of 2011.
Results from the ILTMs, such as demand       forecasts and estimated price elasticities, were integral to Royal Mail's       submissions to an independent review of UK Postal Services (the Hooper       Review) undertaken in 2008 and updated in 2010.
In the words of the Royal       Mail's Head of Economic Forecasting, the Royal Mail submissions `heavily       influenced the outcome of the [Hooper] review' [corroborating source 2].
The Hooper Review provided recommendations for the reform of the postal       service based on the data provided by Royal Mail, that data a result of       Nankervis' work with Royal Mail economists.
The Hooper Review's recommendations, based on this data, were accepted by       the UK Government, as stated in an Impact Assessment for the Postal       Services Bill undertaken by the Department for Business Innovation and       Skills: `The Government intends to proceed with the Hooper Review's main       recommendations [including] to bring about modernisation of Royal Mail       through introducing private sector capital' [corroborating source 3, p.2].
The bill was passed into law in June 2011; the Postal Services Act sets       out the future of postal services provision in the UK, including the       privatisation of 90% of Royal Mail's business.
Stamp price increases       In a particularly significant consultation with Postcomm, the models were       used by Royal Mail economists in an ultimately successful request for       permission to increase stamp prices.
In consultation with Nankervis, ILTMs       were used to estimate the effect of stamp price changes on demand.
The       results of this application of the model were integral to the case the       Royal Mail made for the increase of stamp prices in 2010-11.
In 2010       Postcomm began a statutory consultation on the regulation of Royal Mail       entitled `Laying the foundations for a sustainable postal service'.
Royal       Mail's response to this consultation included a request for deregulation       on stamp prices, a request supported by ILTM data, in particular the       estimated low first and second class price elasticities [source 4].
In 2011 Postcomm granted Royal Mail's request and deregulated their       control of stamp prices, granting permission to some increases in price       [source 5].
This decision was informed by the Royal Mail response to the       Postcomm consulation, which was in turn informed by Nankervis' research       into the effect of stamp prices on letter traffic demand.
As a result of       Postcomm's decision Royal Mail increased stamp prices in 2012.
The role of Nankervis and his research in this process is explained below       by Royal Mail's Head of Economic Forecasting:     The output of John's work on the ILTM and publications helped us to       convince Postcomm, and subsequently Ofcom, that the decline in mail       volumes was mainly due to structural factors related to technological       changes and not primarily due to the level of letter prices.
This debate       (high price elasticity versus structural decline) was a highly contentious       business issue within Royal Mail which John's last piece of work for us on       the ILTM (2011) helped to provide an answer &#8212; John's work in this area in       combination with market research and other academic work we undertook with       the University of Toulouse was very important in helping Royal Mail to       reach evidence based business decisions on pricing.
Head of Economic Forecasting, Royal Mail
