     Patrick was one of the authors involved in producing the 2004 Guidelines       for use of LADO, which are aimed at a lay audience and outline best       practice.
The guidelines have been the focus of court cases in which       Patrick has drawn on his empirical sociolinguistic research background and       forensic linguistic experience to provide advice to legal teams.
He has       also disseminated expertise to professionals and been instrumental in       establishing dialogue between academics and a range of practitioners.
The development of guidelines for the use of LADO     Patrick is among 19 authors of the 2004 Guidelines for the Use of         Language Analysis in relation to Questions of National Origin in Refugee         Cases, which are aimed at lawyers, administrative judges, asylum       activists, and government agencies making asylum decisions.
The Guidelines       address the complexity of issues of language variation and socialisation,       speech community, and nationality, arguing expertise should come from       qualified experts.
The head of Dutch LADO firm De Taalstudio notes that       "His [Patrick's] influence is very visible in the Guidelines, as       they stress the central relevance of sociolinguistic research to LADO       cases, laid out in terms understandable to lay people and acceptable to       professional linguists" [corroborating source 1].
Patrick assisted in       securing endorsement of the Guidelines by twelve national and       international linguistic associations [corroborating source 2].
Further to       this, the Guidelines have been made available through the UN High       Commissioner for Refugees' RefWorld service to legal and NGO       practitioners worldwide, largely through Patrick's efforts in August 2010       [3].
The need for LADO evidence in asylum cases to comply with the Guidelines       has been a contentious legal issue, especially in Scotland, where Patrick       has advised on a notable case.
Advising legal teams and writing expert reports for asylum tribunals     Since 2008, Patrick has submitted over 60 linguistic expert reports       (15-25 pages) to UK asylum tribunals in appeals cases.
His       sociolinguistic, variationist and creolist research background qualifies       him legally as an expert and is crucial in writing reports.
As confirmed       by the head of De Taalstudio, Patrick's research expertise in variation in       Creole languages is particularly vital, as many LADO cases involve Creole       speakers [1].
His involvement as an expert in many UK asylum cases is       cited repeatedly by judges in case determinations.
In 2011, he was one of       two linguists (the only one based in the UK) commissioned to provide       expert testimony in a High Court appeal.
The Upper Tribunal returned the       cases for re-hearing by lower courts, partly due to Patrick's report [4].
The appealing QC has distributed Patrick's report amongst a network of UK       asylum lawyers as a model of expert arguments relating to language       elements in asylum cases [5].
The highest-profile case that Patrick has been involved with has been       that of a Somali asylum-seeking woman (known as K.A.S.Y.
), which had been       referred to the Inner House of the Court of Sessions (the Scottish       equivalent to England's Court of Appeal).
Patrick was recruited by an       advocate working on the case in order to provide expert guidance for an       appeal because of his record of producing reports for asylum cases in       England [6].
The case involved a specific challenge to the use of SPRAKAB       language reports in asylum cases &#8212; such reports are commissioned by the       Home Office, but do not comply with the Guidelines.
Patrick       attended a case consultation with the legal team, led by Michael Howlin       QC, in order to provide advice and analysis.
The advocate, who worked as       part of this team, writes:     "I have no hesitation in saying that Professor Patrick's input at that       consultation was to prove absolutely invaluable.
He provided us with the       scientific analysis of LADO that essentially formed the basis of Mr.       Howlin's submission, which is reproduced at paras.
[37] &#8212; [42] of the case       report in M.Ab.N.
&amp; K.A.S.Y.
The analysis there set out,       subsequently adopted and approved by the Inner House, was based almost       entirely on the guidance and advice imparted by Professor Patrick at the 1st       November consultation" [6].
The appeal was heard in December 2012 and January 2013, with the decision       being issued on 12th July 2013 [7].
The judgement found that       the Guidelines are the yardstick by which LADO evidence should be       assessed and that the use of SPRAKAB reports can be challenged.
Therefore,       as a result of this case there are, as of July 2013, conflicting       precedents in Scotland and England.
The advocate acknowledges that the       Home Office may appeal the decision in the UK Supreme Court but he states       that the judgement "is of immense significance" and adds:     "If this decision stands, thousands of adverse asylum decisions will be       invalidated, and where persons affected remain in the UK, then their cases       will need to be re-opened... And if my client does end up getting       permission to stay in the UK, she will owe that almost entirely to the       work of Professor Patrick" [6].
Dissemination of expertise to professionals     Patrick has convened or participated in colloquia on LADO in the       Netherlands, Switzerland, Ireland, Sweden, the US and UK.
He has ensured       that the practitioner/researcher dialogue becomes firmly established in       this field by giving LADO seminars to a diverse range of professionals.
The four ESRC Research Seminars he convened in 2011-12 hosted participants       from Africa, Australia, North America and Europe, and included       sociolinguists, language specialists, immigration lawyers and judges,       doctors, geneticists, anthropologists, human rights practitioners, police,       psychoanalysts, forensic scientists, four commercial LADO firms, and six       government bureaux (Austrian, Belgian, Dutch, Norwegian, Swiss, UK) [8].
The seminars provided a platform to exchange expertise and focus on       developing and achieving acceptance of professional linguistic standards       and best practice in the asylum sphere.
Writing about the seminars, a       former head of LINGUA, a LADO unit that is part of the Swiss Federal       Office for Migration, has praised Patrick's ability to bring practitioners       and academics together and writes that his efforts "have proven very       valuable to LINGUA" [9].
The head of De Taalstudio comments that "thanks       to Patrick's role in the preparation and conduct of the ESRC meetings, a       highly polarised debate, characterised by processes of exclusion, has       turned into a constructive dialogue involving all stakeholders" [1].
