     This research has influenced the design of programmes and interventions       implemented by the Money Advice Service, an institution set up by the FSA       to implement the National Strategy for Financial Capability.
The research       has also informed the focus of its campaigns and materials since it was       established in 2010.
It has also had a wider impact on policy strategy and       policy debate.
In terms of programme and policy interventions, the Money Advice Service       has developed specific, targeted initiatives to help people through life       events that the research has shown to affect both people's financial       capability and wellbeing.
For example, our research shows that maintaining       financial capability through divorce or unemployment reduces the       psychological impact of these events on wellbeing.
A member of staff       within Corporate Policy &amp; External Affairs at the Money Advice Service       wrote in 2012 that Essex research has `underpinned our approach to       developing targeted initiatives to help people through key life events'       [corroborating source 1].
To this end, the Money Advice Service has,       amongst other things, developed an online service for people going through       divorce or separation and a redundancy guide for people faced with job       loss [corroborating source 2], as well as factsheets used with       stakeholders/partners, including the Mental Health Network of the NHS       Confederation on the link between financial capability and wellbeing.
Taylor's work has been recognised at the highest levels within the Money       Advice Service, which is demonstrated by the numerous references to his       research in speeches made in 2010 and 2011 by senior members of staff,       including the Chairman and Head of Consumer Affairs, Strategy and       Evaluation [corroborating source 3].
The research has been instrumental in the Money Advice Service's work       with the mental health sector and has helped to emphasise why providing       assistance with money management should be part of a wider strategy aimed       at improving mental health and wellbeing.
The Money Advice Service used       the findings from the research as the basis of their consultation response       to the Office for National Statistics in 2012 on the proposed domains and       headline indicators for measuring national wellbeing [source 4].
This       response explicitly refers to Mark Taylor and his research publications       (Taylor et al.
2009; 2011).
Taylor et al.
(2009) is also cited in the       Money Advice Service's `Managing Money and Mental Health' briefing (2011)       for the NHS Confederation, which was circulated to all mental health trust       chief executives and commissioners, as well as Primary Care Trust       commissioners [source 5].
This document encourages NHS staff to support       service users by asking people about any financial difficulties when       assessing them.
The Money Advice Service used the research on financial capability and       wellbeing as the basis for their submission to the Marmot Review of health       inequalities.
In November 2008, Professor Sir Michael Marmot was asked by       the then Secretary of State for Health to chair an independent review to       propose the most effective evidence-based strategies for reducing health       inequalities in England from 2010.
The resulting report, Fair Society         &#8212; Healthy Lives (2010), cites Taylor et al.
(2009) in relating the       impacts of low income on psychological health [source 6].
The research is       also referenced in the Government's mental health strategy No Health         Without Mental Health (2011), which outlines their objectives to       achieve better mental health and wellbeing and the interventions needed       [corroborated by sources 1 and 7].
This states that individuals can       improve their own mental health and that financial insecurity is strongly       associated with poor mental health - this directly emerges from Taylor's       research.
The research has had an impact outside the field of health, and in       particular it aided the Money Advice Service's involvement in tackling       child poverty.
The national strategy document A New Approach to Child         Poverty: Tackling the Causes of Disadvantage and Transforming Lives       (2011) explicitly acknowledges the importance of money management and       cites Taylor (2009) [source 8].
The research into the relationship between       financial capability and saving contributed to the evidence base in the       area of simple financial products.
For example, the Sergeant Review was       set up by Government to initiate the development of a suite of simple       financial products aimed at helping consumers navigate the financial       services market.
The Interim Report, published in August 2012, cites       Taylor et al.
(2011) and Taylor (2010) [source 9].
The research has also generated considerable engagement with       policy-makers and other organisations.
For example Taylor was invited to       give a seminar on Financial capability, financial shocks, and       psychological wellbeing at the Essex Health Improvement Forum on       `Recession and Health' in 2010.
The EHIF helped to facilitate and       influence the development and co-ordination of Public Health practice and       learning across Essex.
This seminar drew heavily on the research published       in Taylor et al (2009; 2011) [source 10].
In 2011 Taylor was invited to       address a meeting of the Intergenerational Futures All Party Parliamentary       Group in Parliament to discuss financial capability and attitudes towards       saving [source 11].
Members of this Group include MPs and Peers, as well       as external organisations including Age Exchange, Age UK, The Age and       Employment Network, The Beth Johnson Foundation, The British Youth       Council, The Family and Parenting Institute, The Joseph Rowntree       Foundation, The National Children's Bureau, The Prince's Trust, The Young       Foundation, and Working Families.
The talk was based on research published       in Taylor (2010).
