     This research into elite philanthropy and `million pound donors' has       benefited policy makers and practitioners by providing unique empirical       data and understanding of `top end' of charitable giving.
The data       generated by the research has become the primary source for policy and       media enquiries in this area.
It has also directly influenced government       policy on charitable giving.
These impacts have been achieved by       deliberate and focused dissemination and publicity, including substantial       use of new media [see corroboration 5.1].
Impacts on public policy:     This research has had significant impact on governmental policy-making       concerning philanthropy, with the research having been disseminated to       policy-makers through a variety of channels.
Significant interactions with       policymakers included a presentation to HM Treasury charity tax team in       2009; an address to the All Party Parliamentary Group on Civil Society in       2011 [corrob 5.2]; speaking alongside the UK Charities Minister at       a Philanthropy Impact event in 2013 [corrob 5.3], and Breeze's       membership of the Giving Policy Group, which comprises influential       representatives from the charity sector who provide evidence and ideas for       policymaking.
Evidence of this impact is provided by the influence of the       research on the programme of the coalition government.
After the 2010       general election, the coalition promised: `we will take a range of       measures to encourage charitable giving and philanthropy'.
This was       realised with a Giving Green Paper (GGP) that same year and a Giving White       Paper (GWP) the following.
The GGP directly cites research by Breeze.
Significantly, civil servants in the Office for Civil Society within the       Cabinet Office charged with drafting the GWP were instructed by the Senior       Policy Advisor (Cabinet Office) to read the report How Donors Choose         Charities [ref 3.7], which documents the barriers facing       donors.
The research findings contained in the report were mirrored in the       final GWP which noted `the evidence both from research studies and our own       consultation shows that many people and organisations ...want to give       more.
They are put off doing so because too often giving is unnecessarily       difficult or complicated, and is not as rewarding as it could or should       be' (GWP, 2011, p.9) [corrob 5.4].
Impact on legislation:     The research has also influenced government policy decisions, notably the       decision to abandon the proposed cap on charity tax reliefs announced in       the 2012 Budget.
As the only source of data on the biggest donations, the       research made it possible to identify a number of potential problems with       the proposal, meaning it was regularly cited by journalists from both       mainstream and sector media.
The `Give it back George' campaign,       which was launched to fight the proposal, cited the research data on its       `key stats' page [corrob 5.5] and mainstream media citations of the       research (including headline news in the third sector supplements) during       the campaign included: The Economist, Financial Times and       The Guardian [corrob 5.6].
The research was described as       `invaluable' by the FT's charity correspondent, who attests, `the Million       Pound Donor report has proven a vital tool in my reporting' [corrob 5.7].
After 10 weeks of intensive campaigning, during which the data was       repeatedly cited and Breeze quoted, the proposal was withdrawn.
The       campaign was named as `Voluntary sector campaign of the year' and the       contribution of the research described as `immensely useful' to       the campaign's success by the Charities Aid Foundation [corrob 5.8].
Use of research findings by charities and lobby groups:  The       research has helped charity sector bodies to improve professional practice       and standards in fundraising as they seek to attract more major donations.
The research was presented to the UK's biggest fundraising charities (e.g.
Cancer Research UK, NSPCC, RNLI, Marie Curie, MacMillan, ActionAid), as       well as at major sector and training events (e.g.
Institute of Fundraising       national, regional and major donor conferences, European Association of       Planned Giving, Philanthropy Impact, and Raising Funds from the Rich which       draws 1,000+ audiences of fundraisers).
Breeze has been consequently named       as one of the most 50 influential people in fundraising in 2013 on the       prestigious civilsociety.co.uk website, only one of two academics to be       listed [corrob 5.9].
Breeze also served as a member of the advisory       committee for an influential report funded by the Bill and Melinda Gates       Foundation Money for Good [corrob 5.10] and was a member of       the Working Party that helped write the Manifesto for Community         Philanthropists [corrob 5.11].
This has allowed the research       to inform the most influential non-governmental initiative during this REF       cycle, The Philanthropy Review (TPR), which involved leaders from       the business and charitable sectors seeking to catalyse a step change in       the giving of money in the UK [corrob 5.12].
The contribution of       the research to the work of TPR is confirmed by its Director, `in the       course of our work...we drew on a number of papers and articles authored       by Dr Beth Breeze' [corrob 5.13].
The Director of Professional       Development at the Institute of Fundraising also comments that `the       research ... has had a positive impact on our efforts to professionalise       fundraising' [corrob 5.14].
Finally, one of the government's       key strategic partners, supporting and informing their policy in this area       is Philanthropy Impact (previously Philanthropy UK).
Breeze served on the       Philanthropy UK editorial board from 2008-2012 and its Director has       confirmed that the `research into understanding the motivations and       perceptions of donors informed many of the features and articles that we       produced for our donor readership and helped us in our communication with       donors, funders, fundraisers, charities and other media' [corrob 5.15].
