     The research has impacted on both government policy and the teaching of       language and literacy in schools and has led to changes in educational       practice and improvements to beneficiaries (i.e., children, teachers) at       both local authority and national levels.
4.1.
Government policy.
The research has influenced the       direction of two major aspects of government policy through the Rose         Review (2009) and the introduction of the Phonic Screening Check         (2012).
Snowling was a member of the expert advisory group for the Rose         Review (2009) on `Identifying and Teaching Children and Young People       with Dyslexia and Literacy Difficulties'.
The review drew heavily on       York's work on the definition of dyslexia, the importance of early       identification, and the effectiveness of interventions and provides       guidance for professionals in schools and local authorities working with       children with dyslexia and related literacy difficulties (approximately       three children in every UK classroom).
Following the Rose Review, the       government set up the Dyslexia-SpLD Trust which provides advice for       parents and schools and which launched an online tool `Interventions for       Literacy'.
Those websites are regularly updated and provide resources for       all concerned with children's reading difficulties.
Following the       recommendations of the Review, Snowling provided written guidance for the       Special Educational Needs and Tribunal Service (this guidance continues to       inform the now renamed Health, Education and Social Care Chamber of the       First-Tier Tribunal).
In July 2012 Snowling gave evidence concerning the       effectiveness of interventions to an All-Parliamentary Group on Speech and       Language Difficulties inquiring into the links between speech, language       and communication needs and social disadvantage.
The report from this       inquiry was published in February 2013.
Snowling is listed among the       witnesses on p. 32 and her evidence is summarized on pp.
17-18.
Snowling was also a member of the expert advisory group developing the Phonic         Screening check.
This is a check on children's progression in       phonics that is now being used to identify children who are delayed in       reading development after six terms in school.
The tests consists of words       and nonwords which were carefully selected and graded by a panel of       phonics experts, and then approved by an expert advisory group who were       independent from the initial development (including Snowling, drawing upon       her expertise in individual differences in children's early reading       development).
All Year 1 children in England (approximately 300,000)       underwent screening in June 2012.
The results are reported to parents and       will lead to a more immediate plan for intervention for all children with       reading-related difficulties.
Statistics from the academic year 2011/2012       on the achievements of pupils in the phonics screening check have been       released by the Department for Education.
4.2.
Implementation of evidence-based interventions.
The       York Reading Intervention (RI) programme has been adopted by 382 schools       in the North Yorkshire Local Authority (who part-funded the research) as a       first-line approach to the treatment of reading difficulties.
Since 2002       ~680 teachers and teaching assistants have been trained on a four-day       programme delivered by members of the local authority.
The local authority       trains one teaching assistant in each school on a yearly basis and offers       support to those who are delivering the intervention both to primary and       secondary school pupils.
North Yorkshire results for 2012 showed that the       average gain in reading made by children is 10 months progress in reading       over ten weeks: this translates as a ratio gain of 4.1 (a ratio gain of       1.0 means that the child is progressing at a normal/average pace but will       not catch up with their peers) reflecting `substantial progress'.
The York Reading Intervention programme is recommended in a number of       publications on the Department for Education's (DFE) website.
It has also       been highlighted in the DFE's commissioned review `What Works for Literacy       Difficulties' (DFE, G. Brooks, 2013, p. 42), which informs schools'       choices of intervention schemes for struggling readers at both primary and       second school levels across the UK.
The review is aimed at all UK Local       Authority managers and consultants, primary and secondary strategy       managers, head teachers, and subject leaders, SENCos and inclusion       managers; beneficiaries include teachers, teaching assistants, and       children at risk of reading difficulties in schools.
Reading Intervention is also recommended by Down Syndrome Education       International who carried out a randomized controlled trial with Snowling       and Hulme to test the efficacy of the programme for children with Down       syndrome.
Following this research, DSEI produced a handbook outlining the       programme for parents and practitioners.
As of September 2013, over 1,000       copies of that handbook had been supplied to clients in 26 different       countries.
Within the UK, 11% of the target population of 6-10 year olds       with Down syndrome have received individual copies.
