     Background Impact is claimed from research conducted by       Summerfield for which the data were       either analysed and published, or collected, analysed, and published,       after he joined the staff of the       University of York in October 2004.
Impact on health-care policy The first route to impact involved       five stages: (1) Publications [1], [2],       and [3], either after publication or, in some cases, before publication,       were reviewed by health       analysts and health economists at the Peninsular Technology Assessment       Group (PenTAG) who       assessed evidence of the clinical effectiveness and cost effectiveness of       cochlear implantation for       NICE.
(2) Summerfield served as a member of PenTAG's Expert Advisory Group       during this       process.
In that role, he gave advice by telephone and e-mail in response       to questions posed by       the analysts and economists.
In July 2007, he sent written comments to       PenTAG on a draft of the       report that was subsequently published as Bond et al.
(2009).
(3) Data       reported in the publications       informed the conclusions reached by PenTAG about the clinical       effectiveness and cost       effectiveness of bilateral implantation compared with unilateral       implantation.
(4) PenTAG's       conclusions informed the judgments of the Appraisal Committee at NICE       which led to the       recommendation in the NICE Guidance on Cochlear Implants (NICE, 2009) that       newly-diagnosed       young deaf children should receive bilateral implants whereas       post-lingually deafened adults       should receive unilateral implants.
(5) As a result, health services in       the UK have continued to       provide implants unilaterally to post-lingually deafened adults but, since       2009, have provided       implants bilaterally to newly-diagnosed young deaf children.
Economic benefit An estimate of the economic benefit to the UK of       these decisions can be       obtained by considering the Net Benefit associated with bilateral       implantation in adults and       children.
Net Benefit can be calculated as the difference between the       value of the quality of life       gained from an intervention and the cost to the NHS of gaining it.
According to this analysis, the       provision of bilateral implants to an adult patient entails a negative       net benefit of &#163;7,500 (i.e.
on       average, the cost of provision exceeds the value of the gain in quality of       life by &#163;7,500), while the       provision of bilateral implants to a child patient entails a positive       net benefit of &#163;10,000 (i.e.
on       average, the value of the gain in quality of life exceeds the cost of       provision by &#163;10,000).
Thus,       with 400 adults receiving implantation each year in the UK, the decision       by NICE not to provide       bilateral implants to adult patients avoids an annual loss of &#163;3M.
With 400 children receiving       implantation each year in the UK, the decision to provide bilateral       implants to child patients       achieves an annual gain of &#163;4M.
Beneficiaries One group of beneficiaries were the health analysts       and health economists at       PenTAG and the policy makers at NICE who received data that informed their       judgments.
A       second group of beneficiaries were clinicians who were made aware of the       types of performance       test and questionnaires that can provide evidence of the clinical       effectiveness of bilateral       implantation.
A third group of beneficiaries were deaf children who now       receive two implants rather       than one.
Having two implants should help children to know where to look       to see who is talking at       home and at school, and to know where to move to avoid hazards outdoors.
Further benefits to       children (and their parents/carers) may arise from knowing that each       implant can act as an       insurance policy against the failure of the other implant.
Impact on health-care practice The second route to impact arose       through the creation of the       Crescent of Sound, thereby enabling clinicians to administer tests of       spatial hearing which they       would not otherwise have been able to use.
The Crescent is a unique       product whose hardware and       software meet professional standards of safety, reliability, and ease of       use.
Its price (&#163;35,000)       reflects that quality.
Its value to clinicians is evidenced by the fact       that half of the paediatric implant       centres in the UK and one in the Netherlands had acquired Crescents by       October 2013.
Clinicians       are using Crescents to determine candidacy for, and to monitor outcomes       from, cochlear       implantation, hearing aids, and other treatments that improve spatial       hearing across the life-span.
Beneficiaries One group of beneficiaries are clinicians who have a       reliable ergonomic apparatus       with which to administer tests that demonstrate whether a patient is       benefitting from their cochlear       implant(s) or acoustic hearing aid(s).
As a result, patients and their       carers can be informed about       their performance and how it changes over time.
A second group of       beneficiaries are       commissioners of health care who can receive information about candidacy       for, and outcomes       from, implantation and hearing-aid fitting measured with the same tests in       different hospitals.
A       third beneficiary is the firm, Solutions Technology Ltd., which has earned       &#163;160,000 from       constructing and installing Crescents.
