     The research of the York-led research group has led directly to the       establishment of the world's first network of high seas marine protected       areas (MPAs) in the north Atlantic.
On the basis of the York work, in 2009       OSPAR accepted 'in principle' the scientific case and conservation       objectives for seven of the eight potential MPAs, six of which were then       created in 2010 (Figure 1).
As the oceans are under increasing pressure,       the establishment of this network will provide protection from       exploitation and other damaging activities, so helping to rebuild depleted       populations of commercially important fish, as well as protecting other       wildlife and habitats like dolphins and birds.
This MPA network is groundbreaking on both scientific and political       grounds.
Prior to its establishment, there were only two other high seas       MPAs, one in Antarctica and one in the Mediterranean.
The high seas lie       beyond the 200 nautical mile limits of national sovereignty at sea and are       governed under the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea which       came into effect in 1992.
They constitute 45% of the area of the planet       but remain virtually unprotected, a place where overfishing and pirate       fishing is rife and few restrictions apply on what can be taken.
There       have been widespread and steep declines in fish stocks as a result,       together with heavy collateral mortality of turtles, dolphins, birds and       other megafauna (as detailed in Roberts et al.
2006).
Figure 1: OSPAR MPA Network, highlighting the six high seas MPAs         established in 2010 (outlined), based on work by Professor Roberts and         his team.
The 500,000km2 refers to the area of the six MPAs, not the         area within the outline around them.
Figure courtesy of BfN and OSPAR.
The Law of the Sea was drafted in the 1970s and assumes full exploitation       of fishery and other resources.
There is no provision for protected areas       within it and therefore no mechanism exists to establish them in the high       seas.
This means that OSPAR, as a regional seas governance body, had to go       it alone, navigating a new legal pathway to MPA establishment while       undertaking delicate political negotiations to set up the network proposed       by Roberts and his team.
Such negotiations expanded to include a regional       fisheries management body, the North East Atlantic Fisheries Commission,       the International Seabed Authority and the International Maritime       Organisation.
Roberts and other members of the York team took part in       several of these meetings, bringing the concept of marine protected areas       into their serious consideration.
For this reason, the impact of the work       is two-fold.
Not only has a network of six high seas MPAs been established       for the benefit of wildlife and people, but a mechanism has been       established to create more, both under the auspices of OSPAR, but also by       other regional seas bodies.
Given that pressures on high seas living       resources are escalating, the need for many more MPAs is now obvious and       there have been urgent calls to create them from the 2002 World Summit on       International Development, the UN Convention on Biological Diversity, and       the UN General Assembly.
To make it easier for others to follow OSPAR's lead, York team members       and members of the German delegation and OSPAR secretariat published a       paper (O'Leary et al.
2012, Section 5, below) describing the scientific       and political processes followed and how they intertwined.
They distil       from the experience words of advice to others to help them avoid the       pitfalls encountered and smooth the path to a much bigger global network       of high seas MPAs in the future.
It is too soon to say how well these MPAs are working since the high seas       are remote and monitoring difficult and expensive.
As of 2013, some       management measures are still being negotiated with competent authorities.
However, three years on, the network is still unique.
Because of his key       role in the creation of this network, Professor Roberts was invited to the       United Nations in May 2013 to address the first meeting of a UN body       tasked with amending the Law of the Sea to provide a new legal tool to       create marine protected areas.
The OSPAR network was repeatedly referred       to at this meeting as a path breaking example of how protection can be       given to the high seas.
