     The UNECE LRTAP Convention oversees the assessment of scientific evidence       that form the       basis of their effects based approach to identifying air pollution       emission control options across       Europe; detailed in their `multi-pollutant, multi-effect Gothenburg       Protocol on Acidification,       Eutrophication and Ground Level O3'.
This Protocol has been the       driving force for the       establishment of European legislation (EU Directives) on air quality       policy as well as global,       European and national air quality targets.
Emberson's research was       instrumental in revising CLs       for O3 which have been used by the Gothenburg Protocol (Mills       et al., 2011a).
The revision of the       Protocol was conducted in May 2012.
The following outlines the different       aspects of Emberson's       research that led to the revision of these O3 air quality       guidelines hence changing European       emission control policy.
Development of the UNECEs LRTAP Chemical Transfer Model (CTM).
Development of the new DO3SE O3 deposition model       for use in the EMEP CTM (Emberson et al.,       2000b) allowed the flux-based methods to be applied across Europe for risk       assessment and       policy formulation.
Peer review of the DO3SE deposition       methodology at a UNECE ad hoc       workshop hosted by Emberson and Ashmore (also a York staff member) in       Harrogate, 2002       allowed DO3SE to become part of the `Unified EMEP model', the       official model of the LRTAP       Convention for use in European modelling of emission control scenarios for       O3 (Simpson et al.,       2003).
This model provides input to the LRTAP Conventions Integrated       Assessment Modelling       effort that applies cost-benefit methods to identify emission reduction       options to guide European air       quality policy.
Development of UNECEs LRTAP critical levels (CLs) for air quality risk         assessment       The series of LRTAP Convention endorsed scientific workshops concluded       that flux-based risk       assessments performed using DO3SE offered an improved       geographical representation of risk to       the existing concentration based methods and should be recommended for       adoption by the LRTAP       Convention.
This led to revisions of the LRTAP Conventions Mapping Manual       which documents       the procedures and parameters to be used by member states of the LRTAP       Convention in       calculating and mapping CLs of air pollutants.
The revised chapter       described the DO3SE stomatal       flux algorithm, procedures for applying this across Europe, and the       associated CLs and flux-response       relationships from which they are derived; Fig 1 provides a comparison of       the       exceedance of CLs estimated using both concentration- and flux-based       methods.
The use of the       flux-based method increases the geographical extent-, but alters the       magnitude-of risk of the forest       area across Europe (with increases in risk in more Northerly locations and       reductions in risk in       Mediterranean regions).
Fig 1.
Comparison of concentration and flux based exceedance of       critical levels (CLs) (levels       below which ecosystem protection is ensured according to current       knowledge) for European       forests (Simpson et al., 2007) where values &#8804; 1 represent no risk of       damage and those &gt; 1       represent risk of damage.
Development of air quality policy: Revision of UNECE LRTAP           Gothenburg Protocol       Emberson and colleagues research to develop new methodologies to assess       vegetation damage       from ground level O3 resulted in formal adoption by the LRTAP       Convention of new CLs to protect       ecosystems into the revised Gothenburg Protocol in May 2012.
The current       2012 revised protocol       has been signed and ratified by 31 and 26 countries or regions       respectively across Europe (as well       as the United States of America) and acts to control emissions of       pollutants that will result in       dangerous atmospheric levels of a number of different air pollutants       (including nitrogen oxides and       volatile organic compounds that are the primary local and regional       pre-cursors of ground level O3).
The protocol is legally binding and once implemented should ensure the       exposure of vegetation to       excessive O3 levels will be 44% down on 1990 levels.
Emberson's research has also raised awareness of the damaging effects of       O3 to ecosystems       globally.
This led to O3 impacts on agricultural productivity       being considered in an assessment of       cost-benefits in controlling short-lived climate pollutants by a recent       WMO/UNEP Black Carbon and       Ozone report; since publication of this work various national action plans       have been developed to       combat short-lived climate pollutants in countries across the world.
This       initiative is led by the       Climate and Clean Air Coalition established by Hilary Clinton of the US       Department of State.
Research showing the significance of O3 effects on staple crops       in South Asia (e.g.
Emberson et       al., 2009) also led the Mal&#233; Declaration to include O3 effects       on crop productivity as a challenge to       overcome through international negotiation to control and prevent air       pollution in the seven south       Asian Mal&#233; Declaration countries.
Emberson's research has also helped       identify the threat to       ecosystems from the hemispheric transport of O3 and its       precursor pollutants highlighting the need       for globally coordinated action to control precursor emissions as regions       are increasingly unable to       manage air quality through domestic emission reduction policies (Emberson       &amp; West, 2010).
