     GRAC leads to impact in a number of different ways.
As a       consequence of its huge academic impact, exemplified by the number of       citations it receives (over 1,350 since 2008, see also above), GRAC       has impacted on educational practices for both research students and       undergraduates in the UK and abroad, research in the pharmaceutical       industry, the public understanding of drugs and in health and welfare.
The       production and publication of GRAC was supported by the British       Pharmacological Society and by regular awards from the pharmaceutical       industry, particularly Pfizer (5.1) indicative of the importance       pharmaceutical companies placed on its role in helping to appropriately       identify potential lead drug targets.
In its early incarnations, the       emphasis was on producing a ring-bound printed copy for heavy-duty daily       use in teaching laboratories and in academic and industrial laboratories.
Since this format was offered free to all members of BPS and all       subscribers to the British Journal of Pharmacology, it was expensive to       produce.
The Head of the Research Enabling Group at Pfizer states that GRAC       is "an important laboratory resource" which is "in constant         use" and has "greatly influenced the direction of [their] work         by helping [them] to appropriately identify potential new drug targets         and determine the best pharmacological tools available to study them"       (5.2).
Despite this emphasis on the printed copy, even in 2008, the       website containing the pdf file received 182,000 hits from academic and       industrial scientists across the world (5.1).
More recently, the routine       use of tablet and mobile electronic devices has emphasised the importance       of establishing a user friendly on-line platform for GRAC (not       simply provision of the pdf file) to extend its reach and significance.
This has led to the development of guidetopharmacology.org (below, see       also 5.3).
In December 2008, in recognition of the impact of GRAC,       particularly as a resource in higher education, Alexander, Mathie and       Peters were awarded the prestigious Rang Prize of the British       Pharmacological Society (5.4).
The award committee considered that GRAC       was "both a research tool and a teaching tool, and that it has made an         important contribution to the maintenance and development of         pharmacology as a discipline" (5.4).
In 2009, as retiring editor of       the British Journal of Pharmacology, Rang stated "another ongoing         success is the Guide to Receptors and Channels (GRAC)         a much valued and regularly updated compendium.......which brings so         much credit to the Journal" (5.5).
Also in 2009, in recognition of the importance of GRAC, all three       authors were invited to become members of the nomenclature committee (NC)       of IUPHAR.
As part of its mission, NC-IUPHAR has the role of issuing       authoritative guidelines for receptor and ion channel classification and       maintaining a website with data on all known receptor systems freely       available to all scientists and the general public anywhere in the world.
Discussions between NC-IUPHAR and other organisations led to the creation       of the Guide to Pharmacology (guidetopharmacology.org, 5.3) perhaps the       biggest single impact arising from GRAC.
GuidetoPharmacology.org was launched in October 2011 and announced in a       variety of media outlets including the front page of Pharmacology       International (5.3).
It is built on collaboration between the British       Pharmacological Society and IUPHAR and is intended as a "one-stop-shop"       source of quantitative information on drug targets and the prescription       medicines and experimental drugs that act on them.
It is targeted at both       researchers and students in pharmacology and drug discovery (both in       academia and Industry) and also aims to provide the general public with       accurate information on the basic science underlying drug action (5.6).
It       provides a single entry point to the online version of GRAC and       the related IUPHAR database.
Because of its importance, it is supported       financially by the British Pharmacological Society, the American Society       for Pharmacology and Experimental Therapeutics, IUPHAR and a large number       of pharmaceutical companies (Servier, Pfizer, Astra Zeneca,       GlaxoSmithKline, Lunbeck, Merck, Abbott, Discoverx and Actelion, 5.7).
Thus Industry has invested in research and development.
The development and curation of the Guide to Pharmacology is carried out       by the IUPHAR database team led by Professor Tony Harmar.
This team and       NC-IUPHAR have recently received support from a Biomedical Resource Grant       from the Wellcome Trust (2012-2015) "Guidetopharmacology.org &#8212; a peer       reviewed online resource giving information on drugs and their targets"       (&#163;552,750).
This award is allowing the resource to expand GRAC to       provide quantitative data on all of the targets of human prescription       medicines, enhance information on the therapeutic uses of drugs in the       resource and allow rigorous curation of the structure and nomenclature of       the chemical substances in the resource (5.8, 5.9).
Although only launched in late 2011, the guidetopharmacology already       receives hits of around 130,000 per annum from both academia and industry       in 166 countries (5.10) and it has already extended the use of GRAC       as a higher education tool in a large number of HEIs worldwide.
For       example, the University of Edinburgh now arranges demonstration workshops       and practical tasks around guidetopharmacology to facilitate access to the       information in GRAC for 4th year Pharmacology students       (5.10), thus educational practices have changed outside of the         submitting unit.
In summary, GRAC is a key tool in the maintenance and development       of Pharmacology, leading to Industry investing in research and development       and altering education practices in HEIs.
