     David Brindle, writing in The Guardian in 2010, suggested that       ASCOT would `shake up adult social care' by enabling social care providers       to measure the worth and value of the work they perform [see         corroboration 5.1].
The beneficiaries of ASCOT are hence multiple,       and include local authorities, independent providers and other       stakeholders looking to improve the effectiveness of workplace practice,       with the key impacts being as follows:     Development of a robust measure of quality of life integrated into         service evaluation:     At a policy level the Department of Health has used ASCOT `in the       development of policy proposals for the Caring for Our Future       White Paper to understand the variation in outcomes at a local level' [corrob         5.2].
In 2011 the Department of Health commissioned a national       Policy Research Unit in Quality and Outcomes of Person Centred Care, which       has an agreed stream of activity designed to explore the use and       application of ASCOT and related measures.
This workstream has resulted in       website development and support, responses to individual requests, annual       workshops in the UK, and training.
Partly as a result of the inclusion of       ASCOT in the Adult Social Care Statutory Survey and its key role in the       Department of Health's Adult Social Care Outcomes Framework [corrob 5.3],       councils including Bolton, Cumbria, Slough, Redbridge and Hertfordshire       are making increased use of the toolkit and its developments for the       purposes of enhancing professional practice and improving the       effectiveness of workplace practices.
For example, in Cumbria ASCOT has       been introduced with the aim of `supporting cultural change in focusing on       outcomes and person-centred care planning and review', generating data       that has supported their planning and management of services.
Cumbria's       Head of Social Care attests that `ASCOT is proving an invaluable tool in       helping us move to more outcome focused practice' [corrob 5.4].
The       Senior Monitoring Officer, Quality Monitoring Team East Sussex County       Council states `ASCOT has transformed the way we audit care homes.
In the       past it used to be a paper- based exercise, with very little focus on the       client.
Now we spend much more time observing and we feel that the       evidence we use is much more robust' [corrob 5.5].
Influence on professional practice and standards:     Feedback from workshops and training has indicated that reporting       qualitative and quantitative information based on the ASCOT measure       changes the focus of care work, resulting in improved quality of care and       outcomes for residents.
For example, Saga now conduct regular surveys of       their service users and are collecting ASCOT data both for the purpose of       demonstrating outcomes to commissioners and for monitoring and improving       practice.
In this light, PSSRU are currently conducting a feasibility       study, funded through the NIHR School for Social Care Research, to examine       how feeding back scores derived through ASCOT results in improved quality       of care.
In total there are 806 registered users (an increase of over 160%       between 2012 and 2013), including many users from local councils and       service providers.
At least 25 organisations have used ASCOT.
Training and       workshops have proved popular: between 2011 and 2013 training was provided       to over 160 people from 45 different organisations.
In addition, 177       people have attended workshops about ongoing developments and use of       ASCOT.
Influence on planning and managing services:     ASCOT has provided a means for benchmarking cost effectiveness across the       social care sector, with the structure and basis of the measure       (for example, domains of quality of life used) having fed into quality       assurance procedures by both local authorities and independent providers       of services.
For example, the Social Care Institute for Excellence (SCIE)       use ASCOT as a basis for defining excellence in social care to support       improving practice, and recommends its use in evaluating the cost       effectiveness of social care interventions [corrob 5.6].
Hence,       while ASCOT is still relatively new in terms of developing an evidence       base, it is designed to be used in economic evaluation and thus to provide       evidence of cost-effectiveness of services.
When used in the economic       evaluation of personal health and social care budgets ASCOT provides       evidence which supports better resource management resulting in improved       service delivery.
A network has been set up to facilitate international communication and       collaboration in the use of ASCOT.
Given this, international interest has       been widespread with attendees at workshops from Israel and Japan, with       considerable interest from Scandinavia (there is a Finnish section on the       ASCOT website) and Europe.
Similar policy and practice impacts to those in       England are therefore starting be felt internationally.
A recent OECD       report [corrob 5.7] identified that `other OECD countries, such as       Denmark, Austria, Finland and the Netherlands, are starting to use ASCOT'.
For example, a Finnish evaluation of outcome measures reports ASCOT as       `exceptional as it can be used as a research tool and also as a practical       tool in improving service production and social care practices' [corrob         5.8].
In Denmark, two large scale ASCOT studies of home care and       care homes for older people have been conducted on behalf of the       government, with a leader of the principal NGO for older people calling       for the measure to be included in regular national surveys [corrob 5.9].
ASCOT has also been translated into Dutch and here and elsewhere proposals       are being developed to undertake preference studies to reflect national       preferences in scoring for different countries and cultures.
A version has       also been developed for the Austrian Home Visits and Counselling Programme       [corrob.
5.10].
Individual providers are taking an active interest,       among them NGOs in Australia (Domiciliary Care Adelaide) and       Finland (Solutos Oy mental health and substance abuse service), while in       Israel ASCOT is `serving to better think through policy and program       objectives' [corrob 5.11].
These examples demonstrate the       wide international influence of ASCOT on the planning of social care.
