     A key step to fusion energy is the construction of the &#8364;13Bn+ ITER       tokamak, scheduled for completion towards the end of the decade.
ITER is       not an academic research facility: its goal is to integrate plasma       science, technologies and materials science to provide the first       demonstration of the technical feasibility of fusion energy.
Furthermore,       the construction of ITER involves industrial partners across the world,       including the UK, who benefit from the contracts it provides and the       technical skills it develops.
Research that has an impact on the technical       feasibility of constructing ITER is therefore a non-academic impact,       immediately benefitting all the international partners involved in the       project.
Research performed at York on ELMs has had an impact on the ITER design       in three areas: (1) design of components close to the plasma surface; (2)       radio-frequency plasma heating systems, and (3) developing ELM control       techniques.
Before our prediction that ELMs eject hot filaments of plasma,       it was thought that most of the heat lost in these events would be       transferred smoothly over the exhaust region at the bottom of the tokamak.
To handle the high heat loads expected, this is made from tungsten on       ITER.
With our new prediction that hot plasma filaments could be ejected       far from the core, concern started to grow that they could damage other       components close to the plasma if not protected.
This became a key issue       for ITER.
The plasma physics research for ITER is carried out by the research       institutions of the ITER parties (European Union, Russia, United States,       Japan, South Korea, China and India), coordinated by seven International       Tokamak Physics Activity (ITPA) Groups which operate under the auspices of       ITER (http://www.iter.org/org/team/fst/itpa).
The Pedestal and Edge       Physics ITPA Group is responsible for research into ELMs, ensuring the       science of the international research community is fed into the ITER       design and that urgent research needs for the construction of ITER are       addressed.
As a result of his contributions, Prof Wilson was appointed       chair of this group of the world's top experts in this field (about 35)       during 2007-2011 (he remains a formally appointed EU member).
This       position provides a strong pathway to impact on ITER for Prof Wilson's       research on plasma filaments, which has now grown into a major research       activity of the group because of its importance for fusion.
Specific       examples of the impact of York on the ITER design are :     (1) The detail design of ITER's first wall components: these have to       withstand the localised time-averaged heat fluxes from the ELMs which are       predicted to concentrate on particular areas of the first wall.
Predictions of the ELM filament structure have been used to evaluate the       most exposed locations to loads from ELMs and the beryllium-clad       protection of the ITER first wall has been upgraded to a higher capability       (4.7 MWm-2 instead of 2 MWm-2) to cope with them.
The final design review of ITER vacuum vessel protection took place in       April 2013 (http://www.iter.org/newsline/264/1556).
(2) The detailed design of the radio-frequency antennas for plasma       heating on ITER: these must be positioned close to the plasma to be       effective and therefore need to be protected to avoid damage by the       erupting filaments of hot plasma.
As well as the risk of damage, the       effectiveness of the RF antennas for heating the plasma is influenced by       the localised plasma density structures associated with ELMs.
For example,       the number of straps on ITER's antennas is designed based on the spatial       structure of the filaments as predicted by the original       "peeling-ballooning" theory for ELMs proposed by Professor Wilson and       quantified for ITER through research of the team of scientists of the ITPA       group chaired by him.
The preliminary design review of the ICRH antenna,       costing around &#8364;24M, took place in May 2012 (http://www.iter.org/newsline/225/1193)       and the final design review will take place in 2015.
3) ELM control schemes in ITER: In addition to large power fluxes on the       ITER first wall it is predicted that the large transient ELM heat loads       will rapidly erode the tungsten in the exhaust region of ITER, and       therefore ELMs will need to be controlled.
Our theory, confirmed through       experiments coordinated by the ITPA PEP group, predicts that ELMs occur       when the pressure gradient at the edge of the plasma exceeds a threshold.
This led scientists at General Atomics (US) and CEA (France) to develop a       control system using an arrangement of coils around the plasma to degrade       the confinement, and relax the pressure gradient to switch off the ELMs.
This remains an active area of research around the world, but the       technique appears to work and a ~&#8364;100M ELM control coil system is now       being integrated into the ITER design whose final design review will take       place in December 2013.
Although we have only played a small role in the       design of the control system, it is motivated by our theoretical       understanding of the mechanism that drives the plasma eruption.
The research leading to this impact is now international, involving many       scientists around the world.
It was, however, initiated by our theoretical       model for ELMs and the eruption of hot plasma filaments, and fed into the       ITER design through the ITPA PEP group chaired by York through Prof Wilson       during 2007-2011.
Concerning the theoretical development, Professor Wilson       led this research since 1998 while he was at Culham Centre for Fusion       Energy and then York (since 2005).
A new computational code, ELITE, was       used to understand the ELM trigger and, although initiated by Professor       Wilson, benefitted from a strong collaboration with General Atomics (US);       that collaboration continues to this day (the research of the 4-man       GA-York team has been recognised by a prestigious 2013 American Physical       Society award, see above).
The nonlinear theory was initiated just before       Professor Wilson's move to York, working in collaboration with Professor       Steve Cowley, then of Imperial College.
However, at that time there was       some doubt about the relevance of the theory.
Research continued at York       (and also stimulated related research around the world) to further advance       the theory and test it against experiments.
Research at York includes       deriving the direction of the eruptions, and the development of a new       nonlinear MHD high performance computer code to simulate ELMs, BOUT++.
Led       by Dr Dudson at York, the BOUT++ project benefits from close collaboration       with Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory (US).
