     The purpose of the Food and Environment Research Agency (Fera) is "to       support and develop a sustainable food chain, a healthy natural       environment, and to protect the global community from biological and       chemical risks" [5].
It has over 7,500 government and commercial customers       and provides services to customers in over 100 countries.
As a government       agency dealing with food safety and environmental issues, Fera is       immediately involved in disease outbreaks, such as foot and mouth disease       in cattle, and food contamination threats around the world.
As a result of       Wilson's work on chemometric methods, Fera scientists are now able to       apply these underpinning mathematical techniques to a wide range of       applications, allowing them to offer a more effective service to their       customers and respond more rapidly to such outbreaks and threats.
Wilson's work with Fera began at the initiation of their       metabolomics programme, giving them access to state of the art chemometric       algorithms.
This has resulted in Fera securing projects totalling a value       of &#163;8M to date from Defra, the Food Standards Agency, the European       Commission and BBSRC [6].
Applications are wide ranging with examples       including the determination of disease-related biomarkers, contaminant       detection, food traceability and the development of drought and disease       resistant crop varieties.
Many applications require a non-targeted       approach, which relies on the ability to identify consistent differences       between groups (for example between diseased and healthy animals).
The new       feature extraction methods significantly reduce the within-class variance       that can mask these differences, thus revealing biochemical signals that       might otherwise have been missed.
As part of their programme Fera have invested in the development of Metabolab,       a bespoke, modular Matlab based software package [7], which incorporates Wilson's       algorithms and also allows them to quickly and flexibly implement new       algorithms as they emerge from research.
Metabolab allows the techniques       to be used by non-experts, and the software is now used routinely in the       Chemical and Biochemical Profiling section at Fera for the processing of       metabolomic datasets.
Designed to efficiently process the extremely large       data sets typically required to analyse two-dimensional spectra, this       software gives Fera the competitive advantage of being able to use the new       algorithms make use of highly resolved, and therefore more informative,       2-D NMR experiments for routine metabolomics studies.
Disease-related Biomarkers:     Using a simple blood test the chemometric techniques can be used to       identify biomarkers to detect diseased, and therefore infectious, animals       before physical signs are apparent.
This is used to identify and       distinguish many high profile diseases such as BSE in cattle, TB in       badgers, foot and mouth disease, and various plant diseases.
Dr Adrian       Charlton, Head of Chemical and Biochemical Profiling at Fera, leads a       research team that provides novel solutions to problems of food       contamination and authentication.
He says "Of particular note was the       contribution that the adaptive binning and 2 stage GP algorithms made to       the delivery of a &#163;1.7M project for the Food Standards Agency (FSA),       investigating the determination of novel biomarkers of BSE and scrapie"       [6].
Bovine spongiform encephalopathy (BSE), commonly known as mad cow       disease, is characterized by spongy degeneration of the brain in cattle       with a variant in humans called Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (CJD).
As part       of this project, a workshop was hosted by the University of York to advise       the project team, with scientists from Fera, the Veterinary Laboratories       Agency (VLA) and the Institute for Grasslands and Environmental Research       (IGER), on the correct implementation of Wilson's novel approaches       as well as other multivariate analysis techniques for application into       other areas.
Food Traceability:     At European level, the genetic programming approaches developed by Wilson       were used to underpin a &#8364;15M FP6 project (TRACE) to `provide consumers       with added confidence in the authenticity of European food through       complete traceability along entire fork-to-farm food chains' [8].
The       project was coordinated by Fera and utilized a range of analytic tools       that make use of the computational techniques developed by Wilson's       team at the University of York [9].
The methods enable molecular       fingerprinting to be used to determine the origin of food.
Products to       which TRACE's methods have been applied include European mineral water,       cereals, honey, meat and chicken [5,8,10].
For example, Corsican honey is       the only one produced in France that carries the prestigious Appellation       of Controlled Origin designation (AOC label).
As a result of the new       methods, it is now possible to use a number of chemical markers to make       fine geographical distinctions between different origins and content of       honey, with widely differing prices [10].
The research has been featured repeatedly in New Scientist [11]       and the results from the TRACE project have been disseminated in over 200       presentations and workshops worldwide to an enormous range of participants       from industry [8].
In 2012 Wilson was an invited speaker at New         developments in food science: realising the potential of 'omics'         technologies, the 13th annual joint symposium in 2012 of       FERA and the US Joint Institute for Food Safety and Applied Nutrition.
The       meeting's sponsors included Agilent, Thermo Scientific, AB Sciex and       Waters.
Contaminant Detection:     The methods have also enabled significant improvements in procedures for       the detection of contaminants.
In this case the differences from what is       considered normal need to be recognized, as any extraneous variance could       result in false negatives.
Some toxins can be lethal at extremely low       concentrations.
The new techniques allow compounds that may only occur at       lower concentration, and which may have been obscured in variance-based       multivariate analyses, to be identified (e.g.
melamine in milk and       infant formula).
Furthermore, the variables relate to peaks in the spectra       rather than individual data points, thereby making it easier to interpret       the results and thus identify the chemical compounds responsible.
Disease Resistant Crops:     Most recently Fera have won a &#8364;3M, 5 year project from the European       Commission (ABSTRESS) [12], which is further exploiting and continuing to       develop the technologies arising from the collaboration with Wilson.
The project aims to identify the processes in plant biochemistry       associated with the way drought and disease combine to make matters much       worse than either alone.
Building on the information available from       chemometric techniques researchers are developing novel principles and       techniques that can be used to significantly reduce the time taken to       produce new crop varieties in support of commercial plant breeding.
This       should produce new crop varieties that are more able to withstand the       challenges commonly associated with climate change, such as extreme       weather and changing incidence of pests and diseases.
Although the       University of York is not a partner in ABSTRESS, Fera have sponsored an       EngD studentship, co-supervised by Wilson, on the integration of       data from the different &#8212; omics technologies being used in the project.
In addition to the EngD, the collaboration with Fera has led to funding       for two PhD students: Richard Davis held an EPSRC CASE studentship with       Fera (then CSL) and James McKenzie had Fera seedcorn funding.
