 The research has impacted on policy-making concerning the funding of social care via the provision of new models and estimates of the costs of social care.
The beneficiaries include governmental departments and policy-makers, with the key impacts being as follows: Assisting government to assess and formulate policy Reacting to the debate prior to 2008, the Government set about developing new policy solutions for the funding of social care.
This research was used in this context by Government to help develop new policy in this area, with the aim of improving the accessibility, efficiency and equitable provision of social care.
The Government published a Green Paper in 2009 outlining potential reform options.
It used the PSSRU research to quantify the costs, benefits and distributional consequences of each option [see corroboration 5.1].
The Department of Health also commissioned analysis and projections based on PSSRU research for the subsequent White Paper on care and support, Building a National Care Service, published in 2010 [corrob 5.2].
A particular function of the DMS model in this case was to investigate the potential for a `care duty' to act as a contribution mechanism for social care.
Following the election of the Coalition Government, a new Commission on social care funding was set up, chaired by Andrew Dilnot.
After an independent review of the DMS by the Institute for Fiscal Studies, the Commission used PSSRU research and modelling to understand the problems and possible solutions regarding social care funding.
The Commission's key recommendation of a capped risk model was designed to tackle the under-insurance problem, and drew heavily on PSSRU's research on the distribution of lifetime risk [corrob 5.3 esp.
fig 2].
The Government brought the main recommendations forward in its Care and Support Bill (expected to receive assent in 2014).
Informing the policy debate on the reform of social care funding The research has had impact through shaping the views of senior policy-makers as to the best options for social care funding reform.
Forder sat on the Stakeholder Panel on Reform of the Care and Support System chaired by the Director General of Social Care and attended by the care services Minister (in 2009).
Forder also gave a number of briefings to high-level decision-makers, including to the Chancellor of the Exchequer (following a personal invite, 25 February 2009).
The Parliamentary debate on social care, which shaped the developing legislation, made specific references to PSSRU research, as recorded in Hansard [corrob 5.4]: Forder was accordingly called as a witness in front of the House of Lords Public Service and Demographic Change Committee, 13 November 2012 [corrob 5.5].
Lord Lipsey, an active participant in these debates, stated of PSSRU research: `The work of the Personal Social Service Research Unit has been invaluable to all those involved in policy-making in this field.
Indeed, it is scarcely an exaggeration to say that there would have been no informed public debate on these crucial issues without the factual and analytical material in which it excels' [corrob 5.6].
Transforming public understanding of the costs of social care The research informed the wider public debate, being used by non-government stakeholder organisations to raise the priority given to care funding, and to improve public understanding of this issue through a series of engagement exercises.
A number of influential organisations, such as Age UK, the King's Fund and the Strategic Society Centre, have drawn on the research when making the case for reform [corrob 5.7].
Public understanding &#8212; particularly of the financial liability of individuals in paying for social care - was improved by the research as it was discussed in the media and at stakeholder events.
For example, BBC Radio 4 ran a month-long series of programmes on care, including an interview with Forder [corrob 5.8].
A Guardian article highlighted the PSSRU research on the potentially catastrophic costs faced by some care users, a key argument for reform used by Dilnot [corrob 5.9].
Forder was also invited to discuss the research at a number of seminars and debates with social care stakeholders, including the Voluntary Organisations Disability Group (VODG) (19 September 2008), Age UK (One Voice) (7 April 2009), National Care Forum (11 May 2011) and a meeting of private health care investors (Investing in social care, 29 November 2011).
Such activity has helped shape the public policy debate and raised the profile of social care, which in turn is likely to have helped to (a) secure a programme of reform on social care funding by Government, and (b) protect levels of social care funding.
