     Impact:     The underpinning research was exploited in the design of an RTOS, used in       automotive ECUs, and its associated schedulability analysis tools.
The       research was initially exploited by a start-up company founded by       University of York researchers, which was subsequently bought by ETAS (www.etas.com/en/).
ETAS currently       sell two versions of the RTOS, RTA-OSEK and RTA-OS compliant with the OSEK       (Offene Systeme und deren         Schnittstellen f&#252;r die Elektronik in Kraftfahrzeugen;       in English: "Open Systems and their Interfaces for the Electronics in       Motor Vehicles") and AUTOSAR (AUTomotive Open System ARchitecture)       operating system standards respectively.
The RTOS is currently available for more than 25 different ECU       microcontrollers [6] including: Renesas: V850E, SH2, SH2A, H8S, H8SX,       M16C; Xilinx Microblaze, PPC405 Core; Texas Instruments TMS470P, TMS570P;       Infineon Tricore TC17x6, C166, XC2000; Freescale Star12, MPC555, MPC55xx,       S12X, MPC56x, HC12X16, HC08, HCS12; Fujitsu 16LX; Analog Devices Blackfin,       STMicroelectronics ST30, ST7, ST10.
Since 2008, the RTOS has been deployed in 50 to 55 million new ECUs each       year.
ETAS customers for the RTOS cover a wide range of application areas       within Automotive Electronics: [text removed for publication].
Each of       these customers supplies different families of ECUs incorporating the       RTOS.
The RTOS has been standardised upon (used by default in all ECUs) by       [text removed for publication].
([text removed for publication] in terms       of world-wide automotive powertrain systems suppliers.
[text removed for       publication] all rank in the top [text removed for publication] world-wide       for chassis electronics).
The RTOS is used in vehicles produced by [text removed for publication]       and many others.
Revenues from the RTOS exceeds [text removed for publication] per year.
Corroboration of all of the facts presented above about ETAS and its       products and customers etc.
can be obtained from [7].
Route to Impact:     Above we detailed specific exploitation of the technology and impact and       during the REF period.
Below we detail the evidential link between the       underpinning research and that impact.
In 1997, Robert Davis and Ken Tindell (both previously members of the       RTSRG) co-founded a company called Northern Real-Time Applications (NRTA)       Ltd., with the aim of developing an RTOS and schedulability analysis tools       specifically tailored to automotive applications that use low cost       microcontrollers.
In doing so, they utilised the underpinning research       that they had been involved in and heavily exposed to while at the       University of York (see Section 2).
There were two fundamental design goals: (1) The real-time behaviour of       systems built using the RTOS must be fully analysable using schedulability       analysis tools.
In other words the behaviour of the RTOS must match the       assumptions of the underpinning schedulability analysis techniques.
(2)       The memory and execution time overheads of the RTOS must be significantly       less than those of any other RTOS available for use in automotive       applications.
Robert Davis led the team that developed the SSX5 RTOS and associated       schedulability analysis tools (originally called the "Time Compiler",       later "Real-Time Architect (RTA)").
The schedulability analysis tools       implemented Response Time Analysis as introduced by the underpinning       research [1], [2], [3], [4], and [5].
The SSX5 RTOS was developed       precisely to meet the assumptions of this analysis.
The execution time       overheads were minimised and made constant, independent of the number of       tasks, allowing them to be accurately measured and this data used in the       schedulability analysis.
The memory overheads of applications built on       SSX5 were radically reduced by comparison with other automotive RTOS.
This       was achieved via the use of single-stack execution and compile time, i.e.
off-line, configuration of the RTOS data structures to minimise RAM usage.
NRTA attracted significant venture capital funding in 1998 (&#163;1 million       from 3i) and again in 2000 (&#163;9.2 million from 3i and TecCapital).
In 2001,       the company changed its name to LiveDevices Ltd.
In March 2003 LiveDevices was sold to ETAS GmbH, a wholly owned       subsidiary of Robert Bosch GmbH.
The reason for the trade sale was that       Robert Bosch had benchmarked RTA-OSEK and found it to be significantly       more efficient than its subsidiary's Ercos RTOS.
Rather than attempt to       write a new OSEK RTOS from scratch and compete with LiveDevices, ETAS       chose to buy the company, bringing the RTA-OSEK technology and the 20+       LiveDevices engineering team in-house.
Standards:     During the development of the SSX5 RTOS, the automotive industry was       working on standards via the OSEK organisation.
As a Technical Committee       Member of OSEK [8], NRTA influenced the OSEK OS standard [9] ensuring that       the basic conformance classes (BCCx) could be achieved with a single-stack       RTOS, leveraging the execution time and memory savings which that approach       facilitates.
NRTA modified the SSX5 RTOS to comply with the OSEK standard,       in the process renaming the product RTA-OSEK.
Subsequently, ETAS, as a premium partner [10] of the AUTOSAR (AUTomotive       Open System ARchitecture) partnership, have been heavily involved in       specifying the AUTOSAR operating system standard [11], which extends the       OSEK operating system standard.
ETAS derived an AUTOSAR compliant RTOS       called RTA-OS from RTA-OSEK [6].
(Note in [6] RTA-OSEK `Planner' is the       new name for the schedulability analysis tools, while `Builder' is the       name for the off-line configuration tool).
Beneficiaries:     Use of the RTOS and its associated schedulability analysis tools has       benefitted automotive manufacturers and their Tier 1 suppliers in the       following ways: (i) A reduced memory footprint means that cheaper       microcontroller variants with smaller on-chip RAM / Flash memory can be       used.
This has reduced unit costs in production.
(ii) The very low       execution time overheads of the RTOS mean that more functionality can be       included on a given low cost microprocessor reducing costs by avoiding the       need for hardware upgrades to more capable but expensive devices.
(iii) A       reduction in the time spent debugging intermittent timing issues.
Schedulability analysis and appropriate use of proven real-time mechanisms       have enabled off-line analysis of task response times, reducing system       integration time and testing effort, and improving reliability.
For these       reasons the world's major ECU suppliers and car manufacturers have adopted       this technology.
In a competitive market, some of these benefits will have       been passed on to their customers in the form of cheaper, more reliable       vehicles.
The Automotive Electronics market is both huge and highly competitive,       with electronics now contributing 15-30% of overall vehicle production       costs.
For the reasons given above, the world's leading Automotive OEMs       and Tier-1 suppliers have adopted the RTA-OSEK and RTA-OS operating       systems.
They have done so for the substantial benefits it brings to them       and to their customers.
The technology has led directly to the creation and sustaining,       throughout 2008-2013, of over [text removed for publication] high       technology jobs in York [7].
The fact that ETAS has offices in York is a       direct consequence of the underpinning research as described in the       narrative.
(Note ETAS is head-quartered in Germany and has offices in 12       other countries).
