 York's work on GSN through the research and outputs described in the previous section has provided industry with a new approach and method to presenting safety arguments that improves the rigour and clarity of their safety cases (e.g.
[7] presents a discussion of the experienced benefits).
Since its inception, the adoption and use of GSN has grown year-on-year as a result of the publications on GSN, and the GSN training and education provided by York since 1995 through its MSc in Safety Critical Systems Engineering, and associated Continuing Professional Development courses for industry.
In many settings (e.g.
European Air Traffic Management &#8212; ATM &#8212; [8]) GSN has become the de facto standard for representing safety arguments within safety cases.
It is cited by international safety standards (e.g.
the new automotive safety standard ISO 26262 [9] published in 2012) and is commonly referenced in safety practitioner textbooks - e.g.
[10].
It is the subject of its own book authored by a engineer in the ATM domain [11] (published in 2012) and is taught widely on safety education and training courses external to York.
In addition, application of the technique is now a widely and commonly offered service by safety consultancies and forms a common skill requirement of many job vacancy descriptions in the safety domain (e.g.
[12]).
GSN has become an embedded and established international1 approach to safety case development, and has changed the culture of safety case development such that the use of graphical argument structures is now commonplace.
There is wide adoption and use in industrial safety cases - GSN is being used in large numbers of industrial safety cases in a huge variety of settings.
Early adoption (e.g.
from the mid 1990s onwards) was predominantly in the domains of ATM, military aerospace and defence.
Notably over recent years (2008 onwards), in addition to these domains there has been a significant increase in the number of industrial sectors using GSN for their safety assurance cases, notably Off-shore Oil and Gas [13] (2009), Space Systems [14] (2012), Medical Systems (2009 onwards), Railways [15], and Automotive [16] (2013).
GSN has been used to construct a diverse range of safety cases, with applications ranging from the Battle of Britain Memorial Flight, through medical device safety, to the new autonomous personal rapid transit system in Heathrow Terminal 5.
Over the last five years there has also been a notable increase in the number of safety case tools that support users (safety engineers, safety case authors and safety assessors) in the development, presentation and analysis of GSN arguments including: Adelard's ASCE Tool [17] (publicly available and supporting GSN since the late 1990s and now in it's 4th version, the 2012 tool now supporting York's modular extensions to GSN [6] in addition to it's longstanding support for the core notation); Japan's D-Case Tool (publically available from 2011); NASA's AdvoCATE Toolset [14] (2011-onwards); Atego's GSN Modeler (2008 onwards); USA-based Kestrel Technology's CertWare tool (2011-onwards); Dependable Computing's GSN Editor (2012-onwards); and the USA GessNet Tool (2011 onwards) that helps users construct GSN arguments specifically for medical devices.
The Adelard ASCE tool alone has been licensed to 3000 users worldwide, with the majority of these using the tool for GSN argument development.
Adelard's biggest user-base for the ASCE tool is in defence, where they have reported that 75% of all UK military aircraft have a GSN-based safety case.
In recent years, an industry group - supported by York - was formed to establish a GSN standard to support the now widespread industrial use of the approach.
This industry group was formed of representatives from companies including: AACE Ltd, Altran Praxis Ltd, ERA Technology Ltd, Lloyds Register Rail Ltd, RPS Group Ltd, Selex-Galileo Ltd, UK Ministry of Defence, Adelard LLP, BAE Systems Ltd, CSE International Ltd, General Dynamics UK Ltd, Thales Ltd. Issue 1 of the GSN 'Community' standard was published in November 2011 [18].
As a result of growing international interest in assurance cases (for both security and safety), York was invited by the international OMG (Object Management Group) Systems Assurance Task Force to use its experience with GSN to be a lead author (alongside industrial partners that included from the US Lockheed Martin, MITRE and NIST) a new international standard on assurance cases.
This work has resulted in the definition of the publicly available OMG ARM (Argumentation Metamodel) (2010) and SACM (Structured Assurance Case Metamodel) (2013) standards that both explicitly include examples of GSN and mappings to GSN.
In 2006 York staff established the GSN User Club (now the Assurance Case Forum) to support the GSN user base and promote sharing of best practice amongst users.
Since 2006, there have been 18 physical meetings of the forum, with over 117 unique attendees, representing 52 companies with end users in rail, aerospace, ATM, marine (surface and sub), telecoms, automotive, weapons, power generation, together with consultancies, lawyers, academics and tool developers.
In the 2009 UK government-funded public enquiry into the explosion of a RAF Nimrod MR2 aircraft XV230 in Afghanistan in 2006 it was stated that, "GSN provides a useful structured way of presenting a complex safety argument" [19].
The benefits gained from the use of GSN are accrued firstly by safety engineers (enabling them to better manage the development of safety arguments for complex systems [7] and &#8212; through more explicit treatment &#8212; create compelling safety arguments) and regulators (through enabling greater comprehension and review of safety case arguments).
However, ultimately the benefits gained from using GSN are reaped by operators and the general public through safer systems (arising from developers and regulators having used a more rigorous and systematic approach to safety argument construction).
