     The underpinning research has advanced conventional approaches in       measuring Shielding Effectiveness (SE) to produce measurement techniques       for two different classes of enclosure.
These are a) smaller enclosures       with linear dimensions between 2m and 100mm specifically designed to house       electronic equipment and b) structures such as vehicle bodies that have a       secondary shielding function.
The impact from this research is in three related themes, (i) the       development and sales of specialist radiation sources for SE measurements,       (ii) the development of a new version of the principal international       standard for shielding measurements of enclosures covering smaller       enclosures with linear dimensions between 100mm and 2m, (iii) the       development of new measurement techniques and the enhancement of modelling       of the shielding of complex structures fabricated from composite       materials.
(i) Specialist Radiation Sources for SE measurements     Marvin's work on enclosure SE measurements has been supported through       York EMC Services Ltd (YES) [I1], a University of York spin-off company,       where Marvin is the Technical Director.
Building on the underpinning       research, a series of development contracts from the Intel Corporation       produced a number of wide-bandwidth miniature radiation sources to measure       the SE of their suppliers' enclosures.
The sources are intended to mimic       the radiated energy emitted by VLSI processor chips.
The outcome of these       contracts has been a series of comb-generator sources.
YES have invested in the development of further sources to provide a       suite of products (CGE01, CGE02, CGE03, YRS01 &amp; YRS02 [I2]) that       between them cover the frequency range 5kHz to 40GHz.
These are specialist       devices, selling for around &#163;2k &#8212; &#163;5k each, used by EMC test facilities       and enclosure manufacturers worldwide.
In the period 2008 - 2013 170 of       these sources have been sold in the US, the Far-East and Europe through       the YES distributor network [I3, I4, I5].
Customers are from both the       commercial and the academic sectors.
Commercial customers since 2008       include Intel, Apple, Microsoft, Nokia, IBM, Google, Samsung, Sun       Microsystems, Sony, Sony Ericsson, Dell, NEC, Research in Motion, Thales,       Honeywell, EMV, TUV Sud, TUV Rheinland, TDK, Fujitsu and Honda R &amp; D.       Academic customers over this time period include the Slovak University of       Technology, Seo Kyeong University, South Korea and Curtin University of       Technology, Australia.
Typically manufacturing customers use the sources       to assess the SE of their suppliers' enclosures or to ensure that their       suppliers undertake SE assessment, as well as undertaking their own       in-house development &#8212; for example Dell have used a CGE01 source to       develop enclosure SE measurement techniques for which they have filed a       patent [I8].
While competitor products exist, (Com-Power, Teseq, AET and       LaPlace Instruments), YES provides the broadest range of products,       covering the widest frequency range.
(ii) New standards development     The move from SE measurements of small numbers of high performance       systems to larger numbers of measurements of lower performance enclosures       has also driven measurement innovation.
The sources have been used in       collaborative research with partners including the United States National       Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) and others to inform the       development of a revised Standard IEEE P299.1 for the measurement of the       SE of enclosures with linear dimensions between 100mm and 2m [I6 (engineering         technique), I7 (standard)].
The original IEEE 299 standard       covered the larger room sized enclosures.
This latest version, 299.1,       covers typical equipment enclosures (Marvin and students Yong Cui, 2003 - 2007 	  and Yuhui He, 2005 - 2009).
YES has also sponsored a research student       (Armstrong 2008 to 2012) to undertake part of this work.
Marvin is a       Vice-Chair of the associated Standard Development Working Group.
(iii) Improved modelling for composite materials     The use of composite materials has become common over the last decade for       the construction of vehicle bodies where they offer significant weight and       structural advantages and for equipment enclosures where cost and weight       reduction can be achieved.
The novel measurement cell and Marvin's       colleagues' (Flintoft, J Dawson) work on the modelling of these materials       and their structures has been applied to airframe applications through the       EU FP7 HIRF-SE programme , which includes the majority of major airframe       manufacturers as part of the 43 strong consortium, including Alenia       Aeronautica (co-ordinator), Augusta Westland, BAE Systems, EADS, Thales.
The new measurement techniques have delivered efficient modelling of the       complex structures through the Finite Time-Domain Solver in the HIRF SE       framework and have enabled validation of models for multilayer composites       (see figure 2) and the electromagnetic performance of structural joints       within the HIRF-SE research programme.
These new modelling techniques are       accessible for commercial use to all partners in the programme through the       HIRF SE Framework [I9, I10].
Figure 2 - Carbon fibre woven structural material and the novel digital filter architecture of the material implemented in the numerical model in the HIRF-SE Framework [I9, I10].
