     The question of what prices ought to be paid for new pharmaceuticals is       especially critical for the NHS, given current resource constraints; for       pharmaceutical manufacturers, concerned that the prices paid by the NHS       offer sufficient return for continued research and development; and       patients groups and clinicians, concerned that they will have access to       new drugs at launch.
Researchers at the University of York have been       central to this public and policy debate since contributing to an Office       of Fair Trading (OFT) Report in 2007.
They were consulted during its       preparation and were invited by OFT to participate in its launch and other       public debates during the consultation period following its publication,       including giving evidence to the House of Commons Health Committee (HCHC)       investigation of NICE.
The underpinning research also informed the       subsequent HCHC investigation of top-up fees [1].
Since 2008, and especially since the Government announced the       introduction of a VBP scheme in 2010, this impact on public and policy       debate has grown [2-3, 20-21].
This is evidenced by invited presentations       at public debates, roundtable stakeholder discussions and advisory boards       (e.g., Westminster Health Forum Keynote Seminars, October 2010 and 2013;       House of Commons dinner debate, February 2011; PharmaTimes debate, April,       2011; and Myeloma UK Symposium, November 2011).
Invitations to present and       advise research consultancy organisations (e.g., Mapi Values, April 2008,       IMS Health, June 2011, Heron, May 2012), manufacturers (Sanofi Aventis,       February 2011, Roche Pharmaceuticals, London, February 2011, May, July and       December 2012) and national bodies which represent the interest of the       sector (Association of British Pharmaceutical Industries, February 2011       and February 2012) also evidence the impact of this research.
The research       has also had an impact on the international debate about pharmaceutical       pricing [5, 6] and has influenced policy formation in global health, e.g.,       Global Fund, Gates Foundation, GAVI Alliance, and how prices are       negotiated by HTA Agencies [4, 22].
This impact is also evidenced by       invitations to present and advise institutions and policy makers in North       America (CADTH, Ottawa, March 2012 and St Johns 2013), Europe (e.g., SBU,       the Swedish Council on Health Technology Assessment, Stockholm, May 2011;       Portuguese Secretary of State for Health sponsored by Exigo Consultores,       Lisbon October 2011; and the European Healthcare Innovation Leadership       Network, London November 2011) and South America (e.g., acting Minister of       Health for Chile, Santiago, March 2012).
The research has also had an impact on the closely related public debate       about whether decisions made by bodies like NICE sufficiently reward       innovation.
During the review of NICE methods undertaken by Sir Ian       Kennedy in 2009 researchers at York were invited by Sir Ian to present at       the associated stakeholder workshops.
The NICE Decision Support Unit       report on Innovation (led by Claxton) was part of the NICE submission to       the Kennedy Study and informed his recommendations [7, 8].
This report       drew heavily on the underpinning research.
In part this impact has been achieved by communicating key economic       insights in a way that is accessible to wide audience, which has led to       many reports and appearances in the media (e.g., Financial Times, Nature,       PharmaTimes, BBC News 24 and Radio 4 Today Programme [9]), and through       timely publication to inform the consultation on the government's       proposals [10].
This publication was quoted or cited in submissions made       by manufacturers as well as the Royal College of General Practitioners,       Royal Pharmaceutical Society and the Stockholm Network [11- 13].
Other       publications have been targeted at a parliamentary and political audience,       e.g., an invited article for the Bow Group magazine [14], with evidence of       influence on Conservative Party policy [15].
University and Departmental       support has been critical in engaging a range of stakeholders and policy       makers, in part, through organising number of symposia to present the       underpinning research.
The work at York has also had a direct impact on the formation of       Government policy and the details of how the scheme will operate.
For       example, the importance of an empirical assessment of the       cost-effectiveness threshold is evident in the original DH proposals [16]       and the associated Impact Assessment [17].
This was reiterated in the       government's response to the consultation in July 2011 [18].
The MRC/NIHR       funded research provides an estimate of the `basic threshold' described in       the policy documents which is a key determinant of pharmaceutical prices.
The findings of this work were submitted as written evidence to the recent       HCHC investigation of NICE and members of the research team were also       invited to give evidence [19].
At the request of DH, the results of this       research have been presented to key civil servants in DH (March, June and       July 2013), Department of Business Innovation and Skills (March 2013) and       the HM Treasury (March 2013).
The results, suggest that the threshold       currently used by NICE should not be increased and may be lower.
It also       found little evidence that it had grown with NHS prices or real growth in       the NHS budget.
These findings, "have been discussed at the highest levels       of Government and have had a direct impact on national policy making" [27]       and negotiations between Government and the Association of the British       Pharmaceutical Industry (ABPI).
One of the Governments objectives is to ensure that prices more fully       reflect the greater value of health benefits in areas of high disease       burden and where they also offer wider social benefits to carers, other       public expenditure and the wider economy.
York research on the `basic'       threshold identifies where (by disease area), how (in terms of mortality       and quality of life) and for whom (by age and gender) health outcomes are       likely to be displaced as a consequence of additional NHS costs.
As part       of the EEPRU project this work also provided the analytic and evidential       foundation for valuing or weighting such displacements by type of health       and any adverse wider social impacts (on carers, public expenditure and       the wider economy).
The importance of this assessment of opportunity cost       (`displacement') is evident in the instructions DH gave to NICE when       specifying how the scheme should be implemented.
This work was presented       to the NICE Working Party on VBP (July and August 2013) and reflects these       social values and wider effects while taking proper account of opportunity       costs when setting prices [23, 24].
The way that wider social benefits       (consumption effects that fall outside the NHS budget constraint), are to       be taken into account alongside health benefits and NHS resources has also       been informed by work undertaken at York.
Therefore, the underpinning       research at York has had a direct impact on the life cycle of policy from       public debate, policy formation to the details of how policy objectives       are delivered.
