     Research at York has shaped the analysis required during the appraisal of       health technologies undertaken by NICE and the (mandatory) guidance that       it issues to the NHS.
Since 2008 NICE has issued 161 pieces of Technology       Guidance relevant to clinical practice in conditions that are major causes       of mortality and morbidity which also place significant demands on NHS       resources, e.g., over half of NICE guidance has been in the areas of       cancer, cardiovascular and respiratory heath, which, in 2008, were       responsible for almost 350,000 deaths associated with over 2m years of       life lost and accounted for over &#163;16bn of NHS spending.
The NICE Guide to the Methods of Technology Appraisal specifies the type       of analysis required in submissions made by manufacturers and independent       assessments by academic units (the `Reference Case').
It also specifies       how such analysis will be used by the Appraisal Committees in developing       guidance about the use of health technologies in the NHS.
In 2008 NICE       published the updated the NICE Guide to the Methods of Technology       Appraisal.
The briefing paper for the Methods Review Workshop on exploring       uncertainty drew heavily on the underpinning research [see sources 1 and 2       in Section 5].
Claxton was invited to present this briefing at the Methods       Review Workshop (2007) and participated in the Methods Review Working       Party (2007) responsible for updating the Guide.
The updated Guide       required the use of probabilistic analysis to characterise decision       uncertainty as part of the Reference Case.
It recommended the use of VOI       analysis to understand the consequences of uncertainty and the need for       additional evidence to inform the research recommendations made when NICE       issues guidance [3, 15].
The Guide informed all subsequent appraisals and       the guidance issued by NICE.
The NICE Guide to the Methods of Technology Appraisal was updated during       2011-12 and a new Guide was published in 2013.
The research funded by       MRC/NIHR, which built on other underpinning research, had an important       impact on the 2013 Guide.
It was presented and evaluated at two       stakeholder workshops hosted by NICE (2010 and 2011) which included       members of NICE and its advisory committees, Department of Health,       clinicians, patient representatives, and manufacturers.
Claxton was a       Specialist Advisor to the Methodology Working Party, responsible for       updating the Guide, and the finding of this research formed the basis of       the briefing paper on uncertainty and only in research recommendations       (Nov 2011).
The 2013 Guide maintained a requirement to use probabilistic       analysis to characterise decision uncertainty and continued to recommend       the use of VOI to understand its consequences.
Importantly, the guidance       on when `only in research' recommendations will be made also reflects the       principles, considerations and type of assessments set out in the York       research [4, 16].
This Guide continues to inform all appraisals undertaken       by NICE.
The significance and relevance of this research is also evidenced       by requests to present the key finding to the NICE Technical Forum (Oct       2011), Diagnostic Technologies Appraisal Committee (May 2012) and the       Medical Technologies Appraisal Committee (June 2012).
Work at York has       also informed how NICE clinical guidelines are developed by the Royal       Collages [5], technical guidance on use of methods [6] and the House of       Commons investigation of NICE in 2012 [7]     The research has also had an impact on how publically funded evaluative       research is prioritised and commissioned.
For example, the MRC and NIHR       funded research has included the use of VOI analysis in initial grant       funding before committing to funding large scale research proposals.
More       recently Claxton was invited to present work developed for PCORI to the       HTA Commissioning Board (2013) and researchers at York are currently       working with the NIHR Evaluation, Trials and Studies Coordinating Centre       (NETSCC) to use these methods to routinely prioritise all research topics       considered by NETSCC.
Research at York has also had an international impact on how uncertainty       should be characterised and the adequacy of evidence judged.
The       international reach of this research is evidenced by the recommendations       to use these methods in international guidelines on evaluation of health       technologies [8-10], as well as citation and use of these methods in       policy documents in Europe and the US [9-11].
It is also evidenced by       invitations to present and advise institutions and policy makers (e.g.,       Swedish Council on Health Technology Assessment, 2011; Canadian Agency for       Drugs and Technologies in Health (CADTH), 2009; US Agency for Healthcare       Research and Quality, 2008) and a European policy network which includes       manufacturers, regulators, reimbursement authorities from across Europe       (European Healthcare Innovation Leadership Network, 2011, and European       working group on post launch research, 2012).
The research has had an impact on the methods of analysis used in low and       middle income countries to assess the cost-effectiveness and health       technologies and the adequacy of evidence through guidance from WHO [10,       12] and the guides to methods of evaluation adopted by national agencies       in health care systems in South East Asia (e.g., HTAsiaLink region) and in       South America (Chile, Columbia and Brazil) [10, 16].
It is also       influencing policy formation in global health and the type of analysis       required by global funding bodies, e.g., Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation       (BMGF), World Bank and Department for International Development (DFID)       [16].
Claxton was invited to the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation (BMGF,       2011) to present and advise how these methods of analysis can inform the       research, development and funding decisions made by the foundation.
In       2013 BMGF commissioned development of reference case guide for the methods       used in funded research.
Researchers at York are playing a key role in       developing this guide, including how uncertainty and the need for evidence       should be assessed [16].
This research has had an impact on research prioritisation in the United       States where the Patient Centred Outcomes Research Institute (PCORI) is       using the principles of VOI analysis to inform the prioritisation of the       initial $3.8bn allocated by the US Congress for `comparative effectiveness       research' as part of the recent health care reforms.
Researchers at York       have worked with PCORI in developing methods which can be routinely       applied in ways that are consistent with the remit of this federally       funded body.
Claxton was an expert advisor at the PCORI Methodology       Committee meeting (Baltimore March 2012) to present the principles of VOI       analysis and act as discussant for the `white papers' presented, which       also cited work at York [13, 18] .
Claxton was commissioned to develop a       `white paper' on how these methods could be used by PCORI consistent with       its particular remit and demonstrate their application through a number of       case studies.
This work was presented to the PCORI methodology workshop in       Washington in December 2012 [17].
The principles of VOI analysis outlined       in this research are being used to inform prioritisation of the many       research topics that have been suggested to it [14, 17, 18].
The impact was achieved by demonstrating the feasibility and benefits of       the application of these methods [10, 11] and long term engagement with       decision makers (Claxton was a founding member of: the NICE Technology       Appraisal Committee, 1999 to 2010; the NICE Medical Technologies Appraisal       Committee 2010-12; and the NICE DSU, 2003-).
It also required development       of methods relevant to a range of different contexts [12] and       communicating insights in a way that was accessible to a wide policy       audience, through workshops, seminars and invited lectures around the       world; as well publications in more general clinical and policy journals.
It also required a number of short courses to be developed and delivered       to train analysts from the pharmaceutical sector, public agencies and       ministries of health in how to use these methods.
The core 3-day course       has been running at least twice each year since 2003 and has been       delivered to almost 1000 participants in 5 countries across 4 continents.
