     In the last three years there has been considerable governmental activity       to develop employee ownership, and the research has contributed to these       policy discussions and developments.
Key issues are the impacts of       employee ownership on individuals and companies, and whether they are       beneficial for individuals, companies, and the national economy.
The       research outlined above has engaged with all of these issues.
Pendleton's research has made an impact in several ways: it has made an       impact in the specialist reward and financial services business media; it       has influenced the development of government policy on employee ownership.
This latter impact has two aspects: one impact has been on a decision to       retain an existing policy; the other has been a contribution to the       evolution of government policy     The research conducted on employee choices to participate in share       ownership, and the important issue of financial literacy, has been       identified by the business media as an important contribution to debates       amongst practitioners about desirable company practices in these areas       (see items 3.1 and 3.2).
The magazine Employee Benefits (aimed at       reward managers: audited circulation of 62,000 in 2012) described in March       2010 how Pendleton was `leading a charge to teach staff about money       matters' (see 5.1).
In a follow-up article (April 2010) he was described       as a `crusader against cash confusion' for his research on financial       education and share ownership schemes as reported in items 3.1 and 3.2       (see 5.2).
Research into productivity has also had an impact in the business media.
An article on share ownership schemes in Money Marketing in April       2008 (aimed at those in retail financial services; circulation 82,000 in       2012), highlighted the value of Pendleton's research on productivity to       those managing employee share schemes (item 3.5, see 5.3).
A substantial       feature on `Employee share schemes: sharing in the wealth' in Workplace         Savings and Benefits in January 2013 (target readership of finance       directors, HR directors, and reward directors) draws on Pendleton's       research on productivity and employee outcomes, noting that `share schemes       can be particularly attractive to employers that want to promote an ethos       of employee participation in the company' (see item 3.5; reported in 5.4).
Pendleton's research has made an impact on government policy, with       awareness of his research stemming in part from its impact on the       specialist business media.
In one important instance this contributed to a       decision not to change existing policy.
In 2011 the Office of Tax       Simplification (OTS) was established in HM Treasury, with one of its main       remits to consider the simplification of taxation arrangements for       employee share ownership plans.
The OTS "considered the possibility of       abolishing all tax advantaged share schemes" (p.39) (see 5.6).
To address       this, the OTS review "wanted to understand why companies use share schemes       and whether ... share schemes were effective" (p.5).
The OTS team believed       "that the question (of productivity) is fundamental to our work, as it       links to the policy objective of the reliefs inherent in the share       schemes" (p.63)     The working group of civil servants and tax experts identified       Pendleton's work as an important area of research (see Minutes 13 December       2011 in 5.5 below) and this informed their deliberations on the outcomes       of employee ownership.
Summaries of Pendleton's research provided a       substantial portion of the chapter on performance outcomes in the main       report by the OTS to the Chancellor of the Exchequer (see 5.6 below).
Three of the items in section 3 above (3.3, 3.4, and 3.5) were explicitly       considered in the chapter: a working paper version of item 3.3 is referred       to in the report as the `2009 Pendleton Review, and is quoted at length.
The OTS note that "the 2009 Pendleton Review is of particular interest       because it reviews the main strands of research on employee share       ownership over the last forty years" (p.65).
Pendleton's evidence that employee ownership can have favourable       performance outcomes was used by the OTS working group to recommend that       removing the tax concessions for all-employee share ownership schemes       would not generate net benefits (pp.
39-40), and that any tax reforms       should focus on simplification of tax concessions rather than removal.
This report was presented to the Chancellor of the Exchequer, who stated       in the 2012 Autumn Statement that "the Government supports employee       ownership as a business model, which offers benefits to employers and the       wider economy" (p.43; para 1.128).
Those benefiting from the decision to       retain the tax advantaged schemes include the 380,000 employees who joined       SAYE (one of the two tax-advantaged all-employee schemes) in 2011/12 (the       most recent year for which statistics are available) and the 700,000       participants in the other all-employee tax-advantaged plan (SIP).
The cost       of the tax and NIC concessions for these two schemes was &#163;450 million in       that year, with each participant in SAYE, for instance, benefiting on       average from income tax concessions of just under &#163;300.
Pendleton's research has also had an impact on the development of       government policy towards full employee ownership through the contribution       his research has made to work conducted by various representative groups.
His research was used in a landmark investigation by the All-Party       Parliamentary Group on Employee Ownership (composed of MPs and Peers) in       2008.
He submitted written evidence and was the sole academic invited to       give oral evidence at the Houses of Parliament.
His research was used in       the final report (see item 5.7 below for details) to highlight the       diversity of employee ownership and the need to take account of this       diversity in policy responses, drawing explicitly on 3.6 above.
His       findings that employee ownership has a beneficial impact on       employer-provided training was also used to show the positive effects of       employee ownership (item 3.4).
The Government announced in the 2013 Budget       that &#163;50 million will be allocated annually to promote and support       employee ownership (2013 Budget Statement, item 2.71)     In the view of the then Chief Executive of the Employee Ownership       Association, this "enquiry had a substantial effect because, as you know,       the EO 'profile' in policy terms at that point [2007] was extremely low -       probably not seriously on any of the main parties' policy agendas.
It       didn't achieve a 'big bang' in publicity terms but it unquestionably       became a recognisable and - most importantly - highly authoritative hook       for policy discussions with the main parties.
Most of what it proposed is       now part of the Coalition Government policy agenda.
The enquiry was       clearly rigorous, cross-party, and the eventual report was a major and       comprehensive study.
Having very prominent academic thinkers giving       evidence, as you did, added immensely to the enquiry's and report's       perceived credibility" (see item 5.8).
Pendleton was subsequently asked to present further oral evidence to the       All-Party Parliamentary Group on the role of employee ownership in public       services and Royal Mail in 2011 (see item 5.9) on the basis of his       research into employee ownership.
He showed that employee ownership can be       an effective way to privatise organisations such as Royal Mail because it       provides guarantees to workers in return for concessions (p.13 of 5.9       below: see items 3.4 and 3.6 above).
At the launch of the report,       government minister Francis Maude MP suggested that employee ownership is       "the way of the future" and indicated that the Government would "follow up       a lot of the suggestions" (item 5.10).
The Government announced its plans       for an employee share scheme in Royal Mail in July 2013.
