     The entitlement to statutory employment rights such as the national       minimum wage or the right to       claim a redundancy payment depends upon being classified as a `worker'       (for the minimum wage)       or an `employee' (for redundancy).
An individual's status as an employee       or worker depends upon       the terms of the contract they have with their employer.
But the       employer's ability to draft the       contract may be, and sometimes has been, used by unscrupulous employers to       create the       impression that the individual is self-employed, not an employee or a       worker, and therefore not       entitled to such employment rights.
This enables some employers to evade       the protections       afforded to workers by legislation, and there is a danger that even       employers acting in good faith       will be led by their legal advisors to think that this evasion is a       legitimate business practice.
This unsatisfactory situation caused unfairness and gave rise to a large       volume of litigation over       many years.
Claimants tried to persuade the courts that they counted as       employees or workers       despite appearances to the contrary in written contract documents: see,       for example, Ready Mixed         Concrete (South East) Ltd v Minister of Pensions and National Insurance       [1968] 2 QB 497;       Firthglow Ltd (trading as Protectacoat) v Szilagyi [2009] EWCA Civ       98, [2009] ICR 835; Consistent         Group Ltd v Kalwak [2008] EWCA Civ 430, [2008] IRLR 505.
These cases       demonstrate sharp       divisions in the Court of Appeal, divisions that could only be resolved by       a definitive ruling by the       Supreme Court.
It was on these Court of Appeal cases that the research of       Bogg and Davies       focused, providing a timely and relevant analysis of the problem, and       arguing for a particular       solution should an appropriate case reach the Supreme Court.
It did in the       case of Autoclenz Ltd v         Belcher [C1].
Because their work was well regarded and known       to counsel, the Bogg and Davies       analysis informed the Supreme Court, which relied on their work in       deciding to reverse the       traditional approach.
The claimants in the case worked as car valeters for Autoclenz on a       piecework basis, as self-       employed contractors paying their own insurance, tax, and National       Insurance.
Autoclenz then       required the valeters to sign contracts containing a substitution clause,       allowing them to engage others       to work on their behalf, and a `right to refuse work' clause.
This       contract expressly stated that they       were independent contractors.
However, Autoclenz expected a valeter not       coming into work to give       adequate notice of his absence (though it was accepted that none had ever       done so and that the       valeters were unaware of this provision.)
The valeters claimed they were       in reality employees or, in the       alternative, workers entitled to at least some statutory rights.
The       claimants won at first instance, but in       an ascending series of appeals the various tribunals vacillated, being       pulled sometimes by the       traditional approach, sometimes by considerations of fairness and a wish       to give effect to protective       legislation.
Finally, in an important and unanimous decision, the Supreme       Court reversed the traditional       approach, recognising that it produced unjust results.
Lord Clarke summed       up the decision as       follows:     `So the relative bargaining power of the parties must be taken into       account in deciding whether the       terms of any written agreement in truth represent what was agreed and the       true agreement will       often have to be gleaned from all the circumstances of the case, of which       the written agreement is       only a part.
This may be described as a purposive approach to the       problem.'
[35] Paragraph 28 of       Lord Clarke JSC's judgment (written for the Court) cites the research       identified in Section 3,       describing the article by Bogg [R1] as `valuable' and the article       by Davies [R4] as `illuminating'.
This work by Bogg and Davies is the only academic research cited in this       pivotal decision, which       relies on its analysis and adopts the interpretative policy recommended       therein.
As a result of this ruling, all courts and tribunals must now       look beyond the written contract       between the parties whenever it is alleged that this does not reflect the       true nature of the       individual's employment arrangements.
Tribunals and lower courts are bound       to follow the decision       as a matter of precedent, and a new line of case-law is already beginning       to develop: see, for       example, Weight Watchers (UK) Ltd v Revenue and Customs Commissioners       [2011] UKUT 433       (TCC); [2012] STC 265 [C2].
The ruling must therefore also       influence the legal advice offered to       employers on the drafting of contracts.
The Supreme Court's decision is highly significant in both law and       policy.
It has reversed a       longstanding line of case-law applying the traditional, contractual       approach in the employment       setting, thus changing a body of law that applies throughout the       jurisdiction and in all sectors of the       economy.
The judgment will be of particular significance to those who       occupy what has been       described as a `grey area' in the labour market, where there is a degree       of uncertainty over their       employment status (neither clearly employees nor clearly self-employed).
This group has been       estimated to stand at 30% of the national labour force in Burchell, Deakin       and Honey, The         Employment Status of Individuals in Non-Standard Employment EMAR       Research Series no.
6       (London: DTI 1999).
The overriding effect of the Supreme Court's decision       will be that individuals       in that `grey area' are now much more likely to be characterised as       workers or employees.
The       decision increases the availability of employment rights to individuals       who are in reality workers or       employees even though their written contracts suggest otherwise.
This has       increased the reach       and effectiveness of protective employment legislation [C3].
In       coming to this conclusion the       Supreme Court had recourse to the work of Boggs and Davies in both its       critical and affirmative       aspects.
The Supreme Court does not often make such recourse.
One of the       leading current       textbooks [C3] on labour law describes the Court's ruling as       `notable' for its reliance on Bogg and       Davies's research.
