     The research on additional resources in education in Strand A has had       positive impact through       helping to secure educational funding for a major increase in the       availability of teaching assistants       and other support staff to improve the skill-mix within schools.
The       continuing benefits from the       resultant subsequent expansion in school support staff and the associated       rebalancing of tasks       within the school workforce are confirmed in a recent report by Ofsted       (2010), which found that       these changes have "made a considerable difference to pupils' learning" in       the most effective       schools visited.
Similarly the report by Ofsted (2008) confirmed that       "Members of the wider       workforce are particularly successful in engaging pupils at risk of       underachievement or permanent       exclusion, in developing links with the community and in increasing the       involvement of parents and       carers in their children's learning".
The beneficiaries include the pupils       whose education and       subsequent career opportunities have been improved by such increased       learning, teachers who       are under less stress from no longer being required to undertake numerous       non-teaching tasks,       the support staff who can secure employment within local schools, the       local and national economy       that gains from a more educated workforce and increased employment       opportunities within       schools, and the wider society that benefits from the reductions in crime       and in substance abuse       which more educationally motivated pupils can foster.
The research in       strand A was disseminated       amongst policy-makers and their advisers through (i) two published       Department for Education       Research Reports that highlighted related policy and management issues, as       in A.4 and A.5       detailed in Section 5 below (ii) presentation of a paper emphasising the       main lessons of the       research at a seminar on Public Services Productivity at HM Treasury, as       in A.3 below and (iii)       detailed discussions with the Chief Adviser to the Secretary of State for       Education on School       Standards and Head of the Standards and Effectiveness Unit at the       Department for Education,       Michael Barber, who later became Head of the Prime Minister's Delivery       Unit, as cited in A.2       below.
These discussions resulted in a successful Departmental funding bid       for a major expansion       of 86,000 extra full-time equivalent support staff within schools       (Department for Education and       Skills, Departmental Report 2003, Cm 5902, p.88).
This expansion has been       sustained, with the       number of teaching assistants in publicly funded schools in England rising       from 115,000 in 2008 to       219,800 in 2011 and 232,300 by 2012, with non-classroom based school       support staff rising from       57,600 in 2008 to 137,800 in 2012, compared to 442,000 teachers in 2012       (as evidenced in       reference A.6 below), with continuing benefits over this period.
Strand B. of the research, on educational programme evaluation       techniques, was disseminated to       policy analysts through its publication as a Department of Education and       Skills Research Report,       which recommended the use of comparison groups based upon Overlapping       Intake Schools which       overlap significantly with the evaluated Academies in the primary feeder       schools from which they       recruit their pupil intake in the evaluation of the Academies programme.
The research report also       recommended the use of comparisons based upon contextual value-added       measures of pupil       performance that systematically take into account variations across       individual pupils both in their       prior attainment scores and in a wide range of other socio-economic       characteristics of the pupil       intake.
The impact of the research was through the adoption of both of       these recommendations in       the evaluation methodology deployed by PricewaterhouseCoopers in their       final Report of the       Academies Evaluation programme (PwC and Department for Children, Schools       and Families,       2008), as in B.1 below.
The resultant conclusion was that rather than       there being a simple uniform       `Academies effect', a more complex and varied process of educational       change had taken place       within them.
This has had wider benefits in informing the public debate in       advance of the       Academies Act 2010, as confirmed in the House of Commons reference B.2       below.
It has also       underlined the need for the careful management of the subsequent expansion       of the Academies       programme, which has increased to include 203 schools by May 2010 and over       1,950 schools by       July 2012.
Strand C. of the research was disseminated by giving oral and written       evidence to a House of       Commons Select Committee hearing on the implementation of Resource       Accounting and       Budgeting, as in C.3 below, and through Professor David Mayston's       membership for eight years       from 1996 to 2004 of HM Treasury's Financial Reporting Advisory Board       (FRAB), as the       independent economist nominated by the Head of the Government Economic       Service, advising on       the detailed introduction of Resource Accounting into central government       and the NHS in the UK.
In line with the concerns expressed in Mayston's (1999) research, the       Annual Reports of HM       Treasury's Financial Reporting Advisory Board from 1999 onwards, as in C.2       below, consistently       emphasise the need for improvements in the rules being followed for       accounting for PFI projects.
This need was subsequently acknowledged by HM Treasury, with the impact       that revised rules       have been implemented for PFI accounting from 2008 onwards within the NHS       and other parts of       the public sector, as evidenced in C.4 below.
The future PFI liabilities       revealed by the improved       accounting arrangements exceed &#163;144 billion in present value.
As confirmed       by HM Treasury's       (2012) revised policy document A New Approach to Public Private         Partnerships, there are       continuing benefits to taxpayers and the users of public infrastructure       assets from the greater       transparency and accountability that results from improved PFI accounting.
These include       incentives for improvements in the financial management and value for       money achieved by PFI       schemes, including new hospitals, schools and other major infrastructure       projects that impact upon       the delivery of public services.
