     The research shows that gender pay gaps are higher in feminised       workplaces in low paying sectors of the economy and that this is       especially true for part-time employees.
The evidential association       between the workplace, occupational segregation, and the gender wage gap       was a new contribution to the understanding of wage inequality in the UK.
"The identification of the importance of occupation segregation as one of       the chief factors was particularly important.
It suggested a policy       approach that was aimed at widening out employment opportunities for both       women and men in occupations where they were under-represented."
(Factual       statement 2, Deputy Director Labour Market Analysis and Minimum Wage Team,       Department for Business, Innovation and Skills).
In giving evidence to and responding to the report of the Parliamentary       Trade and Industry Committee [1b], pg 118, Pat McFadden, Minister for       Employment Relations, BERR wrote: "in terms of policies to target closing       the gender pay gap...I now see BERR as contributing in at least four key       areas: first, through...major research..to understand the gender pay gap       where the Department will soon publish a study [Mumford and Smith       (2007b)]..".
The Committee's report identified the view of the government       that the research was the key evidence for the assessment of the current       situation for the gender pay gap [1a], pg 7.
The government also       identified tackling occupational segregation as a crucial part of ensuring       equality of opportunity in their formal response to the Committee [1c], pg       1.
This view of the importance of our work is reflected by further       government departments developing policy in this area.
"A better understanding of the gender pay gap, based on your work ... has       ensured that broader government policy development ... is properly       evidence based and provides the basis on which we can understand where       best to target limited policy resources.
The understanding of the impact       of occupational segmentation as a driver has informed recent internal       analytical work in GEO on understanding the impact of women and men in the       recessions (the gender business cycle) which has been well received and       discussed by equalities Ministers across government."
(Factual statement       3, Chief Economist and Head of Evidence, Government Equalities Office.)
The research results and policy recommendations were included in in a       series of influential reports including the Office for National Statistics       long term assessment of the pay gap [2, pg 33], the report of the National       Equality Panel in 2010 [3, pg 231] and the report for the Government       Equalities Office by Olsen et al, also in 2010 [4, pg 4].
More recently,       the research is an important part of the Equality and Human Rights       Commission review of the evidence base [5, pg 19-23 and 6], the Equality       Working Group Overview Report [7, pg 29-30], and in a review by the Welsh       Government [8, pg 70].
The research conclusions were explicitly used in these reports to support       subsequent policy developments in the UK.
These include more extensive       application and stronger enforcement of the National Minimum Wage in low       paying sectors, and recent recommendations by the Low Pay Commission (LPC)       for greater compliance, especially to apprenticeships, (including       government to more actively communicate both the minimum wage rates       themselves, and rights and obligations under the National Minimum Wage,       across workplaces); clarification of the consequences of equal pay       legislation across workplaces and provision for improved flow of       information between employees of different gender and across workplaces       with the introduction of the Equal Pay Act (2010); and providing       Employment Tribunals with the capacity within workplaces to impose pay       audits on employers who are found to have discriminated because of gender       in pay setting (a component of the Modern Workplaces response).
Evidence       from the LPC in 2013 [9; pg 39] shows that the gender pay gap amongst full       time employees has narrowed for the lowest paid decile from 7.8% in 2007       to 5.6% in 2012 affecting some 712,000 working women; and from 10.8% to       8.6% at the median for the female workforce as a whole.
"Professor Mumford and Professor Smith's research on the gender pay gap       has provided extremely useful insights, especially their illumination of       the nature of occupational segregation in the UK.
This has helped identify       particular sectors of low pay and help us and HMRC to focus stronger       enforcement of the minimum wage in certain workplaces.
Our recommendations       have also led to a considerable increase in the pay of women relative to       men at the bottom end of the pay distribution.
Gender equality is an       extremely important policy area.
Their contribution has also made a very       considerable impact in terms of its reach and significance across       government, including DTI (now BIS), HMRC and various bodies responsible       for equalities, such as the Government Equalities Office and the Equality       and Human Rights Commission."
(Factual statement 1.
Chief Economist and       Deputy Secretary, Low Pay Commission.)
