     The UK has long suffered an under-supply of donated organs capable of       transplantation.
In 2008, the waiting list for transplants numbered over       8,000 people.
It was estimated that, at a minimum, an additional 50% of       donations would be required to meet existing needs.
The human costs of       unmet need are extremely high.
In 2007/08, for example, approximately       1,000 people on the waiting list died from lack of available transplant       organs [Source 2: page 6, para 2.2].
In light of this need, the UK Organ Donation Taskforce was established in       2006 to identify barriers to organ donation and to make appropriate policy       recommendations to remedy the deficit.
In January 2008 it issued a report       that made 14 recommendations for policy change [Source 1].
However,       the preparatory work for this report had not explored policy options that       would have required legislative change [Source 2: page 6, para 2.4].
Consequent to this report, the Prime Minister, Gordon Brown, signalled his       preference for new legislation introducing an `opt out' system of presumed       consent and called for a "serious debate" on this option [Source 3].
He commissioned the Organ Donation Taskforce to undertake further work:       (1) to examine what measures would be required to introduce a `presumed       consent' system; (2) to explore the potential impact of presumed consent       legislation on organ donation rates in the UK; and (3) to consider public       attitudes to presumed consent [Source 2: page 6, para 2.4].
To       inform its work in relation to tasks (2) and (3), the Taskforce       commissioned the University of York's Centre for Reviews and         Dissemination to undertake a systematic review of relevant evidence       [Source 2: page 7, para 3.2].
The University of York's findings       were presented to the Taskforce in the Spring of 2008.
The Taskforce published its final report in November 2008 [Source 2].
Its overall recommendation was not to legislate for a system of       presumed consent, but rather to attempt alternative policy options.
It       believed that organ donations should be increased without       legislation.
Not only would such legislation be costly and challenging, it       argued, it may also erode public trust in the NHS and government and have       a counter-productive effect on organ availability.
The Taskforce, in light       of the evidence it had received, put forward alternative non-legislative       policy options and recommended that the government should wait for a       period of 5 years to see if these alternative policy options would prove       successful [Source 2: page 37, para 15.7].
The research of the University of York was a key feature of the evidence       considered in the Taskforce's deliberations and it is clear that the       University of York's research had a significant and material impact on the       Taskforce's ultimate recommendation.
Two of the 15 chapters in its report       (chapters 11 and 12) discussed the University of York's findings at some       length.
The University of York's research findings were also published in       full as an annexe to the report (Annexe I).
In particular, its conclusion       that presumed consent legislation in isolation was unlikely to explain       variations in organ donation rates was stressed in the Taskforce's overall       summary of its reasoning:     Taskforce members had a wide range of views at the outset.
However, after       examining the evidence, the Taskforce reached a clear consensus in       recommending that an opt out system should not be introduced in the UK at       the present time.
The Taskforce concluded that such a system has the       potential to undermine the concept of donation as a gift, to erode trust       in the NHS professionals and the Government, and negatively impact on       organ donation numbers.
It would distract attention away from essential       improvements to systems and infrastructure and from the urgent need to       improve public awareness and understanding of organ donation.
Furthermore,       it would be challenging and costly to implement.
Most compelling of           all, we found no convincing evidence that it would deliver         significant increases in the number of donated organs.
(emphasis       added) [Source 2: page 34, para 15.2]     On the publication of the Taskforce's report in November 2008, Gordon       Brown accepted its recommendation and abandoned his preferred option of       legislating for a presumed consent system.
He conceded that a voluntary       system should be given a period of 5 years to prove its effectiveness [Sources         4].
Speaking at No.
10 Downing Street, he noted,     "... they are not recommending the introduction of a presumed consent       system, as I have done ...
The proposal is that we double the number of       volunteers to 50%.
If we can't get there quickly we will return to the       proposal."
[Source 5]     The target of increasing the numbers of organ donations within 5 years       without legislation was, in fact, achieved.
NHS Blood and Transplant       reported in April 2013 that:     More than 3,100 lives were transformed by deceased donors in the last 12       months as the NHS hit the 50% increase in deceased organ donation, the       challenge set by the Organ Donation Taskforce in 2008...
The number of       deceased organ donors across the UK in 2012/13 hit 1212, representing a       50% increase since 2007/08 when the four UK governments accepted the       recommendations of the 2008 Organ Donation Taskforce.
There had been       almost no increase in the number of deceased donors over the previous       decade.
[Source 6]     The University of York's research, accordingly, contributed substantially       to the Taskforce's recommendations which, in turn, had the following       highly significant impacts:            A change in national policy direction on the part of the Prime         Minister       The prevention of a radical and costly alteration to the UK's         voluntary system of transplant organ provision       The avoidance of the potential corrosion of public trust in the NHS         and Government       A successful 50% increase in organ donations, thereby setting the UK         agenda for future organ donation policy       Corresponding life-saving benefits enjoyed by the recipients of the         additional donated organs.
