     The significance of the PRDU's work is that it has shaped the UK       government's approach to       conflict assessment and resolution.
In doing so, it has directly supported       the shift towards       integrated planning for conflict and security.
The PRDU's research has had       significant impact on       the UK government's design and use of strategic conflict and stability       assessments in two stages:       i) via a DfID-commissioned strategic conflict assessment project on       Afghanistan; and ii) as a key       source for the creation of the Joint Assessment of Conflict and Security       methodology.
These       research impacts build on a sustained period of engagement with DfID,       based on four       commissioned research projects since 2008 (at a total value of &#163;232,000),       plus a &#163;285,000 ESRC-DfID       project on `The Influence of DfID-sponsored state building-oriented       research on British policy       in fragile, post-conflict environments'.
Joint assessment of conflict has       now been accepted by the       UK as the appropriate way to plan for conflict and stability.
This is       demonstrated in the Cabinet       Office paper, `Guidance for an Integrated Approach to Conflict and       Stability', which states that       conflict analysis `should follow the JACS model' (Cabinet       Office/Cross-Government Integrated       Approach Working Group 2012).
1) In 2008, DfID commissioned Barakat to lead a team of Afghanistan       experts on the       `Understanding Afghanistan' (UA) project.
Barakat led on the strategic       conflict assessment (SCA)       of Afghanistan (Barakat et al.
2008), one of four pillars of the       project, for which PRDU was       awarded a &#163;111,127 DfID grant.
This project drew on DfID's guidance notes       on strategic conflict       assessment (2002), the PRDU's `composite' approach and a `participatory       learning process',       engaging with a wide variety of actors in Afghanistan, including members       of the Taliban.
The SCA       was influential in UK government policy and was later incorporated into       tailored Country       Programmes.
According to DfID: `This [SCA] report has been utilised as       part of numerous reviews       of the British government's engagement in Afghanistan.
It particularly fed       into the development of       the Country Programmes adopted by DfID...[and] was taken up by both the       FCO and Stabilisation       Unit in helping to inform their pursuit of diplomatic resolutions to the       conflict' (DfID letter, 2009).
Barakat and Zyck were subsequently invited to give evidence at the House       of Commons Foreign       Affairs Committee in October 2010 (p. 25) in which they made       recommendations for a diplomatic       resolution to the conflict in Afghanistan.
This parliamentary evidence       (Barakat and Zyck 2010)       summarised the conclusions of the SCA and the UA programme as a whole:       that is, a political       solution was needed to resolve the conflict.
All authors of the       `Understanding Afghanistan' project       endorsed the necessity of this approach, which contributed to it becoming       part of the mainstream       consensus.
2) The impact of the SCA report was further extended and widened through       the PRDU's work with       DfID in operationalising the JACS methodology, an evolution of the       existing strategic conflict       assessment approach.
This methodology has been cited as a key component of       the UK       government's `Building Stability Overseas Strategy', jointly authored by       DfID, the Ministry of       Defence and FCO (2011, p.24), which states: "We will introduce a new       cross-government strategic       conflict assessment... [to] bring together political, economic, social and       security analysis to provide       joint assessment of conflicts".
The key component of the overall strategy       is to seek to ensure that       the UK government: i) identifies early warnings of instability and       potential conflict; and ii) delivers a       rapid and effective response.
The importance of this to the UK government       is underscored by the       funding commitment stated in the strategy, namely: `by 2014/15 we will       have increased to 30% the       proportion of UK Official Development Assistance (ODA) that supports       fragile and conflict affected       states' (BSOS, p.13).
In 2011, Barakat and the PRDU began work on an ESRC-DfID funded project,       studying DfID's use       of its own sponsored research on policy in fragile, post-conflict states.
During the first year of the       project, Barakat and Waldman were invited by DfID to respond to a       consultation on the       development of a joint framework for conflict analysis, based on contacts       established via the       project.
The initial findings of this were presented at a DfID workshop,       attended by officials from the       FCO and MOD.
The feedback received at the workshop informed the final       report: `Revising the       SCA: Toward a Joint Framework for Conflict Analysis' (Barakat and Waldman       2011).
The report       highlighted a series of significant issues for consideration, including       the importance of local       perspectives and of acknowledging that assessment can lose objectivity       when donors fail to       recognise their own role as protagonists in conflict affected states (see       research findings 3 &amp; 4).
It       recommended three phases for JACS with detailed steps in each stage: i)       inception and initiation;       ii) analysis; and iii) utilisation.
This phased approach is mirrored in       the DfID consultation paper,       `Joint Analysis of Conflict and Stability &#8212; Guidance Notes', reflecting       the influence of Barakat and       Waldman's research on the UK government's adoption of integrated conflict       analysis.
As the DfID       consultation paper points out, the methodology outlined provides `an       overview of the UK's current       approach to the analysis of conflict and stability... [and] the basis for       shared analysis and       understanding among government departments working overseas'.
In June       2013, the ESRC-DfID       project was selected (out of over 1100 projects) to be part of a pilot       exercise by the External       Champion for RCUK's Global Uncertainties Programme, whose role is to       support the delivery of       impact.
3) The impact of Barakat and the PRDU in conflict assessment has reached       beyond the UK with       the PRDU commissioned to undertake tailored conflict assessments for other       bilateral and       multilateral donor organisations, most notably, a &#163;487,391 project for       UNICEF in Somalia that       began in 2013.
The UNICEF project builds on earlier commissioned projects       in which the PRDU       (working with the Institute for Effective Education, University of York)       evaluated the effectiveness of       UNICEF's education in emergencies programme.
The UNICEF `Peacebuilding,       Education and       Advocacy Programme' (PBEA), a four year $150m project launched in 2012 and       involving 14       conflict affected states, was informed by the PRDU's finding that conflict       assessment should be       carried out to inform the design of the education interventions.
The       significance of the Somalia       project is that it adopts the approach set out in the PBEA in linking       up-to-date conflict assessment       with the design of education programmes.
This project uses the PRDU's       pioneering use of a       reflexive `participatory learning process', which in this case involves       training and recruiting local       conflict assessors on the ground in Somalia.
These processes have built       capacity in-country and       ensures that the assessment is continually evolving, which in turn informs       the education       programmes run by UNICEF.
