     Haagh's BI research has had a significant impact on national governments,       international       organizations and non-governmental organisations (NGOs).
Specifically, her       work has shaped the       policy guidance and practice of Europe's leading human rights       organisation, the Council of Europe       (CoE).
Further, her advisory work for the Canadian National Council for       Welfare helped shape the       policy debate on welfare reform in Canada.
Haagh's involvement in these       policy forums flows in       part from her membership of the executive committee of the Basic Income       Earth Network, a global       NGO advocating the promotion of BI.
The specific impacts outlined here       form part of a wider       portfolio of global engagement, which additionally includes advising the       Brazilian government on       income security, welfare and labour market policy, and working on behalf       of the World Bank with       the Organisation of American States on universal social guarantees.
1) Haagh was engaged in a key expert role by the CoE Social Research,       Cohesion and Early       Warning Division in 2010-13.
The CoE has 47 member states and seeks to       develop European-       wide democratic principles based on the European Convention on Human       Rights and related texts       protecting individual rights.
Haagh was centrally involved in the CoE's       `Human Rights of People       Experiencing Poverty' project, launched in 2010 and jointly funded by the       European Commission.
The aim of this project was to fight poverty, reduce inequality and       improve human rights in the       aftermath of the 2008 economic crisis.
This involved devising a set of       local charters of social       responsibility with five pilot European cities (Charleroi, Covilha,       Mulhouse, Salaspila, Timisoara)       and producing a major policy guide, Living in Dignity in the 21st       Century.
The guide was published       in 2013 and launched jointly by the EU Commissioner for Employment, Social       Affairs and Inclusion       and the Secretary-General of the CoE at an international conference held       in Strasbourg       (http://rights-poverty.eu/conference/).
Haagh was selected as one of a group of six academic       experts and four NGO representatives responsible for producing concrete       proposals for the policy       guide and driving the process of forming the local social charters through       a series of meetings,       conferences and policy papers.
Haagh's specific contribution to the policy       guide followed directly       from her research.
In particular, the final policy recommendations are       based on six pillars, two of       which &#8212; equal access to financial resources and the re-establishment of       progressive public finance       &#8212; come directly from Haagh's research.
First, one of the guide's key       policy proposals is that states       should seriously consider introducing a universal BI as a central tool in       the fight against poverty       and insecurity: the specific treatment of BI in the report (Council of       Europe 2013, pp.197-198) is       based on, and explicitly references, Haagh's work (Haagh 2011b).
Second,       the guide advocates       that BI (among other policies) should be implemented within a progressive       system of public finance       and a reworked conceptualisation of the commons.
The elaboration of this       idea (Council of Europe       2013, pp.133-154) is, again, based on Haagh's work with the concept of       `progressive public       finance' as delineated in Haagh (2012).
According to the Head of the       Social Cohesion Research       and Early Warning Directorate at the CoE, Haagh's `ideas of progressive         public finance, basic         income as a source of property rights in stability, and education and         work as areas of the         commons, have been influential in shaping the debates and policy         discourse ...and in informing the         content of the Council's work and the guide'.
2) Haagh was commissioned by the National Council for Welfare (NCW), an       advisory group on       social development established by statute that reported directly to the       Canadian federal Minister for       Human Resources and Skills Development, to conduct a seminar on BI for its       policy advisors in       2010.
This seminar contributed to the process of planning and writing the       NCW report, The Dollars         and Sense of Solving Poverty, published in Autumn 2011.
According to       NCW Executive Director,       Haagh played a key role in persuading NCW members of the importance of BI.
The Executive       Director also credits Haagh with influencing NCW Chairperson John Rook and       NCW staff on the       merits of BI and how it might operate in the Canadian context.
The impact       claimed here is that       Haagh made a major contribution to shaping the final report and thence the       public debate in       Canada.
To quote the NCW Executive Director once more, `what was most       encouraging for the       future of basic income was that a group of people, most of whom were       unaware or even hostile to       the idea, came around dramatically to see its merits (and challenges)'.
The NCW report itself       stimulated active debate in Canada about poverty in general, and has seen       prominent       Conservative politicians (e.g.
Senator Segal) and influential commentators       (e.g.
Andrew Coyne)       express strong support for both the NCW report in general its focus on       basic income in particular.
