     By 1997 when the Labour Government came to power it was clear that the       1991 Act was failing.
We had been writing about it1.
But initially they sought to       simplify the old system.
However their       new system was delayed and then failed to deliver.
The Work and Pensions       Select Committee       published a series of reports.
Bradshaw acted as Special Advisor on the       DWP Committee Report2       which concluded that the CSA "a failing organisation which currently is in       crisis...consideration be       given to the option of winding up the Child Support Agency and plans made       for an alternative."
A new chief executive was appointed to the Child Support Agency and       undertook an urgent review       but his plans involved extra spending and little improvement.
So the       Secretary of State announced       (Hansard 9 February 2006) that there would be a review by Sir David       Henshaw to completely       redesign the child support system, to report by the summer recess.
Our       research contributed to the       Henshaw review3.
The 2006 White Paper that followed also       referred to our work4.
Between the       White Paper and the 2008 Act Bradshaw and Skinner were active in a series       of private, high level,       policy seminars involving key ministers (Lord Hunt, Lord Kirkwood).
Skinner presented a paper5 at       a Nuffield Foundation seminar.
A paper6 presented by Bradshaw       at a seminar run jointly by The       Nuffield Foundation and One Parent Families was vital in influencing the       commissioning of the       international comparative study conducted at York (Skinner et al 2007) the       findings of which were       fed directly to the Director of the Child Support Division for the       operational redesign.
There was a       consultation that referred directly to the results of our research7.
The White Paper led to the 2008 Act which abolished the CSA and returned       to private agreements;       the development of a new Child Maintenance Options service in 2008       offering holistic information       and advice services to all separated parents; and the introduction of new       `relationship support'       services under the 2012 Welfare Reform Act, which includes an online       one-stop-shop web       application `Sorting out Separation' designed by `the Family       Support Services Expert Steering       Group' 2013.
Child maintenance obligations are now recognised by policy makers as       being intimately interlinked       with family relationships; this has been the consistent message from our       research.
The policy       changes from 2008-2013 affect all separated parents in the population (not       just CSA clients) and       consequently all of the dependent children who live with one non-widowed       lone parent, estimated       at 30% of all dependent children in the UK.
The move to private agreements       and the delivery of       new support services under both Acts will have a vital impact on improving       parental relationships in       separated families and for increasing child well-being.
Skinner also acted as policy advisor to the House of Commons Work and       Pensions Committee       inquiry into Child Support Reforms (2007).
Skinner, helped set the key       recommendations of the       enquiry, which included calling on the government to introduce holistic       support services dealing       with all aspects of parenting in separated families, not just child       maintenance obligations.
During 2008-2010 the insights on non-resident parents' child maintenance       behaviours gleaned       from Skinner's research on willingness to pay8 were delivered       directly to the first Chair of the Child       Maintenance Enforcement Commission (CMEC replaced the CSA) and the       Director of the Child       Support Division (2/10/2008).
The findings from these studies were key in       developing Child       Maintenance Options in 2008 which offered holistic information and support       services to all       separating parents (not just CSA clients) to help them make private       agreements.
Skinner's research9 developed the evidence base further to help       policy makers understand how       more parents could be encouraged to make private agreements; i.e.
through       a range of supportive       services that tackled separated family relationships and the practical and       emotional consequences       of relationship breakdown.
It confirmed our earlier work at York showing       the vital importance of       parental and child relationships to willingness to pay.
These insights       were incorporated into the       2012 Welfare Reform Act which focused upon encouraging co-parenting       relationships `first and       foremost' as the basis upon which child maintenance will then flow, rather       than the first approach       being to use ever stronger enforcement methods10 Following       that, the `Family Support Service       Expert Steering Group' involving Skinner as the sole social policy       academic developed a `2020       vision for new relationship support' services to help parents collaborate       in the upbringing of their       children (the first manifestation of service being the web application `Sorting         Out         Separation').
Taken together, our research has shifted the policy       rhetoric towards a more nuanced       understanding of parental behaviour which recognises the importance of       relationship factors to       willingness to pay11).
The 2012 scheme is still being piloted but we believe it is a much better       policy thanks partly to our       persistent research, scholarship and policy engagement since 1994.
