     The body of research detailed above had considerable impact by making       available to the MoJ, to human rights professionals, and to lawyers, a       body of empirical data and of theoretical and doctrinal legal argument       that undermined a common assumption in the debate about a domestic Bill of       Rights, and that clarified the legal notion of `proportionality'.
The       research was embodied in a MoJ Report, to which members of the Joint       Committee on Human Rights drew attention, and witnesses to the inquiry       (including the responsible Minister) cited and relied upon.
As a later       spin- off, its explanation of the doctrine of proportionality was included       in Ministry of Justice training materials for judges, and was relied on in       a leading practitioner's work on human rights (see [C6]).
The 2007 Lazarus/Goold Report [R1] began an ongoing programme of       collaborative research between Lazarus and Goold for the MoJ which       continued until 2010, when the authors published their second and final       Report [R2].
During these years, the government published its       Green Paper on Rights and Responsibilities (Cm 7577).
This was       published after a lengthy political debate in which the Lazarus/Goold       Report was quoted by the Minister of Justice in a public lecture [C1],       and by human rights specialists testifying before Parliament's Joint       Committee on Human Rights [C3].
In the Green Paper, the Government       restated its commitment to the HRA, and said that any British Bill of       Rights and Responsibilities would have to work as a complement to it.
As       it stated in the Executive Summary: `The Government is proud to have       introduced the Human Rights Act and it will not resile from it.
Any new       Bill of Rights and Responsibilities might subsume the Human Rights Act, or       might preserve it as a separate Act.'
The Green Paper went on to suggest       that any proposed British Bill of Rights and Responsibilities should not       include legally enforceable rights: `The Government does not consider a       general model of directly legally enforceable [rights or] responsibilities       to be the most appropriate for a future Bill of Rights and       Responsibilities.'
This was elaborated in some detail in the body of the       paper, especially with respect to the rights of those accused of crime to       liberty, and to the right to a fair trial (e.g.
page 32, paragraph 3.15).
The policy of the Green Paper reflected the Minister of Justice's       position as set out in his Mackenzie Stuart Lecture at Cambridge       University on 25 October 2007 [C1].
There, the then Justice       Secretary had argued that `any Bill of Rights could not have a reduced set       of rights or more heavily qualified rights than currently set out in the       ECHR without placing the UK in breach of its international obligations'.
As evidence for this proposition he relied heavily upon and quoted the       2007 Lazarus/Goold study [R1]: `Studies show that Article 3 is       applied similarly not just in Strasbourg but also in the domestic courts       of UK, Germany, Spain and France to name but a few.
Any argument that the       repeal of the Human Rights Act will mean that the consequences of Article       3 disappear is as disingenuous as it is flawed' [C1].
The 2007 Lazarus/Goold Report [R1] had argued that the right not       to be subjected to torture was an absolute right that bound the UK and all       the other jurisdictions in the study, and had shown that repealing the HRA       would in fact make little difference to the way in which these individuals       would be treated.
The mention of the binding nature of Article 3 (right       against torture) by the Minister of Justice in a public speech [C1]       is not only testimony to the influence of the Report [R1], it was       also highly significant in the context of the public debate on human       rights and security.
Many politicians, and the tabloid press, are critical       of human rights law on the basis that it protects criminals and terrorist       suspects who would otherwise be deported to countries associated with       torture.
This criticism featured heavily in 2013 debates over the       deportation to Jordan of Abu Qatada.
The importance of these findings has been acknowledged.
According to the       Legal Adviser to the Joint Committee on Human Rights and a Visiting       Professor at Oxford, `The Lazarus/Goold Report on how the principle of       proportionality operated in other Council of Europe member states made a       very significant contribution to ensuring that the debate on this       contentious subject was evidence- based.
The Report was drawn to the       attention of the members of the Committee and referred to in the       Committee's briefing material, as well as being referred to by witnesses       to the inquiry, including the responsible Minister himself.
Other common       misperceptions continued to dog the political debate about whether there       should be a UK Bill of Rights, but this research authoritatively laid to       rest the misperception that, in countries with national Bills of Rights,       laws and policies designed to counter terrorism are subject to less       intrusive scrutiny by the courts than is the case in the UK under the       Human Rights Act' [C2].
The MoJ found Lazarus and Goold's research for the first report helpful,       and commissioned them to undertake a second research project, which       resulted in their 2009 Report on The Relationship between Rights and         Responsibilities [R2].
This complemented their earlier       research by studying the potential risks associated with any attempt to       incorporate `responsibilities' into the existing constitutional framework.
The research explained the importance of ensuring that justiciable legal       rights do not become some kind of contingent reward for performing       nebulous responsibilities.
The 2009 Report was commissioned by the MoJ to       `contribute to the debate on the relationship between rights and       responsibilities initiated by the Green Paper' on Rights and         Responsibilities [R2, page 1].
It provided       independent academic endorsement to the position laid out in the Green       Paper that `contingency' had to be avoided, and was explicit that it was       reinforcing this message [R2, page 1].
The influence of Lazarus and Goold's work also reached beyond the MoJ.
It       was absorbed and relied upon by respected human rights experts in the       wider community, including the Commissioner at the Equality and Human       Rights Commission between 2006 and 2009, who in oral evidence to the Joint       Committee on Human Rights hearings regarding a UK Bill of Rights in 2008,       replied to a question as follows:     `The technical answer to your question is found in this research, which I       commend to all members of the Committee, if you have not already read it.
It is by the Ministry of Justice and Oxford University, called `Public       protection, proportionality and the search for balance'.
It is a       comparative study of jurisdictions where the Convention is incorporated       and there is an additional Bill of Rights.
In every case, in a nutshell,       it was found that actually, in jurisdictions that had additional Bills of       Rights, as well as incorporating the Convention, the courts tended to, if       you like, let the government off the hook far less frequently: they were       far more diligent and rigorous in their application of the fundamental       rights that were in their Bills of Rights and they took a more strenuous       approach to the proportionality principle which is in play in security       versus individual freedom cases...So I think this idea that having your       own Bill of Rights somehow means that you get Strasbourg off your back is       not based on any evidence or research' [C3].
In 2009, Klug reiterated the point in a popular political journal:       `Cameron has advanced the case that a British Bill of Rights would somehow       allow British governments to ignore European Court of Human Rights rulings       it does not agree with - a proposition that has been demolished by       research from Oxford University, which demonstrated that, if anything, the       reverse applies' [C4, p.421-2].
A final wave of impact of the research [R1, R2] came through its       use by those who were training judges, and by those arguing before those       judges.
The MoJ training materials on the idea of `proportionality' in       human rights decisions included selections from the Lazarus/Goold research       because they articulated a working definition of that idea that was found       to be clear and accessible to judges new to human rights reasoning.
And in       what is described as `the leading practitioner text on the law of human       rights' Lazarus and Goold are referred to and followed on these complex       issues [C6, p. 353].
In government, in Parliament, in the human rights community, and in the       world of legal practice, the research of Liora Lazarus and her Oxford       colleagues has contributed to a better informed understanding of tensions       between human rights and security, and of the legal doctrine of       proportionality that is often called on to resolve them.
