     Our comparative research in the 1990s highlighted how bad Britain's rates       of child poverty had       become.
In 1999, informed by this and others' evidence, Tony Blair       declared that it was the       Government's intention to eradicate child poverty within 20 years.
Child       poverty became a major       preoccupation of the UK government.
A strategy was developed which       included targets and       monitoring.
Using the results of our 1999 Poverty and Social Exclusion       survey, at a seminar with       officials and through membership of DWP advisory groups, we persuaded the       DWP to adopt a       third tier (deprivation based) child poverty measure.
This and other       multi-dimensional indicators       were adopted in the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) Opportunity         for all series.
The       measure was adopted in the Child Poverty Act 2010 targets.
A child poverty       strategy was       published in 2012 which proposed to use a range of child well-being       indicators.
In October 2012       the Government announced a consultation on the measurement of child       poverty to which we       submitted robust evidence.
Influenced by this UK experience in 2008, the EU Statistics on Income and       Living Conditions       (SILC) adopted a similar set of deprivation indicators, and in SILC 2009 a       special module on child       deprivation was introduced.
We were the first to analyse it (for UNICEF       Innocenti RC 10).
In 2010       a deprivation measure was adopted into the EU 2020 Poverty and Social       Inclusion strategy       targets.
UNICEF Innocenti Report Card 7 in 2007 based on our index of child       well-being had the UK at the       bottom of the international league table of rich countries.
This provoked       a public outcry and       enormous media interest.
This and the resulting Ditchley Declaration,       an agreed, cross-party       statement of principles and proposals of what should be done to improve       child well-being in the       UK, contributed to revitalising the child poverty strategy in 2008 and       2009.
The Department for       Children, Schools and Families published a revision to The Children's         Plan in 2009 which drew on       a review of evidence that was very similar to that covered in our Well-being         of children in the UK       reviews1.
The development of our local index of child well-being at the behest of       DCLG proved very useful       for local authorities, who under the Child Poverty Act (Part 2, Section       22) are required to prepare       and publish an assessment of the needs of children living in poverty in       their area.
Many of these       needs assessments drew on the index directly2 and are a       resource to support the development of       a local Child Poverty Strategy.
The data from our index was made available       on the DCLG website       and also by the NHS Observatory of Maternity and Child Health (CHIMAT).
In 2010 David Cameron asked the Office of National Statistics (ONS) to       monitor the general well-being 	  of the population.
ONS established two working groups to develop       measures.
Jonathan       Bradshaw and Gwyther Rees (Children's Society) were asked to join the       Children and Young       People Working Group.
Our experience of surveying children about their       subjective well-being has       proven very influential3 and we have contributed to a review       of available sources and undertaken       pilot work towards the establishment of national well-being measures for       children.
The evidence is that child well-being has been improving in the UK.
Most       child indicators have       improved.
In 2011/12 child poverty had fallen to 17% from 26% in 1998/9.
There is also evidence       from our analysis of Understanding Society data that child subjective       well-being improved       significantly between 1994 and 2011.
In the UNICEF Innocenti Report card       11 published in 2013       the UK had moved up the international league table of 29 rich countries       from bottom to 16th.
Our       work has contributed to these outcomes and to our capacity to measure       them.
More generally, our work has contributed to taking the national and       international discourse beyond       income poverty.
Child well-being is now a preoccupation of the UK       government and non-governmental 	  organisations (NGOs), international organisations, such as       the OECD, UNICEF and       the European Union.
Indeed, both the European Commission and the OECD are       now publishing 4       deprivation based poverty measures and multi-dimensional well-being       indicators that we       pioneered.
In 2013 the EU published a first Council Conclusion on Tackling         child poverty and         promoting child well-being.
Jonathan Bradshaw 5 who led this work has used his influence       as: Advisor to the House of       Commons Work and Pensions Committee (2003); Member of the DWP Technical       Working Group       on measuring child poverty (2003); UK expert on the EU group of experts on       social inclusion       (2005-); Member or the JRF Technical Group on a Strategy for Child Poverty       (2006); Member of       the Ministerial Advisory Committee on child poverty (2006); Member of the       Board of the       International Society for Child Indicators (2007-2013); Fellow of the       British Academy (2010-);       Member of the ONS National well-being advisory group (2010-2012); Honorary       Fellow, UNICEF       UK (2012-); and as a Trustee of the Child Poverty Action Group (2012-).
