     The research outlined above was used to underpin and inform the       development of an inter-related suite of GCSE courses.
This development       work involved the transformation of knowledge from the series of research       studies summarised in section 2 above, and from syntheses and evaluations       by York staff of relevant research carried out by science educators       internationally, into the form of a fully documented curriculum package       with a supporting in-service training programme for users.
This was       published by Oxford University Press.
These new and significantly improved       teaching materials included the first example (internationally) of a       mainstream science course for the 14-16 age range with a clear scientific       literacy emphasis, based on a clear and explicit rationale.
Making this a       component of a suite of inter-related GCSE courses showed how `science for       all' could be provided alongside `science for future specialisation'.
This       had not previously been implemented in any other country.
The development       work was carried out by staff in the Centre for Research and Innovation in       Science Education (CIRSE) at York, in collaboration with the Nuffield       Curriculum Centre.
It involved close collaboration with practising       teachers, and with scientists.
The work was made possible by grants from       the Nuffield Foundation (&#163;600k), Wellcome Trust (&#163;330k) and Salters'       Institute (&#163;200k).
The first was held jointly (50:50) with the Nuffield       Curriculum Centre, the others entirely by CIRSE.
Following pilot trials in 2003-6, Twenty First Century Science       (OCR Science A) was one of four suites of GCSE science specifications       offered to schools following the regulatory changes implemented in 2006,       and still in use.
It was adopted by 23% of maintained schools in England       (1200 centres; over 120,000 students each year), which is the highest       market share ever achieved by any `project' specification at GCSE or       A-level, in competition with more `traditional' alternatives.
The       principal impact since 2008 of the research and development programme that       led to Twenty First Century Science has therefore been on the       experience of school science of over half a million young people, and       their teachers.
Evaluation studies during the pilot trial (2003-6)       (including ref.
5 above) provided clear evidence of increased engagement       of students with science in many pilot centres, which was attributed by       teachers to the clearer and stronger links between course content and       science issues that students hear about outside school, and the greater       emphasis on evaluation of knowledge claims and discussion of       science-related issues throughout the courses.
Teachers using Twenty         First Century Science continue to report enhanced student engagement       and interest in science (see, for example, Reynolds, section 5).
The teaching materials for Twenty First Century Science consist       of 10 textbooks, 8 teacher and technician resource packs, and over 20       workbooks and revision guides, all with separate ISBNs, supported by       dedicated computer-based materials.
From 2008 to date, over 600,000 copies       of these publications have been purchased, including 234,427 student       textbooks.
The regulatory requirement that the distribution of GCSE grades awarded       for any specification is normalised against baseline data on the prior       attainment at Key Stage 3 of the cohort of students taking that       specification means that any overall enhancement of student learning as a       result of using Twenty First Century Science will not be reflected       in the distribution of grades awarded.
Students' subsequent subject       choices are therefore a better indicator of impact.
A survey of centres       using Twenty First Century Science carried out in 2008 just after       the first post-pilot cohort had completed the Twenty First Century         Science courses found increases of between 25 and 38 percent in       uptake of the three main sciences at AS-level, as compared to national       increases of 8-10% in the same school year (reported in: Millar, R.       (2010).
Increasing participation in science beyond GCSE: The impact of Twenty         First Century Science.
School Science Review, 91 (337),       41-47).
These findings are corroborated by an independent study by Homer,       Ryder and Donnelly (2010) of the impact of the 2006 curriculum changes on       students' science subject choices.
Increasing uptake of post-GCSE science       courses is widely seen (for example, by government and by the professional       organisations representing the science community) as a key policy       objective in the UK.
These studies provide clear evidence that this       research and development work has had a significant impact on post-GCSE       student participation in the sciences.
The success of the Twenty First Century Science curriculum model       during the pilot led QCA to require that all science GCSEs from 2006       should be structured on the `core + additional' model, replacing the       previous `double award science' model.
This was a clear and distinctive       impact on national policy regarding the structure of the science       curriculum at Key Stage 4, which arose primarily from this research and       development work.
The successful implementation of a school science course with a       scientific literacy emphasis has stimulated discussion of science       curriculum policy in the UK and more widely.
Millar was listed in 2010 in       The Times Eureka 100 list of influential figures in UK science, the       citation highlighting his role in implementing the recommendations of the       Beyond 2000 report through the Twenty First Century Science       project.
The assessment framework for the Organisation for Economic Cooperation       and Development (OECD) Programme for International Student Assessment       (PISA) science assessments in 2006, 2009 and 2012 (OECD, 2009: 130 (Figure       3.1)) was initially proposed by Millar at a PISA Forum meeting in 2002,       and is based directly on the design framework of the scientific literacy       course in Twenty First Century Science.
