     The focus of the impact is in the achievement of clarity and the       development of consensus around an evolved form of citizenship education       implemented in England and elsewhere.
Impact was achieved in several       contexts.
Impact on Policy Makers: Professor Sir Bernard Crick invited       Davies to develop guidance for teachers, including teaching materials,       around the characterization of citizenship education emerging from the       research referred to above.
Those papers were presented at meetings for       teachers and teacher trainers in Canada (Ontario History and Social       Studies Teachers association), Japanese Educational Research for the       Social Studies (JERASS), London and elsewhere.
Davies was invited to join       the UK-based Citizen 2000 group that offered papers to policy makers and       was a member of the government's Citizenship and Teacher Training Group.
Cabinet minister Liam Byrne at the 2008 citizED Cambridge conference       affirmed the importance of the work on citizenship education.
Davies is a       member of Democratic Life (an organisation that helped promote the case       for the retention of citizenship in the National Curriculum).
Democratic       Life, when making the case for citizenship education, was able to draw on       research by Davies and others at York.
Kerr, a key member of the Crick       committee, cites continuing influence on policy nationally ("the research       you [Davies] have conducted has helped to inform the [successful] case for       the retention of citizenship as a statutory National Curriculum".
Kerr       witnessed explicit reference to that research, during the review period,       in meetings with Michael Gove, Michael Wilshaw, in the Five Nations       Network, Council of Europe and beyond Europe (United Nations, UNESCO,       International Association for the Evaluation of Educational Achievement).
Further evidence of European impact on policy is evidenced by Davies'       appointment by the Council of Europe as an expert of education for       democratic citizenship (EDC) for the Pestalozzi programme (2006-08).
The       nature of EDC is clearly congruent with the characterization promoted by       Davies (on the basis of understanding developed through work with the       Council of Europe in Germany (Berlin), France (Strasbourg), Slovenia       (Ljubljana) and Norway (Oslo)).
Further evidence for on-going impact on       policy includes presentations by Davies at the Japanese ministry for       education (MEXT).
Professor Ikeno (Hiroshima University) has cited Davies'       influence on policy for regional initiatives and also on the revision of       the Japanese National Curriculum for social studies from 2008.
Impact on Teachers, Trainee Teachers and Classroom Practice: Many       of the citizED classroom resources on the citizED web pages are based       directly on the research undertaken by Davies and written by him.
Peterson       writes: "The student teachers (and indeed their school based mentors)       ...used the practical resources extensively, implementing them within       schools".
The same is true of many of the activities for professionals and       young people created and used because of the Democracy through Citizenship       project funded by the Joseph Rowntree Reform Trust Ltd. Bernie Flanagan       (project director of Democracy through Citizenship) states that Davies'       work helped in the establishment of various initiatives including a web       site for young people; the development of the York Youth Forum; the       promotion of locality events in which schools enabled young people to       influence policy; the development of school councils (available to 50       schools); and in the promotion of the influence of young people on the       Children and Young People's Plan.
The evaluation of the Esm&#233;e Fairbairn       funded `political literacy project' (by Davies) influenced the creation of       teaching materials that were published commercially (Huddleston 2004) and       were still available during the review period.
Davies has written       textbooks based on his research including 100+ ideas for teaching         citizenship.
London, Continuum.
This is the 2nd edition (2011) of a       book first published in 2005.
It provides practical, research-based       guidance for teachers who are encouraged to develop a particular approach       to citizenship education.
The book has international impact (e.g.
it has       been translated into Malay during the review period).
Kerr states that       Davies' research helps in "anchoring the understanding and practice of       student teachers and practising teachers in relation to citizenship       education".
Peterson states that Davies' research has impacted positively       on "classroom practice through the development and use of classroom       resources".
The Children's identity and Citizenship in Europe (CiCe)       network (approximately 100 higher education institutions across almost all       European countries and funded by the EU) &#8212; and its subscription based       partner CiCeA &#8212; uses in its many working groups, conferences and       publications continues to use the characterization of citizenship       education promoted by Davies and others and indicates the impact on       international capacity building.
Ross has written: "Davies' work has been       widely used by teacher educators across Europe and is particularly well       regarded by teacher educators in Canada, Australia, Hong Kong and Japan       where his perceptions are widely communicated to student teachers".
Impact on Teacher Trainers: The CitizED organisation (which Davies       helped to set up and of which he is currently Deputy Director) is a major       vehicle for developing internationally academic clarity and influencing a       professional consensus and disseminating research findings and ideas, in a       form that led to direct impact on practices and professional thinking.
Davies' research led directly to the development work with citizED funded       by the Teacher Training Agency (TTA)/Teacher Development Agency (TDA).
CitizED created extensively used web pages immediately accessed by people       in over 40 countries), which make available reports from 67 workshops and       conferences.
These events brought together teacher trainers in England       with researchers (including an Evidence for Policy and Practice       Information and Co-ordinating Centre (EPPI-Centre) project), policy makers       and community-based workers from around the world (UK, Canada, Hong Kong,       Japan, Australia, USA).
Using ideas from the research of Davies and       others, papers, which continue to be widely used, were written by and for       trainees (62 papers), teacher mentors (5 papers), and tutors (157 papers)       on citizenship and how to teach it in Initial Teacher Training (ITT),       Continuing Professional Development (CPD) and in schools.
Liam Gearon was       appointed by the funder (TTA/TDA) to assess the CitizED Project and he       wrote that "The CitizED Project ... is a major innovation in citizenship       education which has provided strong leadership in the field of curriculum       development... and research in teacher education in England.
It is a       beacon of good practice throughout the United Kingdom and       internationally.... [It has been of] greatest service to the community of       initial teacher education and training through the network of PGCE and       other postgraduate courses in citizenship (either as an individual course       of training, or combined with another subject, or on advanced Master's       level courses)" (source Gearon, p.24).
There are a large number of resources available for teacher trainers on       the citizEd web pages (www.citized.info).
These resources are used within teacher education programmes and by       teachers.
Peterson states that "the citizED network has underpinned the       work of all teacher educators for citizenship education in the UK (and       indeed elsewhere in the world)...
In particular the Tutor Induction Packs       written by Professor Davies were utilised to help support colleagues new       to citizenship education".
Professor Ikeno (Japan) has written of 3 new       courses since 2009 for secondary teachers in Hiroshima University that are       influenced by Davies' research.
Davies was founding (and current) editor       of the journal Citizenship Teaching and Learning.
Gearon       recognised it as an "excellent resource for practitioners, researchers and       practitioner-researchers" (source Gearon, p. 16).
Impact on Subject and Other Associations.
Impact has been achieved       on subject and other associations to promote a particular characterization       of citizenship education.
The Society for Educational Studies, of which       Davies is Secretary, established the engagED project to explore and       promote citizenship and community links.
Davies has impacted on the       Association for Citizenship Teaching (ACT).
ACT's Professional Officer,       Waller, writes that research "undertaken by York has directly impacted on       the work of ACT in supporting new teaching activities ... specifically       this [research] has helped ACT develop new resources for National Citizens       Service on community engagement".
Kerr (as Director of Education,       Citizenship Foundation) states that Davies' research influences "decisions       as to what areas development work should focus on".
CiCeA has awarded       Davies its Outstanding Achievement Award for 2013.
Impact on international       associations is seen on the influence on the British Council (e.g.
projects in Russia that led to the production of 15 booklets for teacher       trainers and teachers; involvement in the Migrant Integration Policy Index       III initiative concerning citizenship and migration across many       countries).
Involvement with the Japan Association for Social Studies       (JASS) in the development of conferences and papers that were distributed       to teachers provides further evidence of influence on opinion formers in       other countries.
