     The research outlined above has been highly influential in transforming       teacher education in Tanzania and Kenya.
The 2008 baseline study in       Tanzania showed that where teachers had not received school-based INSET       they used a limited repertoire of whole class teaching.
In response to the       findings of the baseline, the Ministry of Education and Vocational       Training (MoEVT) of Tanzania published an INSET strategy in 2009       recommending the development of a systemic approach to teacher       development.
It included the use of school-based INSET supported by       distance learning materials, school clusters and local support agents to       work with head teachers and teachers in the schools.
Throughout 2010, the       strategy was approved following a highly consultative process which       involved ministries, departments and agencies, development partners and       civil society organisations, and training modules for teachers were       developed in three key areas: mathematics, English and pedagogy.
In 2011, the MOEVT began piloting the school-based INSET model in the       seven district councils used for the baseline with a view to implementing       the INSET strategy nationally.
141 schools took part in the pilot and       2,052 primary school teachers received training in the teaching of       mathematics and English.
The teachers also received mentoring, classroom       observation and feedback from peers, head teachers and teacher educators.
Following the publication of the evaluation findings in December 2012       suggesting that systematic, school-based training can significantly       improve pedagogical practices, and that it is more cost-effective than       traditional college-based provision at only a third of the cost, a       national scale-up of the school-based INSET programme by MoEVT and Prime       Ministers' Office-Regional Administration and Local Government (PMO-RALG)       is being planned for implementation in 2014.
Evidence of the impact of research led by Hardman on school-based INSET       can also be seen in neighbouring Kenya where his research helped to shape       the design and implementation of the School-based Teacher Development       (SbTD) programme.
It was to have a major influence on the design of       Tanzania's school-based INSET programme following a visit from a senior       team of advisors from MoEVT during the 2010 consultation period.
Hardman       began working on SbTD in 1999 when he was commissioned by Department For       International Development (DFID) to design a national baseline study of       classroom interaction practices in Kenya to inform the design and       implementation of the school-based programme.
SbTD was developed as a       programme of self-study, using distance-learning modules combined with       regular face-to-face cluster meetings.
Over 47,000 primary school teachers throughout Kenya successfully       graduated from SbTD in the three core subjects of English, mathematics and       science.
Three teachers from every school, called Key Resource Teachers       (KRTs) were trained to lead school-based professional development within       their subject area in their schools.
The programme was supported by a       zonal-based teacher advisory system of over 1,000 teacher advisory centre       tutors, who were trained to provide group-based support service to the       KRTs who were working with distance learning materials while carrying a       full-time teaching load in the schools.
It was subsequently evaluated by       Hardman in 2005 and significant changes were found in the pedagogic       practices of those teachers who had undergone the training compared to the       baseline that showed an overwhelming level of teacher-led rote and       recitation and the chorusing of answers.
In 2006, building on the evaluation findings, 18,000 head teachers were       given training in curriculum leadership and whole school development to       support school-based training, and SbTD was expanded to include the       teaching of Kiswahili and training in guidance and counselling.
Subsequently, in 2010, Professor Hardman led on the development of a       quality assurance framework that built on the observation schedules used       in the baseline and evaluation studies.
By 2012, all of Kenya's 6,000       school quality assurance officers were trained to use the inspection       manual and 30,000 copies of the framework were distributed to all       government schools to assist in self-appraisal and to help in preparation       for an inspection visit.
Based on the impact of his research into teacher education in the Kenya       and Tanzania, other countries in the East African region are considering       implementing school-based INSET training.
As a result, Hardman has been       invited to speak at a range of regional conferences on teacher education.
For example, in the past 2 years, he presented keynote speeches at       conferences in Rwanda (November 2011), Tanzania (December 2012), Kenya       (March 2011 and October, 2013) and Mozambique (October, 2013).
