     Through a wide-ranging and interlinked impact programme, the group's       research has inspired creative and critical responses among a range of       publics, individuals, and institutions, ranging from school students to       the National Trust and its users.
Impact events have brought local and       visiting York audiences to the heart of national debates and stimulated       historically-informed responses with a national, and international, reach.
Killeen and Smith have collaborated extensively in organising the two key       strands of impact activity: on the Bible (led by Killeen) and on       conversion narratives and religious change (led by Smith).
Elmarsafy's       research has underpinned much of this second strand, and been central to       the exhibition and app at Hardwick Hall, described below.
Inspiring Publics     In 2011, Killeen trained postgraduates to work with over 180 local       primary school students on `Parallel Stories: Parables for our       Time', exploring the application of religious narratives to contemporary       events.
Sixth-form students from across Yorkshire, and from BSix, Hackney,       an area at the centre of recent debates around religious tensions, took       part in five workshops with Helen Smith and Abigail Shinn (postdoctoral       fellow on the Conversion Narratives project) from 2011-13, exploring       religious life in the Renaissance, and applying the team's findings to       their own experiences.
One teacher testified that Parallel Stories'       `creative approach... enabled the children to understand the Bible's       significance today', whilst a BSix student emailed Smith to say that the       workshops `inspired me so much that I am basing my Extended project       qualification on something very similar....
I regularly check the blog'       (Evidence #1).
Six public lectures in spring 2013 (including by Smith, Elmarsafy, and       Conversion Narratives members Abigail Shinn, Peter Mazur and Simon       Ditchfield, chaired by Killeen) brought the group's research to a wide         local public       (http://www.york.ac.uk/crems/conversion/news/publiclectures/).
The       lectures, held at the Medical Society Rooms in the centre of York in order       to attract an audience beyond the University, encouraged attendees to       understand the historical diversity of religious experience, and its       pertinence to present debates.
Routinely over capacity, the lectures       attracted c. 420 attendees.
Feedback gathered through postcards filled in       after each lecture singled out a variety of ideas showing connections       between current and early modern experiences of religion that attendees       found provocative, including `the Anglo-Ottoman detente under Elizabeth       I', `the controversies involved in translating the Qu'ran', `women's       embroidery [as] a rich source for understanding the social and religious       upheavals of the Renaissance', and `how mutable identities were' (Evidence       #2).
The Bible was a core theme of the first York Festival of Ideas in July       2011, allowing York residents and visitors to participate in and       gain a sophisticated understanding of national celebrations of the 400th       Anniversary of the King James Bible (Evidence #3).
A Conversion       Narratives walking tour, family Bible event, and national `Ten       commandments for the 21st century' competition, encouraged individuals       to understand the centrality of the King James Bible translations and       biblical politics to national life, and realise the enduring relevance of       early modern debates around conversion and religious identity (Evidence       #2).
The Conversion Narratives blog and website (www.york.ac.uk/conversion;       www.europeanconversionnarratives.wordpress.com)       have opened the group's research to an international audience,       with posts drawing, for example, on Smith's research into women's reading       and tales of conversion, Killeen's research into Browne and the KJV, and       Elmarsafy's research into Islamic culture; the blog had over 29,000 hits       from 127 countries between Sept 2010 and July 31st 2013, and the project       had over 1000 twitter followers on July 31st 2013.
Responses to the blog       reveal the eagerness of non-academics to participate in and be informed by       the research of the project: 'Lilufa' commented: 'this sort of research is       highly valuable in terms of aiding one's understanding of another's       religion or way of life.
It is through this understanding prejudices can       be tackled' (Evidence #4).
Re-presenting the Past     Two exhibitions, one led by Killeen and one led by Smith, brought       Elmarsafy, Killeen and Smith's research findings to national and         international audiences, and had a significant impact upon the National         Trust and Cathedral Libraries and Archives.
The group's       research has enabled Hardwick Hall and the York Minster Library to       understand more fully the potential and richness of their collections, and       to appreciate the capacity of those collections to contribute to       contemporary debates and communicate difficult historical concepts to a       wide audience.
Through a series of meetings and exchanges in June and July       2013, these insights have also impacted upon senior curators at the       National Trust and institutions within the new Cathedral Libraries and       Archives Network (Evidence #5 and 6).
Hardwick Hall, one of the most important surviving Elizabethan       houses, attracts over 250,000 visitors a year, and brings together a team       of 250 volunteers.
Hardwick was the ideal site to explore religious       history and women's agency, thanks to the history of its builder, Bess of       Hardwick, and its holdings, especially an appliqu&#233; hanging showing `True       faith and her contrary, Mahomet' and rare painted hangings depicting the       conversion of Saul.
Smith curated the `Virtue and Vice' exhibition (Apr       2013-Nov 2014).
She wrote the accompanying mobile app which links       Hardwick's collections to those held nationally and internationally, and       enables non-academic audiences to engage actively in contextualizing the       Hall's collections       (Android: play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.rustymonkey.virtueandvice&amp;hl=en_GB;iOS:itunes.apple.com/app/virtue-and-vice/id635915944?ign-mpt=uo%3D5).
One element of Smith's exhibition specifically illustrates the capacity       of research and creative practice to come together to address areas of       cultural conflict.
Hardwick's `Mahomet' appliqu&#233; hanging controversially,       from a modern perspective, represents the triumph of English Protestantism       over Islam (though Smith's interpretation for the exhibition reveals its       more nuanced approach to this iconographic tradition).
Elmarsafy was       centrally engaged in the decisions made about how to approach the       provocative 'Mahomet' hanging, and how to present it within the exhibition       and app.
Jan Garside, a nationally-recognised textile artist,       engaged in a series of conversations with Smith (which drew on Smith's,       Killeen's and Elmarsafy's research), and reinterpreted Hardwick's       controversial hanging in a textile installation reflecting upon cultural       encounter and women's agency.
This collaboration not only added to the       impact of the research presented in the exhibition, but had a beneficial       impact on Garside, who brought new designs into her work, based on Smith's       analysis of material encounters in the Renaissance, and began to conceive       differently of the relevance of historical collections to her practice       (Evidence #7).
The exhibition's most significant impact has been upon the National         Trust (including its senior administrators, curators and         volunteers).
After a workshop presenting the research of Elmarsafy,       Killeen and Smith, 79% of Hardwick room guides confirmed they would change       how they presented the Hall to visitors (Evidence #8).
One, in particular,       noted the dual impact of the exhibition and the research workshop,       confirming `the visitors themselves will think differently'.
The       exhibition has indeed had a direct impact upon local, national, and         international visitors.
Visitors interviewed in July 2013 were       enthusiastic about how the exhibition connected Hardwick to national and       international histories with continuing relevance (Evidence #8).
Elena       Williams, Assistant House and Collections Manager, confirms `the       exhibition has changed how we present the Hall, and made staff more       confident in presenting complex historical knowledge and ideas to visitors       from across the world' (Evidence #9).
Meetings with national curatorial       staff (for Pictures and Sculpture and Books and Libraries), have confirmed       the Trust's aim to build on the exhibition throughout the organization,       and led to an ongoing research partnership and an invitation to explore       the exhibition's lessons in the Trust's autumn 2013 ABC Bulletin.
David Adshead, Head Curator of the National Trust, has confirmed that this       collaboration will shape the Trust's research agenda as it moves forward       (Evidence #5).
York Minster Library, the largest Cathedral Library in Britain,       has important collections in theology, early science, literature, and       music.
`A Book Fit for a King', curated by Killeen as part of the King       James Bible celebrations (July-Nov 2011; www.york.ac.uk/projects/bible/),       has been described as 'the most important exhibition run by the Minster       Library to date.
It gave us new insights into the values and histories of       our own collections' (Evidence #10).
The exhibition raised awareness among       local communities and tourists of the historic importance of York's       ecclesiastical past and of the ecclesiastical context of learning in the       early modern period.
The Minster Librarian has confirmed that Killeen's       presentation of cutting-edge research has inspired the Dean and         Chapter to understand the value of the library's historic holdings,       and how they can be made relevant in today's world (Evidence #10).
This       close collaboration has established the University of York and York       Minster Library as the leading institutions in the formation of the new       Cathedral Libraries and Archives Network (Evidence #6 and #10).
Representatives of major Cathedral and ecclesiastical libraries met with       York academics (including Smith) on 15th March, 2013 to launch       the network.
This network facilitates and promotes research on these       collections and acts as an interface between academic communities, church       bodies and the wider public.
