     Overview of Impact     Designed to have a direct influence on the political, cultural and       educational institutions of South Africa, and to play a part in the       reshaping of the public's understanding of the country's multiple cultural       traditions, Attwell and Attridge's CHSAL made a significant       contribution to the current process of national reconciliation and       self-evaluation after the ending of apartheid.
To ensure the book's widest       possible reach, especially in South Africa, Attwell and Attridge secured       an exceptional agreement by Cambridge University Press to publish a       special inexpensive paperback edition for the African market at a third of       the international price, making the book accessible to African students as       well as readers outside universities.
These unusual publishing       arrangements were designed to maximise the influence of CHSAL as       the most comprehensive literary history of South Africa yet to be       published, covering the country's huge linguistic range.
Within the first       year of its publication (2012), the volume had been reprinted three times,       demonstrating sales, and thus readership, well in excess of expectations.
In a country where literary culture continues to be integral to the       political process, Attwell and Attridge have made possible new perceptions       of the achievements of South Africa's writers and new understandings of       the complex history of literary production from pre-colonial oral       narratives to recent developments in South Africa's eleven official       languages.
The beneficiaries of the impact are: South African political         and cultural institutions and leaders, media, universities and         schools, contemporary South African writers, and South African and         global reading publics.
Beneficiaries     Attwell and Attridge's research directly impacted on leading South       African cultural, educational, political and literary figures.
They       arranged public events to coincide with the publication of CHSAL,       most importantly well-attended launches in both Johannesburg and Cape Town       in March 2012.
The influence of the volume on major cultural leaders was       in evidence in their direct involvement in the launches.
In Johannesburg,       the address was given by Achmat Dangor, leading novelist and CEO of the       Nelson Mandela Foundation; in Cape Town, by Njabulo Ndebele, writer,       public intellectual and former Vice-Chancellor of the University of Cape       Town.
World-renowned South African authors from across the nation's       different linguistic communities, including Nobel laureate Nadine       Gordimer, Andr&#233; Brink and Mandla Langa, attended the launches.
The       willingness of Dangor and Ndebele to launch CHSAL and the presence       of major writers illustrates the quick recognition within South Africa of       the importance of the volume's social and political intervention.
Both       Dangor and Ndebele praised its impact on the country's perception of its       culture; Ndebele commented that the book will be read "in schools,       universities and public libraries, and will spread its intellectual       presence in our public lives well into the future."
A commentator on the       multilingual literary blog SlipNet agreed with Ndebele that the sharing       of South Africa's history is itself a story that "must be opened up, as       this book does, if we are to develop a greater understanding of ourselves       and our positioning in the world".
Such strong statements recognise the       book's contribution to the shaping of public discourse and civic         values.
(See #1, 2, 3, 4 below)     The South African media quickly saw the extensive public       significance of CHSAL.
The volume provided the media with new       frameworks for debating the country's multiple cultural traditions.
The       launches were widely reported on literary websites and in the mainstream       South African press.
The book was reviewed in newspapers such as the         Cape Times and the Mail &amp; Guardian, on popular internet       sites such as LitNet and SlipNet, and on South African radio, and was       discussed in a public debate at the Mail &amp; Guardian Literary       Festival at the Market Theatre in Johannesburg in September 2012.
(The         Mail &amp; Guardian is a weekly national South African newspaper,       widely read for its political and cultural coverage; it has a       distinguished history of oppositional and investigative reporting going       back to the 1980s.)
The Mail &amp; Guardian's solicitation of a       full-page article from Attwell is a measure of the volume's success in       shaping the media's representation of South African literature and of the       widespread sense that the country needed this new, cross-cultural and       multilingual narrative about its cultural heritage.
(See # 5, 6, 7 below)     Although recently published, the volume has already been adopted as a       course text in South African universities (e.g., the Honours       course in African Literatures at the University of Johannesburg, the       "Africa Live" course in the English Department at the University of Cape       Town, and the course on "Algemeene Literatuurwetenskap" in the Afrikaans       Department at the University of Pretoria) where its definitive status is       influencing a new generation of cultural producers, fulfilling Ndebele's       prediction.
The remark by Linda Kwatsha, Professor and Head of African       Languages at Nelson Mandela Metropolitan University, in her review of CHSAL       captures the book's importance to black educators and their students: "The       question as to what South African literature is has been answered in this       volume.
South African literature is not South African English literature,       but embraces all the languages and cultures of the people of South Africa"       (See #4 below).
Such comments point to the volume's re-positioning of the       country's literary heritage in South African education.
(See # 8 below)     The impact of Attwell and Attridge's research has reached South Africa's       National English Literary Museum (NELM), the country's major       manuscript and book archive, with a lively outreach programme.
Responding       to the same cultural imperatives as CHSAL, NELM has expanded its       remit to include the indigenous-language literatures.
In March 2013, York       and NELM's Director, Beverley Thomas, agreed to a partnership which       includes an exhibition of literary materials curated by Attwell and       Attridge to coincide with the opening of NELM's new multi-million rand       facility.
Attwell and Attridge have begun to develop funding applications       to support collaborative projects enabling NELM's archivists to work with       UK and South African researchers.
Through this partnership Attwell and       Attridge enhance NELM's international profile and provide an academic       dimension to their archival training programme.
(See #9 below)     Alongside their work in changing South Africa's perception of its own       literary culture, Attwell and Attridge have helped to create a wider       appreciation of South African literature and its strong political voice       within global postcolonial literatures.
As a result of the prominence of       their research on Coetzee and other South African writers, and their       commitment to using it to reframe international perceptions of South       Africa, Attwell and Attridge have promoted South African literature in the       media (interviews on BBC and Australian Broadcasting Corporation), hosted       launches (CHSAL) and readings (Coetzee, Wicomb) at York, and       participated in literary festivals and public fora around the world (The       Netherlands, Poland, Norway, Australia).
(See #10 below)
