     Throughout his career, Bowen has been concerned both with transforming       the understanding of Dickens, an iconic national figure, and in reaching       the widest possible range of audiences and institutions in communicating       that understanding.
Dickens has huge popular appeal but presenting his       work to a popular audience risks representing him as a more conventional       and conservative figure than the literary and historical evidence       supports, thus allowing him to be appropriated in compromised, limited or       misleading ways.
Bowen's work has been strongly committed simultaneously       to affirming Dickens's status as a popular author, to transmitting that       understanding to new wide-ranging audiences, in the UK and overseas, and       to maintaining the unsettling qualities of Dickens's work.
His research       has impacted on the work of three key cultural institutions.
Beneficiaries include a unique and pioneering cultural         institution (University of California Dickens Project), major         museums (British Library and Museum of London) and the media,       (particularly BBC radio, many appearances).
Evidence of reach       includes La Corriere della Serra (Milan) (30.1.2012) which       describes Bowen as `uno dei massimi studiosi di Dickens' and `Dickens at       200', Charlie Rose, US TV programme (PBS, syndicated over 200       affiliates, 17.1.
2012) in which his research on Dickens and America is       quoted and he is described as `the great Dickensian critic'.
i.
An Innovative Cultural Institution: The Dickens Universe     The Dickens Project is a Multi-Campus Research Unit of the University of       California.
Since 1981, a central focus of the Project's research impact       has been the creation and sustaining of the annual week-long `Dickens       Universe', which brings together hundreds of members of the general public       from the USA, Japan and Europe with undergraduates, graduates and leading       academics.
A substantial cohort of faculty and students from leading US,       European and Australian universities engage closely in academic exchange       with teachers, educators, film-makers, TV producers, authors (e.g.
Pulitzer-prize winning novelist Jane Smiley and biographer Lucinda       Hawkesley), leading performers (e.g.
Miriam Margolyes) and other lovers of       Dickens.
From its inception, the `Universe' has been designed to bring       research directly to public audiences through lectures, performances,       seminars, book panels, teachers' workshops and many other events.
It is a       model of how research can be transmitted to, engage with and transform       popular understandings of literary texts and iconic figures of modern       culture, such as Dickens.
Bowen has been at the centre of this unique,       pioneering blend of scholarly gathering and outreach to multiple publics       throughout the period of assessment, as lecturer, teacher, executive       committee member and now co-Director.
The `Universe', which celebrated its 30th year in 2012, has had       considerable public impact.
Praised by Smiley on Oprah Winfrey's `Oprah's       Book Club' webcast (24.2.11; audience 2m+), it was also the subject of a       major feature by Professor Jill Lepore (Harvard) in The New Yorker       (pre-eminent Anglophone forum for serious journalism and literature;       audited circulation 1.04m per issue; readership 3.7m).
Lepore articulates       the exemplary model the `Universe' offers for the impact of research,       writing: `precious few humanities initiatives have brought together       students and readers, scholars and teachers as the Dickens Project has       done'.
The central mission of the Dickens Project is to bring cutting-edge       research findings about 19th-century literature and culture and       Dickens in particular to broadly-based audiences, and to engage in active       dialogue with them about that research.
Bowen has been at the heart of       this work, presenting his own research in lectures in 2009, 2011 and 2012.
The 2011 lecture drew on his research on questions of literary style in       biographical and fictional writing, later published in 3.ii; the 2009 and       2012 lectures together with seminars in 2010 and 2013 drew directly on       3.i, 3.ii and 3.iv.
He has taken a leading role, both administratively and       intellectually, in shaping this highly innovative structure and model of       research impact.
The integral place of Bowen's work to the `Universe' is       evident in Lepore's focus on his research and teaching, which drew       directly on conversations with Bowen and on his published research (3.i).
Dickens `Universe' enrolment increased from 257 in 2011 to 320 in 2012.
55% of these were first-timers, and the article played a key part in this       success.
ii.
Museums and Libraries     Bowen's research led to an invitation to be a member of the Advisory       Committee of the major 2012 Dickens Bicentenary exhibition, `Dickens and       London', Museum of London.
Drawing on his research, he played an active       role in shaping the exhibition, working closely to advise the curator.
As       the only academic invited to be a media spokesman for `Dickens and       London', he had a direct influence on media reporting.
The strong       attendance figures (94,785) and widespread coverage in print and broadcast       media attest to the reach of the impact of this exhibition.
Bowen was       cited in newspapers around the world, e.g.
El Universal       (Venezuela), Exc&#233;lsior (Mexico), Terra Brasil (Brazil), Corriere         della Serra (Italy), El Nuevo D&#237;a (Puerto Rica) and Heraldo         de Aragon (Spain), opening up to view the attractiveness of Bowen's       `international Dickens' whose fiction includes extended cultural       comparisons and soundings of national difference, and whose depiction of       English life is regularly tested against those of other nations in his       fiction, journalism and travel books.
Bowen also worked with the media to       bring the exhibition to the notice of UK public audiences, discussing it       (with Claire Armitstead, the Guardian) on BBC Radio 4 `Today'       programme: 07.12.11 (RAJAR average weekly audience 7 million+).
Bowen has also drawn on his research in working with the British Library.
He appeared `in conversation' with Claire Tomalin, award-winning       biographer of Dickens and Ternan (5.1.12), discussing the interpretive       challenges that biographical knowledge of Dickens's life, particularly his       relationship with Ternan, presents to criticism (event was widely       publicised and sold out) and public lectures for the BL exhibitions,       `Dickens and Gothic' (`Dickens: Haunted by the Gothic', 21.2.12) and       `Writing Britain' (18.9.12).
Bowen's work with the British Library has expanded and deepened.
He has       played a leading role in the development of their new `Literature Online'       project, a major resource to widen access to the BL's unparalleled       manuscript and print collections.
As a founding member of the Advisory       Board and in close collaboration with library staff, he has `played a       fundamental part in shaping the project' (Anna Lobbenberg, BL e-learning       manager).
His theoretically sophisticated approach to the complexity of       autobiography and fiction in the life and writing of Dickens has informed       not only how this and other 19th-century writers were       represented in `Literature Online' but also more broadly how the resource       attends to the relation of historical and biographical evidence and       literary interpretation across all periods.
The content also specifically       illustrates the impact of his research on the library.
He has contributed       many video and written entries based on his research on Dickens and other       major 19th-century authors and topics, e.g.
Gothic fiction and       the works of the Brontes.
Bowen has taken an active role in publicizing       `Literature Online' which was previewed at the 2013 York Festival of Ideas       (29.6.13), with a presentation by Bowen and BL colleagues and concurrent       exhibition at the 3Sixty Creative Technology Centre display space.
All       survey responses from members of the general public described the event as       `very good' or `excellent'.
When it launches in 2014, beneficiaries will       include sixth formers, teachers, undergraduates and lifelong learners (NB       the beneficiary claimed in this case study is the British Library.)
iii.
Media     A regular broadcast media commentator and interviewee for many years,       Bowen has had a leading role in the media's presentation of Dickens.
His       research on the relation of biography to fiction, as seen in the deep       concern with questions of memory and the shaping power of childhood       experience and suffering in Dickens's oeuvre, led to particular demand       before and during the Bicentenary.
Bowen was a major contributor to the       innovative Channel 4 drama/documentary `Dickens's Secret Lover' (Sarah       Aspinall, Flame TV, 2008) which drew on Bowen's research on the       Dickens/Ternan relationship.
He wrote the supporting article `Dickens's       Secret Life' for the Channel 4 website.
A clip featuring Bowen was heavily       trailed before transmission; the primetime programme had an audience of       1.5 million and was widely and positively reviewed in Daily Telegraph,       Guardian and Independent.
He has worked extensively with       BBC Radio.
A number of items were shaped around his particular research       expertise, including a scripted item on `dark' Dickens on Radio 4's `Open       Book' (14.10.12, RAJAR listening figures average 1.1m) and a discussion on       Radio 4's `World at 1' to mark the 200th anniversary of       Dickens's birth (7.2.12, RAJAR listening figures average 1.4m).
Bowen's       research on the darker and haunted side of Dickens strongly influenced       media producer Cathy Fitzgerald who produced the innovative Rockethouse       production for BBC World Service, `Dreaming Dickens' (2012).
For       Fitzgerald, Bowen's work was `the beginnings of my own re-imaginings of       Dickens....
I don't think influence goes deeper'.
This programme won the       prestigious international Prix Maruli&#263;.
