     Historical research at York into place and pilgrimage has been used by       CSCC for its interpretation work.
This involves working with the people       managing the sites to devise ways of presenting churches and cathedrals,       using a variety tools, such as touch screen displays, websites, and most       innovatively and commonly mobile apps for phones and i-pads.
This also       involves facilitating meetings with local stakeholders and local history       groups to inform them about current historical research and the ways it       has changed our understanding of church and community.
The digital       resources have also provided the foundation for an entirely new package of       professional development for clergy and the custodians of these churches.
The impacts of this work can be summarized under three headings:     1.Creating new aids to help visitors engage with sacred sites:     a.
The work of Dyas and Cubitt has helped to reshape heritage       interpretation.
Dyas's research on the history of pilgrimage is helping       those managing churches to recognise the continuing importance of 'place'       and of sensory experience in both traditional and new `secular' forms of       spirituality.
In a growing number of cathedrals and historic parish       churches, she has devised pilgrim trails (using mobile app technology and       other interpretation tools) to help visitors understand the pilgrim       experience of the past and explore the significance of `place' today.
For       example, pilgrimage was chosen by Worcester Cathedral as the central theme       of their 2012-2013 CSCC-led interpretation scheme: http://www.christianityandculture.org.uk/partnerships/worcester-cathedral;       (S3).
Cubitt's outputs on the Anglo-Saxon church have fed directly into 3       CSCC-led history/interpretation projects:            Her research identifying the significance of place and landscape         features, such as holy wells, in the development of Anglo-Saxon sacred         sites is helping to shape the Berkswell (`Beorces well') parish project         in Warwickshire.
This community-led local history project links         Berkswell parish church and the wider local community, and is a scheme         which has led to the parish becoming an exemplar of research-based         interpretation for scholars and other communities (S10).
Her work (Bi) on saints' cults in Anglo-Saxon England,         demonstrating the centrality of these cults in early medieval society         and tracing their role in the establishment of sacred sites, has been         used to provide a new focus on Anglo-Saxon spirituality in the         interpretation programmes created for Winchester and Worcester         Cathedrals &#8212; a complete interpretation scheme for the latter is         currently underway (2012-15) (S3).
Her most recent work on St Wilfrid (B ii) has significantly         revised assessment of his role in the Anglo-Saxon church.
This has         shaped the concept and content of the interpretation project, using         touch-screen and mobile app technology, at Ripon Cathedral (2013) (S11).
b. Fusing research generated by eleven members of the History Department,       visual material and external contributions, with interactive technology,       CSCC produced a 1 million word DVD-ROM, The English Parish Church         through the Centuries (2010).
This highly flexible resource made       historical research available to new audiences, not only were 3000 copies       distributed, but it was adopted by the British Museum as a key resource       for its 2011 Treasures of Heaven Exhibition (visited by 75,000       people).
Hailed by the Archbishop of York as `a brilliant resource for       parishes, churches and schools ... a treasure chest of information which       will help to inspire many to be much more creative about the way we use       our church buildings' (S12), and as `a tool to revolutionize our       understanding and enjoyment of churches' by the Chair of The Churches       Conservation Trust (S13), it has had a demonstrable impact within       church communities.
The DVD-ROM also exemplifies the impact that our research has had in       enhancing visitors' experience of sacred space and in continuing       professional development, as set out below:     2.
Encouraging tourism and enhanced access to national and         international heritage sites for people from all cultural and faith         backgrounds:     Using the historical analyses of Cross, Sheils and Royle, which revealed       the multi-confessional nature of post-Reformation religious life and       culture in York, CSCC developed a ground-breaking cross-denominational       mobile app for 12 York City Centre Churches (2012-13).
(S2).
To       date, this has led to the establishment of 20 partnership projects with       churches and cathedrals which are working to improve the way visitors       navigate and engage with these spaces.
These have often involved the       development of new mobile apps based upon historical research, including       Holy Trinity, Stratford on Avon (200,000 visitors p.a.
), Coventry       Cathedral (330,000), Norwich (140,000), Ripon (93,000) and Winchester       (110,000) (2013) (S4).
The Stratford App and its rationale were the       subject of a Radio 4 interview, contributing to public discourse about how       visitors, especially the 16-25 year age group, engage with cultural       heritage and religious buildings.
These new approaches have achieved a       step-change in the way the sites engage with visitors.
The Dean of       Worcester writes:     `Working with Christianity and Culture has transformed the way the       Cathedral understands its engagement with visitors, particularly through       exploring the relevance of pilgrimage past and present and thus creating       new ways to help them relate to this sacred site.'
Furthermore, the Centre's combination of research and digital resources       has enabled all age groups to engage with church buildings and has enabled       churches better to support volunteer guides and to provide material even       when buildings are not staffed (S1-3;S6-7).
The Parish Church       DVD-ROM led to a new free downloadable online resource for primary schools       to assist school teachers to use local churches as a key resource in       teaching History and RE (S8).
3.
Delivering professional development activities:     The launch by the Archbishop of Canterbury of The Parish Church       DVD in 2010 and its dissemination broadened the reach of the Centre's       activities to the professional arena of church and heritage staff,       diocesan specialists, church architects, and the volunteers who care for       the Church of England's 12,500 Grade 1 and 2* listed buildings.
At the request of English Heritage (EH) and the Church of England, the       Centre created a new training partnership focusing on CPD for staff and       volunteers charged with conserving, maintaining, using and opening up       churches (S4).
With EH funding, the Centre developed a model for       training days across the country: pilot days in York (2012) and Newcastle       and Durham dioceses (2013) were attended by 121 church leaders, architects       and heritage staff (S9); further events are planned for Lichfield       and Gloucester dioceses.
Delegate responses include: `The training and       tools developed by CSCC have really changed the way we as a church are       discussing our future, opening us up to new ways of thinking about our       building and planning what to do next' (Revd Rachel Hirst, Vicar, St       Peter's Church, Norton).
This programme is supported by a new CSCC designed online tool (also       funded by EH) which helps churches explore their history, make decisions       for the future and create appropriate re-ordering schemes.
This tool has       led to a new collaboration with the Church of England which will transform       the capacity of churches to work with statutory bodies for more positive       and cost-effective outcomes which enhance provision for local communities       (S5; S6).
The combination of increased historical understanding,       new tools and issue-focused training has significantly altered attitudes       and behaviour among staff and volunteers who maintain and use churches (S6;         S7; S9).
The Centre is also working with the Church of England to       shape the new national clergy training programme.
Delivering deeper       understanding of the historically changing structure and uses of churches       has challenged conventional views of restricted functionality.
It has       opened congregations to the possibility and acceptability of using church       property in creative ways to enrich local community life (S5; S6; S9).
This has clear economic benefits through increasing sustainability of       buildings and communities in both rural and urban contexts.
The Department's research has thus helped to generate new ways of looking       at religious relevance by situating churches in clear relationship to       their social, economic and cultural contexts (S1).
In the words of       the Archdeacon of Charing Cross, `Congregations and even clergy often do       not realise that their churches have undergone significant change and have       often had multiple uses in the past; religious and community/tourist uses       of churches are thus frequently seen as conflicting priorities.
Christianity and Culture's resources and focused training events are       invaluable in helping clergy, members of congregations and local       communities to transform their understanding of how their church building       has evolved and thus respond more effectively to present challenges' (S7).
