     The above research has had a highly significant national and       international impact during the REF period largely in the fields of museum       practice and in the educational and public presentation of slavery.
1.
Museums: The `1807 Commemorated' project was designed to       produce dialogue between academics, museum professionals and others       concerned with representing the history of slavery and, as a Knowledge       Transfer grant, to have significant impact on museum practice.
In 2008 its       research findings were the basis for discussion at three workshops and one       conference, bringing together staff from the seven partner institutions,       community representatives and other stakeholders, including museum       professionals, academics and heritage administrators.
On the basis of its       research, the project team was commissioned and funded by the Museums,       Libraries and Archives Council (MLA), the public body charged with       promoting improvement and innovation in the museum sector, to run a series       of one-day workshops for museum practitioners in the different MLA       regions.
Seven regional workshops were held in 2009, attended by a total       of 50-60 practitioners.
These disseminated research findings and promoted       discussion of the lessons to be learnt by the museums and heritage sector       from the experience of the bicentenary.
On the basis of these discussions,       we established a website jointly with the MLA to supply an online       `toolkit' and other resources for museums and heritage practitioners       dealing with difficult histories.
The toolkit contains four resources,       "Communities", "Exhibitions", "Audiences" and "Practioners".
All continue       to be used, with 60, 30, 16 and 4 downloads of them respectively (Jan-Jun,       2013).
[A]     The project has had a significant impact on practices within our seven       core partners.
In 2009, we organized workshops within each museum to       present and discuss institution-specific findings.
The museums determined       the format: some preferred small meetings with a few key staff, while       others preferred larger gatherings.
The workshop at the Museum of London       Docklands, for example, was attended by museum staff, community       representatives and museum advisory group members.
The report to the AHRC       noted that the museum's then Director, David Spence, had stated that       `London Museum in Docklands has used data gathered during phase 3 [i.e.
the visitor interviews] to inform floor and interpretive staff of the       difficulties some audience members have with traumatic content, and floor       staff are using this information to help mediate visitor responses.
The       Museum...has also used information from the fellowship in producing the       policy document: The Making of London, Sugar and Slavery: a toolkit         for community participation, Museum in Docklands.'
In November 2012       he added `that the findings of the report have informed the processes       adopted by the Museum in the creation of its Consultative Group and their       work on the generation of a new gallery at Museum of London Docklands,       working title `Many East Ends', particularly the insight from the 1807       Commemorated visitor surveys...`Many East Ends' has significant Arts       Council funding and is scheduled to open in 2015.
'[B] The Director       of the International Slavery Museum (Liverpool), Richard Benjamin, states       that the project has helped his museum form working partnerships with       staff at other institutions, and that its findings are informing future       gallery development, in particular the immersive installation on the       Middle Passage, a central feature of the museum.
[C]     The project's impact on museums quickly reached beyond the core partner       institutions.
Tyne and Wear Museums, for example, drew on our research in       framing the evaluation report on their own `Remembering Slavery 2007'       project.
[D] The 2009 MLA workshops made a specific effort to engage       with the distinctive needs of the numerous smaller or regional museums       that had addressed the history of slavery two years previously.
For       example, feedback from Epping Forest District Museum stressed that the       information produced by the project had changed the way they would       approach future exhibitions with an emotive subject matter, especially       those involving local groups.
They cited the project's data on audience       responses as `an important contribution to evaluating the ways in which       local museums can engage visitors with societal issues', and highlighted       how the discussion of the problematic issues involved in the display of       chains and similar objects (an important focus of Cubitt's researches [5a])       as helping to `give a wider understanding to [sic] visitor needs and       expectations.'
[E] The project's reach has been international.
Addressing Museum professionals, the prominent museums consultant and       communities specialist Bernadette Lynch cites the project as presenting       `the most thorough and revealing research' on the impact of the       bicentenary in the museum sector'.
[F] The website of the Tracing       Center on Histories and Legacies of Slavery (a US-based organization       promoting awareness of the extent of complicity with slavery in American       society) cited Cubitt [7] as offering a series of `lessons [which]       can serve as guide posts for the upcoming [2013] US sesquicentennial       commemoration of the Emancipation Proclamation'.
[G]     2.
Impact on Education and the Public Understanding of Slavery:     In 2008 slavery was introduced as a compulsory element of the National       Curriculum at Key Stage 3 taken by all year 8 students.
Walvin played an       important role in this.
His research publications were quoted in       Parliamentary Debates and he was subsequently invited to participate in       discussions with the then Minister of Education, Alan Johnson, and       subsequently sat on a government committee chaired by the then Deputy       Prime Minister John Prescott.
[H] He disseminated his earlier       research findings to the public through publications (e.g.
A Short         History of Slavery [Penguin 2007], Slavery to Freedom       [Pitkin 2007], The Slave Trade [Thames and Hudson 2011], which       were designed to meet the specific needs created by this change in the       curriculum.
He has continued to play a major role in further initiatives       to embed slavery into educational programmes, both in Britain and       elsewhere.
For instance, he collaborated with the Gilder Lehrman Institute       for the Study of Slavery, Resistance and Abolition at Yale University on       the `Middle Passages' project, which brought high school teachers from       Africa, the United States and Britain together at a series of summer       schools between 2010 and 2012.
(The third, hosted by the Department of       History at York, had 28 attendees; roughly similar numbers attended the       other two sessions.)
As organiser and co-teacher, Walvin helped the       participants develop individual teaching plans on the history of slavery       that would be implemented in their home institutions upon their return.
In       2011-12, he was also involved as lecturer and tutor in the Transatlantic       Teachers Programme organised by The National Archives and the University       of Virginia, which introduced high school teachers from the US and UK to       primary sources on the history of slavery and enlisted them in the       production of detailed online teaching materials incorporating this       knowledge.
[I] York's transformative research on slavery is also       presented for wider educational and public dissemination through on-line       media.
In addition to the joint website with the MLA, the `1807       Commemorated project' established a website [J], presenting       reports, discussion pieces, interviews and other material relating to the       project and to the bicentenary.
These two websites have proved successful       in shaping the awareness of slavery's history among a broader interested       public.
Between August 2011 and July 2012 alone, the main project website       had more than 310,000 hits from over a hundred countries.
To give an       example of how visitors have used this material to further transform the       public understanding of transatlantic slavery and abolition, it may be       noted that the companion website for the updated 3rd edition       (2011) of Gillian Rose's Visual Methodologies, a best-selling       critical introduction to the analysis of visual culture widely used in       undergraduate courses [K], organizes one of its key exercises for       readers (Discourse Analysis I) around materials from the two project       websites.
This has in turn led to use of these materials in course design       by, for example, Dr. Phaedra Livingstone (Museum Studies, Univ.
of       Oregon).
Dr. David Lambert of the University of Warwick also highlights       the `wealth of resources' on the project website and uses Cubitt [7]       as core reading for a seminar on museums in his third-year American       Studies course on `Slavery, Memory and Memorialisation'.
Finally, Walvin's research expertise has made him a key contributor of       text and advice to a major new website project co-ordinated by the       Colonial Williamsburg Foundation.
The `Slavery, the Slave Trade, and       Remembrance' (SSTR) project will provide a convenient, comprehensive, and       easy-to- use online guide to major museums and sites dealing with slavery       and the slave trade across the world, promoting online public access to       objects and displays and providing a convenient switchboard for museum       professionals to exchange information and ideas.
Its Vice President writes       that `The Colonial Williamsburg Foundation has drawn extensively on the       published research of Professor James Walvin of the University of York in       shaping its educational programs related to slavery, the slave trade, and       historic sites and museums.
We have been delighted to involve him in our       major new on-line initiative [SSTR], which we will shortly launch as a       joint CWF- UNESCO website.
Recognized internationally, Professor Walvin's       publications and expertise are a most important component of building       scholarly content on the site and making contacts with museums and sites       around the Atlantic rim and elsewhere.
'[L] Like the `1807       Commemorated' websites but on an international scale, SSTR simultaneously       promotes an enhanced public knowledge of slavery's history and facilitates       discussion across the museum sector.
Research by York-based historians       contributes significantly to these twin objectives.
