     Research by the Department of History has resulted in the following       impacts: i) the integration of       historical methods into the working practices of York Archaeological Trust       (YAT); ii) the       transformation of YAT's excavation and engagement practices; (iii) the       transformation of public       understanding about York's past to include its modern history, the history       of poverty and its Jewish       communities.
i) YAT is a registered charity and a limited company.
It has an annual       turnover of &#163;5-6 million and       over 200 employees employed in archaeology and heritage attractions such       as Jorvik, DIG       (http://digyork.com/what-is-dig/)       and Barley Hall, which attract nearly 500,000 visitors annually.
From 1993 to December 2007 it did not employ an historian but concentrated       on archaeology and       relied on external advisors sitting on its Historical Committee.
Rees       Jones was the most active of       these, publishing several reports in YAT publications before 2006 and       since then was a member of       its General Advisory Council, where in particular she advocated pursuing       historical aspects of the       new modern era excavations at Hungate (2006-12) &#8212; the largest area       excavations ever conducted       in York.
As a result of the impact of her research in transforming the       interpretation of previous       archaeological sites and through her advocacy, YAT decided to employ a       permanent full-time       historian on its staff.
In December 2007 they appointed Dr Jayne Rimmer,       who had recently       completed an AHRC-funded PhD with Rees Jones and Kate Giles (Archaeology).
To date (April       2013) YAT has invested over &#163;130,000 in incorporating historical research       into the heart of their       professional practices in both excavation, research and public       interpretation, including their       sponsorship since 2008 of collaborative doctoral students in History (5.2,       5.5).
Rimmer has played       a leading role in determining the interpretive agenda for major       excavations at Hungate and the       completion of reports for the developer and the public (5.1).
ii) YAT's curatorial policies have been strongly influenced by the       inclusion of historical research in       core YAT activities.
Most importantly it has enabled them to tackle       historically complex modern-era       projects, integrating social and material approaches, for the first time.
In particular they have used       research supervised by Jenner in their catalogue of excavated modern-era       pottery.
They have       developed both oral history and their use of historical GIS influenced by       Rees Jones and others.
The conferences on Historical GIS (2009) and Poverty in Depth       (2009) which Rees Jones       organised also brought to York experts in these fields from Europe,       Australia and the US which in       turn brought new international recognition to the work of YAT, and led to       invitations for YAT staff to       attend Archaeological conferences overseas, so broadening and deepening       their understanding of       York (5.2, 5.3).
iii) Historical research into the past residents of Hungate and urban       poverty transformed public       understanding of York's modern history and its relevance to deeper pasts,       present and future.
It       also supported a new knowledge and skills exchange between among public       and practitioners.
Dissemination, via collaboration with YAT, took the form of talks and       exhibitions reaching a very       wide cross-section of society, including `hard to reach' groups from the       elderly to young offenders       (through liaison with the York and North Yorkshire Probation Trust).
Site       tours attracted 18,620       visitors.
There were over 80 bespoke tours, 4000 school trips and 100       public lectures.
Permanent       historical displays surrounded the site.
School, college and university       students learnt new research       skills in history by working on documents in York City Archives.
160 adult       members of the       community, and groups of young offenders, worked as volunteers in both       historical and       archaeological research.
Former residents (long since rehoused in public       housing, such as 86-year-old       Ted Chittock) were invited to revive and share their memories of life in       the Hungate       `slums'.
In often emotional encounters they learnt from the research       activities and contributed to       them.
As YAT's Public Access Report concludes `Historical details       about particular families living at       the addresses, along with oral accounts helped to enhance the whole       experience for the       community group.
[They were] learning about the experiences of past       communities whilst the       beginnings of a new community was [sic] being constructed close by.
'(5.2,       5.4) Learning materials       for these activities incorporated ideas and material from the historical       research cited in sections 2/3       above.
They included on-site displays, museum exhibits, handouts and class       workbooks and were       designed to meet several key stages of the curriculum and different       ability groups.
Finally, the       results of the conference organised by Rees Jones on `Poverty in Depth'       and the wider Hungate-related       historical research was integral to the content of a two-part documentary       `A Life Without       Work' broadcast on BBC2 in October 2010.
Such inclusion of historical       research in the activities of       volunteers and public interpretation alongside ongoing archaeology had       never happened before in       YAT's work.
It greatly extended public engagement with and understanding       of the history of       poverty in York since 1800 (5.1-5.5).
John Walker (CEO, YAT, 2002-13)       summarises the impact:       "The collaboration with Rees Jones has thus transformed approaches to       York's heritage which are       now much better orientated towards understanding its full history and       engaging much more diverse       public audiences than the previous narrower approach on selected periods       could achieve...The full       integration of historical research into the work at Hungate has fully       demonstrated this, and it is       certain that historical evaluation will continue to be an essential part       of YAT's assessment of new       projects into the future."
(5.3)     Rees Jones's research has also transformed public understanding of the       problematic Jewish       heritage of York.
The Jewish Historical Society of England (JHSE) is a       `registered educational       charity' with 528 members.
In 2009-2010 Rees Jones worked with them to       develop new       understanding of the massacre of York's Jewish population in 1190 (an       event which still casts a       shadow over the city to this day).
She developed this partnership through       speaking to the Leeds       branch at the north Leeds Synagogue and in the Leeds Limmud and through       organising an       international conference in 2010 (3.4, 3.10, 5.6-5.8).
Members of the       Leeds branch acted as hosts,       as discussants and city guides during the conference and afterwards       decided to fund an annual       prize for student work on the history of Jews in Yorkshire.
Members of the       local society also       worked with Weinstein (History, 2007-13) to develop a walking tour of       Jewish York as a mobile app       (5.9).
As a result, understanding of the events of 1190 and their       significance has changed.
Many       more now understand that, though horrific, the 1190 massacre did not mark       the end of York's       Jewish community and the idea that Jewish settlement in York was       subsequently banned has been       widely reconsidered.
Discussion extended to the relationship of 1190 to       experiences of the       Holocaust, while the walking tours highlighted the place of Jews in York's       modern history and are       repeated annually on Holocaust Memorial Day (5.6).
Nigel Grizzard (JHSE) writes that the conference has profoundly changed       Jewish perceptions of       the city: "What are the results of the conference?
First it is important       to remember that the       relationship between Jews and York has been a difficult one in the past.
Growing up in London,       York was always a place to be avoided, the legacy of the 1190 Massacre of       Jews in Clifford's       Tower had permeated the Jewish psyche and people tended to stay away...The       York 1190       Conference..., because it was international, because it was over three       days and because it was       multi-faceted brought so many people together that it allowed many       initiatives to go forward...the       York Jewish Heritage Trail which puts the history of the Jews of York,       into the history of the city.
These trails have attracted hundreds of people, the trail I attended in       January 2013 had one       hundred participants.
It shows there are people in York interested in this       `hidden history' of the       city...the recent Holocaust Memorial day events at York University have       been outstanding and       wide ranging...York's fledgling Jewish Community is growing and       reasserting its identity.
Can all       these events be attributed to one conference?
The answer I think has to be       yes.
It is all about the       building of trust.
Someone has to make the first steps and the conference       made those.
New links,       new relationships and new friendships are formed and we are all working       for better       understanding...As a Leeds Jewish Historical Society we have a new       partnership with York       University from which we can only benefit."
(5.6)
