     The WHO is the UN's pre-eminent health agency, employing 8000 staff at       its Geneva       headquarters, its six Regional Offices worldwide and its Country Offices.
The WHO's activities       encompass the 194 member nation states, whose official delegates are       brought together annually       through the World Health Assemblies to vote on policy, future budgets and       identify priorities.
In 2010, Bhattacharya, who had been involved with the GHH project since       its inception, was       recruited to augment the York Department of History's research expertise       in the history of medicine       and create a Centre for Global Health Histories (CGHH}, launched May 2011,       http://www.york.ac.uk/cghh.
It       promotes interdisciplinary research across the HEI, leads new       research efforts into the history of global health, and strengthens the       Department's external       engagement with health organisations around the world.
On 1 October 2010       the WHO appointed       Bhattacharya as the principal external collaborator and advisor to its GHH       project, and requested       he lead the expansion, formalization and transformation of its previously       small-scale operations.
Thomson Prentice, then editor of the World Health Report, reported       in an article on the WHO       website that: "The establishment of the Centre for Global Health Histories       at the University of York       (CGHH) in mid-2011 has been the most important development of the year in       the continuing and       expanding relationship between the University and Global Health Histories       project (GHH) based at       the World Health Organization headquarters in Geneva, Switzerland....       Support from the Wellcome       Trust has been instrumental in allowing CGHH to work with the WHO on some       50 lunchtime       seminars in Geneva, bringing in eminent historians social scientists and       other experts from many       countries to share presentations with WHO counterparts.
The aim has been       to bring together       researchers and policy-makers to stimulate a fusion between historical       evidence and current       approaches to many of the most urgent health issues of today.
The common       goal is to construct       new and enduring bridges between academia and global health policy, while       at the same time       promoting public engagement.
In this regard, seminar audiences and       participants, including those       taking part through live internet broadcasts, have been able to contribute       to the discussions.
One       result of this has been the steady development of a unique web-based       archive that now contains       presentations from almost all the seminars.
"[7]     Bhattacharya was requested to develop mechanisms within the WHO that made       available to its       departments a range of research prepared by leading historians and social       scientists.
Dr. Hooman       Momen, the co-ordinator of WHO Press and the WHO GHH initiative, writes       that:       "we see 2010 as an important marker for our collaboration...Since then, it       is undeniable that these       seminars have had a great impact inside the WHO, and it has been very       great pleasure to work       with you on organising events on themes widely considered to be of       importance from a policy point       of view.
"[1]     Bhattacharya developed mechanisms that have expanded the GHH project and       has put together a       global network of historians and social scientists, who have presented in       Geneva on specific       subjects and engaged with WHO officials on an ongoing basis.
[3]       From 2011 the GHH seminars       fed into the preparation of the World Health Report, a premier       publication of the WHO.
Thomson       Prentice reported to the WHO that: "Although the Report has invariably       drawn on history in its       coverage of global health issues since its launch in 1995, this is the       first time it will have a formal       link with GHH....
Through the seminars, publications and other       initiatives, GHH promotes closer       links and exchanges between health policy-makers and decision-takers, and       historians,       researchers, scientists, academics, students and the general public....       GHH has been building an       international network of health historians with expertise in a wide       variety of areas.
The network now       extends to all of WHO's six regional offices and boasts many of the       best-known names in health       history."
[8]     Bhattacharya's &#163;1 million WT Senior Investigator Award has helped to       consolidate the significance       and reach of all these activities within the WHO HQ and Regional Offices.
These events have       contributed to a substantial change in the WHO's institutional practice,       promoting greater       transparency and openness both within the WHO and towards its external       stakeholders.
Referring       to this, Hooman Momen writes: "These GHH seminars have fostered a       completely new form of       activity within the WHO, leading to unprecedented openness in fostering       inter- and intra-departmental 	  discussions about subjects of great importance for       contemporary global health,       which, over time, have flowered into something even greater and more       exciting than envisaged       originally: the opening up of these self-critical and significant seminars       to external attendees and to       interested constituencies through the internet.
There can be no doubt that       our collaborative       activities have helped foster and sustain and [sic] environment of       openness, setting new standards       for alliances between those involved in global health policy design and       implementation, and       academics, NGOs and Civil Society Organisations who monitor health trends       and can be important       collaborators in the evaluation of projects and policies.
My colleagues       and I are greatly encouraged       by the wide-ranging external interest in GHH activities and seminars,       which have attracted       attendees, in person and over the net, from at least 72 countries and is       attracting the attention of       the international media.
"[1]     Prior to the GHH project, the WHO did not have any established processes       to disseminate       independent historical analysis of its health programmes.
In contrast, the       GHH seminars were       designed to encourage frank and free discussions about what history tells       us about past and       present policy difficulties.
They were made open to the public &#8212; an       innovation for the WHO &#8212;       allowing academics, journalists, members of think tanks and charities to       attend.
The reach of this       innovation was global, allowing individuals in government, healthcare and       academia, as well as       teams in hospitals and clinics to link up to the events via the internet.
A report on the WHO website       noted that: "2012's seminars boasted a truly global reach, enhanced by       social media and the ability       to broadcast the seminar to participants around the world via webinar       technology.
Colleagues from       seventy-four nations `tuned in' to the seminars... over the course of the       series, a figure which       highlights GHH's global interest and range of topics covered.
A total of       420 subscribers, from as far       apart as Costa Rica and Myanmar, were able to attend the seminars thanks       to the webinar.
As well       as allowing colleagues to sign up and listen, the facility even allows       users to send in questions to       the speakers from their own offices.
This ensures that the important       discussions arising in and from       the presentations are widely available, but also that they can be archived       and made freely       obtainable to all on the WHO website and the Centre for Global Health       Histories' University of York       website.
Greater interest was inspired through social media, and at       certain seminars listeners       could pose questions via Twitter.
"[9]     Dr. Najeeb al-Shorbaji, the WHO's Director of Knowledge Management and       Sharing, describes the       organization's perception of this work: "learning from history is our       prime objective in relation to the       GHH project.
There are many lessons in global health that need to be       shared and understood to       avoid making the same mistakes.
Knowledge is made of science and       experience.
Experience is       often the best teacher in the case of health.
We want to document and       share this experience for       present and future generations of health researchers, practitioners and       policy makers.
The       impressive archive of recordings of the GHH seminars that we have       developed in association with       your Centre for Global Health Histories has been an invaluable source of       information and training       tool [sic].
"[2]     Archives were created within York's CGHH and WHO GHH websites to provide       continued access       to presentations and debates and the events &#8212; including question and       answer sessions &#8212; have       been made freely available as podcasts.
[5, 6] For the first time,       an external agency, CGHH, has       been allowed to create an external archive of WHO materials (the recording       of the GHH seminars       in Geneva); this trust and willingness to share information is an       indicator of the importance       accorded to the CGHH's collaborative activities with the WHO.
[4]       Within the WHO, GHH-generated 	  resources have become an important training tool.
Referring to       this, Dr. Hooman       Momen notes that: "These resources are crucial tools for training young       WHO officials and interns,       as we want to ensure that they develop a comprehensive understanding of       the history of the       organisation, its many projects, and the national- and local-level       histories of projects that were       implemented with WHO assistance and advice in different countries.
There       can be no doubt that       these online resources, like the GHH seminars, are widely popular within       WHO networks and are       winning over growing levels of support at all levels of the agency.
"[1]       An important marker of the       significance of the programme has been growing enthusiasm within WHO       frameworks for using       historical research as a component of global health policy.
[1] The       principles and methodology of       the GHH project have been exported to the WHO Regional Offices, and thus       to the 194 WHO       Country Offices.
[2] For example, the WHO Regional Office for Europe       invited Bhattacharya to       organise GHH activities within their offices: the first GHH seminar (on       anti-microbial resistance)       took place in January 2013.
This led to an expanded and regularised       programme of seminars in       Copenhagen.
[6]     The WHO's assessment of the overall impact of Bhattacharya's work on its       operations is       demonstrated by the fact that the application of historical analyses has       now been designated as       an Office Specific Expected Result for all departments within the       WHO HQ.
[8] All WHO       departments in Geneva therefore now need to develop a critical       understanding of the historical       background of the themes covered through their projects; this work has to       be carried out       professionally in association with independent historians, and these       activities are audited annually       by WHO and UN assessors.
This is a profound shift.
WHO policy had       previously been almost       completely reliant on scientific and statistical insights, without       historical input.
The development       has further accelerated the organisation's commitment to openness in       working with a wider range       of external partners.
According to Dr Al-Shorbaji: "this ability of the       GHH project to encourage       discussion and debate, both inside the WHO and in the larger global health       community, is a key       strength of the project.
It has helped foster greater openness all round.
Presenting the history of       public health through this global collaboration administered from our       offices in Geneva and York       provides an excellent opportunity for academicians, researchers and       practitioners.
It allows them       to discuss and share with the new generations of public health       professionals, policy-makers and       health workers questions about what has worked, what has not worked, and       the reasons for both       successes and failures".
[2]     As a result, the WHO invited Bhattacharya to make the expertise available       within CGHH at York to       its Compendium of National Expertise.
This online platform is the primary       port of call for WHO       officials searching for support for the `development, implementation,       monitoring, and evaluation of       national health policies, strategies and plans'.
In recognition of its       impact, and in order to ensure       the long-term effectiveness and security of the GHH project, CGHH was       formally appointed on 1       October 2013 as a WHO Collaborating Centre for Global Health Histories,       the first such institution       of its kind in the world.
Collaborating Centre status is only offered by       the WHO to select institutions       based around the world, with a view to strengthening specific       organizational activities with the help       of external expertise.
[10]
